This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, April 12, 2022. Present in council chambers are Mayor Leaser, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera, and Representative Hernandez is joining virtually. Representative Lizara is running a few minutes late. It is 9.03 a.m. Thank you. Good morning, Representative Rodriguez. Representative Leaser is also present in council chambers.
 And now will everyone please silence their electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police Chaplain David Mayfield. You're on mute sir. Good morning. Good morning. I invite those who are so inclined to pray with me. Creator God, we ask your blessings on the people who have been called to lead the community in which we live and work and play.
 Keep us all mindful of the fact that we are not only leaders, but also servants, and that it is their responsibility and ours to serve the common good of all. Grant us the wisdom and courage to know and do what is right and good and true. May we speak out when it is time to speak out and listen patiently and receptively when it is time to listen. May we always be guided by the spirit of community, by the spirit of justice,
 and by the spirit of love. This we pray in the name of all that we hold sacred and holy, all that we hold good and right and true. Amen. Amen. Ms. Underwood, can you lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, please? Thank you, ma'am. In allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you.
 good morning everyone and um i just um first of all miss underwood thank you for leading us chaplain thank you again and um i would like to um you know us to think about the blessings we have every day the opportunities that we've been given every day and they continue to provide but also to serve our community you know it's uh
 The citizens of El Paso trusted us. The citizens of El Paso came out and voted for us, and that's an honor. And again, I want all of us to think about us as council members, that we had the blessings and the backing of our community, but also all of us to think about the opportunity that we have every day, day in and day out.
 with our families, with our friends. So I'd like to have a moment of silence that we can think about and reflect on all the great opportunities and the great blessings we have in our lives. So please, let's have a moment of silence and think about the great opportunities. Thank you, and we may have peace on Earth, and may God bless all of us. Ms. Pryne? Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the Mayor's Proclamations. The first proclamation is Autism Acceptance Month. Oh.
 Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. I will be sharing this proclamation with Representative Salcedo as well. Oh, thank you. Proclamation from the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas autism is a lifelong development disability significantly affecting verbal and nonverbal communication and social interaction usually evident before age of three, that adversity affects a child's educational performance and peer social interaction.
 Other characteristics often associated with autism are engagement in repetitive activities, stereotyped movements, resistance to environment, change, or change in daily routines, unusual responses to sensory experiences, and hypersensitive sensitivity to sound or other sensory information.
 And, whereas there is no known single cause for autism, it affects 1 in 44 Americans. Evidence-based programs such as specialized classrooms, speech and language therapy, occupational therapy, physical therapy, music therapy, parent in-home training, social skills, and
 and in-class support allow these individuals to have an effective means of communicating and interacting with the world. With community awareness and acceptance, individuals with autism will become fully participating members of their community.
 And whereas the Autism Society of Texas El Paso and ANGELS missions are active in the city of El Paso, Texas and are organizing, we wish to support and partner with
 for this day of recognizing, recognition, and in their ongoing mission to serve and provide resources to those affected by autism in El Paso and in its surrounding communities. And now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of April shall be known as Autism Acceptance Month, signed by the honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser.
 Thank you. And autism is in so many different forms and it affects all the children and everyone a little bit different. I happen to have a grandson, my oldest grandson suffers from autism, so we know that some are functional and some are different and I think they all need the support and the love of their family but also be able to have the medical support and the ability to be
 learn and move forward so I can tell you my grandson turned 16 years old on the 5th of April so and He's looking forward to getting his driver's license. So and that's because she's had the love and support So it's kind of thank you for that. Yeah, I believe the Representative would like to say a few words Hi
 Okay. Hi, my name is Miwa Resurrection. I'm the president of Artism Society of Texas El Paso. On behalf of the Artism Society, I am thankful to City of El Paso, Mayor Lisa, and the representatives for recognizing April as Artism Acceptance Month.
 Autism is a neurological lifelong disorder, not an illness. Autism is a spectrum disorder. People with this diagnosis have conditions that are linked but can be very different in severity and symptoms when compared to others with the same disorder.
 Presently, we enjoy many advances in information technology. We can receive information about autism at the click of a button. Unfortunately, most of the country's population does not have a clue about how much autism will affect each family.
 As an example, I don't have any extended family members in El Paso. Therefore, I must often devote a considerable amount of time attending to my son's affairs. There are many things he cannot do so for himself due to unique circumstances.
 comprehension skills. I need to be available to take my son to therapy once a week, doctor appointments, and special needs group activities. I also need to be available if his sun metal lift bus light doesn't show up. At the moment, notice I must be able to take him to work or to pick him up whenever he is.
 Our household income is low compared to some couples who both have steady jobs. Also, many families are in the same boat as me, because either parents must take care of their loved one with autism full time. Single parents can have a much harder time. There are several examples of possible struggles.
 There can be a difficulty finding daycare where children with autism are accepted. Child care facilities may be hesitant to accept a child with autism because of the significant challenge they can present. A single parent
 may have worked all day long and then come back home so that they can take care of their loved ones' needs. Children with autism may experience severe meltdowns
 that several meltdowns daily and their parents may struggle with how to help their precious children. Due to misunderstandings and micro misconceptions, families may become isolated from their own extended families.
 The feeling of isolation from society can be increased since autism families often have a limited opportunity to participate in activities. Things like going to restaurants, movie theaters, shopping malls, or traveling. There are several examples.
 Basic things that must take for granted. Because of general lack of understanding for autism behavior, families can suffer judgment from society, judgment that occurs more often than you might imagine.
 Mothers of children with autism have known to have post-traumatic stress disorder like soldiers who have experienced the combat. Some children can sleep throughout the night. They need 24-7 care.
 Many of them won't eat the most basic of foods. Some of them have multiple health conditions. Some of them have a hard time communicating. Mothers can feel outcasted from society, not having enough sleep, always being very tired, feeling that no one understands their pain and worried about doing her best every day.
 She must keep fighting many years. Some individuals with autism are non-verbal. My son was non-verbal until age six. I am going to paint you a picture of how it is for someone who is non-verbal. Imagine you want to communicate with someone, but you don't know how.
 Now, imagine that someone is everyone, including your mother, your father, everyone you love, and depend on your desperately pointing fingers to show what you want, yet no one seems to understand you. In elementary school, you finally managed to speak a few words, maybe even some...
 Frightened, but you are so shy. You can't talk in front of everyone, but because you get frustrated, people look at you and assume you have a level of communication you don't have. Other kids mean to you every day and would rather tear you down because you are different.
 As people with autism, we don't want to be alone, but society doesn't understand, so it makes us feel alone. We want to be like you, but we often think, react differently. If you really see us, we are beautiful, smart, honest, loving, and some of the most loyal people you ever met.
 Artism awareness and acceptance is so important. Can you imagine if numbers of children with autism more increases every year? Consider what will happen when they grow up to be adults? What can we do to help them? We need to start now.
 I appreciate every person here for listening to our story. Thank you so much, City of El Paso and Mayor Lisa, for giving us this great opportunity to speak up for artisanal awareness and acceptance. God bless you all. Thank you so much. Thank you. Good morning. Buenos dias. Buenos dias.
 Today, the City of El Paso celebrates neurodiversity, living and seeing life in different ways, with respect, working for inclusion through integration, always with the goal of acceptance. ANGEL's mission provides information and education to families, professionals, and society in general, to raise awareness of the nature of disability in our world.
 My name is Verica Serena, Executive Director of Angel Mission, mother of 31 year old and the grandmother of 11 year old, both diagnosed with autism. The need to know about this disability started at home, but it did not stay there. I realized that this need was present in several homes, and it was not possible to stay with my arm crossed.
 There was a lot of work to be done. We continue working because this need does not end. The families of individuals with autism are grateful that the city of El Paso recognizes us. Thank you, Mayor Oscar Lizar and Representative Isabel Sancido for proposing this proclamation.
 We appreciate the support of the representatives Peter Barsby, Alexandra Nello, Cassandra Hernandez, Jo Molinar, Claudia Lizette Rodriguez, Henry Rivera, and Cecily Sarraga. Autism Spectral Disorder is a developmental disability caused by differences in the brain.
 People with ASD may behave, communicate, interact, and learn words that are different from most other people. There is often nothing about how they look that sets them apart from other people. About one in 44 children has been identified with autism spectrum disorder, according to estimates for CDC's Autism Developmental Disabilities Monitoring Network.
 ASD is reported to occur in all racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic groups. That's why the recognition of the works of family of people with autism is so important. The CEDAWs of Paso deserve a conscious, educated, and inclusive society, understanding disability as a natural part of life. Thank you for your attention.
 And the next proclamation is rebuilding together El Paso's SheBuilds program recognition day. Thank you. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. We're as rebuilding together El Paso's a nonprofit organization serving low-income homeowners with safety and healthy related repairs and improvements in their homes at no cost to them.
 working with contractors and volunteers to invest more than 2.5 million in the community and helping over 2,000 homeowners and their families. And whereas SheBuilds is a collaboration between Rebuilding Together,
 and community leaders who are dedicated to advancing the housing and community issues affecting women in El Paso, including partners such as YWCA, Workforce Solutions Borderplex, and the City of El Paso Department of Community and Human Development. And whereas, SheBuilds is a woman-led program that provides critical repairs for women
 Headed household and women focused community spaces to empower women to maintain safe and healthy homes and whereas she builds programming includes participation in a home or a community center renovation led by women home repair training leadership education and mentoring to encourage community empowerment and participants learn basic carpentry and plumbing skills electrical safety practices and other on-the-job training that are
 not only saves money but builds confidence and self-sufficiency, and whereas the She Builds program was recognized nationally at the 2021 Rebuilding Together National Conference for Excellence in Community Engagement in Philadelphia, and the City of El Paso wishes to recognize the She Builds team for their outstanding achievement and service to the women in the borderland.
 Now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso, Texas, that April 12, 2022 shall be known as Rebuilding Together El Paso She Builds Program Recognition Day. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leiser.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, council members, Mr. City Manager. Rebuilding Together has discovered the need amongst independent women to take care of the repairs in their own home. Traditionally, something done by men, if they can. So...
 What about Terry, whose husband got very ill and now has to take care of her own home? How about Graciela, whose husband passed away and now she is also responsible for taking care of the home? Jamel, she came up with the idea that she could combine the cleaning of homes with repair skills. She has to offer something extra to her clients.
 And how about Leti, who found after a good project at the YWCA where she showed her skills, she found employment and rebuilding together.
 And we give women empowerment. We give them the self-confidence that they also can use tools like a wrench, like pliers, like a stud finder, like a voltage tester. And we do that through workshops. We have training workshops where so far 57 women went through it and showed 120 appearances in these workshops.
 As to promote the program, we do projects, high-visible projects. We did a project at the YWCA, the Transitional Living Center, where we transformed with some 60 women, we transformed a donation room in a very nice boutique for the ladies who come to the TLC. We are at this moment doing a project at the food bank with women.
 We initiated this program with the support of three strong women in El Paso. Dr. Sylvia Costa, who shared her vision that this program could lift women out of poverty. Furthermore, Laila Melendez of Workforce Solutions Border Plex, and Nicole Ferrini, the city resilience manager.
 Okay, we have to be clear, the core program of Rebuilding Together is home repairs for low-income, elderly or disabled homeowners. And we do that with the support of the city through CDBG grants. And soon you will be called upon to support us for the new fiscal year.
 We were indeed recognized for excellence in community outreach on a national level for rebuilding together at the conference in Philadelphia. And also we would like to thank you for the recognition we get in El Paso for the program. This helps to promote the program further on, and we would like to thank you for the
 to thank City Councilwoman Isabel Salcido for the early support you have given to this program. And I think this recognition is to be shared with all the women who participate and the women who have supported this. Thank you very much. Thank you. Great picture. Hold on, hold on. How are you doing, Laura? All people? Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Council if you return to your seats we can continue with the meeting.
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. Per the rules of order, you may not use any other electronic devices, only your desktop computer. Once you obtain the floor, you'll have up to 10 minutes for debate, and you may speak twice per item. And again, I please ask you, please refrain from side conversations at the day as well. The meeting is in session. For those of you joining us in teams, please make sure your microphones are in mute to reduce any background noise.
 Noise that brings us to the consent agenda all matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine And will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda when the vote has been taken if an item has not been Called out for separate discussion. The item has been approved council may however Reconsider any item at any time during the meeting mayor Pro Tem. I
 Yes. Proposed revisions for the April 12, 2022 meeting as of April 12, 2022 at 920 a.m. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse council members. That's to excuse Representative Alexander Anello from today's meeting. Page 6, item 15, postpone for two weeks per community and human development. Page 7, item 20, delete per purchasing and strategic sourcing.
 And those are the revisions I have. Council, are there any other revisions? Okay, yes, Representative Rivera. No motion and a second. There's a motion by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. Representative Salcido, thank you. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to page five.
 Item number 10 and this is a recognition of the city of El Paso environmental services department staff led by managing director Alan Smythe for their hard work dedication and commitment to organize the 11th annual Earth Day celebration at the Municipal Services Center in District 7 this is representative Rivera's item I
 Thank you. I place the sign on the agenda to recognize in honor Ms. Ellen Smyth and her team at the Environmental Services Department. Because on Saturday, April the 2nd of this year, the Environmental Services had their 11th annual Earth Day celebration at the area of the Municipal Services Center, which is located in District 7. This was a huge success. It was a well-attended event.
 that same Earth Day celebration a new mural a new mural was unveiled and the title that in a role is symbiosis this this mural is located on the walls of the the rear walls of the building and I command miss Smythe and her whole team not only for the hard work dedication commitment that they put into the organization and planning of the Earth Day celebration
 in the Mission Valley but also for the work that they do for our community every day. Is Ms. Smyth here? She's on TV, sir. Oh, okay. I'm here. Thank you, Representative Rivera. And thank everyone who attended the event. It was really successful.
 Of course, we had to postpone it or cancel it for the last two years, and so everyone was really excited to be able to come back this year. We do try and have it every year, and the booths that we invite, the other interested parties who care about the environment, we can learn about electric vehicles, natural gas buses, etc.
 compost, recycling, the animals here in the El Paso region. We also had adopt-a-pets, we had the blood bank, if you want to donate blood, all the food, we had mariachis, and of course the mural. And every year it gets bigger and bigger. So I thank you so much for the recognition and I'd like to thank all my team who put it together. We did it as a team. Thank you, congratulations. Thank you.
 Item 111 is recognition of local artists Cesar Inostrosa for successfully and beautifully sharing the mission of the city's environmental services department through his newest mural Symbiosis located at the municipal services center in district 7 this is also representative Rivera's item
 Thank you. I also place this item on the agenda to recognize and honor local artist Mr. Enetrosa. I hope I said it right. I don't want to believe his last name. Mr. Enetrosa is the artist who planned the city's newest mural called Symbiosis located at the Municipal Services Center in District 7. Before passing over the mic to Cesar, I would like to allow him to explain his inspiration
 for the mural and let him give you all some background on it. Cesar, you want to go ahead and do it? Thank you. Well, you want to give a little bio on you? Hold on, you can stay there. Cesar was born and raised in El Paso, Texas and took an interest in the art at a very young age. He painted his first mural at the age of 16 at Bowie High School, which presented him with the opportunity to be part of an international mural conference exhibit at the Chamas Isle National Memorial.
 Cesar is a founding member of the first wave of murals on the support columns underneath the spaghetti bowl and even received national recognition for the 9-11 memorial column as it was dedicated to the first responders and to those who lost their lives. Cesar has done work at the Delta Center, at the El Paso State Office Building, at Lafayette Clinic, and the El Paso Community College. As I mentioned, on Saturday, April 2nd at 10 a.m. during the city's 11th annual Earth Day celebration,
 Mr. Cesar unveiled his newest mural, Symbiosis, painted at the City Municipal Services Center located at 7968 San Pablo. If you all have a chance to go by and see it, I would suggest that you do. It's a beautiful mural there. Throughout his mural, Cesar wanted to share the missions involved.
 of the city's Environmental Services Department to provide waste management and, to provide waste management and environmental protection for better quality of life in El Paso. I believe that CSR successfully embodied the hard work that the city employees at the Municipal Services Center do for our community every day,
 And Cesar, I personally want to thank you for taking time to be here with us this morning and for the beautiful artwork that you've done throughout the city. And please share with council some of those experiences you've had. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, city council members. Mr. Rivera, thank you so much for the invitation. It is a great honor for me to be here today. Thank you. You know, it is often said that one does not climb the high mountain by oneself.
 but it is only in conjunction with others that we're able to achieve true success. If I've had any amount of success throughout my course and my career as a public artist, it is directly attributed to the people that I've had the honor and the privilege of working alongside all these numerous projects throughout the city. I would like to acknowledge Mr. Henry Rivera, Councilmember Henry Rivera for his
 contribution help in developing this project. Also, Ms. Director Ellen Smyth of the Environmental Services Department and all her team that she just briefly mentioned
 So the mural is titled Symbiosis, and what I wanted to create for this particular mural was one cohesive unit as a mural. If you would see it, it tells a story and it blends in cohesively. But if you look at it, it's divided into three different segments. The first segment, which I don't know if you see over here, I'll point to the original sketch. So the maintenance worker, street worker,
 That little area is called foundations, hard work and foundations. And that's basically...
 I would say if you look at all the work that goes throughout the city of El Paso when you put street projects, any type of project, all the work that goes behind that and everything that physically goes into creating changes throughout the city, you realize that it takes a lot of work. That's why it's titled Hard Work and Foundations, but if you look at it in terms of
 metaphorically, perhaps maybe in your life, your career, your school, your business, your family, if you build a strong foundation, then obviously the sky's the limit, right? You can do anything from that. So that's what was the inspiration behind that first segment. The central image, as you turn the corner of the building, once you go physically and see it there,
 Right here, it's pretty straight out, but over there, it's divided into a cube. And as you turn the corner, you see a little girl with a recycling logo on her shirt, and she's basically reminding us of the importance of how good and beneficial it is to recycle.
 But one of the things that we discussed during the production or the development of this concept for the mural was that we wanted to sprinkle it, if you will, throughout the mural, the entire mural with local landmarks. Such as, you know, you can see the Sleda Mission that is there, you know, it's one of our oldest missions. We have the Star in the Mountain, which is a little bit more defined in the original design up there in the mural. And then you have Mount Cristo Rey.
 These are painted throughout the mural, and perhaps maybe you won't be able to see them first time around, but the second or third time you see the mural, you'll be able to find little Easter eggs, if you will, every time you see it. And I think that that's one of the things that makes this mural, or at least for me, it's what made it fun and interesting.
 The central image is the image of an Indian chief. The Indian chief to me is, you know, the message is representative, the message of the Native American is that of preservation, preserving the land. And he's, in this particular sketch, it doesn't have it, but in the final mural, and I believe you have those new photographs of the final mural, you see that the Indian chief is handing a globe over to you and, you know, as stewards,
 We're to take care of our land and preserve it. That's the message behind that. And he also has some paint on his face on the final painting because that's representative of the Environmental Services Department logo. It has the colors of their logo painted on the face. And then obviously you have a Tiguan Indian with the eagle dance. We're paying tribute and homage to the Tiguan Indians local tribe here for many years. And then if you look at the solar panel installer, he's very symbolic.
 If you look back not that long ago, we went from...
 what is it, analog to digital. We're transferring, right? We're going from gas powered cars, transitioning to electric autonomous cars, and so on and so forth with your smart homes and every transition that we're doing. If you look at the United Nations sustainability goals and you look at the 2030 initiative, these are policies that have been implemented that will help propel us into a more sustainable future. So that's the inspiration behind the solar panel installer. The last piece, which
 We went through a couple of different renderings. This one doesn't have it, but the final mural does.
 and it's basically showing the poppy fields of El Paso and how it's called payment and reward. And it's basically homage to what you all do here to preserve and keep our city clean and sustainable with all the programs that are implemented throughout the city. On the final image, on the final rendering, not on the sketch, but in the mural itself, you will see a mother with her young daughter enjoying a beautiful afternoon in the poppy fields of El Paso.
 And that's due because all this hard work, all these policies, all these new sustainability implementations have us...
 have a clean community and safe community, clean air. If you notice other third world countries, they don't have a lot of that going on right now. So it is a good thing that we have that here and that we can enjoy that. And that mural was basically about that. That's just a brief narrative, but I will leave it to your interpretation when you get an opportunity to go see and visit yourself.
 With that being said, I thank each and every single one of you for having me here today. It's been an extremely honor working with Mr. Rivera, with Ellen Smythe on this beautiful project to help beautify and push that message forward. Thank you so much. Ches, I thank you. Beautiful work. You're right. As you talk about it, you can kind of see as you.
 look at it and you know thank you for this and I think we'll be able to look at it and get different thoughts as we continue look at it but beautiful work and thank you thank you if you don't mind I'd like to give him some stuff and also at the same time I wouldn't like to toss acknowledge mr. Ben five also had a
 had a very big hand in this. Mr. Fry is being humbled that he's not around, but I don't want to leave him out as well. Thank you. Appreciate that. Can we just present him this, and can we all take a photograph? One second, please. Mayor Potem. Go ahead, sir. Sorry, Representative Rivera. I know you're very excited about this. First, I want to thank you again and thank staff for this, you know,
 Ben Fife has been a member of our arts community and a supporter of the arts for a very long time. As you know, sometimes some of the challenges that we have with our city is finding a lot of patrons and supporters of the arts. We have a vibrant, wonderful arts community
 Art collectors and supporters is sometimes a little bit more difficult to find and oftentimes we have seen the city of El Paso and our public art program step up time and time again to help support and fund local artists, not just through this program, but through the Kickstart program, the artist incubator program, as well as others.
 I'm really happy that you brought up SDG goals, sustainability development goals to the UN. I think a lot of what we're doing as a city can really be interpreted and viewed through that lens. A lot of our investment in renewable energy and sustainability I think is something that's really there. Speaking as somebody who has worked professionally as a visual artist as well,
 It's also really remarkable to see your work and the trajectory of your work as well. One thing that I think is really beautiful with what you have done with our community in Chicano Park with this work here is that you don't just tell the story of our past, but you also look forward to our future and what we can be. And artists are in a very,
 beautiful place in that they look at the world not as it is, but what it can be as well. And so thank you so much for giving a little bit of your heart and your soul to our community. Thank you. Thank you. My pleasure. I appreciate that. Thank you so much.
 Yes sir that brings us to item number 12 and this is a recognition of city manager Tommy Gonzalez for being named the 2022 E. David Spong Lifetime Achievement Award recipient by the Malcolm Malcolm Baldrige Foundation and this is also.
 Posted on the agenda by representative Rivera representative Salcido and mayor pro Tim Schwarzman Thank You mayor before I say anything Can I keep play that one clip that they've been playing throughout the city one throughout your victory? Caught you off-guard
 Thank you Pedro for all of that information. Now back here in Washington, some fantastic news. Our city manager has been recognized with a Lifetime Achievement Award by the Malcolm Baldrige Foundation. And he's the first Mexican-American to receive the award. Leon Salas is the 2022 recipient of the E. David Spong Lifetime Achievement Award. Please come to the stage. Thank you.
 During a packed house at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center in National Harbor, Maryland, Tommy Gonzalez received the 2022 Edward David Spong Lifetime Achievement Award. The National Award is presented by the Malcolm Baldrige Foundation. It recognizes exceptional leadership, management values, and principles that inspire others and improve communities.
 Gonzalez is the first Mexican-American to win this national award. With his wife Sandy in attendance and several members of the city's leadership team, Gonzalez received the award with a standing ovation. He mentioned the importance of receiving the award not only for himself, but for El Paso and how resilient our city has become during the last seven years. Mr. Gonzalez, we are so proud of your accomplishments.
 It's very humbling to have a national recognition bestowed upon you. I really believe it's because of the work we've done as a community and the teamwork that has been displayed by the communities of excellence and all the partners that we've created and the way we've been able to come out of different tragedies together and being able to work, learn, innovate with one another and being able to have these results for our
 The award is named after Dr. Edward David Spong, the award namesake. Spong is a former aerospace industry expert and a former president of Boeing. He also made substantial contributions in leadership excellence and impact by applying the Baldrige framework. Spong says he's proud to have his name attached to Gonzales as a recipient of this prestigious award. I'm absolutely delighted he's got it. He embodies everything I believe in, so it makes me feel good.
 The people of El Paso should say, we have a leader who's doing great things for us, and he's been recognized as a lifetime achievement award. I think that should make them feel proud and happy. The Malcolm Baldrige Foundation has a mission to improve performance for all organizations across the world. President and CEO of the foundation, Al Faber, says Gonzalez represents everything about the foundation. Tommy's a results-focused, driven leader.
 but it's all with one purpose in mind, one end state in mind, and that's to serve the people of El Paso, Texas, to improve their quality of life, to improve their quality of services, to provide and to make El Paso a great place to live and work. And I know that he wakes up every day trying to do that, and that is truly what we were trying to showcase here today.
 City Manager has also made it a priority to train city employees. He used the Lean Six Sigma methodology, the Baldrige framework, and inspired others to become leaders within the city. He has also spearheaded the use of cross-functional teams to provide quality programs and enhance customer services for the community.
 The city manager has been recognized for leading a high-powered and financial responsible form of government. Locally, Gonzales has also been recognized by Community en Acción, a nonprofit organization that supports Latino leadership in our city. We felt like it was very important for our community to come together to celebrate him, for his accomplishments, but not just his accomplishments, but for what he has done to really elevate
 the city of El Paso through his work. Gonzalez has also led the city in becoming the only municipality to earn the Texas Award for Performance Excellence from the Texas Quality Foundation two years in a row. Under his leadership, El Paso has been recognized as an All-America city by the National Civic League three out of the last four years. Gonzalez has also created and strengthened partnership with local entities like school districts, the county government, private and nonprofit organizations through the community of excellence.
 In addition, Gonzales takes time to meet with members of the community at various speaking engagements. And that's gonna do it for us on this edition of Your City in Five from the nation's capital. Mr. Tommy Gonzales, congratulations on this prestigious award. Thank you. You wanna help us wrap up the show? Sure, I'll do my best Rick Esayas impression, okay? We'll see ya next time in your city in five. Again, Mayor, I thank you. I place this item along with my colleagues, Mayor Pro Tem, Swartz Vine, and Representative Salcido.
 I'M PRETTY SURE THE OTHERS WOULD HAVE SIGNED ON. I JUST DIDN'T WANT TO BREAK. TO RECOGNIZE AND HONOR OUR CITY MANAGER TOMMY GONZALEZ FOR BEING NAMED A 2022 E. DAVID LIFETIME ACHIEVEMENT AWARD RECIPIENT BY THE MALCOLM BALRIG FOUNDATION. THIS AWARD RECOGNIZES EXCEPTIONAL LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT VALUES AND PRINCIPLES THAT INSPIRE OTHERS AND IMPROVE COMMUNITIES.
 The notable recognition further affirms that ongoing positive accolades the El Paso has and continues to receive. To give those watching some background, this award is presented annually to an individual who has made sustained contributions of leadership, excellence, with exceptional and far-reaching positive impact in organizations and communities, applying the Ball Ridge framework.
 manner and worthy of recognition of national level and so mr. Gonzalez you have long been a proponent of the broad Ridge framework and led our city to great successes I've always said I love the visions that you have and fully support I thank you for your leadership your dedication and your commitment to make El Paso a better place to live
 Miss Gonzalez, congratulations. And I know I had the opportunity to be there when you were honored by community and action. And again, congratulations and we'll continue moving forward, correct? Thank you. I'd like to present with distinct this plaque. You all wanna join me? Mayor, we also have public comment on this item. That's all right. We'll do public comment. Thank you. Yes, sir, we have Mr. Steven Strummer.
 I don't see Steven. Oh, there he is. He's back there. Absolutely. I think Mr. Stroman said he needs to extend his contract 20 years. Good morning, Mr. Stroman. You have three minutes, sir. I'm confused. Is this public comment or mass transit? Good morning, sir. Is this mass transit? No, sir. This is the item number 12 on the agenda. Oh, yes. I wanted to thank Mr. Gonzalez for...
 his service here in the city of El Paso. It is enormously important, this award. It is one of a kind. He is one of a kind, and I really appreciate what he's done. It's very humbling, I'm sure, for him. I know how Mrs. Nyland deeply encouraged him, and I deeply appreciate
 appreciate his work going forward. It means a lot. I can't, there aren't enough words in the English language or any language. It is a once in a lifetime achievement and he certainly has it. Thanks very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you for being here. Mr. Gonzalez, anyone else? Would you like to? Mayor, I sent a message. May I say something? Yes, ma'am, absolutely.
 Thank you, Representative Rivera and others for sponsoring this item. Mr. Gonzalez, in the time that I've been on council, I could say that you and I have had a lot of lively discussions. You and I don't always agree, but one thing that we can agree on is the way that you have set forward a standard that everyone on your team can look up to. You lead by example.
 Certainly you have processes in place that I can never dispute by emotion. So and your data oriented results driven. And so those are the qualities in a leader that I expect to see in a city manager. And I'm very proud of your accomplishments. And I hope to see you do better things, good things as we try to overcome this pandemic and economic turmoil.
 We are here to support you and to thank you for all of your good work. And so this achievement and this award is very much deserved by you and so congratulations again. Thank you Representative Hernandez. And again Mr. Gonzalez I think Representative Hernandez had a great change. We talked about the quality of life, we've talked about things that we've brought in
 Parks and water parks and spray parks and things that we've done for our community I think one of the things that's really important that we talked about is Colbert that our community needed to make sure that We were able to come out of it and we were able to come out in a safe manner And I think the numbers today speak for themselves. So thank you for you your leadership your team and without
 Joining forces with the county and joining forces with everyone else in the leadership of the city I don't think El Paso would have been the first one to reach herd immunity I don't think El Paso would be over 80% fully vaccinated over the age of five the first vaccine at 99% our population over
 65 be what 96 97 fully vaccinated that takes leadership and it takes and makes sure that we have our community in mind and the safety of our community so we can talk about a lot of things when we talk about the quality of life and our parks and and these beautiful buildings anything we've done
 But the most important thing we have in our life is our lives. And we were able to preserve lives, and we were able to save people's lives and continue to do that. And with that leadership, it made a big difference. And I can tell you that I want to thank you, not only for myself, but for our community that we all represent and love. So thank you. With that, we have Representative Salcido, followed by Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you, Mayor. And I just wanted to say this award did not come by accident. We all know that. I know that you're getting a lot of praise and accolades, but you deserve them. You really have worked hard and you've proven yourself. You're very results driven. And not only did you do this for yourself and, you know, to challenge yourself to really accomplish this, but you also did it for the community. And that makes me just so proud to hear that.
 to hear that mexican-american from el paso is the first one to win this award and so for that i am extremely proud of you and i think you do a phenomenal job for the city and i and as a council member looking forward to continue to work on making el paso better thank you followed by thank you i also want to congratulate you tommy i think that your leadership has proven beyond
 our boundaries here in El Paso. I think that normally we hear about people from El Paso that get Grammys, that get some sort of award at a national level and we all become very proud and humbled to say hey that's our El Paso and up there standing receiving this awesome award. And this is no exception to that. So thank you so much for all the hard work that you've done. I know I've said it a million times and I'll say it again. You have proved me wrong in so many different aspects and I thank you for that. Your leadership is tremendous.
 and I look forward to working with you, with your leadership for El Paso, so thank you again. Representative Lozada, followed by Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, good morning. I think David Spong said it best, that we have a leader doing great things for El Paso. Tommy, it's been a joy. I'm sorry, you know I get really emotional.
 and honor working with you. So I am so proud of you and thank you, thanks. Thank you, Representative LaSaudria. Representative Mayor Pro Tem followed by Representative Molinar. Mr. Gonzalez, how are you doing? The first time I met you, you were actually visiting El Paso. I don't know if you remember that. I had a pop-up gallery in downtown El Paso in the mills in the Banner Brothers building. Tommy was with his wife and they were looking for instructions.
 I guess to go to a dinner to meet some folks here. And little did I know that I would be spending the next seven years of my life working with you to make our community the best El Paso it can be. I've learned a tremendous amount about leadership, about policies and processes, and about data-driven results, and also how to speak a little Baldrish as well. So I look forward to continuing this. One of the traits that I think, well, there's a lot that I think we all can learn from you
 You very much exemplify that you lead through action, not words. It's by personal example that we are able to show people and be able to lead people. And I think that you very much believe in don't disbelieve it, you act it.
 And I'm sure there's a lot of other things to say as well. One of the other things that I think has been really remarkable too, is that as committed you are towards policies and processes, you're also equally committed towards bringing creativity and a desire to bring results. And our partnerships that we've had through the pandemic really bear that out.
 I really truly believe that it's your leadership that really helped to work with OEM and other community partners during those times to identify and begin processes, but also be able to have the flexibility to basically amend them and change them up on the fly. And we saw that.
 almost daily with the impact that we had when it came towards our vaccination policy. We had the foresight under your leadership to commit to the CARES Act funded COVID clinics, but when the governor
 declared that he wanted mass vaccination clinics and had to do a thousand a day, we stood up the George Perry site within 24 to 48 hours. And then we were able to identify ways to strengthen and solidify how those lines went through and those processes in place.
 That doesn't just happen by accident that happens with your leadership that happens with understanding that policies and processes need to be in place But there's always ways to constantly improve and to be creative and again I
 This medium of policy and working with you over the last seven years has really, I think, been extremely rewarding, but it's also been something that has been also something to learn and to grow from as well. But it's been ultimately our community that has benefited from your leadership. And I very much want to thank you for your stick-to-it-edness and your commitment not just to bringing results, but to your commitment to our community as well. Thank you.
 Thank you Good morning. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Gonzalez. It's my honor pleasure to be here amongst everyone here today We thank representative Rivera for taking this time to represent the city But also to recognize you for all your achievement and winning this award I'd like to personally thank you and say thank you very much for a great job. It was a I'll still remember our
 WASN'T OUR FIRST MEETING BUT IT WAS A MEETING BACK IN DECEMBER OF 2020 WHEN I MET WITH YOU AND MR. SAM RODRIGUEZ AND MR. ROBERT CORTINAS AND SO YOU SET THE TONE WE WERE IN THE MIDDLE OF COVID AND THERE WAS DIFFERENT THINGS GOING ON AND I CANNOT THINK OF ANY BETTER LEADER FOR OPASO TO HAVE DURING THAT PANDEMIC IT WAS VERY DIFFERENT TO SAY AND I THINK AS THE MAYOR'S
 Mentioned already it was a different atmosphere Lives were saved because of you besides any other platitude I think that you can rest on your shoulders the fact that you save lives It's probably better ten times better than anything you can put on your on your wall at home Your office upstairs or anything else like that? I?
 the citizens do owe you a debt of gratitude families owe you a debt of gratitude we all you all owe you a debt of gratitude so on behalf of the molinari family we thank you mr gonzalez thank you thank you representative thank you thank you mayor and uh what can i say everybody said it uh i just hope that you can put our little plaque besides your big ball ridge but i'll tell you what uh in hearing council and hearing you since i came on in 2017 you actually
 Your dad's was what no lo digas Oslo you did it you just didn't say it but you did it So here's a little token that I'm gonna read and I know the council would have signed on with with Us but like I said rules governing us we didn't so I Reached like this the City Council of El Paso probably recognizes city manager Tommy Gonzalez for being named as a
 2022 E. David Spong Lifetime Achievement Award recipient of the Malcolm Ridge Foundation and has the logo of the Bald Ridge Foundation on April 12, 2022. And it says, upon acceptance, you will sign a 20-year extension. No, I'm just kidding. No, I'm not kidding. That's it. So we'd like to present this to you, sir. Thank you. This is it.
 I'll keep it to three minutes. Okay. Okay. Three minutes. This pride doesn't give you chance to get the timer.
 All right, hold on. So first of all, I'd like to recognize my father. I think that this award is really a legacy for him. If he hadn't crossed, I wouldn't be here.
 So he crossed what he was for. So the other thing I wanted to share that I didn't say whenever I got interviewed was that the focus of what you should do when you're leading an organization of this size is really listen to the board, which is the council. Listen to the team that actually executes the work.
 And so a lot of what we did early on in the process was really just get the feedback from our team, our employees, and really work to make it better for them and make the organization better, function better, so that they could do their work more effectively and get better results.
 So a combination of listening to the team listening to the council Listening to the community those surveys and things of that nature that that is what was the foundation that built the strategic plan That then focuses on leadership development of our team that focuses on the workforce themselves by then developing them and giving them the proper training and then the customer focus and Obviously the results are important
 And then you integrate all of that together, and that's what the Baldrige framework is about. So we were able to do that as an organization. We were able to do that as a community. And so that's the reason I wanted to highlight that in the presentation.
 the DC award ceremony is to tell them that we as a community came together not only during the tragedies but before the tragedies occurred. And we worked with one another and built the foundation that really was what helped us get through a lot of the challenges we've had as a community. So thank you all for all the very, very kind words that you all said. I know you were doing your best probably make me emotional.
 And it worked but typically what what happens is when I when I talk about my dad my wife my kids I get emotional and now I get emotional when I talk about my team because The team has really responded to the plan. They're better. They're They're better trained
 And that's why you get all the results, because you recognize the folks at ESD. When I went out there the other day and threw trash with them, they tell you the skinny. They tell you straight up whether you want to hear it or not. They tell you directly. And so that's the reason we have an item on the agenda today that really reacts to listening to our employees and making us more competitive, right?
 And that's what it's all about, is really making it better for the organization, for the team that runs it, so that you can get the results that you need when you go out there and you're beating the streets and getting elected. So thank you all for y'all's volunteerism, for the efforts that you put in to make our community better as well. I don't want to lose that in this conversation because the votes that you continue to make,
 the mayor I think said it really well that whenever I've said that those are tough votes and he says they should be easy votes if you're voting on the right things but sometimes as you know there's a lot of consternation back and forth on whatever the issues are that we're dealing with as a community but you've made the tough votes and and the fact that like today I know you're gonna be voting in favor of the
 the item that we have on the agenda for our employees and make it better for them. And I'm not putting any pressure on you, but I know you're going to vote for that because that's something that's gonna position them, again, to provide a better result. So again, thank you, council, for all the kind words. Thank you for this. Wasn't expecting it, but I was when I saw it on the agenda. But thank y'all all very, very much for your very generous words.
 We're ready for a mass transit. Yes, mayor. May we have a motion to? Recess there's a motion in a second to recess a regular City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed?
 The City Council meeting is in recess at 1019 in order to conduct the Mass Transit Department Board meeting. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso Mass Transit Department Board for Tuesday, April 12, 2022. Present in council chambers are Board Chair Leiser, Board Members Schwarzwein, Molinar, Salcido, Rodriguez, Rivera, Lizárraga. Board Member Hernández is joining virtually. That brings us to call to the public.
 This morning we have Mr. Steven Strummer that signed up to speak. Mr. Strummer's topic is legal issues related to loitering at the Brio Stop on Montana Avenue and St. Rain Street and the Northeast Brio. Good morning, Mr. Strummer. You have three minutes, sir. Good morning, I'm changing that quite heavily to asking for Sunday services. I am asking for help and consideration in opening up Sunday services
 in the city of El Paso for Sun Metro bus operations. I'm now a member of a church at the corner of Pershing and Birch Streets, which is found 2.6 miles east of my apartment, a 5.2-mile hoof in the hot sun to Zion Evangelical. This forced journey has taken its toll on my body. I'm now 62 1⁄2 years old, and was bit by a dog at the church on my ankle one day.
 I enjoy attending church at Grace Evangelical Lutheran, 9301 North Diana Street, and have had this option of my life removed by the El Paso City Mass Transit Board since the summer of 2020. I enjoy shopping at Dee Dee's Discount Store Northeast on Dyer using Sunday bus services on the Route 35. This local Sunday service has been eliminated.
 as of the summer of 2020. There are, I believe, many hardworking, taxpaying El Pasoans bringing up families who I am certain enjoy the mobility of Sunday shopping, particularly with exorbitant gas prices, working two jobs, six-day work weeks, particularly in the Northeast, on Alameda, Piedras, and all the El Paso city housing projects.
 These are my reasons which I believe are sound. Thank you for hearing me at this time Reconvene the regular City Council meeting There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed and the meeting is back in session At 10 35 a.m. We're on page 5 item number 13 And this is an operational focus update on the securing of the Texas Democratic Party's 2024 state convention
 Good morning, Ms. Underwood. Good morning, members of council. How are you? Can I get you some water or anything? I should be getting you some water. If IT would bring up the presentation, that would be great. Well, good morning, members of council. I'm Brooke Underwood, executive director for Visit El Paso, a division of Destination El Paso. Destination El Paso is charged with providing convention, tourism, venue, and event management services to visitors, clients, and the greater El Paso community so they may enjoy a pleasurable experience.
 that enhances quality of life and generates economic impact and growth, which aligns with strategic goal number one. Slide, slide. Just recently and in partnership with Dora Oaxaca, chairman of the El Paso County Democratic Party, we stood before you with extraordinary news that we were successful in securing the Texas Democratic Party's 2024 state convention, which will be the first of its kind on the US-Mexico border in over 20 years. Slide.
 This was a collaborative effort between the El Paso County Democratic Party and Visit El Paso and began more than a year ago. Regular meetings, consistent communication, and outstanding leadership allowed us to advance further than we've had in previous attempts. We hosted three individuals from the state office in addition to the chairman of the State Democratic Executive Committee, or SDEC, for a two-day site visit in early March. And we're invited to present our proposal to the entire SDEC committee of over 80 individuals on March 26th.
 Our compelling proposal, of course, outlined our capabilities as a convention destination, highlighted recent hotel development, our connectivity, and offered significant meeting incentives. In addition to El Paso, the party was originally entertaining proposals from Houston, Lubbock, San Antonio, but it narrowed the field to El Paso and San Antonio. Slide.
 It's well known that San Antonio has quite the expansive convention center. The Henry Bean Gonzales, which boasts over half a million square feet in exhibit space, compared to our 80,000 square feet. Another 86,000 square feet of column-free multipurpose space, over 70 meeting rooms compared to our 17, and the largest ballroom in Texas, which we don't have just yet. The city is also centrally located in the state and offers 14,000 hotel rooms in downtown alone,
 13,000 more than what I have to offer. It would be critical to educate them on why El Paso was the clear and obvious choice over such a capable destination. It was a true David and Goliath situation. Slide. We described our walkable and safe downtown, recent growth in hotel accommodations and the unique and convenient amenities like our streetcar system. Slide.
 As we did on this site visit, we also emphasized our unique meeting space options located within a close proximity and encouraged them to venture outside the walls of just the Convention Center. In order to accommodate more than 30 simultaneous caucus rooms ranging in sizes from 200 to 2,000 people, we proposed the use of the Abraham Chavez and Plaza Theaters, Southwest University Park, and all the new meeting space offered by all the downtown hotels.
 This variety in meeting space options would allow their delegates the opportunity to go beyond the four walls of a convention center and truly experience the flavor and authenticity of El Paso. Slide. We also stress that adventure and opportunity for exploration awaits their delegates, and they could get that here in the borderplex. Attractions and people that make up our diverse communities, such as the Isleta del Sur Pueblo, over 400 years of rich history and the oldest continuously working missions in the country,
 and our ecotourism assets to include Franklin Mountain State Park, among others. The convention, having been to San Antonio and other major Texas destinations repeatedly, allowed us to emphasize that El Paso was the cure for destination burnout. Slide. And we did it. We secured not only the largest state convention, but we also secured it during a presidential year. Slide.
 The convention's impact will be felt by more than just our downtown hotels and restaurants. It'll be felt throughout the entire city. With an influx of anywhere between 10,000 and 14,000 people, our community could see an estimated $8 million in economic impact over this three-day period. Slide. And now the stress and the real work begins. Slide. We've begun identifying individuals, organizations, and city departments that could serve on a task force to help prepare the destination for the massive influx of visitors in just 14 months.
 Some initially identified include city departments such as aviation, IT, CID, streets, EPPD, organizations such as the Downtown Management District, the Restaurant Association, and our partners at the Hotel and Lodging Association, and of course the operation team at Destination El Paso. We're not only concerned with making 2024 a successful year, but are also focused on the ability to attract this convention back in the future. Slide.
 Thank you for your time today and for your support in this bid. I'm happy to answer any questions. Should you have again? Congratulations on you and the team. I know this was we tried two years ago and we're unsuccessful so Congratulations on getting it accomplished and you know There's no better way than then the show off our city didn't bring thousands of people to become ambassadors As they leave and make sure that we give them a great opportunity
 you know, showing of our community. And I know that everything we've talked about today that we've done when we're talking about Mr. Gonzales, that prepared us for what we're doing today. And one of the reasons why we were able to get the
 the convention is because of things that were done prior to a year ago. So congratulations, and you know, I always tell people that how we ever wanted this opportunity to earn their business and their trust, and I think you and your team did a good job on doing that. So congratulations. Thank you. Representative Rodriguez, followed by Mayor Pro Temp.
 Thank you and congratulations. I think this is very exciting for the community of El Paso. I think looking at it from an outside perspective, you can really appreciate the fact that all these people are going to come into El Paso and be able to see our community, our businesses are going to be able to thrive and prosper. I was in San Antonio about two weeks ago for a cheer competition and I was at the convention center and it is
 ginormous. They were also having I believe a Nike convention. So there was so many people there was so many people that you didn't have cell phone service. So it's extraordinary that you all were able to pull this off.
 Again I think it's very exciting for the community and I really look forward to showcasing our city and it's now time to really put in the hard work and really see how we can all showcase. I hope that you all are able to kind of reach out to the community to the business community and put some sort of campaign together that that
 encourages them to get involved and to look forward to this event as a I guess opportunity for them to make some business right. And so that would be it. That would be my only request that you do kind of bring that community together in that sense noted. But thank you. Thank you. Pro Tem followed by Representative Rivera.
 Thank you again and thank you to all the hard work of your team at Destination. Thank you again to Ms. Oaxaca or Chairwoman Oaxaca for all the work and everybody else that came out there from our local community leaders that really made sure that they understood the potential and the beauty that we have here in El Paso. I don't think, and maybe you can correct me if I'm wrong, but would we have been positioned to have
 gotten this convention 10 years ago? No. The lack of convention quality hotel accommodations in a close proximity to the convention center would have definitely eliminated us. In fact, on paper, per their RFP, El Paso doesn't meet the minimum requirements. So it was creative selling and obviously showing them the El Paso difference is what put us over the edge. They are willing to accommodate their agenda based on the spaces that we do have.
 And that's a compliment. Yeah, and I think, I mean, I point that out, right, because without a plan and without vision and leadership, we wouldn't have been in this position today. And again, City Manager Gonzales came into El Paso and I remember,
 Early on he talked about the need to go and work with the delegation to get statewide Convention Center credits for new hotel space You know, it was very clear that our convention center was was in good quality and shape But we needed more convention center hotels and we needed more hotels in downtown period and his leadership I guess you had done that. Where is it? Arlington Irving
 um the the state rebate was we did it first in irving and then we shared it with all other texas cities for some reason like i said before el paso didn't join on and so we started work here and the council put that together for the delegation and delegation passed it in uh 15 and 17 i believe and then we started the work to do the negotiations yeah to get the hotels up and going because
 To get hotel space for a convention-style support system, you have to incentivize it. That's just the name of the game, unfortunately. And because we were able to get that state rebate, the delegation got that passed. Council supported that. Because we were able to get that, that was the enabling part.
 legislation piece that gave us those dollars that's in the millions for both those hotels that were significant to Brooks Point. And we've seen it, and that's why I wanted to bring up, right, is that it truly...
 took the entire community it came with the leadership from city manager Gonzales came from the leadership of our state delegation from this council who identified priorities for our community for our city to go after and we've seen and the proof is in the pudding well the proof is in the new hotel space right so we've seen the Paso Norte Hotel we've seen
 The Plaza Hotel, we've seen the brand new Marriott Courtyard, all come up based upon those incentives. And we've actually seen other hotels up as well. Again, just doesn't happen in a vacuum. The streetcar, again, tremendous. I mean, you can talk about what it was like to talk about that.
 because the streetcar has 10 hotels all within 1,000 square feet of a streetcar stop. We really sold that amenity as being convenient, not only charming for obvious reasons, but the fact that it connects downtown restaurants, eateries, the convention center,
 on that two and a half mile loop, but also offers an opportunity for exploration uptown as well was really a great point. We got a lot of questions about it and a lot of excitement generated from it. And we are working to upscale the usage of the streetcar, especially during these conventions. So just, that might be the next natural question. I wanna make sure y'all know that. No, I wanted to make sure you and the rest of council knows that we are working to increase the,
 the usage in particular during the times that the events are taking place when we have these large conventions. And I think too when we have, when we know that our hotels are going to be filled with visitors whether it's this convention or the upcoming AIA.
 architecture convention with over 3,000 people might be hearing something about that from council in the not-too-distant future that's you know when we have that even when we have the Sun Bowl and we know that there's going to be full of that we need to make sure that the the streetcar is running is running on a schedule different than what we have now again to accommodate them you know I
 When you talk about again the streetcarts ten hotels that are all within a thousand square feet But it also is something that again connects our uptown connects our restaurants or eateries Also connects four different historic neighborhoods as well as the newest National Register district in signal Mario you
 you know you look at other communities for example san antonio they have the riverwalk that is way to connect culture hotels uh... restaurants history altogether in our community in their community well we don't you know our ever looks a little bit different than theirs
 I'm not gonna talk about San Antonio, they're mighty fine people over there. Mighty fine people, but our streetcar is our opportunity with that amongst others. I'd also add that ADA accessibility was a major point for this organization.
 and I was able to speak very confidently about the work that the city of El Paso has done in ADA compliance, the amount of dollars that we devote every budget cycle, the fact that we have a full-time coordinator, that our streetcars are enabled with lifts, or the Sun Metro fleet has kneeling buses. So those were all feathers in our cap, and the fact that we take accessibility for all very seriously.
 And just my final point again, I mean, this is a tremendous win for El Paso, and it's a tremendous win due to our strategic plan and the commitment of this community to come together, right, to invest in our downtown, to invest in us. I also wanted to echo my colleague's statements about really looking at ways to try to,
 bring the community together. I don't have any doubt that we're gonna have any issues with ambassadors to El Paso because each and every one of us is an ambassador to El Paso, whether or not that somebody that somebody is beating walking down the street or that somebody they run into, you know, in Orlando, Florida, who's also from El Paso, we all become ambassadors to El Paso the moment we come to this community or born into this community and so,
 We're either El Pasoans by birth or El Pasoans by choice. And I'm really looking forward to seeing those partnerships come together across different sections of our community, both in the public and private sector, to make sure that when those 10,000 Democrats come into El Paso, they all will feel welcome and loved as if they were always here. So thank you and congratulations again to your entire team. Congratulations to us all. Thank you. And I think you brought up a great point that for many years we were collecting and paying the state
 The taxes for the hotel motel tax and we were not getting that we were not in that bill for some reason We were the only city large city. That was not getting it. Mr Gonzales brought that up and we worked with representative picket and represent Marissa Marcus to get included in that and that was probably one of the things that's made a huge difference in being able to to
 bring those hotels and give the incentives we've been able to because we've always paid in the money we just never take advantage of it so with the leadership Mr. Gonzalez brought and told us that man you guys have been giving that money up and never been part of getting it back and so that's a big point that we're able to do and be able to bring those hotels online. We have Representative Rivera, Representative Molinar and then Representative Hernandez.
 Congratulations. Great presentation and your team as well. I know it's been sad along with the Democratic chair back there. It's been great to know that you guys, I mean, know that you all spent countless of hours beforehand during this.
 even afterwards now that you've secured it my question to you is going to be what are you gonna read what are you gonna ask the council for I know you asked the commissioners court for something I know you're gonna ask commissioners court for something so I mean we'd like to be we'd like to see this succeed again and again and again I mean how would you what would you suggest that council look forward to and helping you out
 Well, for the record, I didn't ask county commissioner's court for anything specifically. I left that asked to the chairwoman Ohaca.
 I would number one thank you for the progress that we've made towards convention assets such as hotels and the streetcar being a major And convenient amenity and I would ask that you continue on that progressive Path Things like arenas that seat ten to fourteen thousand individuals would be very convenient to have right now and obviously as
 this organization continues to grow in size, I would hate to lose an opportunity in the future because we weren't able to expand and keep up with the other major destinations, other major metros in the state. And that's fair. That's fair to say because I agree with you. We need that space, so to speak, that space to where we can attract people. I think Mayor Pro Tem and the mayor have said it well enough
 Roedd gennych chi'r amenniaethau y byddwch chi'n eu gwneud nawr. Roedd y Cyngor y Sefydliad yn dod i mewn ac yn syth, maen nhw yno, heb un peth. Rhaid i ni symud ymlaen ar hynny er mwyn i ni ddod â mwy o gyfansoddiadau fel hynny. Rwy'n credu. Mae'r fwriad yn wych.
 Rwy'n ymrwymiol i chi eto, chi a Gwahaka. Rwy'n rhaid ddweud hynny. Rwy'n teimlo hefyd fod llwyddiant yn y llwyddiant. Ac felly, dyma un o'r pethau rydyn ni wedi eu cyflawni i gyllid cynlluniau arbennig.
 a siarad am sut roedden ni'n gallu sicrhau'r Deuxas Democratic Party. Ac yn amlwg, mae hynny'n newid y sylwadau a'r persebtiadau o'r cynlluniau eraill hefyd. Felly gall un gynnyrch ddatblygu i'r eraill. Mr. Rivera, os gallaf, siarad ychydig am eich cwestiwn. Oherwydd y rhaglen arall sy'n cael ei roi'n lle yma nawr,
 uh it's a the state tax that the state charges cities and it's it's to six percent and so that's the percentage that gets rebated now the other provision to that particular piece of legislation
 Ac eto, roedd hynny wedi'i wneud yn y norr Texas yn gynnar. Roedd hynny'n rhywbeth rydyn ni'n ei wneud. Roedd rhywun wedi dweud ei fod yn syniad ddifrifol, ond fe wnaeth y syniad ddifrifol gweithio. Ac mae yna hefyd perymedr o 1,000 ffwt sy'n cael ei gynnal. Fodd bynnag, i bwynt Brooke, oherwydd nad ydym yn cael y mathau amryw o ffenywiau neu sefydliadau, nid yw'r perymedr o 1,000 ffwt yn llawer nag y byddai mewn cymuned arall.
 Felly os oes gennych chi'r holl ffaciliadau eraill, rhai o'r dyniadau o 1,000 ffwrdd, ac wrth dyniadau o 1,000 ffwrdd, rwy'n golygu ymhell ystod 1,000 o'r stwm,
 o'r prosiect yma, gallech chi ddod o hyd i'r cyfrif gwasanaeth y gwasanaeth y gwasanaeth y Gwlad ar gyfer rhyfedd. Roedden ni am... Y syniad a gawesom yn gyntaf oedd ein bod yn defnyddio hynny i allu ymlaen y Senter Cynonol. Ond oherwydd nad oedd gennym mwy o arian, gallem ni ddod o hyd i'r gwaith cynllunol ar gyfer y hotel yma. Rwy'n siarad am y Hotel Paso del Norte oherwydd dyna'r hotel y Senter Cynonol ar gyfer y Senter Cynonol. Felly roeddwn i eisiau dweud wrthych chi hy
 i leoli'r 1,000 ffwrdd, ond oherwydd nad ydym wedi bod yn datblygu fel y dylwn, nid oedd gennym ddigon o arian yn y cafftru i ariannu ar gyfer y cyfnod ymlaen. Ond dyna'r peth nesaf ar ein llist. Rydyn ni hefyd yn gweithio i adeiladu'r sefydliad sy'n bodoli, ac mae gennym arian i wneud hynny trwy'r cyllid motel yn y cyllid honno. Ond mae'r hyn y mae Brooke yn ei ymwneud â'n cyflawniad,
 What a multipurpose facility will get you would be exhibit space that would be very welcomed and then you could also create other things. And again, I know that's a very touchy subject, but it's not necessarily talking about the touchy subject. It's talking about the need relative to exhibit space, relative to a ballroom. These are just facts that are needed.
 In a downtown in any downtown. I just still pass it true and then those same facts support everybody I don't think there's anyone in this room that wants El Paso to fail But once I'll pass on to shine beyond what it does shine already and to have that Capability it would be a great asset for this community increase
 Thank you for again. I said it earlier. Thank you for the vision that Mr Gonzalez had and also to put these plans in place and Thank you all for your hard work. Appreciate you all. Thank you mayor. Thank you And I think one of the things you you brought up that Miss Underwood and is that you know, we talked about the Convention Center and that it's not adequate compared to other cities among the state and if you remember in
 The convention center was built in the 70s and it was built that was going to be expanded in two stages. Well, since then we've only done stage one. So I think that as we look at planning the future of our community, we really need to look at how do we plan the future of the convention center, how do we expand it to give more space as you were talking about. So I think that's one of the things we need to look at in the very, very near future that
 It's time to look and redo our Convention Center to become a more adequate facility for what you were talking about and for the future of our community. Representative Molinaud followed by Representative Hernandez.
 Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Brooke, good morning. Welcome. And congratulations to Ms. Oaxaca as well for your leadership in making this happen, to all your team. Congratulations. I like the city of San Antonio, and I know you mentioned that, but I love the city of El Paso more. And they do have a river, but I think our river is bigger. That's why it's called the Rio Grande.
 But no, seriously, it is a great day to be here in El Paso, great news, and you mentioned something earlier when you were talking about, it's not just this convention, it's not just bringing thousands of people to El Paso. You have to think about it exponentially. When these people return to wherever,
 they're returning to whatever city, whatever other community, they're gonna look back and say, hey, those people in El Paso did a fantastic job. The food was excellent, the charm was wonderful, the music, the mariachis, whatever you wanna call it. They take back souvenirs, they've eaten at restaurants, they maybe even dance a little.
 and some other things that I won't say. But either way, it's a winning situation and I know you and your team and everyone will make it a winning spotlight for the city of El Paso. And that's the thing I really want to make sure, and I know you've been in the business for a long time, is just the fact that they take what we have here back there and they'll remember El Paso. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Moulinard. Representative Lundes.
 Thank you, Mayor and Mrs. Underwood. I'm like really impressed with your understanding of city services. So you're a really good spokesperson, especially for our community. But I did want to sincerely congratulate you and the entire team and the chairwoman for all of your efforts. I wanted to remind you all back in 2015 about the 2015 USBC Open Championship, the Boat Championship.
 Every time I talk, we cry. But then there was a challenge. It was like 15 events for 2015. And so I'm curious if we can do something similar this
 whether it's 24 events for 2024 or whatever you all want to do, because these are legislators. These are folks who sit on appropriation committees. These are people who are going to help push policies and funding for our community. So I just wanted to extend my support and whatever you all need, but maybe look at some events so that we can showcase El Paso more. Agreed. Noted.
 Thank you representative nundas representative
 so see though followed by mayor potem thank you mayor i just want to say thank you to destination el paso for pushing this effort also to chairwoman oaxaca in in the organization that you all completely talked and made sure that el paso got this win uh i think this is a tremendous win for el paso and i think i'm looking forward to how we can like representative fernandez mentioned um showcase el paso a little bit more and on some of those events make sure that
 They get to see the charm that El Paso has to offer and they can leave and be advocates for us in bringing more events over here. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Salcido. I think when you were talking right now, it made me realize something. And I think this goes to Chairwoman Mohaka that you can not try and be guaranteed failure.
 or you can try and have an opportunity to become successful. And I think trying and making sure that we had an opportunity proved to be that we did become successful. So thank you and congratulations. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. And I just wanted to build off of something you said. We absolutely need to be looking at ways to improve the amount of space that we have for downtown for convention centers.
 And luckily we have already have that in place. In 2012, voters overwhelmingly approved the quality of life bond package which calls for a multipurpose center space within our downtown. Obviously we know that we've had some litigation involved and others, but that facility in combination with the convention center,
 Really would be able to give us much more opportunities to attract bigger conventions You know when you talk about something that's over multiple days that can have an opening at the multi-purpose Center Can then follow up the next day?
 the Convention Center it's something that we already have there and we really need to be to be pushing that forward to make sure that it gets resolved I'm really happy that the council again is working with the opposition and trying to find a resolution and also moving forward with identifying
 planners and designers to make sure that that project can be all it can be you know multipurpose center whatever you want to call it the design from 20 30 even 10 years ago is not what Communities are looking at now and when we've seen the investment in these convention center hotels some of which have been historic renovation projects like the Plaza Hotel some of them brand new construction like the Marriott courtyard and
 A lot of those were there because of what the voters voted on in 2012. And what the voters voted on was a commitment to our community. It was a commitment to our downtown. And we as a council need to move forward with that and continue to push that because when we talk about these conventions, we can talk about wanting to go and put money to redo the convention center, but we already have something that the community has already invested in. The community has already said they want to see happen.
 So I think it's really important that we understand that, that when we talk about growing our convention center space, it's really about making sure that that MPC project in downtown is committed and executed. That is what we can do to really bring in there, and I don't know if you have anything to add when you can talk about different sort of, like a convention center campus and different facilities and how communities have taken advantage of them.
 We did creatively sell what we call the convention campus, obviously the use of both the theaters we manage and the convention center. But in place of this large play space,
 Plenary session or this major caucus that would need to see 10 to 14,000 potentially We had to look to Southwest University Park and although I'm completely in love with that facility I'm very grateful that it's adjacent to the convention center and it's got a number of different uses there is some concerns about putting a number of individuals outside in June and
 in this facility. And so we are already looking at ways to maximize the space in the convention center. We've gotten the number up to 8,700 chairs in the main exhibit floor.
 But unfortunately that does cannibalize some of the space and keep it from being used for exhibitions or different caucus meetings and things like that. I am sensitive to the opinions of the project we discussed. But I also know as this is my business and how I've made my career that the space is needed and the thought of getting
 Building where I could host this many individuals really is exciting and it opens up the possibilities next I'd set sights on things like State Bar, which is also quite large and has said that El Paso just doesn't meet their minimum qualifications But I don't take no very well. And so I'm gonna start knocking on that door immediately. That's great. I appreciate all your hard work. Thank you for that Hey
 Hey, do you, I'm sure when you planned economic impact it will bring to our community in 2024. We talk about the symbol and the symbol is somewhere between 12 and 25 million depending on the participants. I know that when we had Notre Dame we had well over 25 million.
 Do you have an estimate of the economic impact it will bring to our community? So we subscribe to a national calculator set forth by destinations international. It's basically the governing body of convention and visitors bureaus around the world. These calculators allow us to put in different metrics based on specific meetings. There are calculators for festivals, sporting events and for convention activity and using
 calculator and putting in the numbers that we do know those variables that we do know it's estimating seven point nine million dollars so basically seven point nine million economic eight million dollars over three days now someone mentioned the United States bowling Congress I think was representative Hernandez
 And that was huge and impactful. And we saw over 75,000 people travel in and out of El Paso over the course of six months. So that was a major impact. I believe it was about $75 million in economic impact, but that was drawn out over the time span. This is three days. This impact is gonna be a one-two punch. You guys did a great job between you all and the Sports Commission, so you partnered really well to bring that to El Paso, so congratulations on that.
 With that we thank you for what you've done and what you're doing and look forward to continuing to work with you Did the chair want to speak mayor? We do have public comment on the item Yes, we have two speakers that signed up. The first person is miss Estella Williams. She will be followed by miss Oaxaca Good morning. Miss Williams. You have three minutes ma'am. Good morning. Miss Williams. Good morning, everyone My name is Isela Castanon Williams and I am the secretary of the El Paso County Democratic Party
 The securing of the 2024 Texas State Democratic Party convention for El Paso is the result of a effort that was spearheaded by our county Democratic Party chair, Dora Oaxaca, who just refused to
 believe that we could not bid for this convention. As Ms. Brooke Underwood said, we did not meet the specifications for the convention acquisition. But I think that this community has
 not realized that we have a beautiful community that has so much to offer and so we have always seen ourselves as grasshoppers in the land of the giants and so we don't have enough hotel space so we don't have and we don't have.
 And to Ms. Wahaka's credit, she just refused to listen to the naysayers who talked a great deal about you don't have enough hotel space and you don't have enough space for a convention. But in addition to that,
 Ms. Brooke Underwood, as she just said, just does not give up. And so we had two people who don't give up team up and the rest of our team just came together and we just worked and worked to put a package together that would be at least a good effort at trying to bring the convention to El Paso. Now there has been talk about
 the fact that this is a convention that is coming in a presidential year and that is super important because You have two types of state conventions. You have one like the one in July in Dallas That is a gubernatorial convention where? No, we're not running for you know running a race for president and so that convention in Dallas will have fewer participants
 than the one that we will have in 2024. Because the only way that you can be a delegate to the National Democratic Convention is to be a state delegate. So everyone in their community attends their county conventions and comes to the state convention in hopes of winning a seat on the national delegation.
 So this will be many, many more people, I believe, than 10,000 people. And they will probably bring plus ones, plus twos, plus whatevers. In addition to that, I think that it's important to note that as we put this presentation. Thank you, Ms. Williams. You've reached the three minute mark. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you, Ms. Williams. The next speaker is Ms. Dora Wahaka.
 Good morning, ma'am. You'll have three minutes. Good morning, everyone. This is wonderful. I love these city council meetings. You know, you have recognitions. It's just a testament of the great work that you all are doing along with our city manager. And I want to thank you, Mr. Gonzalez, for your vision, for your results-oriented, driven personality, character, belief, and values that you've trickled down to all
 of your of your employees and I and I pride myself being a former employee of yours too thank you so much for instilling that in all of us and I just want to I just want to say that this is not possible without a team and and
 You know, Mayor, thank you for your support letter, too. You know, it went very far, not only yours but the Congresswoman's, everyone that we put together in that bid. And like it was said, I found myself with a partner and with a team that was just incredible. When I hear the word no, it's a no. I hear it's a non. That's what it sounds to me.
 And so for somebody to say that El Paso was not ready for a convention of this magnitude, I said no way, we've been waiting for 20 years. We're gonna make it happen. And this would not be possible if again, you didn't have the quality of employees and staff that you have in all your departments. It's amazing.
 And so it was difficult, Mr. Rivera, thank you for bringing that up because you many times were there when I was having those virtual meetings and heard every week how we're gonna strategize, how we were gonna do this, how we were not gonna give up, and how we were gonna find every will, every way of bringing this convention to El Paso. But it was all possible because of your hard votes also.
 on making sure that these amenities, this quality of life, everything that is good to El Paso is coming to fruition. You have a great partnership in your city manager and we all saw this morning because he is the first Mexican American, which brings a lot of pride to all of us to have been the recipient of the Ball Ridge Award.
 And with that, I just wanna say that we do have gifts for the staff. We have a recognition award, and I would like to bring up Ms. Isela Castaneda-Williams. And by the way, we have team members that couldn't be with us today, like former Representative Emma Acosta and our chair elect Michael Apodaca, who couldn't be with us but are in spirit with us, and definitely the entire Democratic Party and precinct chairs.
 So this award is for Destination El Paso because we have a wonderful partnership with them and they are absolutely an asset to this community. And so the award says the following.
 El Paso County Democratic Party presented to Destination El Paso in appreciation for their partnership with the El Paso County Democratic Party to secure the win for the 2024 Texas Democratic State Convention in a presidential year, April 12, 2022. You don't have to do a speech, Brooke. Please. You're okay. Emotional pause.
 And Brooke, we wanted to share that with all your team. And the next, it's a humble piece of recognition because I have to tell you, Brooke is just an amazing, amazing superwoman. And she's an El Pasoan too. And again, the partnership was phenomenal.
 I can't say enough. I have to say that you have to award and just recommendation from a humble El Paso in here and telling you that I think we need to keep this team, we need to keep our city manager for another five years to make this happen good, and we need to keep Destination El Paso because it's gonna take a whole village, a whole team, a whole lots of good effort and hard votes
 to get this convention going and so many other more. So with that, I want to present the El Paso County Democratic Party
 presents to Brooke Underwood, Executive Director for Visit El Paso in recognition for her partnership and dedication to champion the win for the 2024 Texas Democratic Party State Convention in a presidential year this April 12, 2022. Thank you, Brooke. Thank you, team. Thank you, City Council. And thank you, City Manager Gonzalez and all your staff.
 Ms. Underwood, you have to have a couple words for us. Just a couple. Just a couple. I feel like I've monopolized the time. I don't take the praise or awards very well. I have to tell you, I am only one and maybe just the face of the team. The team back at Destination El Paso, Diana Thornton played an integral role, although she's very much behind the scenes.
 that that is just as critical as the person who makes the presentation or the pitch. So I had the pleasure and the honor to represent the community great leadership great team new staff new new leadership. This is this has all been wonderful and on behalf of Destination El Paso it's truly an honor to do this for our community. I enjoy it every day and you'll have to pry me out of the seat. So.
 Thank you again for your leadership, Dora. It was wonderful working with her and I really felt that synergy and that momentum that started from almost the very first meeting. So it wouldn't have happened but for this combo and I'm truly grateful. It's an honor to be represented. We're going to, I know you have a long, but we want to take a selfie and this is. Well, you're almost done with your three minutes, I think.
 And if you can please come up and take a picture with Brooke. I think she deserves this very much. Thank you Miss prime. Yes, sir. We now move to item number 14. This is an operational focus update on the budget Interim managing director
 Today we're going to discuss our kickoff for our chime in survey and also a council budget request kickoff. As you know, an important part of the integrated budget process is our customer input and chime in plays an important part of that process. Here you'll see the dates for FY2023 budget process. Today will be the kickoff for our council budget requests and we will be sending you an email with a link.
 And I'll discuss that further in this presentation. And then Monday, April 18th, will be our official kickoff for Chime In. The last day that we're looking for Chime In, of course, is the end of May. And then we'll begin our council briefings, one-on-one briefings with you as well. We are scheduled to have our goal team budget presentations to city council the week of June 27th.
 Now I want to point out that this is different than in past years. But normally we have it after July 4th. This year we're having it the week before July 4th. Then of course we'll receive our certified property valuations on July 25th. We then will have our special counsel meeting to introduce the tax rate on August 2nd. Our first public hearing on August 9th and we will be adopting the budget on August 16th.
 Here it shows the citizen participation with the last year being a record breaker of over 8,675 surveys submitted both in English and in Spanish.
 As we launch the Chinaman survey, we will continue to have the media, the social media and the support for our strategic communications department. In addition, we will have the focus groups in June on our top priorities that we have been having for the past four years. Our City Council budget request. So of course, we'll be continuing to accept your request through the entire budget process. However, we do encourage that you submit early.
 When you submit early, it allows us to have enough time to work with the departments and staff in order to provide accurate cost estimates and feasibility estimates for your projects. We do have a process improvement this year that I would like to highlight. There was a White Belt project combined with the Office of Management and Budget, our Performance Office, and IT.
 Our lead was our own budget office, Sasha Andernosky and with the performance office, Denise Sepulveda. We're working together to provide a process improvement for your council budget request. It was important that we do obtain, of course, as any project, the voice of the customer. We were very happy that Representative Salcedo was available to go ahead and test the new form that is available for our council budget request.
 So once you click on this link, it is now a seamless dot. You simply click on the link that we will be sending you, you or your team, and then click on this blue button for El Paso employees. Once you click on the El Paso employee link, you'll be able to go to the form itself. So please remember that we need you to enter one budget amendment per request,
 And you'll see the council budget request at the top and drop down boxes for each of the items that was part of the normal budget request form itself. What is new is you're able to upload attachments and any additional information that you find is relevant to your request. Of course this form is compatible for mobile phones and tablets. We want to make sure that it's easy efficient and convenient for you to be able to submit your budget request forms.
 That concludes the presentation today. Thank you Thank You mayor I just wanted to say thank you for the presentation and also I would participate as the voice of the customer and That process completely has streamlined Everything and I think it's gonna be very easy for all of us to input these Requests and I think what are the neat features that I liked that they worked on was that?
 that any request that is put on doesn't delete, so then you'll always have a record of everything you've done and requested. So it was a seamless process. I'm excited to use it. And also that's a testament to Mr. Gonzalez and him encouraging the staff to take those leadership positions and do black belt and white belt. And that only helps the city to streamline processes and make us more efficient. So I think that this is great, thank you.
 Thank you Representative Nunes. Representative Nunes. Hi Nicole. Thank you for the presentation. So I do want to just bring to your attention some of the things I'll be requesting. I know it's always in our budget but I do think it's important to highlight them. Funding for the neighborhood traffic management program. Funding for street lights. A plan for our neighborhood improvement program. The NIP funds.
 And more importantly funding to make sure that we are still increasing. I know with the leadership of Mr. Gonzalez and council and the mayor we have done a great job at increasing our rainy day fund our reserves. And so a strategy to continue to increase that. And then finally we've already heard a lot of the concerns from the public about valuations. And so I had made a request.
 from Mrs. Kilgore the director of Central Appraisal District to speak at one of our community meetings. I think it's really important for the Central Appraisal District to come to council so that we can address their concerns and for an opportunity for a public hearing on what the strategies are what we can expect.
 what the laws are, how the lawsuits are looking, and then the process for protesting, and then just a justification on why those valuations are increasing. So if we can make that request on behalf of City Council to come at their earliest convenience, that'd be great. But thank you for that launch. And then one other thing that I did want to mention is...
 you know for members of council to start looking at as we take a vote today to increase salaries for employees. I also think it's critically important that we increase salaries for our staff staffing in our offices. This is your budgetary request.
 You know, if I want to hire a second full-time employee in my office, I have to do that at very low salary. So we do desperately need more support, considering the population growth that we've experienced in the city and also a demand to increase salaries so that we can keep our workforce. And then, so those are things that I'm looking at, and I hope council will support me in those endeavors. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Nundas.
 With that Ms. Prine. Yes Mayor the next operational focus update is a presentation and update on the AmeriCorps retired and senior volunteer program and the foster grandparent program. Mayor it's a it's 11 26 right now. Did you want to do you want to call for 11 30 for lunch or go through this presentation. I just didn't know what council wanted to do. We can be brief. Pardon me. We can be brief. OK go ahead. And also this I'm just curious on this item this is this is item um.
 Item 22 on it on the present that is a companion items. Yeah, okay I just had to find a backup on it, right? so the presentation is attached to this update and then the first reading of the ordinance that amends the RSVP FGP Advisory board and board. That's what we're looking at. Okay. Thank you. Go ahead ma'am. Thank you. All right, please. I
 Okay if IT can bring up the presentation Nicole Farini chief resilience officer mayor and council. Good morning still. I'm sorry.
 And I promised that I would be brief. I'm actually here this morning myself just to introduce my amazing team that I don't think often enough gets the opportunity to stand in front of you all and talk about the amazing work that they do. Many people don't know that the retired senior volunteer program and foster grandparent programs are administered out of the Department of Community and Human Development and are, and
 a living breathing beating heart of the services that are provided by the city of El Paso to our subrecipient agencies by activating volunteers, particularly volunteers that are seniors and really engaging that community. My team's gonna talk about that a little bit more.
 I just want to talk to you really quickly about the mission of community and human development. I promised you all that every time you saw me up here you were going to see this slide and I was going to repeat myself. Our mission is to advance equity, reduce poverty, and build sustainability across our community. Our responsibility is to serve.
 as that catalyst for community partnerships, collaboration and change that ensures equity, resilience and sustainability for our entire community. The work that you're gonna see presented today by my team is very much about supporting seniors in our community and giving them the opportunity to engage
 once they retire or even before. And so we're very, very excited to be able to have them as part of our civic empowerment team, which is focused on equity and access. You all are very familiar with our human services division, which is very much about the public services that we offer, addressing homelessness, mental health, substance use, food security, et cetera. And then obviously a lot of our neighborhood development programs like NIP and the CDBG public facilities
 work that we do. But today we're here to talk about civic empowerment and with that I'm going to introduce one of my rock stars in community and human development, my tocaya, Nicole Rodriguez, our community development program manager in charge of civic empowerment. Good morning, everyone. Nicole Rodriguez, community development program manager. And real quick before I proceed on this, I just wanted to remind you all that this month is community development month and this is part of our roadshow. So thank you for having us today.
 And so while you likely know community development that lives in goal 8, the retired and senior volunteer program and the foster grandparent program really supports 2, 4, 5, 6, and 8. Today we learned a lot about our strategic plan and the road that our city manager is taking us on and we just wanted to reemphasize that even during the pandemic while we were working with the most vulnerable people.
 the senior population who we were trying to protect and ensure that they were protected during the pandemic, they were the ones out there volunteering and serving during this pandemic. And they were a large part of our recovery efforts. And so, we just wanted to emphasize that and let you all know just their impact and what they mean to the city of El Paso.
 And so just as an example you know when you think of community development we largely don't live in goal 2 or goal 4 or goal 5 but our retirement volunteer programs are working with PD and and they work with the disabled parking enforcement and victim service response teams. Our retirement senior volunteer program has volunteers at the El Paso Zoo and museums supporting goal 4.
 And so they largely support quality of life. And again, they've worked during the pandemic and they've supported not only community development, but this community as a whole. And so just a little bit about our impact. We have currently over 90 volunteer stations throughout the community. They represent over 800 volunteers. And together they have volunteered
 collectively for over 181,000 volunteer hours. So with that, I'd like to introduce my rock stars, Ms. Sandra Serrano, our volunteer program coordinator. Thank you.
 Hi good morning. Mayor and council. Retired and senior volunteer program most commonly known in RSVP here but he's very familiar with it. RSVP. It's one of the largest network for volunteers that are 55 and older. It's actually one of the programs under AmeriCorps seniors. There's actually three different programs under AmeriCorps seniors for individuals that are 55 and older that want to volunteer and give back.
 RSVP has served in El Paso since 1974. So the state of El Paso has been a proud sponsor of RSVP for a very long time.
 Currently El Paso RSVP we have 600 over 600 registered active volunteers and these volunteers are placed at different partnerships that we have throughout the community and these partnerships are organizations and nonprofits. So they get placed at these different nonprofits to serve and give back to their communities. Volunteering encourages seniors to bring a lifetime of talent experience skills and hobbies to the community projects that impact the quality of life in El Paso.
 The grant that we do receive from AmeriCorps seniors runs their three year increments. We just started our one of the three year increments last year and each grant year we have focus areas. So for this current three year grant our focus areas of the grant is food security transportation respite care and companionship.
 Under nutrition and food security, a lot of our RSVP volunteers, of course, they do the food distribution. We do have partnerships with four local food pantries that we place our volunteers at. So food distribution is one of the main services, activities that they do, but they also help out with nutrition education classes.
 They do an annual back to school supply drive that's also handed out as far when they do the food boxes They also assist families and individuals with applying for food stamp application with a snap And then we go out there as an RSVP and our staff we go out there and we do surveys of the people that are receiving services through our volunteers and
 and the impact it's having on them. Annually, our volunteers have served over 2,000 families, individuals served annually at the food pantries. Currently we have over 50 RSVP volunteers that are volunteering at these four food pantries that we partner with.
 A lot of these volunteers even through the pandemic did not stop volunteering. They felt that they needed to respond and to continue. A lot of volunteers were sent home because of COVID but we had a large amount of volunteers that were at the food pantries continue to volunteer throughout the pandemic.
 One volunteer that comes to mind is at Cali Memorial, Margarita, she's been there for over 10 years and she started as a recipient of the food pantry when she went to go and ask for a food box.
 She loved the fact that she wanted to give back to her community so she signed up as a volunteer has been there for 10 years now. Even through the pandemic she she still volunteered and now she's responsible for handing out snacks and nonperishable food for our homeless. So Kelly Memorial is very fortunate to have her and she's just a very dedicated volunteer there.
 With the surveys that we do conduct for our grant, for our surveys, it does show that over 80% of families and individuals that receive food have reported an increase in food security.
 Our next focus area is transportation, and these are seniors helping seniors. A lot of times, especially at our senior housing, a lot of seniors kind of check up on each other and they take on that role as a volunteer to help them continue to live independently, for them to stay in their apartment and be able to do daily errands. They help them with taking them to the groceries, to the pharmacy, to doctor's appointments, any lab work that needs to be done. A lot of times when they get ill,
 and they return back from the hospital, they make sure they check on them, maybe cook them a homemade meal. So a lot of our volunteers at the senior housing, they go above and beyond to check on these volunteers and the residents of the senior housing.
 Currently, annually, they serve over 60 seniors that are living independently by themselves. They also offer companionship, over 4,000 hours of companionship that they offer aside from doing the transportation services for them. And from our pre and post independent living survey that we do at the beginning of when the volunteer starts providing these services to about six months later, they show an 82% report.
 Increase in independent living where we're allowed to continue to live independently with the assistance of the volunteer respite care This is a partnership with hospice that we do have volunteers that provide that um
 Much needed, you know relief for a caregiver. It's very stressful to be a caregiver for somebody that's reaching the end of life. So These volunteers go in and they do non-medical home visits just to give that caregiver a little bit of a break They also offer companionship and reinsurance we have over 3,000 hours of respite care a year and
 And we've served over 1.5 thousand families that are under hospice care. We do provide a respite of serving a caregiver at the end of life. And it shows that 74% of caregivers report increase in social support, which I think is amazing because when you're a caregiver, a lot of times you feel isolated and alone. So it's nice to know that our volunteers are making a big difference with respite care.
 And lastly companionship. Companionship this is done through our Cornell seniors program which is a telephonic insurance program. And this initiative actually restarted during the pandemic. We had stopped this initiative some years back and during the pandemic when a lot of our volunteers were being sent home to isolate we started reaching out to them just to making just to check up on them to make sure they were doing OK. And then we became aware of other seniors that were you know home alone.
 that were lonely they were afraid because the pandemic was something you know very new to all of us and a lot of unanswered questions so we took it upon ourselves as our staff myself and my staff we started making phone calls just to check up on our volunteers that were sent home.
 and then they were the ones that told us you know we want to still continue to volunteer even though our typical way of volunteering in person couldn't be done at the time. They wanted to make those phone calls they wanted to reach out to those seniors that were also isolating and maybe were alone. So we restarted this program and now we have over 30 RSVP volunteers making phone calls.
 to seniors that are home or isolated or homebound. During that first year of the pandemic, we made over 2,000 calls to seniors. And it also served as a resource. A lot of times, they would ask us, like, well, what's going on? Was any new ordinance coming out from the emergency office? Any new resources that came out for COVID? We would make sure we let them know if they were lacking resources. So it also became a connection for them to reach out for resources.
 And we do also a survey, 90% have reported increased social ties, which they feel like they're connected with the outside world. And to finish up, I just wanted to read a small testimonial from one of our recipients that received calls to the Cornell Seniors Program. And this testimonial is dated March 15, 2022. I feel lucky with the volunteer caller I have been placed and matched with.
 I can relate to my volunteer caller because we have some common life experiences. My volunteer caller keeps me company through the calls I receive from him. My volunteer has helped me see things in a more positive way. I suffer from symptoms of PTSD, and my volunteer caller lifts my spirits, and the calls have contributed to the strengthening of my spiritual health.
 Calls from my volunteers have helped me better cope from things that bring me down especially current events. I always look forward to his calls and I consider my volunteer a friend. Now that we have gotten to know each other my volunteer caller is an easy person to talk to a good listener and a mentor to me. So just want to show you the impact of these calls make on these seniors that are isolated and alone. Thank you and I want to turn it over to our program coordinator for the foster grandparents program Mr. Robert Heredia.
 Thank you, Senator. Good morning, everyone. My name is Robert Adedia. I'm the volunteer program coordinator for the foster grandparent program. And really what the foster grandparent program is, we serve as tutors and mentors to children in need of maybe that extra boost in education or maybe they just need that positive role model or they're lacking that grandma or their grandpa.
 Our volunteer group which is 103 strong they serve in a classroom setting during classroom hours or learning center hours in the learning center setting. They are for school readiness and K through 12 success. OK. Our goals are achieved by the number of children served. So we're normally we're around 103 strong meaning each volunteer serves at the least two to four volunteers per volunteer. Two to two to four students per volunteer. The number of children demonstrated
 We also, our goals are also to achieve a number of children demonstrating gains through school readiness. A number of students with improved academic engagement through social emotional skills and that's basically what we were talking about earlier. These kids needing their grandma, their grandpa, that positive enforcement, that role model somebody to look up to and also that extra boost in education. The serviceable activities through the FGP are tutoring children, mentoring children and social and emotional support.
 Then after that, well, COVID happened. The pandemic happened. And because of the pandemic, that pretty much put an end to all events, all social events, meaning all of our Head Starts, all of our schools were closed. So that forced all of our volunteers to stay home. And because of that, we at the Foster Grandparent Program kind of recalibrated our approach with the volunteers. And what we did is we created the Pen Pal program.
 And basically what this is, this is an opportunity for our volunteers to stay connected and stay stay connected with these kids and both on both ends and just making sure that that that I'm sorry that they're just stay connected in the sense where there's joy, they're perpetuating happiness, they're social, they're connected, and there's a relationship there between the foster grandparent program and the children in need.
 So the way it works is the foster grandparent program worked with these schools these head starts through pen pal through writing letters and in the slides above you'll see some examples of some letters our grandma sent out and the response from the children and how how they feel you know the kind of the connection letters being exchanged to them. The foster grandparent program once the pen pal was established did serve as a hub and what we did is we overlooked and overviewed all letters coming in and out and you
 I would say out of 103 volunteers on average each we would receive a letter and a letter was sent out per week. So I would I think an educated guess it would be we would send out maybe throughout that first year of the pandemic forty five hundred thirty five to forty five hundred letters were exchanged to the pen pal to pen pal for the volunteer and the child. I guess that's pretty much it for the foster grandparent program. I want to turn it over to Sandra Serrano or Nicole I'm sorry.
 And so both the RSVP and FGP have advisory councils and they were each appointed or they were established in 1975 and 1987. In a later ordinance reading today, it'll be a first reading, we'll actually be asking for
 recommendation to actually merge the two. This is in alignment with AmeriCorps throughout the federal level you know this this follows an alignment but really both councils have the same objectives have the same volunteer needs and we've got we actually have had advisory council members asking to serve on both.
 And so we really feel like you know with those synergies that you know to have one at large advisory council would really benefit you know the senior population and really capturing the voices of our seniors.
 So recommendation for action is the the merging of both the retired and senior volunteer program advisory council and foster grandparent advisory Council to create one AmeriCorps senior advisory council. I just want to be clear though that we're not taking this is just an update This is for a future item. And so we just because we're doing the two items We thought you know, it made sense to present that now and with that I'll take any questions. I
 There's no questions. Thank you for the presentation. We thank you all and everyone else and Miss prime Yes, mayor. Did you counsel want to recess or continue? I think we can go to the first readings, correct? Yes, sir All right. Let's do that. This is the first readings of ordinances These are items 17 to 19. There's a motion made by Rivera seconded by representative Salcido to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 17 through 19 and
 On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Shoresby not present. Next item. The next item is number... 20. 20.
 21? 21, yeah. Yes, sir. Item 21 is discussion and action on a resolution for City Council to approve the revisions to the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program as shown in Exhibit A of the resolution. Good morning. Richard Bristow of Streets and Maintenance. This presentation today that Olivia Montalvo and myself are going to provide is a process improvement to the NTMP, to the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program, and our intent
 was to simplify and maybe clarify the program a little bit more to make it more understandable. This is going to be about the fifth time that we had modified the program since it started back in, I believe, 2008.
 And frankly, it's time to make some revisions so that we can move these projects along quicker. And we think that we have some ideas that can get us there. And with that, I'm gonna turn the program over to Olivia Montalvo, but I'm going to stay with her and assist in making some of the points throughout the presentation. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Good morning, Olivia Montalvo-Patrick with Streets and Maintenance here to cover the Neighborhood Traffic Management Program.
 Start off the Neighbor Traffic Management Program is a formal review process and application for residents to request traffic safety to address traffic concerns in their neighborhood. It addresses vision block for safe and beautiful neighborhoods and ties to strategic goals number seven and complements goal number two.
 So visions are MTMP also has connection to the developing vision zero initiative, which is also a nationwide and international initiative to achieve zero fatalities and zero serious injuries on roadway systems. Previously, the MTMP has adopted as we know it was in 2008 major revisions were done in 2018 and last November.
 Council directed staff to review additional requirements for speed petition and public private partnerships. So right now the main goal is to simplify and clarify the MTP process from application to installation. So the bottom line is just to look at it as a neighborhood initiated program driven from residents request. It's a focus on small scale traffic calming solutions such as our speed cushions and signage. And then overall we just updating our
 that also that they better identify and meet and prioritize the needs of our residents. So that our materials is also simple to qualify.
 for the residents to use for the request. So going through our feedback requirements and trends, we've gotten feedback that to review the petition requirement. So currently the requirement is it is required that 66% of the households must submit a petition and is driven from the residents. So what we are averaging is about 32 applications per year, but we'll get close to 500 calls through 311.
 We're also asked to look at the speed criteria and our current criteria that they have to minimum volume of 500 vehicles to 7,500 vehicles per day and 15% of that traffic needs to be traveling five miles or more over the speed limit to qualify. Right now 32% of those applications meet that requirement. But to make note on the other two thirds that don't qualify, their average speed is actually going 30 miles per hour, which is the posted speed limit.
 We're also asked to look at the review of the public-private partnership and per our requirements through the guide, we prioritize projects based on their submittal and as they qualified for the program, and program implementation is contingent on available funds. If we do not have funding, we do have it in the guide where residents can pay 100% for design materials and construction if it's not funded. So we are averaging three years to complete, and our projects that we're working on right now, almost half of them are installed at this time.
 So this is also looking at our historical trends that also complement with the factors. We have received over 600 applications since the initiation of this program. And I just want to highlight the ones that are eligible for this program, their average speed is going 36 miles per hour and they're averaging 1,800 vehicles for the volume.
 So what we want to hear, this is just our summary side of our main proposed changes. I wanted to hand it over just for a quick briefing from Mr. Bristol. And then the following slides are going to go into a little bit further detail on our proposed changes right here. Mr. Bristol, you wanted to say a few words? Yes. So Olivia will, again, articulate these a little bit more in subsequent slides. But we're going to lower and clarify the petition requirement that at least 51% of the residential households abutting the requested street support installations.
 that is a reduction from the current trend. And she'll show those details. And in the presentation, we also have information that other communities, both Baldrige communities and other regional communities, are doing in this line as well. We're going to revise the speed criteria to 10%.
 um instead of the 15th that will go from the 85th percentile to the 90th percentile we're going to remove the crash rate criteria as a substitute for the speed criteria and the reason being is we are not using it we are gathering sufficient information through our data collection process that we haven't been able to use that
 we haven't needed to. We're going to take out the tier two option. Now if you remember the last time we came and made changes, we added the tier one option, which is speed cushions, and we made tier two the more robust physical improvements like bulb outs,
 traffic circles, anything that changes the physical conditions of the street. Now, we're not going to offer that. We only have one that's in queue, and it's a carryover from a few years back, and we're not seeing a lot of that.
 And I would ask you to keep in mind those Tier 2 capital improvement options are quite expensive. And part of the reason that they sat undone for so many years at the beginning of the project, at the beginning of the program rather, was because they were waiting for funding. Now, the most important change that I believe we're making today is number five.
 I'll read it out to you then I will clarify what it means prior to handing the presentation back to Olivia, but we'll remove the additional consensus from the property owners directly abutting proposed speed cushion locations. The city traffic engineering team would like to determine the placement of these speed cushions on qualified streets based on established criteria. Now, there's a reason why this is a concern for us.
 One, even though this is a citizen-initiated program, when we go out and collect data on speeding trends and on traffic within a street, we now have information about whether or not we have a legitimate safety concern on a street or not. What is hurting us is our process is allowing for the public to be involved in the process of where the placement of the cushions are going.
 This is causing a significant delay in our project execution. And in addition to that, the reason that we are uncomfortable with it as a streets and maintenance department is simply because when we have a possession of data that identifies a potential problem,
 safety issue on a street, we're compelled to act. And when we find ourselves in a situation where we're going back and forth with residents and residents going back and forth with themselves as well over where the placement of these cushions are going, we find ourselves not dealing with the problem. And we want to deal with that problem. So that is the number one reason behind that major change. And we've kind of learned over the years because
 We're talking to the same people that are complaining that you're hearing information from. We're having conversations with the same folks. And one of the biggest concerns that we have, everybody seems to want these speed cushions, but no one seems to want them in front of their houses. And that has caused us some delays. So what we want to do is have our professional traffic engineering team make the determination of where the placement would go based on established criteria.
 With that, I'm going to hand it back to Olivia to run through the remainder of the slides. Thank you. And then for at the end of the presentation as well, we do have a reference slide that compares the criteria history changes that we've done from 2008-18. We also have a reference slide in there for city comparisons that we compared ourselves to to our competitor cities and also that are also Vision Zero.
 also as well. So one of the first criteria, we're looking at lowering the petition requirements, as we stated earlier, currently you need 66%, which is the super majority. And what we're proposing to go is to the simple majority of 51%. And so that would actually help out if we go back at our applications from 2020 until now, that'll help out about three out of the 20 of them that were incomplete because they didn't reach the petition requirement. And we also just want to clarify when we're asking for residential household petitions,
 that were referred to when we say low residential dwellings, that's single family housing or duplexes. We also wanna clarify that the house for the residents to seek petitions from will be the front yard or the side yard of a property that directly abuts the requested street. And then also just say that it's stated on there before, but just clarify it more. That's only one signature is counted per household.
 We're also looking at revising the speed threshold criteria. As we right now, it's at 15% are using the 85 percentile at five miles an hour. Staff reviewed and looked at a comparison if we went to the 10% or the 90th percentile. And from our sampling, it would be the ones that are,
 close to making like if they were 33 miles per hour 34 miles per hour they may become eligible under the 90 kind of based on their volume as well and if we go back to look at our applications from 2020 on that will help out another three out of the dozen that weren't eligible due to for the speed requirement that fell just short you know at 34 miles per hour but we're going at the 10 percent
 they would be able to make the criteria. And also looking at removing the crash rate criteria as a substitution for speed since we are proposing to lower it. And we're also looking back at the, out of the 160 applications they've looked at since 2018, the crash rate only really directly impacted less than five of them. And then with the lowering of the crash rate, most of them will be addressed in that matter as well.
 And then we're also looking at our process improvement. So as we talking away about removing of the tier two option, we've shifted away from the capital intense solutions during our last rewrite in order to have a greater impact on the number and implement and implementation of projects that we can install. And it's not like the those.
 to hear like the roundabout circles, curb extensions aren't disappearing. You might see them still come in process and other forms of other programs that we're proposing through the intersection improvement safety and other ones that they'll be as there as well, but just not the main focus for the MTMP.
 Also we're looking at the removal of the additional consensus from the property owners as right now we do vet the locations prior to outreach and then we do seek an additional step of additional consensus from property owners additionally proposing the speed cushions. So there is a point where we need to transition from public consensus to data driven process within our process. And so at this point where the way the program is set up, residents brought the streets attention.
 to the city. We collected the data and if it meets the criteria, the city has significant information to act on an issue on public streets. And we've also mentioned that objections that we do receive also adds time to the process and keeps other projects in queue. And if we're breaking this down into our, looking like the time period saved, just wanted to address if we are just focusing on the highlights of improvement, if the application goes simply through, we get the study,
 They are they are eligible for the study. We work on the design. We send the notice to the residents that this is the project going forth and we're installing. We're looking at a time reduction of going down to six to 13 months. And this is all contingent on continuing funding of the program. We're looking back at our current process
 We do have a backlog of over 800 days and a lot of that was created but also when we lowered the criteria the last round we created a backlog of projects from 2018 and 19 that became eligible but they also weren't funded because the previous funding for the program went to the more robust tier 2 projects.
 And then when we got the annual funding that started in 2020 with the general fundings, we were also hit with the pandemic. And so that also kind of changed our process. And so project stayed in queue and a lot longer than anticipated, but we're moving moving forward. You know, if we were able to get the project, review the application, get the study set quite criteria is met go straight to design and send out the notice that this is where we're going to be installing them because it's now been identified for public safety.
 And we're looking at, you know, time reduction of getting them down to under, you know, under 12. And with that, we're looking at our traffic calming devices that will be our main focus will be placed speed cushion, speed feedback signs, striping and pavement markers. And so we do have criteria for looking at their placement considerations of where they are with intersections, driveway alignments.
 Proximities to bus stops, fire hydrants, utilities, and just having the adequate site distance as well, and also consideration to the street curves and grades. And when roadways aren't subject, because of their grades, we have other options to look into if we can't put the speed cushions or the striping and markers, or the feedback signs, which we're usually target for our collector streets.
 And also just by overall just looking at our simplifying and clarifying our recommendations for the MTMP, we're looking at kind of it's already in the guide right now, but it's just making it more transparent and clear that they would meet pre-qualifications. Paved street with city limits, local collectors, one moving lane of traffic. The speed limit needs to be 20 to 35 miles an hour.
 And the streets must be composed primary of single-family housing or duplexes. They're required to submit a petition with the simple majority of 51% from the single housing or duplex with front or side properties abutting the street, one household per signature. And staff will still reserve if we need to look at it depending on how large the scope is, we will work with residents if we need to expand it or reduce it down.
 And the criteria for them to be eligible will be based on a traffic study that they meet the volume from a minimum of 500 cars, and that 10% of that traffic volume will be traveling five miles or more over the posted speed limit. And then also just being more transparent, if they don't meet that criteria,
 and the residents, you know, that they have that option, that they can request a restudy after 12 months, and after three years, a new application with the petition will be required if they haven't met the requirements. And so for the next step, we'll be looking at applying the revised recommendations, updating all our materials,
 so that we're aligning our materials with identified community needs and priorities and then continuing on with our ongoing efforts to get caught up with our current backlog. And we are making progress on that one. We are reaching to have all the two we're currently on the 2019 and getting that public outreach out to get them all into install by by the end of this year. And with that this would be the criteria side and we're open for questions. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you very much for your presentation Representative Rodríguez followed by Mayor Pro Tem.
 Thank you for that presentation. I think this is for at least I'm sure every single district but District 6 has a lot of requests for these types of the speed cushions. And so my question is or concern is what's happening to the people that are still having cars crash into their homes.
 Do they automatically get to jump? I know you just mentioned that we're backlogged up until 2019, but is there priority being given to people that are having cars coming into their homes? Ma'am, if I could answer that one. We have other programs that are city initiated, not so much
 citizen initiated to address things like that. And that would be bollards. We can have installation of bollards, installation of guardrail. And we can also do a traffic study on a street and look for any other feature or problem that may have contributed to the accident. The reason that we have that separately is because that's the type of program that we have to jump on and initiate ourselves. Right.
 And based on the data that we have, when we have an accident, so we work with a homeowner to figure out a way to, to provide some type of measure. What we didn't want to do was take the NTMP, which is a resident community driven program and install a, a trigger that would automatically just force the NTMP program onto the street. So if they hadn't applied for it,
 for NTMP and there has been an accident, we have programs and safety features that we can do and that we will do. And that's where our guardrail goes. That's where our bollards go. And we also utilize a lot of feedback signs in these situations as well. So the intent was to keep the NTMP as a product that is dealing solely with citizen initiated violence.
 Complaints of speeding and the deal with the reactive measures for accidents through our other tools.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay so with that Richard would I be able to do the city initiative once where I can send you a list of these streets that have had accidents. RICHARD BEST. Yes ma'am please send us a list where there have been these types of accidents that have hit a house and we'll be more than happy to take a very comprehensive look at this. This is this is what we do.
 Sometimes when we're pending traffic studies, it takes a little bit of time to do that, but that's the type of detail that we go look at. We look at the geometrics. We look at the signage that's in place. We look at how fast and how narrow turns are. We look at how the speed
 The street was laid out and the neighborhood was laid out in the first place. And one thing that we find is in a lot of our older neighborhoods where there's a little bit wider streets, where there's a little bit more open areas, people tend to speed a lot more. But as I said, though, please send us those requests so that we can go take a look at that because that's something that we need to be dealing with.
 So we'd be more than happy to accept those as additional traffic studies. Perfect. I will be sending those over to you. Thank you. My other question is, I know you mentioned that we're reducing the speed limit or you're increasing it from...
 or yes reducing it to five miles over the posted speed limit i know earlier or last year i should say um when we were talking about legislation for texas they were talking about lowering the residential speed limit to 25 miles per hour and i know that you all just also said that you're going to go back and look at your previous applications if that does come true do those
 applications that failed automatically qualify again or do they need to go to the through the process all over again. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Olivia do you want to let her know how we'll handle those processes since you've been doing it so much lately. ELLIE WILSON- Those ones we would need to review because a lot of them we would have to see the intake and if the speed limits are reduced citywide to 25 miles per hour we would have to look at our requirement.
 And then we do go back for traffic studies that they are good for up to three years. And so we would only be going back until a three-year time period to review applications. Okay. And then I also know you mentioned that you're backlogged right now up until 2019. How long do you think it'll take you to catch up to we're now in 2022? Our goal is for the end of this year. The end of this year, you'll be completely caught up?
 Yeah and then so that way we're starting with the new fiscal year budget. We'll be ready to go for 2020 applications and onwards because right now we're also pending a lot from the pandemic our traffic studies as well to let other projects know if they are eligible or not. And that's ongoing as well. And — DIRECTOR DEWOLF. When is the call to the public. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Right after this item. Thank you. DIRECTOR MACK. And also the 20 — no it's 2019. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Go ahead. DIRECTOR MACK. They made me lose — DIRECTOR DEWOLF. I'm sorry. DIRECTOR DEWOLF.
 Oh the backlog. So if you are caught up on this actually the reason why you're backed up again is because of the pandemic. Have you ever been this backed up before. Yes. Not quite this bad. We were backed up before but it wasn't quite this bad. Right now we're working 30 is it 38 or 33 traffic studies.
 Well, initially when the program was kicked off, there was, I would hear from residents when I was with work with neighborhood associations, it could take them over five or six years to get installed because they were put on a priority ranking system.
 And so then also a cost share. And so it wasn't until 2018 they were put into that priority as the order they were submitted and as they qualified and then they got to stay. So prior to 2018, they may have got a letter that they were eligible but could be bumped out with other projects. And so there was a backlog from those first decade that some folks could have been waiting on. And then what, to 2018 it did get shorter?
 But that was also with the general fund coming in to fund it because it was capital improvement project for a good chunk of those nine years to fund them from the 2008 up until about 2019.
 Okay, and then my last question is as far as it being a city initiative if we're aware of a neighborhood where there's a bus stop a school bus stop And we know we've been told that hey, there's this there's a school bus stop here The kids get off and there's a lot of speeding can that situation be a cause for city initiative to go look at that street? I
 We can look at any unsafe situation on any street. So if you have information of a concern I would recommend bringing it through the CR process and we'll examine it. Many of the other representatives follow that process as well. And we're like again we're more than happy to go to examine it that's that's what we do. So yes please do. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay thank you. I know there's other questions but I would like to make a motion to approve this project.
 Thank you. We do have Mayor Potem followed by Representative Hernandez. Thanks Mayor. I have a number of questions and also since you're asking about some areas of concern, there is a house that has been hit repeatedly on the roundabout at Country Club and Memory.
 That it's basically on the side of memory and country club. The roundabout, I guess, intersects country club place, country club road, and memory. There's a wall that's been hit, I think, at least three times or four times in the last five years from cars that are just, they go over the curb there. So is there an ability...
 either outside the NTMP or others to set up other bollards or other barricades if we know that there's an area that has Ongoing issues of traffic accidents. There is sir There is in a particular location our traffic engineers are actually working on a solution for that Okay long Sam Rodriguez and his staff. He's involved as well. So we are looking at that location, but absolutely This is this is the purpose of the group is to find safer ways of travel within El Paso. I
 So that I guess leads me to another question is what what exactly happens to the tier two? projects if they're identified or you have a neighborhood that's concerned about About wanting to see a tier two application. We will have removed it from the NTMP Program so if something like that were to come back it would be an unfunded project in my interpretations It would be an unfunded capital project
 and it would just need to be initiated as a project and get funded, but it won't be part of the NTMP. And so what again is the, why again the concern with removing the tier two? I mean, it was something that we were giving people the option is essentially just saying that we're never gonna fund it through the NTMP and so we're just kind of throwing our hands up relating to the tier two projects.
 We haven't been getting applications for the tier two since we've changed this and the only one that we're working on I believe is it Jean Torres Olivia? That was a 2008 application that's been going through CID. So there has not been a lot of interest in the tier two. That's part of the reason we're removing it. We removed it originally because they're very expensive and they were slowing down
 moving the projects because if we got half a million dollars in a year as which we were getting back then That simply was enough to do one tier two project and we weren't able to get the cushions done So it was expediency. It was to save money But also people just are not requesting them I mean, I think there's some concern about them requesting them because they're told that there's basically no way to get them funded in any sort of reasonable timeframe, right
 Well, it's all dependent on assigning dollars to the project, sir, and that wouldn't be something that our group would have any say over. We're just trying to make the best with the resources that we have. Yeah, I guess my concern about eliminating the Tier 2 is that a lot of what we're discussing here relates towards Vision Zero.
 And if you look at other communities, it's a sort of all hands on deck approach Towards getting streets that are safer for for communities and for our residents about these complete streets so my only concern is that and Perhaps this is something to bring back up Is it I would want to understand the mechanism that we'd have in place to look at at more robust and final sort of
 of improvements that we can have in our communities as it relates towards Complete Streets and Vision Zero.
 My only concern is that speed cushions at this point is one tool, but we're eliminating some of the other tools as it relates towards the NTMP. And we should have a mechanism in place that for the NTMP in an area that has ongoing traffic issues, we'd be able to point to and say, even though this qualifies for a speed cushion, what would make sense is something more robust. And that there would be a mechanism to bring that up to council and not just kind of –
 putting a speed cushion on it, you know, speed cushion bandaid and calling it a day. And so that's kind of where my thoughts are with that. You know, if there's a concern about wanting to look at
 some of these more robust traffic calming measures that have been identified in other cities and other communities relating to Complete Streets and Vision Zero I don't think it's a question of eliminating that tier I think it's a question of making sure that we identify more funding for it and as in the council if you know in the community to step up in terms of that
 So those are kind of my thoughts with it. I'm not sure exactly what it's at, but it seems that if there is an issue of funding those more robust traffic calming measures, which are best practices,
 as it relates towards Vision Zero, as it relates to Complete Streets. We shouldn't be eliminating the ability to have those. We should be looking at other sources of funding for that and not just saying we're just going to do speed cushions when we know there's other best practices, again, as it relates towards Vision Zero, as it relates towards Complete Streets. So, Mayor Pro Tem, I would, if I may, I would like to just add for you and the rest of the council that
 This will not preclude you adding additional features to any of these streets, so you could still do that, but it would also expedite the process related to what you're discussing at this particular time. And that was the council's objective. I think this is a very good example where, you know, the process got as efficient as it could, but I think the policy itself has some limitations.
 some things that prevent it from going as smoothly because of the items that they're recommending to remove. So this would expedite the cushions
 So those would happen faster, but nothing precludes us from looking at additional options on the street, like you're discussing, to make the street look better and to continue to add other safety features. But this simply wouldn't slow that process up. But with regard to when you fund different improvements like that, you would either have to do a CO, which there's a lot of discussion about, or to put in front of the next bond election a,
 that's proposed which would be in 22 November. So this is just meant to expedite what the council's concerns were, but nothing precludes, again repeating myself, nothing precludes you from adding any additional features.
 And real quick, Sam Rodriguez, City Engineer. You'll see as we bring forth Vision Zero and then the intersection safety improvements, we really see Vision Zero as a big umbrella that additional opportunities for safety across our community will be available. Intersection safety improvements is a really good example where we're analyzing accident data.
 throughout and making recommendations as well uh to address the the accident prone areas which i think you know thinking from a from a logical standpoint of where you're going with your thought process about what requires some additional hard construction to help prevent some of those things um like the like the uh the roundabout situation that you mentioned on country club yeah it's those are to me are very specific solution based areas based on specific um
 that we encounter such as accidents or deaths that'll be analyzed through the intersection safety improvement program. The reason I think as the city manager stated that we're making this recommendation to remove tier two out of this program because it really expedites
 A lot of the issues in the CR request that we continue to receive is, you know, where's my application? How come it's not approved? You know, it's really unfair, etc., etc. It really is a response to a lot of the feedback that we receive from the residents, what we're recommending today.
 And as the city manager stated we're not precluded from from bringing back more recommendations as to how we address other specific areas. You just approved the street design manual complete streets as the policy that's coming forth as well in the very near future.
 And so we're really collecting it to your point. We're not leaving anything off the table at this point. We want to make sure that we are responsive to the community with this program specifically because it's been an issue that needs to get addressed. And certainly Tier 2 is not off the table for future programs to include the Intersection Safety Improvement Program.
 I hope. And I just wanted to comment on that was as an example of one of our comparative cities for City of Boston. They've been doing Vision Zero for over five years and just recently shadowed their speed hump program. So they don't go and take requests anymore for speed cushions. Everything is database driven.
 Yeah. That they'll go out and look based on their data and we're able to go in and so it's kind of what we're going to be also looking at the database driven with the forthcoming intersection safety program as well so. Yeah so I mean and I know that you know there's other ways of funding I know that Austin for example.
 I had a bond initiative where they funded a number of initiatives for protected bike lanes that uses concrete barriers and other robust ways. I also know too that there's other communities that have looked at bulb outs and other sort of traffic calming measures utilizing tactical urbanism, murals on the streets, bollards that are relatively cost effective versus putting it in there.
 My concern about removing tier two today is that it removes the ability to catalog the more robust capital improvement needs from this and so I Would I have a number of comments? But I do want to make a motion to to keep tier two capital projects options available if for nothing else than to identify The need that's there from the data from the NTMP package And I don't know if there will be a second but I would like to make that motion here today. I
 So I would like to make a motion to amend these recommended changes to keep the Tier 2 capital project option available. Mayor Pro Tem, may I suggest something? If we could come up with a way where we could catalog those so that they don't get lost and they do get in front of council during the budgeting process, would that meet kind of your concerns?
 Yeah. I mean, I think if you were to keep the tier two in there, it would ipso facto make sure that it would be documented, right? Because you'd have a project that could be identified for tier two, in addition to being qualified for a speed cushion. I understand. Okay. Our only concern is we just don't want to, um,
 exasperate the community by having something on the list that hasn't been funded because of it hasn't met certain priority needs in the past because of the costs associated with it but I understand
 I just wanted to see if I could offer a solution. No no and I appreciate. There's also a section in the street design manual. One of the last chapters of that one for traffic calming measures within the development. Okay. Well again I'm not sure if there's a second and not. Ms. Prine I'm just curious how much I've gone on for because I have a number of questions but I want to be. Mayor Pro Tem I have a question regarding your motion. Yes. Yes. Representative Hernandez my apologies.
 Thank you. So with this action, remove it from the NTMP process, but then further categorize it as a potential capital project. You're asking me or you're you're what I mean, because I do like the the idea from city manager Gonzalez about making sure that we at least do a study that there could be an application to conduct a study.
 but that it would not be eligible for this funding because the funding is finite, and then there could be a recommendation for it to be funded to capital. Yeah, my whole thing of this was, again, is creating a mechanism which we currently have with our NTMP to catalog an expanded idea or expanded
 tools, processes for traffic calming measures. Whether or not they are funded or not by having the tier two capital project option remaining in the NTMP,
 staff is able to identify that there are projects that still qualifies for speed cushions, but also are needed to have something more robust down the way, and if there was a CO package or a bond package that was
 There was a grant federal grants or whatever we would have that list to point to for those tier two so mayor pro-tem I think I think I might have thought of What addresses what you want and doesn't slow the process up for the community or the rest of the council's concerns? So Sam jump in Sam if you disagree, okay but the thought in what you just kind of threw out is
 If we're not precluded from doing the speed cushions in other words when it comes to our attention and we're able to go in and Do the speed cushions and they get done but but that if there was a more robust answer Then we would catalog it and then bring it back during a budgeting process and or bond election I think that would meet what your concerns are and I think it also Address the council's concerns about expediency as well as the community's concern about him. I've been on this list for a while. I
 So does that meet your needs? Because that way it does get cataloged, it doesn't get lost, and we do bring it back either in the budgeting process and or on a bond election. How would it get cataloged if we remove like? Sam, can you help me out on that? I guess just. Yeah, absolutely. And so the data, the complimentary program is the Intersection Safety Improvement Program, Mayor Pro Temp, in that we're really, what would trigger, in my opinion,
 a tier two solution would be
 the data that's supported by and backed up by accidents, deaths, those kind of incidents that would support or not support but be part of the criteria that would trigger something more permanent like construction as part of a tier two program. And that would get picked up through the tier two, through the Intersection Safety Improvement Program as a way for us to catalog, this corridor has so many accidents that would,
 would allow us to develop a more specific solution that would come through and compliment the NTMP through the Intersection Safety Improvement Program, if I'm making myself clear on that, because it really is, you know, when you look at how the NTMP Tier 1 and Tier 2, it kind of left it up to the neighborhoods when they submitted the applications as to whether they requested a Tier 1 or a Tier 2. There is no specific criteria within the applications prior to this revision as to whether it went into Tier 1 or Tier 2.
 it was more of the choice of the neighborhood. Because at the end of the day, what's being addressed with this program is the speeding through the neighborhood, which the speed cushions resolve. The compliment again, as the city manager stated, we could come back and through the intersection to take the improvement program, figure out a way to link up and create that criteria that would include accidents and accidents to support us proposing some additional
 recommendations and hard improvements like what you're talking about at the roundabout and country club is a really great example of people speeding through that roundabout, but we've already got the accident data that supports additional bollards or constructions of bulb outs and those kinds of things. It's really a good opportunity for us to kind of merge the two programs together under the Vision Zero program. So...
 so another i guess in other words removing the tier 2 i just i don't know how we would we would identify that data by removing it today because at least with the tier 2 remaining there's an opportunity to
 to say that it's there. I mean, I can stop talking and see if anybody else is there. Yeah, sure. Thank you. Sam, what I mentioned to the Mayor Pro Tem was that if we are not precluded from doing the speed cushions, even if it falls under Tier 2, we still do the Tier 2 work and bring it back through some budgeting process, whether it's the annual budgeting process or a bond election. I think it would probably lean more towards bond election, but...
 Wouldn't that address the issue Sam? SAM NELSONSEN It would. I mean leaving the Tier 2 Auctioneer Pro Tem would not I mean it wouldn't hinder our process at all and what we're trying to accomplish. I think the challenge for the community and the neighborhoods is that if they do choose to request the Tier 2 project and that's that's kind of where it's going to sit until we package either a seal package that we present to council or a bond program. But again.
 criteria wise there's no difference in the current program and correct me if I'm wrong Richard but there's no criteria for Tier 1 or Tier 2 in the current policy. It's an it's really a request from the neighborhood as to whether they go Tier 1 or Tier 2. RICHARD BESTMANN Yes that's that's a fact.
 All right. So the policy has been flawed from the beginning. I mean, because y'all made this is the second or third adjustment you have made to it. And that's the reason why the frustration was so loud and heavy from the community and from the council, quite frankly. So what they're suggesting is just ways to make this better. And Mayor Pro Tem, again, I'll repeat one more time because I don't think I was clear in that
 All I'm saying is that if we're not precluded from doing the cushions, then I think we can still address your issue. I think Sam overlaid that with the discussion of we need to have some good criteria as to what's going to constitute going to a Tier 2, which is a lot more expensive. Is that right, Sam? That's correct, sir. Thank you. Representative Hernandez, I apologize.
 I think I know public comment is waiting so I just want to give a couple of comments. So for the list Olivia that's already pending if any of any of this action approves today and any of those folks had denied placement in front of their homes can you notify the respective representatives so that we can you know intend to to speak to some of those constituents if they're if they're frustrated.
 and then justify our actions. And then, so I'm supportive of the consensus removal because, you know, it is a requirement for the city to protect property owners. However, I do ask that at minimum a notification is made
 to the owner before placement of that speed cushion because there might be an effort for them to to try to change the minds of other residents and they can try to do that if they've signed the petition. But I think for the most part most residents want their speed cushions.
 And then finally, I do get a lot of requests for the types of signatures that are accepted. Would you all be opposed to accepting an electronic, like let's say an email signature in support of this? Whether, you know, I'm not sure if an email is sufficient or any form of electronic signature.
 process to accept signatures because we do have some neighborhoods that are very close-knit and they do take advantage advantage of electronics and emails and text messages. So I'm just curious if that's something that you all would be opposed to as per as making a change to the NTP changes today.
 We're not opposed to it. What we need is either some form of endorsement that we can verify is really what we're looking for. And we do verify these signatures. And unfortunately, we've found many situations where they haven't been accurate. So all we really want is a method to or a
 a process that will give us the ability to verify the endorsement of the individual that's providing signature electronically or handwriting. DIRECTOR HARRIS- And that's accepted today. Is that an acceptable or. DIRECTOR MACKAY- Right now it's just the petition form. DIRECTOR HARRIS- Okay. Do you if it's just a petition form because that's that's something I've encountered in the past. If it's just a petition form can they today without any changes submit any other
 whether it's an email or a text message or something. Right now the forms it's been the petition form itself or we've been if individuals have been using the affidavit form which is another form that they can email and sign back and send back to us too. So it was either full petition form or the amendment of the affidavit form like the little letter that they were able to sign off on and provide feedback information and send back.
 So those have been the two that we've counted. And what is the affidavit form? How is that submitted? Is it when you get email or?
 That's mailed and it's also electronic to be mailed out. So some of the neighborhood associations have used that form as well to get additional consent, especially when we had objections in areas too. So they use that same form to go out and they were able to return that one back electronically as well because it's a PDF form or it's a handwritten letter you can mail back to us. Okay. Or email, take a picture with your cell phone and send it back to us by email. Okay.
 DIRECTOR MACKAROWSKIN Okay. No I think that's sufficient. I think that if there are folks who and the concern is there some people who don't like to interface with people. So they're in their house they don't want to sign any petitions but if you mail it to them then the more likely to or or an opportunity to submit it. So but I think that's sufficient to address my concern. But thank you for all that you're doing and I hope to see those projects completed by the end of the year. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Thank you Representative Nunes. Mayor Pro Tem.
 Thanks. And I'll try to be brief about this. So on slide 13 there's a question and I'm just trying to see clarification why speed cushions are not allowed within speed speed within school zones. Well when the school zone is active it's a 15 mile an hour zone. There's no point slowing down.
 the traffic and when it's already 50 miles an hour. And also a lot of these school zones happen to be on the types of streets that don't actually qualify. A lot of them are on arterials or on collectors. Now we have some collectors that we allow for, but they're the collectors that have residential. I know that, so they're not allowed within school zones because most are within collector streets, correct?
 Either the type of classification or the streets or there already is a speed control tool within the school zone being the schools on itself. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Yeah I'm a little bit concerned about that and I don't think that actually probably is a change to what's already there correct.
 I mean that's already our policy. I just think that we hear concerns from residents you know that there's not enough school district public safety personnel, there's not enough officers that we have right now within that area and so even though there might be a speed haptic sign, that speed feedback sign there or others,
 you know, like you said, we know that speed cushions work in slowing people down. And so I do have some questions relating to that. Another item that I have, and this is something that I heard from...
 One of the projects on the list is a concern from neighborhoods that are adjacent where their direct egress and egress is into a street with speed cushions. For example, gated communities. How is that addressed with the NTMP improvements that we have here? The gated communities are not a city right-of-way. That's not part of our program because it's not a right-of-way.
 But I'm saying they don't really have a voice here because if they turn into say Pebble Hills for example, that's the only way they can get in and out of their community. But they don't have, they're not gonna be part of a 51% that can approve this or 51% that cannot approve this. No sir, and the reason being is residents along the actual street that are being affected by the speeding are the ones that
 we're intending to assist the safety of with the program. So the program is about the houses that are living on that street that are dealing on a daily basis with the speeding trends and feeling unsafe with the conditions on the street. That's the whole intent of the program. If you don't live there, we have not included you as one of the people
 one of the votes that could qualify this. It does impact because for some neighborhoods that again have no choice but to go into that street, they have no other, they have no voice in this. They have no choice but to go over those speed cushions. They don't have a choice whether or not to support or deny it. Right, sir, and we do recognize that. We are limited to the fact that
 We've developed the program for the benefit of the individuals living on the street, on the city street, on the city right of way. And the other ones that are living in gated communities are welcome to do their own programs.
 It's not our property. And then the other question I have is relating towards slide 14 about the submitting application and that staff can revise subject street limits and request additional signatures if needed. Help me understand a little bit more about that staff oversight and how it can be adjusted.
 Is that about the duration of the subject street? Is that in the percentage or the amount of signatures warranted? You know, I think a big improvement with this NTMP adjustment is looking at, you know, where they're placed and the kind of community buy-in, how many addresses can actually voice their concern about where those are. I mean, it should be left up to traffic engineers. I do agree with that. But I do have, I'm trying to understand this part of the,
 recommended NTMP criteria. I don't know if you can go that. It's in the middle section, that bottom. Yes, now we're putting that one in there because sometimes the request will come in just for one block. And if you look at the nature of that one block within the larger roadway, we would be looking at it's like it may not even be long enough to place one speed cushion. So we'll have to reach out to the residents. Like you may want to.
 extend it to where it covers both blocks. So we have a larger area to cover for a traffic study, or sometimes the requests come in and they only want a portion of their street and they don't want they, because some of these residential streets are really long and you can have a hundred homes on them. So we got to work with them on what's going to be a realistic blocking point for where we can install the spacing.
 proper spacing for the signage and the speed cushions. And then that we're kind of being comfortable of like the geometric design of the area. So some of them make sense to expand it to like, you know, you should go out to that next block or this one you're like, you know, we know this is a really, really long street and we can work with you to cut it down to this segment right here because there's an intersection that kind of breaks up
 the neighborhood too so it's us for to be able to work with them or it's also a reasonable amount of signatures they can get too because some of these streets they can have over a hundred homes and so when you're telling residents they need to get that many more signatures it is kind of a daunting so we are looking at it like how it's staff design and staff could lower the signature requirement to under 51 percent no no no that's what we're proposing right now
 All right. We cannot. It they would still have to be within it would be 51 percent of the houses within the application the application. The scope area. Even if the area were to expand. Okay. That that helps that helps me understand a little bit. So I know that that you know that.
 have some concerns again with the tier two. I understand what city manager was saying, but I feel like if there isn't a mechanism in place to actually have it written into this NTMP criteria about identifying, you know,
 speed, you know, a tier two eligible street, you know, I understand that everyone is eligible for it, but once we remove a tier two criteria from this,
 staff follows policies and procedures, right? And God bless them for it, right? Because that is what we should be doing in a high functioning, high performing organization. But that also means too that once that criteria of tier two eligibility is removed from this program, staff will not be collecting it unless that is something that is there.
 You know I put I put a motion down to keep it in there. Maybe there's a way to do it. I feel like I can't. What I would rather do today is is is just to take a small step back see how we can identify that tier 2 criteria rather than passing this today and coming back in a month or whatever it is so.
 I would like to make a motion to postpone this for two weeks to see how we can come back to again identify the tier two criteria without necessarily identifying the funding for it because again my concern is I don't know city manager if I'm making much sense here in terms of looking at the tier two criteria but
 mechanism in there I know that Sam and Tom and city manager were kind of talking on the fly about how to make this happen but I would feel a lot more comfortable in supporting this because there's a lot of things to support in this if that kind of tier 2 status was somehow codified in this improving and clarification of the NTMP criteria moving forward and so that I would like to make a motion to this one for two weeks call second no motion in a second
 Yes, Mayor. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein, seconded by Representative Molinar to postpone the item for two weeks. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Thank you. I'm ready to take action on this after 35 minutes of discussion. So I vote no. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion fails. Representative Schwartzbein, Molinar voting aye. The remainder of council voting nay. There is a motion, Mayor.
 There's a motion and a second by representative Rodriguez. Yes Rodriguez and representative Rivera to approve Yes, sir on that motion call for the vote representative Yes, and on this thank you and the voting session the motion passes with six affirmative votes Representative shorts by in voting nay the motion does pass. Can we take call to the public? Thank you. We now go to call to the public. I
 The El Paso City Council is local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks.
 against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon, we have 10 members of the public that signed up to speak. I don't see Ms. Sheck, so we'll go with Mr. Ron Como.
 He will be followed by Linda Senshoway. Mr. Como's topic is concerns with animal services. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. Mayor, you had made a comment the other day that we should go after the problems with the shelter one by one and correct them and move on. I just want to tell you, I think we're in that area right now. You've corrected a major problem by replacing the director.
 The other day I was at the shelter, I walked in, people were happy, people were smiling. We've discussed the toxic work environment that's been at the shelter for the last two years. It looks like that's coming to an end. I've noticed that the new director is actually advertising and trying to find help to replace the employees that left. He's not using the shortage of employees as a crutch so he can't do his job. My situation today is a problem with the number of strays.
 that we have running our streets. Our county is full, our city shelter is full, your rescues are full, and we've got no place to go. So we need to make decisions. Do we kill them, or do we get a temporary facility to house them, maybe with some temporary employees? This city was put in this situation by the shelter, by the Haas program. They left strays in the streets. We've got mamas and puppies everywhere.
 We need to stop the cycle. Mr. Mayor, we had discussed that rescues could no longer continue to deal with the problems. PETA put out a statement saying that the rescues could not handle the overflow that was pushed upon them by the shelters running the HOSS program. What I'd like to say more than anything, because I sat over there a few years ago, I heard a mayor say, I am an animal advocate, I want El Paso to be no kill.
 Was part of the program that you were working on we need that mayor City Council back We need to make decisions to make things better We need to come up with a facility to temporarily house until we can make a real facility The strays that we have we have put on El Paso we need to take the money out of that fund we used to build a baseball park and
 Take maybe one of Dean Margo's buildings and turn it into a temporary housing area or to at least alleviate the problem right now You've got two ways to solve the problem. You either kill them or you make room So are we going to be no kill El Paso? Are we going to move forward and make things better for the strays of El Paso? after all we're responsible for
 What is happening today with the strays on the streets in the rescues in the shelters in the county? We can't do this. We're running out all of us. We're out of steam I used to move a couple hundred dogs a month out of the city right now moving 30 to 40 every two months Thank you. No Three minutes. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Miss Linda sensual way
 Ma'am, I see you in the queue. If you put star six, you can unmute. Yes. Thank you. You have three minutes. Yes, this is Linda Sanchez. Hello? Yes, go ahead, ma'am. We can hear you. Okay. Yes, I would like to propose an idea to create cans for cans to recycle aluminum. Okay.
 I'm sorry, ma'am. You're back on mute. Star six, please to unmute your telephone. Go ahead, ma'am. We can hear you now. Hello. I got muted. Can you hear me now? Yes, ma'am.
 Yes, and to recycle aluminum cans and cans that are specifically cans for cans, because I see people picking through the dumpsters for aluminum cans. And I think it would be good for the economy and the environment. And it would be a paradigm for other communities.
 And I have one question. Why in the state of New Mexico did they give stimulus checks to the people twice and not here in the state of El Paso or the state of Texas? Excuse me. Hello? Yes, ma'am. Go ahead. You still have some time. I'm finished. Okay. Thank you so much, ma'am. I'm finished. Thank you. The next speaker is Pierre Andre Buzaraga.
 His topic is Americanization. He will be followed by Efrain Saucedo and Sabrina Soto. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon again. Yes, sir. A quick letter starting now. Dear Republican Party, dear Democratic Party, dear city of El Paso, dear state of Texas, and dear Americans.
 My name is Pierre Andre Uzarraga, and I am the founder and chairman of the American Political Party. I am participating in the public comment portion of the City of El Paso City Council meeting on this Tuesday, April 12, 2022, to invite you, the American people, to join the American Political Party. The mission of the American Political Party is to centralize the left and the right, also known as Americanization. Thank you.
 As legally required, we need at least 1,500 Americans from the Republican Party, from the Democratic Party, from the city of El Paso, from the county of El Paso, and from the state of Texas to stand up and to step up and to perform one, two, three, and or four of the following actions. Action number one, register your name. Action number two, donate the monetary amount of your choosing.
 Action number three, donate the resources amount of your choosing. Action number four, volunteer the time amount of your choosing.
 Once we acquire at least 1,500 American voters, we, the American people, may then collectively obtain the legal recognition as an official political party of and by the state of Texas. Mr. Uzaraga, you can't use this forum for campaigning or making political statements, and it does seem that you're doing that by promoting a particular party and asking people to.
 Sign up for it. I'm trying to update this government, and I'm well within my constitutional rights. So if I may continue, I only have— It's not within the rules of this forum, Mr. Osoraga. I feel my public comment is being interrupted, which means you're breaking your own rules. No, sir, you're not sticking to the rules. Well, if I may continue, I only have one more page to go. Mayor. Mayor.
 Mr. It cannot be politically. It can be concerns for the city, concerns for city council, but cannot be for a political gain or political party of any party. This is for your all party. Of any party. It can't be.
 That's a so but you're more this country we've stopped the clock so we're not using your time, but please don't And we don't want to violate your constitutional rights But this is a forum that gives you the ability to speak to your elected officials and the city as you can But we cannot be used for political Forum or platform of any sort? Well, I believe everything we speak about during public comment is one way or another political and
 I understand that, but it cannot be used for political, as a political party, political gain. Anybody running for any public office cannot use this platform for that. Anybody that's running for any political office cannot wear their shirt coming into
 the N2 City Council chambers or again, use this form for three minutes to publicize their political stand as they're running for any public office. But please continue and please keep it non-political if you don't mind, sir. I'll do my best, Your Honor. As I was saying, once we obtained the legal recognition as an official party by the state of Texas, we all, the American people,
 may then collectively obtain the legal recognition as an official pp political party of and by the remaining 49 states of the united states including and not limiting its several territories its several possessions its several islands its several provinces its several tribes and its capital of washington dc once we obtain the legal recognition as an official political party of and by
 the United States, we the American people will have fulfilled our mission of centralizing the left and the right, also known as Americanization.
 thank you i thank you for your time humbly and respectfully and moving forward on this again this platform cannot be used for political gain and and i would appreciate that and please i i appreciate you coming back coming in every time you were here last time i was in office you've always been very respectful and i appreciate that and i would appreciate that we do keep to the
 platform of the three minutes what it's intended to be and like I said I've always enjoyed you coming in and I've always respected you coming in and I would appreciate that. Yes sir. Thank you sir. Thank you for your time sir. And again like I told you you look nice. The next speaker is Efrain Saucedo. His topic is concerns with the El Paso Police Department. I believe he left. We'll move to Sabrina Soto.
 Ms. Soto's topic is denying the El Paso Police Department current funding request for cannabis prosecution. Ms. Soto, star six please to unmute your telephone. Sabrina Soto, star six please to unmute your telephone. Sabrina Soto, I see you in the queue, however you're on mute. If you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. I don't see Ms. Soto coming forward. Gabby Mejia, Gabby Mejia, if you're in the queue, star six.
 Sabrina Soto, Gabby Mejia, Tabitha Amaya, Colt DeMorris. Good afternoon, Mr. DeMorris. You'll have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon, council, mayor. Thank you for waiting and I appreciate your patience. Of course, thank you. I come here today because April 1st is coming past. The state of New Mexico has now made over $10 million in the first seven days and El Pasoans are flooding to New Mexico to purchase legal cannabis.
 Before April 1st, I sat and talked with the fire chief out in Sunland Park, and they were expecting 10,000 cars a day. There's two dispensaries in New Mexico currently, and there are over 20 applications sitting ready to be approved for the Sunland Park area itself. You know, we need to do something.
 I saw that a news station had put out an article or something on the news since September 2021. There had been 160 encounters with people for marijuana. Only 15 of those were sight and released. The other 145 were arrested.
 These numbers are going to shoot up. This week I plan on putting in a request for numbers from the El Paso Police Department, and I'm going to guarantee you that the week prior to April 1 and the week after the numbers increase. This is something that we need to take a look at now because it's not going anywhere. It's here, and it's going to become more plentiful. Thank you, guys. Thank you again, sir.
 Thank you, and I don't see Ms. Mejia or Ms. Amaya in the queue, and I don't see Ms. Soto coming forward. That leaves a written statement that was submitted by Richard Canada to be read into the record that reads, Hello, Honorable Mayor and Council.
 I am writing in today to show my solidarity and support for the efforts of the cannabis advocates who come before you today and in many previous meetings. Over $5 million in sales revenue were generated just minutes across the state border.
 that are currently out of our reach, we gain nothing by continuing to prosecute El Pasoans for using medicine that has widely been accepted and embraced by many of our state neighbors. I asked Beto O'Rourke about the future of cannabis in Texas, and he insists the state will see cannabis legalized. I have spoken with candidates for lieutenant governor and state attorney general.
 They insist the state will see cannabis legalized. It's time El Paso read the room. I appreciate that full local decriminalization may be a bit too intense for some of you, but the change is coming. We lose more money and more importantly, wasted limited police resources over our plant that would inevitably lead to huge benefits for our city, both health wise to veterans and medicinal users suffering from various ailments.
 to the tax benefits and jobs the industry will create. I am unaware of how persistent EPPD is
 is in seeking the additional funding for THC testing. If it is still a request, I urge you to deny it, and at the very least take back up the proposed amendment that would see testing only conducted on large-scale busts. El Paso started the trend of ignorant fear-mongering in regards to cannabis over 100 years ago. It's too late to be the leaders in undoing that harm and pastime. We join those efforts respectfully, Richard Genetta.
 Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Thank you. That brings us to item number 22 on the agenda. Move to approve. This is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 1500 Joe Battle Boulevard from R3 residential to C3 commercial. Motion and a second. Motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes.
 representative Lisa thank you in the voting session the motion passes unanimously that brings us to item number 23. this is a public hearing on an ordinance releasing the conditions placed at 1519 and 1525 golden hill terrace street second there's a motion made by representative lisa seconded by representative rodriguez to approve on that motion call for the vote representative hernandez yes thank you
 In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Item number 24 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12, vehicles and traffic, parking prohibited at all times on certain streets to prohibit parking on certain portions of Shores Cove Drive. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Mayor? Mayor?
 Representative short, Mayor Pro Tem. I just want to acknowledge the hard work that General Schwarzkopf has done for our country. I don't I don't really feel he's given the respect that he deserves with the generals that we have in our country. General Schwarzkopf, yes, sir. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session the motion passes unanimously. Item number 25.
 Is discussion in action on an amendment to the resolution establishing the City of El Paso Ad Hoc Charter Advisory Committee in response to council action on March 29, 2022, directing the city manager to admit one representative of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Local 59, as an ex-official member. Second. No motion and a second. There's a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Item number 26 is discussion in action on the FY 23 community project funding request to be submitted for consideration through the House Appropriations Committee process. Move to approve. Good afternoon. We do have a presentation if you all are interested. We have a motion second. Yes, Mayor. Presentation?
 Council is requesting the presentation. Perfect. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Lindsay Adams, legislative liaison. This presentation is talking about the fiscal year 23 community project funding opportunities. This does align with strategic goal six, set the standard for sound governance and fiscal management.
 So a quick overview. The Community Project Funding Program is a program through the House Appropriations Committee. This program opens every April for applications to be submitted a solicitation for fiscal year 23 is now open and the City of El Paso is eligible to submit some progress projects to the Congress members offices for consideration.
 Last year we did submit some projects and the El Paso area was awarded 11.5 million for from House District 16 that we funded nine community projects. The city received two of those. I'm sure you're familiar with them. The first one was 1 million for the construction of the Paso del Norte trail and the other one was 525,000 for the body worn camera program for the El Paso Police Department.
 So in terms of guidelines and requirements for the community project funding, first they have to have demonstrated community support. Second, matching funds must be available for the projects in order for them to be considered. These projects can only be funded for fiscal year 23. They will not be eligible for revolving funds.
 The House Appropriations Committee does value high-quality projects so we are working to make sure that the projects that we do end up submitting will be high quality and have a chance. Each congressperson has the ability to submit 15 projects to the House Appropriations Committee that is up five. Last year they were only able to submit 10 but that's still it's still a very very contentious race because they have to you know
 They're going to be receiving applications from the city the county nonprofits and everyone in between. So of those hundreds that they receive we have to make sure that our projects are really good quality projects that can make it into one of the 15 that are selected. There are a lot of eligible categories this year. The committees that are open are different from the committees that were open last year and there is a lot of different accounts under each of those committees which I'll get into a little bit later.
 As I mentioned, the amount of funding and match requirement is dependent on each committee, whichever committee we're going to submit to. And just to keep things a little more realistic, the project funding does range from $500,000 to $3 million, depending on the committee and depending on what the project itself is.
 So based on these federal requirements the city has come up with its own selection criteria. We did receive several proposals from departments but we're in the process of vetting those and making sure that they align one with the federal criteria to with what we learned from what we submitted last year and what was accepted and what was not. And of course we want to make sure that these projects are tangible. They do not accept studies or designs.
 We also want to make sure that they tie into our strategic plan, and we also have to make sure that they are implemented within one year. Like I mentioned, this is only for fiscal year 23, so we have to make sure that anything we submit can be implemented within that year timeline. And one of the most important things is that we do have a local match available. So in terms of a timeline, we're on a very, very tight timeline. So April 1st, we did receive notice that they would be opening the call for request. That portal was opened on April 4th.
 We're here today, April 12th, at City Council to get your all support to move forward in submitting. I do want to be clear that we are not necessarily asking for your support for individual projects because we're still vetting them. It's a very tedious process. There's a lot of guidelines that we have to meet and criteria that we have to meet in order to apply. So at this point, we're just asking for your support to move forward to be able to submit the final list once we have it.
 So moving on from the 12th to the 18th we will go ahead and finalize those requests make sure that everything is lined up and that we're we're submitting high quality projects and of course our deadline to submit is April 20th which is right around the corner.
 So in terms of the projects that we currently have tentatively proposed, the first one is for electric vehicle charging stations. This project cost is $3 million, and the cap that we can request at the federal level is $3 million. There is a 20% local match for this, and this would be to install approximately six electric vehicle charging stations across the city. This project has been supported by council in the past. You all have approved an MOU with the chamber, UTEP, and GM for this.
 The next project is the airport solar project. This project cost is 3.5 million. The federal cap is 3 million and there is no match requirement specified. This is going to fall under the energy category, but I'm still doing some research. Like I said, it's very tedious. So that might change in terms of a match for that one. And this would be for to construct the El Paso International Airport's first on-site solar installation.
 The next project is microtransit for transit dependent customers. This project cost is $900,000. The federal request cap is $3 million and there is a local match of 20%. And this would provide transit dependent customers with additional transportation options.
 The next project is the resilience hub. This project cost is $1.5 million. The federal request cap is $1 million, and there is a local match of 20%. This would be to establish a food resilience hub on Wyoming to include a solar demonstration and a community garden. The next project that we're considering is the homeless welcome center for a cost of $950,000 with a federal cap of $1 million and a 20% match.
 The next one is the Paso del Norte Trail expansion, which the total project cost is 1.5 million and the federal cap is 1 million with a 20 percent match. And this would be to continue the 0.68 mile long segment from San Antonio to Cotton. If you recall what I mentioned earlier the previous extension was approved in last year's appropriations.
 The next one is the Mountain to River Trail. The project cost is $1 million. The federal request cap is $1 million, and this would be a 20% match. And this would provide connectivity to Tom Mays Park to the Rio Grande Trail. And finally, the last one we are considering is the Carbon Footprinting Project, which is $2.1 million cost, $3 million federal cap, and it is in the energy category, so there is no match requirement specified. And this would help provide insight onto carbon reduction strategies.
 So our next step, of course, we're here today to get support from City Council to continue vetting the projects that we have recommended and look at others that may qualify according to the project selection criteria. I do want to make it clear that not all the projects that I just went over will be submitted. We are looking to submit five, but we are still vetting them. Like I mentioned, it's a very tedious process. There's a lot of things that we have to ensure before we can make sure before we can submit them.
 So once we finalize the list and ensure that they meet all the federal eligibility requirements, we'll make sure we have the strong proposals submitted by April 20th. And then, of course, we will come back and provide a list of those projects that were submitted to you so you all are aware of what we did submit.
 So today we are just asking for your action, your help in directing the city manager to identify and submit the eligible projects for fiscal year 23 for the community project funding program and ensuring that those projects that we submit, of course, align with the strategic plan and, of course, have that match fund available prior to submittal. So pending any questions, that's my presentation. We have no discussion. Move to approve. Second. Okay, thank you.
 Would you like to speak, sir? Yes, sir. Oh, go ahead. I'm sorry. I thought you were making a motion. First, I'd just like to say it's very nice to see Ms. Adams on our virtual screen. Nice to see you. And I think all these projects, I think, are very well thought out. I think at this point, this is a really solid process to look forward to identify which ones make sense to take a deeper dive at these well-considered projects and then see what makes the most sense to apply for this on behalf of our Congresswoman's office.
 So thanks again for all your hard work. Miss Adams nice seeing you again, and that is all I have Mary. Thank you Thank you. We have a motion in a second Yes, there was a motion and a second to approve the recommended action as presented by Miss Adams on that motion call for the vote I think I'm the one who made the motion
 Yes, the motion was made by representative Rodriguez seconded by representative Lizárraga before the presentation. Representative Hernández, thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 27 is a presentation discussion and action related to a resolution authorizing the city manager or his designee To approve a one-time payment to non-uniform new hires as part of the recruitment incentive pilot and a compensation increase for non-uniform full-time part-time temporary employees and that increases the city's minimum wage to 1111 per hour We have a motion in a second. I know you gave us a presentation last week you want to do it again? I
 Go ahead. IT, if you'd bring up the presentation for item number 27, please. So as mentioned, this is a follow-up to last budget update, and actually really several of the last budget updates. We've talked about the investment in our workforce, labor challenges, the issues we're facing with not only retaining the existing staff, but being able to be competitive as far as recruitment for new individuals who want to come work for the city of El Paso.
 And so with that being said, again, just building upon the discussion from the last meeting, we've talked about what we've done to address compensation for our city employees. Going all the way back to 2015, when we increased the minimum wage at that time up to the 10.36 an hour, which it currently is, increasing the pay for our temporaries at that time as well in 2015, and then what we've done each and every year since then. I'm also identifying targeted salary adjustments. We talked, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein brought up the CDL,
 and what we've done to be able to retain and attract new CDL drivers, for example, in Sun Metro and our ESD, Environmental Services, collection drivers. Also focusing on the health and wellness of our employees through our Shape It Up Wellness Program, providing them their healthcare savings account, tuition assistance program that we have, and then also the new and exciting learning and development professional opportunities that we have through all the various training programs that we now provide. So the action that you have before you is a resolution,
 to do two things. So one is to increase the minimum wage that the city currently has, which is $10.36 an hour, and increasing that by 7.2%. So that would bring it to $11.11 as the lowest paid employee in the city of El Paso. So what that would do is increase that by 75 cents, so this would apply a 75 cent increase for all non-uniform employees. And so this accomplishes a few things. So one, it makes us more competitive as far as the salary being provided to employees,
 It also provides additional compensation for all our existing employees. So really a win-win. Also provides a larger pay increase for the lower paid employees, which is something the council's talked about over the last several years as well. So that's the first item. I talked about this already. So really focusing on the lower paid employees by increasing that minimum wage to the $11.11, providing again a 75 cent increase per hour for all non-uniform city employees.
 So again depending upon how much you make that percentage in variance would would differ The second item on here on slide number five the pilot recruitment incentive. This is the second component So something I talked about we've been talking a lot about is not only being able to retain But also to attract new individuals to come work for the city of El Paso So this pilot recruitment incentive would run from April 10th man all the way through Mary You can proceed. Yes, sir. Is that does that apply to the new? I
 PD and fire recruits so currently it does not this was going to focus since it's a pilot project on on their civilian employees But it does not apply to the police and fire cadets because of the recruiting can I be done? It could yes, it could I mean we can I make a motion to apply to PD and fire. That's a great Second that's great Let's finish the person go ahead and finish presentation. So this will provide again for new hires a
 $500 at the time of employment so within 30 days after their start date they would receive the initial $500 upon completion of their probation after six months successful completion of their probation They would receive the remaining $500 again This would be a pilot project to determine the effectiveness of the program if we're seeing an increase in the number of individuals applying Based on what we've seen over the last several months and then if we see some success with this program something that we'd bring forth for consideration to continue and
 into our fiscal year 2023 and we can have those discussions or any changes that we need to make as part of the budget development process for fiscal year 2023 So this is again just a recap on what we've done over the last several years. So again, it really started with mr Gonzales when he first took his city manager position in the summer of 2014 really stepped into a very not so ideal Mayor Lisa, you're very familiar with the situation at that time and
 City we had at the time about an eight point nine million dollar deficit really took a lot of right size in the budget So in summer of 2015 is when we began with our lump sum payments Really focusing on strengthening the financials of the city and then system we've been able to do percentage increases We've done additional lump sum payments We've done equity adjustments for our city employees and again all of the additional incentives and the things that I covered at the last budget update one of the things to really highlight about these two items that are before you today is
 Really continue to build upon all the things that this council's approved in a very very short amount of time So looking over the last seven and a half eight months with this current fiscal year that we're in Started with the budget that was adopted in August of last year Included the one and a half percent increase for our city employees and included equity adjustments for those that were eligible based upon their years Of service and their salary so not all individuals receive those but most of them did they receive those equity adjustments and November you all approved the additional $500 lump sum payment and
 Right before the holidays, which is very very Satisfying and our employees are very very thankful for that So this again in this fiscal year adding these two items which again is not only going to help to retain but also to recruit Our city employees. We've seen several articles. I saw one couple days ago about lifeguard issues. We have issues I saw an article about the issues we're having obviously at the libraries with getting those staffed up so
 These efforts we believe will help to make us a little bit more competitive and being able to not only again Improve the morale of our workforce, but again attract new individuals to come work for the city So that'll be happy to answer any questions Thank you mayor, yes, sir. Yeah, I read it before and then I had asked you I think this is a great tool to recruit men and women to the police department fire department whatever you you know, they decide to choose and I
 I think that's that's how I stick by the amendment I made. I mean, this is this is a great tool here. Thank you Mr. Cortina's on presentation. Do you think you work it in there? I
 We can add police and fire cadets into under Section 1A. We'll add police and fire cadets. We'll specify that, that they're included. Okay. Thank you. That's great. And we'll come back in the future with a potential amendment to build upon this program, as I mentioned, just based on the success that we have. Right. And then also just as I mentioned with those particular departments, just the way that they go about their recruiting, they're recruiting well in advance. Right.
 So we may need to come back in the future and talk about the expiration date for them in particular. Okay, thank you. We can add them into the resolution. True, and I think that's one of the concerns of this council on how we can recruit and retain our officers. So I think that's a great tool. Thank you, sir. Thank you for the presentation. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for that, sir. Representative Salcido.
 thank you mayor and uh thank you representative you had written some notes down um and i was thinking about police so that's a great um amendment and i definitely second it the presentation as a whole is great to see that you all are increasing the per hour rate and i think that really comes to show that we are looking on how we incentivize and also just make sure that our our workforce is compensated correctly
 And yeah, so I'm definitely looking into the whole police and fire, I think it keeps us competitive. I know that that's been a challenge. I keep seeing billboards where they're trying to recruit our own and so it's good that we're gonna kind of come out the same way and make sure that we get the right people to be here to make sure that the community's safe. We're very excited and anxious to get the word out to the employees, I know they're all gonna be thrilled. I know the department heads are gonna be thrilled because
 Obviously the the additional workload and the burden that is putting on the existing workforce with having so many vacancies throughout all of our departments This effort and what you all are proven today will be greatly greatly greatly appreciated by all our city departments. Thank you not
 Thank you, Mayor. Good job, Mr. Cortina. So reference the amendment that Representative Rivera is making on the effective date. It'll still remain the same April 12 through August 31st. Yes, sir. We'll keep it that way for now, and then we'll come back, as I mentioned, as we go a little bit further along and see the success. And then if we need to extend the deadline, we can do that in a future council meeting. Okay. And then also...
 Pretty much non-uniform employees have a six-month probationary period. So the police, I believe, have a one year. So that will be factored in somehow as well. Yes, sir. So, yes, we'll bring that back as well. They have actually their academy is much longer now. I believe it's ten and a half months. So.
 But yes, we can build that into the resolution with the amendment but just to be clear to mr Mullen our question sir this would apply for getting the recruit in and then when they finish the Academy they'd get the other 500 and If we did anything post that it would have to be done in a CBA discussion collective bargaining agreement discussion But this would be done
 before they become actual off correct that's right or actually the last one would be that the day of the day before right are we gonna hit a stumbling block with the collective bargaining agreement no we're not I was just making clear that because the way you mentioned it you said like after they start working and after the probationary period this would not apply to the officers in their probationary period the probationary period it would only apply to non
 Non-uniform Employees and and they would get 500 when they get hired another 500 after they complete the six months on the cadets Whether it's fire or police when they're brought in get 500 you finish the Academy You know make sure that by legally we do it like the day before the right before they get it pinned on we give them The 500 so that's how it would work for them just to be clear Sorry
 even after they've successfully completed the TCOLE exam to make sure that they are 100%? Well, we would just want to make sure that we comply with the law, that they're not actual officers yet in terms of getting their bonus. But, yeah, we can make that work.
 With regard to the way I think you were alluding to we would have to Negotiate that in a collective bargaining agreement And or make additional adjustments and bring back to council Yeah, and I really do feel that after the Academy post Academy completion certification is a probably better for our
 Uniform due to the fact that let's just say for the police, you know, they've been in there for a long time and It'd be a great joy to not only receive that badge, but also receive a complimentary check as well. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you. Yes, sir Thank you, sir
 Thank you mayor the city manager answered the question. I was gonna say okay great. Thank you. Thank you Thank you for that. I think it was a great amendment to this item. That's right Yes, there's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Salcido to amend the resolution to extend the recruitment incentive to police and fire cadets on that motion call for the vote Representative at none this Okay
 In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. There is a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve the resolution as amended. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session,
 The motion passes unanimously. So, Laura, if I may, Ms. Prine? Yes. Council, thank you all on behalf of the team. We really appreciate it. And thank you for the amendment, Mr. Rivera, and your second, Ms. Salcido. Thank you all very much. We really appreciate it. Thank you.
 Thank you. That brings us to item number 28. This is discussion in action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services for project management services on a task-by-task basis between the City of El Paso and Abacus PM Inc., Broadus & Associates Inc., DE Corporation, and ECM International Inc. Move to approve.
 Motion and a second there's a motion made by representative Molina seconded by representative Rivera to approve on that motion call for the vote Representative Hernandez. Yes. Thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously That brings us to the end of the agenda Second there's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting all in favor nay
 I only hear one name. Anyone opposed other than the mayor? The motion passes, and the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, April 12, 2022, is adjourned at 1.26 p.m. There is a special city council meeting on Thursday, April 14, 2022, at 4 p.m. Thank you.