Good afternoon, Mayor, Representative Molinar. Hi, good afternoon, Representative Salcido. How are you? Good. How are you all doing? Fine, thank you. Hello, everyone. Hi, Isabel, Joe, Mayor. Hey, Representative Sadgar, how are you? Hi. You all have a great afternoon. You as well. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hi. Ms. Prine, do we have a quorum? It's 3.30.
 Good afternoon, Mayor. Council, if you've joined the video conference, please turn on your camera so we can see if we have a quorum so we can get started. Okay, Mayor, I do see a quorum on the screen. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, April 13th, 2021. It is 3.30 p.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding, and we begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein? Present. Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez? Present.
 Here. Molinar? Present. Salcido? Present. Rodriguez? Here. Rivera? Good afternoon everyone. Hi Cecily. Mayor Pro Tem. Lizárraga? Hey, how are you doing? Representative Lizárraga? How are you doing?
 Present. Hi, Henry. Thank you. Council, please keep your cameras on at all times so we can ensure a quorum is maintained. If you need technical assistance, please let me know. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor and wait to be recognized before unmuting your microphone. Per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor from the mayor, you will have up to 10 minutes for your debate. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise.
 Mayor? Mayor Thank you and I'd like to welcome everybody to council meeting. It's uh I would like to today have a moment of silence. Last week a year ago, last week we lost our first citizen to COVID-19 and today we're you know somewhere near 2,500 citizens of El Paso who have lost their lives to this disease that
 We're really gaining on it, and I'm looking forward to the day when we have our city council meetings. We don't have a moment of silence, but we talk about some of the great things that have happened within our community. Mayor, that brings us to the proclamations. The first proclamation is Sexual Assault Awareness Month. I'm sorry, Mayor, can you hear me? They're restarting my computer. They're restarting my computer. Is it?
 at the podium. It'll be just one minute, please. Thank you. Okay, Mayor, that brings us to the proclamations. The first proclamation is Sexual Assault Awareness Month. Yes, sure. We'll be reading that. I'm sure that'll be right, I think. No, actually, that was my item, and I'd actually ask if you could read that for me.
 Pardon me? Could Ms. Prine read that for me? Is that possible? Or is she still having computer problems? No, I would like the representative every week that puts it on to read their proclamation. I don't think Ms. Prine has it in front of her. I do not have a copy. Okay. I'm having some issues opening it. That's why I was asking. Yeah, that's just a, we didn't.
 Do you want to go to the next proclamation and then hopefully my computer will start? Sure, we'll do that and then we'll come back. Yes, ma'am. The next proclamation is Global Youth Service Day. Mayor, may it be recognized? Yes, please. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. The proclamation today, I will read the following. It's whereas the Juvenile Justice Center, along with community partners, are ready to provide and enrich juveniles through community service learning programs
 by participating in the Global Youth Service Day, Friday, April 23rd, 2021, and Saturday, April 24th, 2021. The Global Youth Service Day project consists of gathering community stakeholders and community members to provide encouragement to senior citizens who are currently housed at senior citizen centers located in the El Paso County and the city of El Paso.
 This year's 2021 Global Youth Service Day project theme is resilience and this together and whereas young men and women will participate in designing of various art paintings, projects and meaningful pieces of art for the El Paso County City Senior Centers including the El Paso State Supported Living Center and Good Life Seniors Living El Paso. The project will further provide other encouraging virtual activities such as poem reading, virtual contacts and interactive activities.
 all in hopes of providing cheer and connection with our elderly population amid this pandemic. And whereas the Juvenile Justice Center participates,
 and Green Hope Project, along with various local community businesses, organizations, and other supporters from the community, be an honor to provide the involvement and management in this significant, heartwarming, senior center-focused event, Global Youth Service Day. And whereas on April 24, 2021, Global Youth Service Day is the largest youth service and civic action event in the world, and the only one that celebrates and builds the capacity of all youth ages 14
 five to 25 years old to help our communities and democracy thrive by working together for the common good. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that April 23rd to the 25th of 2021 shall be known as Global Youth Service Day, signed by Honorable Mayor Leaser. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Nandas. Thank you, Annabella.
 Okay, thank you, Mayor. I'm sorry, my iPad was having trouble opening Word, but I have it now. So I will start with, whereas the crime of sexual assault violates an individual's dignity and humanity, and it is used as a tool of oppression to humiliate and degrade people through the use of manipulation, exploitation, and the exertion of sexual control over another person. In April has been designated a Sexual Assault Awareness Month in the United States and was first observed nationally in April of 2001.
 And whereas sexual assault crosses boundaries of race, class, culture, gender, sexual orientation, and gender identity, and sexual assault is but one form of sexual violence, which also includes non-consensual fondling, sexual harassment, childhood sex abuse, intimate partner sexual assault, and sex trafficking, whose impacts are wide-ranging, directly affecting individuals, families, and societies as a whole.
 And whereas one in five women and one in six men have experienced some form of sexual assault in their lifetime. And last year, the Center Against Sexual and Family Violence received almost 5,896 calls on the crisis hope line directly related to sexual assault. Provided hospital accompaniment advocacy for 278 sexual assault survivors and advocated for safety and justice for an additional 2,816 El Paso survivors.
 And whereas the Center Against Sexual Family Violence's campaign theme this year is it, excuse me, the Center Against Sexual Family Violence's campaign theme this year, Is It Okay?, builds on the idea that consent is a healthy, normal, and necessary part of everyday interactions.
 by highlighting the importance of listening to and accepting the answer without pressuring someone to change their mind, and that consent is a clear, concrete example of what it takes to end sexual harassment, abuse and assault. And survivors of sexual assault themselves have been at the forefront of the movement to bring peace, equality and justice.
 And whereas the Center Against Sexual Family Violence's campaign urges all El Pasoans to join advocates and communities across the country in taking action to prevent sexual violence by empowering individuals to engage in sexual assault prevention efforts and ensure the next generation fosters attitudes that promote equality and respect.
 Now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and City Council of the City of El Paso, the Texas the month of April 2020 shall be known as Sexual Assault Awareness Month. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Thank you. Thank you Representative Anelo. And I look forward to every City Council meeting having two proclamations moving forward and we'll continue that. So thank you Representative Nunez and Anelo for being the first to do this.
 And with that, Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Proposed revisions for the April 13th, 2020, Council meeting, page 3, item 3, delete per economic and international development. Page 5, item 10, postpone two weeks per public health. Page 18, item 48, move to the forefront of the agenda per Mayor Pro Tem, Schwartzbein, and page 18, item 49, move to the forefront of the agenda for Representative Salcido. Is there any other request from council? Second. There's none. Sorry.
 We have a motion for approval. Motion. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda. As revised on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga.
 And the motion passes unanimously. We now turn to page 18 to item number 48. This is discussion and action on a city resolution supporting fair and comprehensive immigration reform. Mayor Poteau, Schwartzwein. Thank you, Mayor. Before I said item, I just want to see if there was anybody for public comment that signed up to speak. Yes, sir. We have two individuals that signed up to speak on this item. OK. Mayor, could we hear them now?
 You bet. Yes, sir. Absolutely. Okay. The first person is Ms. Adriana Cadena. Ms. Cadena, if you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. You have three minutes, ma'am. Hello, this is Adriana. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 Okay, great. Thank you so much. First of all, thank you for the opportunity to speak. I'm very excited to be speaking on behalf of this resolution. My name is Adriana Cadenas. I am the coordinator for the Reform Immigration for Texas Alliance, which is an alliance in Texas of different organizations, including organizations here in El Paso, and we actually are a project for the Border Network for Human Rights.
 For us, we were formed in 2009 as a coalition of different groups and also of different sectors. And we feel that being able to pass a resolution like this from the city of El Paso is important to recognize
 the contributions of immigrant communities to the state of Texas and to the country, as well as to the city of El Paso. We know that documented immigrants contribute nearly $32 billion in local, state, and federal taxes each year, and have over $217 billion in spending power.
 So for us, a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million individuals who are in the country with the status without status would increase U.S. wages and also boost the GDP by 1.4 trillion. So we believe that, you know, we as a community are the 11 million in that we need to make sure that the individuals who have been here for many years.
 that are contributing this amount of dollars to our communities have the opportunity to become citizens and that there's a pathway to the leadership provided to them thank you for your time thank you the next speaker is mr fernando garcia mr garcia star six please to unmute your telephone good afternoon you have three minutes sir uh hi good afternoon can you hear me now yes sir
 Yes, well, first, Mayor, Councilmembers, thank you for considering this resolution. Also, obviously, I would like to thank Representatives Barzain and Elvon Rivera for introducing this resolution. The Border Network for Human Rights, I'm the Executive Director of the Border Network for Human Rights. We have close to 1,000 families.
 are members of our organization here in El Paso and in southern New Mexico. And the vast majority of them are mixed legal status families. In El Paso, and only in El Paso County, we had to actually discover that there are more than 50,000, probably even 70,000 members of our community without legal status.
 And as you know, they are part of our community. They are workers, they are service providers, they are the ones that actually bring the food to our table. So in however, they still in the shadows. So I think this resolution is important. We have been the border network, have been working with many of you since 2006, probably even before, to really pass comprehensive immigration reform.
 We had seen the different efforts throughout the years
 And we believe that we have a major opportunity in 2021 to pass comprehensive immigration reform. This is the time for us to really consider this seriously nationally. So I'm very proud that El Paso will be joining the call for immigration reform. It is time to actually bring those 11 million members of our community, undocumented Americans, to bring them out of the shadows and integrate them.
 So again, we appreciate this resolution and we're looking forward for your discussion and for your approval. So thank you. Appreciate it.
 Thank you, sir, for your time. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. You know, comprehensive immigration reform has been something that's been entertained by several administrations going back decades with the efforts by President Obama and George W. Bush before him failing. Ultimately, we're a nation in which our greatness comes from our diversity. Immigrants have made America great, yet we continue to punt the ball continuously when we have the opportunity to fix one of our greatest policy flaws, immigration.
 We must act and act decisively, being sensitive to those who truly aspire to the American dream, which many have perished trying to reach and defend. With the new administration announcing a renewed effort to work on and support legislation relating to comprehensive immigration reform, I think now more than ever, communities on the border need to say with a united voice that that policy is not something we needed to have another discussion on, but something that we need to act on by passage and implementation. Thank you.
 El Paso is an example of the richness of our border heritage has to offer. It is a community of immigrants like my parents, like many of our parents, and our greatest asset is our people. To serve as the shining city on a hill, we must welcome with open arms those who aim to live the dream of peace and opportunity
 We should embrace with open arms those who risk their lives to live a better life away from tyranny. Comprehensive action relating to comprehensive immigration reform is a community necessity and one that I strongly feel should be called for by our cities and other cities as well. We should aim to lead the discussion here in El Paso today and not just participate.
 And that is why I brought this item along with Representative Nadello and Representative Rivera to you all in council today. And I urge your support in passing this important item. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Anyone else? I don't have any other. Is there a motion, Representative Schwartzwein? I'd like to make a motion to approve. Second. Mayor, before we vote on it, could Ms. Prine read the resolution to the record by any chance? I'm sorry? Okay.
 Could City Clerk Prine read the item into the record? Absolutely, sir. Thank you. Yes, sir. I'm bringing it up on the screen. The resolution reads, whereas our nation's immigrants have made invaluable contributions to the progress of the city of El Paso and the United States, whereas immigrants continue to enrich the social, economic, cultural, and civic life of our country, our state, and our city, whereas we believe that comprehensive immigration reform policies,
 must recognize the contribution of newcomers as well as the important role that immigrant workers and their families play in the future growth of our nation, state, and city. Whereas we believe that in order to best ensure our nation's security and public safety, our immigration enforcement measures must be effective, fair, and humane. Whereas our nation's policymakers are considering several proposals which would make significant changes in our immigration law and our policies affecting the treatment of newcomers. Now therefore, be it
 Resolved by the mayor and the City Council as follows number one as our policymakers continue to consider immigration reform proposals We urge the US House of Representatives the US Senate and the president to demonstrate leadership By embracing fair and effective immigration policies and work to achieve true Comprehensive immigration reform and be it further number two We urge the US House of Representatives the US Senate and the president to enact comprehensive and
 immigration reform that provides an earned path to legal permanent residency and eventually US citizenship for immigrant workers and their families including dreamers temporary protect us protected status grantees and farm workers includes provisions to reunify families and reduce the immigration family backlog
 Actively furthers the civic integration of newcomers by promoting naturalization, eliminating unfair barriers to U.S. citizenship and making more resources available for English language learning and civics instruction. Advances the use of immigration enforcement and border security measures that are effective and humane. Addresses a fundamental cause of migration to the United States, the need for sustainable social and economic development in the communities where migrants originate,
 And be it further that number three, that the City of El Paso will collaborate with all organizations dedicated to carrying out the intents and purposes of this resolution to the extent allowed by law. And be it further that number four, that the Clerk of the City of El Paso will make a copy available of this resolution for the President of the United States, the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, and the President Pro Temp of the U.S. Senate so that it may be included as part of the congressional record.
 Approve this day, April 14th, 2021. Thank you, Ms. Prime. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. There is a motion and a second to approve the resolution on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Aye.
 The next item is number 49. This is discussion and action on a resolution recognizing April 2021 as National Autism Awareness Month. Representative Salcedo. Thank you Mayor. Good afternoon Council, staff, and members of the community. April is National Autism Awareness Month. Autism is the fastest growing developmental disability in the world. Raising awareness helps people understand and not be afraid by the disability.
 I have been having in-depth conversations with community advocates in my district. We discussed many important issues that affect the everyday and how the City of El Paso can be more inclusive when it comes to quality of life projects and everyday activities in the community.
 Beatriz, Mata and Maria Convernali have an organization called Angel's Mission. They actively work to provide resources to the families of people with IDD, intellectual and developmental disabilities including autism. It is their mission to educate on this and other disabilities to achieve true inclusion. I wanted to bring forward this resolution to highlight the importance of support for research, early intervention, timely diagnosis and appropriate treatments.
 With that being said, Lara, can you please read the resolution into the record, followed by public comment, if any? Thank you. Yes, ma'am. The resolution reads, Whereas April is National Autism Awareness Month and provides an opportunity to highlight the importance of support for research, early intervention, timely diagnosis, and appropriate treatment,
 And whereas according to estimates from the CDC, about one in 54 children has been identified with autism spectrum disorder, ASD, a developmental disability that can cause significant social communication and behavioral challenges. And whereas there is often nothing about how people with ASD look that sets them apart from other people, but people with ASD may communicate, interact, behave, and learn in ways that are different from most other people.
 And whereas it is important to know that ASD does not require a cure, and the reason for this awareness is not to help raise funds to cure autism, but rather to diagnose young children and provide them with the resources they need. And whereas children with ASD should not be left out of activities just because they have differing social skills and intellectual abilities.
 And whereas schools everywhere should promote inclusion of all children within the educational environment because developing children should be able to interact with children with any disorder or disability and vice versa. And whereas the families of people with ASD in the City of El Paso live this disability with courage. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso recognizes the month of April 2021 as National Autism Month. Approve this 14th day of April 2021.
 And we refer yes, sir. We do have 3 individuals that signed up to speak the first person is miss Betty cast or in a month. That this customer in a month that if you're in the queue star 6 to a major microphone and you'll have 3 minutes good afternoon, ma'am.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Verica Serena Mata, Executive Director of Angel's Mission. Angel's Mission is created by family members of people with disabilities working for integration through inclusion, creating support in the community of the city of El Paso.
 Our mission is to provide resources to families of people with IDD, intellectual and developmental disabilities, including autism, like trainings, conferences, and all kinds of awareness events. The vision of Angel's Vision is created by the increase of people with IDD, including autism, seeing the need to educate and raise awareness to create an environment of inclusion,
 Integration in all areas of life. Autism Spectrum Disorder is the fastest growing serious developmental disability, affecting and estimating one out of 59 children in the United States.
 Texas has the second largest of number of individuals with disabilities of all states. For this reason, that's the importance to spread awareness, education, and support to individuals with autism and their families. Thank you, Mayor Lizer, and representatives for your support to this code. Thank you, Isabel Salcido, to spread autism awareness. Thank you.
 And before we get to, I know we have two more to speak, but I did want to tell you that I have 11 grandkids and my 15 year old that just turned 15 on April 5th actually suffers from autism. And so this is a.
 Thank you for putting bring this forward. So it's important and he's very functional and he that he has gotten a lot of assistance so it's um it's something special to me so I thank you for that. Yes sir the next speaker is Miss Maria Fuentes. Miss Fuentes star 6 to unmute your microphone. Miss Maria Fuentes star 6. I don't see her phone number in the queue we'll move to Miss Alina Redondo.
 Ms. Arredondo, star six to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Thank you for your time and for this opportunity. My name is Alina Arredondo, and I am the coordinator from the El Paso del Norte Youth Leadership Forum. We call it YLF for short, and part of the Children's Disability Information Coalition, and also a board member from Angels Missions, like Ms. Betty Mata said.
 I have a physical disability known as focal media. But working with students for the past three years and volunteering for seven years I have seen so many students on the spectrum and I've seen that inclusion does work for all types of people with disabilities
 and without disabilities. In our program, we like to invite people who don't have disabilities and interact with our students and as well our students interacting with different types of disabilities. What they learn from this is empowerment and how they can contribute into our society and to break the myth that they are not able to contribute. They can, and we show them those necessary skills, including socializing skills, advocacy,
 independent living skills. We teach cooking, cleaning, preparing them for employment, and advocacy and communication skills. We are a free program, and we are
 We also like to teach our students how to advocate in different levels of the legislative, local and federal. So these are our future representatives and future speakers that will take the baton when our time has ended. Thank you, Mayor and the representatives, especially Representative Isabel Sancido for inviting me to this forum. Thank you. Is that the time?
 Yes, sir. I don't see Ms. Maria Fuentes' phone number in the queue, so that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you. Representative Salcedo, do we have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve the resolution on item number 49 on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Yes, absolutely, yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcedo. Aye.
 I just want to say thank you for all the guest speakers and thank you mayor for sharing your story with us. Aye. Rodriguez. Thank you representative for this item. Yes. Rivera. Thank you rep. Yes. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. We now return to page number eight to item number 23. This is a budget update. Good afternoon mayor and council.
 This is Nicole Cody, the Director of Management and Budget. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor. So today's budget update is a focus on our workforce. Today we'll be discussing, of course, the power of the Strategic Plan, our impact on personal services, and the investment we've seen over the past six years in our workforce, as well as the projected investment we'll be making in FY 2022.
 An important part of our strategic plan is our people. It's our workforce that makes the strategic plan happen. They're the ones that deliver the results and ensure that we are meeting our strategic goals as an organization.
 In the 2021 general fund expenditures, 76.7% of personal services represents the general fund budget. So that includes our salaries, our overtime, the incentive pay for police and fire, health care costs, as well as workers compensation and pension costs. Over the past five years, as you can see, we've increased the contribution of these personal services.
 This includes the addition of capital projects that have been added throughout the years for the new amenities as well as the investment in our workforce. As you can see here are the compensation increases that we have helped and given our employees over the past seven years.
 Before that, we did not see these type of increases. I have been part of the city for some time now, and it was not customary to be able to provide this type of compensation increases to our employees.
 It's an investment in our employees and it's ensuring that we still maintain in the market and we're being able to, we are able to be competitive as an organization and be able to recruit and retain those employees that are able to deliver the results.
 Combined with salaries, we also have our healthcare contributions that are made from both the general fund and non-general fund. As you can see here, the percentage that has been contributed by the employee has reduced. We have been conscious of the pressures of the increasing rises in cost in healthcare and we're ensuring that the city still maintains this healthcare for employees.
 But as you can see, we also have increased the contribution as the organization, while trying to minimize the impact on our employees. CDHP enrollment. So as part of that change in our healthcare, we also developed a few years back, as you know, the four tiers and also introduced the consumer driven healthcare plan. So our enrollment, as you can see in the slide, has increased over the past years, as well as the participation for both our police and fire.
 Department. Other wellness initiatives have included a new partnership with Providence and we've increased the number of clinics. We've also continued our health savings account for the CDHP participants and we continued our Shape It Up program as well as we've added other virtual Aetna wellness coordinators and the Teladocs that are available 24-7 that's been very critical as part of this COVID-19 pandemic.
 is to ensure that we continue to provide health care and wellness to our employees.
 Other COVID-19 initiatives include the Live Active El Paso campaign. As you can see, there are a lot more virtual group fitness classes for employees, as well as nutrition and cooking classes, healthcare information, healthy working from home tips, and how to ensure that your family and your children continue to move and stay active while at the home.
 Another benefit that we have provided our employees include our Tuition Assistance Program. And here you can see the increase in participation for our employees since 2015.
 So professional development is a critical component of our strategic plan and the investment we make in our employees. And part of that is that culture of continuous improvement. With 100% of our departments have trained and been trained and are participating in Lean Six Sigma methodology. With 88% of the departments completing Lean Six Sigma projects and over 500 employees have engaged in project teams.
 We truly are an organization of continuous improvement. And when you talk to our teams, our workforce, you hear it. You hear how they have been empowered to make the changes, to improve the processes, and improve the services for our customers, the public.
 Included in that, in professional development, is also this focus on learning and development. And yesterday, Julie Baldwin-Munoz touched on it as part of her overview for the Gould Team presentations. And the Gould Team presentation also included how this focus on learning and development has been only increasing. The number of trainings that are provided has been expanded, not only virtually, but also for those that need to be in the classroom.
 So one other component of this learning and development was the new leadership development series that launched in 2021. As part of that, it's been developed in-house by department heads and by those SME experts on a various number of subject matters, including strategic planning and cross-functional team leadership.
 in order to provide that training to our employees. And so it's not only just training, as it says at the very top of the slide, it's also about learning. It's really making sure that our teams have the opportunity to continue to learn and develop and become the leaders that they can become, and the future succession and leaders of our city.
 How is this, how are we going to project or what are we looking at projecting as far as the impact for FY 2022 as far as our investment in our workforce? As we've discussed in previous presentations, next year's estimated cost increases are estimated at $37.9 million and up this $37.9 million increase
 Estimating approximately $21.2 million invested in our salaries and benefits for our employees. And so that also includes bringing back or refunding those vacancies that have been unfunded. That includes opening those deferred projects for quality of life and ensuring that we continue services into next year, as well as the obligations that we have as part of the collective bargaining agreements.
 and police and fire academies to maintain that net 30 staffing plan for police and continue to staff and ensure that fire is able to deliver and have the workforce they need in order to deliver the services they provide. That concludes my presentation today. Thank you very much for your time. I would just want to underscore one item.
 Council and Mayor is that one slide that she referenced where we have decreased the employee contribution on health care. That's just one more way where we're able to place more dollars in the employee's pocket. Before the strategic plan, we would...
 The city would increase the health insurance and then there were no pay increases. So they, in essence, got a pay decrease every year for a course of five to six years. And the last six years, we've kind of changed that trajectory. The reason there was so much focused on training is because a lot of the results you hear about a lot of things that you're very. Excited about and happy to hear and strategic plan results in the updates.
 happen because we give them those resources and the tools for them to be able to be more effective in the job that they do. And as you have seen with your own eyes, they've done a tremendous job. Examples include going from 15,000 potholes a year to 76,000 pothole repairs a year as one key example. And there's lots of others. I'm not going to mention them right at this time, but that's one very good example.
 Where they've demonstrated how they've got a lot more outputs than they did before. Others include things like no audit findings in the last 5 years in a row and things of that nature. So that training has paid off and huge dividends. Thank you Mr. and Charles with that. We have represented the side of it.
 Thank you, Mayor Leeser. Thank you, Nicole, for the presentation. I just wanted to thank our city manager for the wellness initiatives. And I don't know how many other city reps take advantage of the Shape It Up, but I urge all of you to get on that program. It's a wonderful program. Chris and I both participate. And thank you, city manager, for having that available for us. Yes, ma'am. Thank you for participating.
 Definitely in spirit. Thank you. Thank you again, Nicole, for your presentation. And with that, Ms. Prime? Yes, sir. That brings us to the introduction of ordinances. These are items 24 to 30. Is there a motion? Motion. Okay, go ahead. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 24 to 30. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthline. Second.
 Yes. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. The motion passes unanimously. That brings us to page 10 to item number 31,
 This is discussion in action on the request that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue a purchase order to public facilities and services Inc. The sole source provider for the upkeep maintenance and monitoring of the automated public toilets located at the two downtown international bridges. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 31. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez.
 Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 32. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-0793 Dick Chonet and Salvador Rivas Park Improvements to Pride General Contractors LLC. Motion approved. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item 32. On that motion Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizárraga.
 The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 33. This is discussion in action on the request that the Director of Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing Department be authorized to issue purchase orders over the next three years to Comprice Technologies, Inc., the sole source provider for full-service smart kiosk payment center software and equipment used at the public libraries. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion. I don't have any questions, Mayor. Thank you.
 Oh, thank you. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 33. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Aye. Representative Vanello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizarraga. Aye.
 the next item is number 34 this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-0043 r 457b deferred compensation plan administrator and 401a profit sharing plan administrator to empower retirement llc one second i'm sorry sir representative nundus and then followed by representative thank you mayor um i i simply wanted to make a motion i moved to reject all bids
 I second. I second that. Thank you, sir. Motion and a second. There is a motion and a second to reject all bids. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizárraga. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 35.
 This is discussion in action on the request that the Director of Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing Department be authorized to issue a purchase order to Sierra Machinery, Inc., the sole factory authorized dealer of Volvo, Graydoll, and Doosan parts and service. Do I do approve? Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 35. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Yes. Representative Anelo. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Yes.
 Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, at this time, may we recess for the Downtown Development Corporation meeting? Yes, ma'am. Is there a motion to recess? Motion to recess. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess a regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 And the regular city council meeting is in recess at 4.17 p.m. Good afternoon. This is a meeting of the El Paso Downtown Development Corporation. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Open Meetings Act to allow for telephonic or video conference meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. It is 4.18 p.m. Board Chair Leiser is present and presiding. And we begin this meeting with roll call.
 Director Schwartzbein? Director Schwartzbein says yes. Anello? Present. Hernandez? Here and yes. Molinar? Present. Salcido? Present. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes and here. Lizara? Present. Thank you. And we do have a quorum. The first item on the agenda is the approval of minutes from the meeting of January 5th, 2021. Move to approve.
 Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number one. On that motion, Board Director Schwarzwein. Hearing yes. Anello. Yes. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizárraga. Board Chair Leiser. Aye.
 aye and the motion passes unanimously item number two is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the issuance of city of el paso downtown development corporation special revenue refunding bonds taxable series 2021 downtown ballpark venue project good afternoon members of council robert cortinas so i have a very brief presentation that i'm going to bring up how are you mr cortinas very well sir thank you
 So this item before you today's again is a resolution and this is the authorization for the issuance of special revenue refunding bonds and this is for debt service savings related to the ballpark. There is a companion item in ordinance on the regular council agenda that we're going to hear once we conclude this meeting. This will be the third amendment to the supplement trust and also to the master lease agreement we've done two prior refinancings related to the ballpark debt.
 This is the financing team. So of course, Mr. Gonzalez, myself, our comptroller and city attorney, our financial advisors, our bond counsel, and our selected underwriters. I listed just for reference the two prior supplements to the trust agreement, again, done in May of 2016 with that refinancing. And then again, last year with the small refinancing that we did, which ended up saving about half a million dollars. And again, that was a result of the COVID impact that helped us offset some of the impact we're seeing on our hotel occupancy tax revenue.
 Again, the corresponding same changes were made to the master lease agreement to reflect those refinancings. The parameter authorization that you will be approving in this resolution, the aggregate original principal amount will not exceed $27.25 million. The aggregate true interest cost for these bonds will not exceed 4%, which I'm going to show you here in just a second, the current rate of what we're paying and what we're expecting to get. So again, we will not exceed 4%.
 The maximum maturity date will not exceed December 31st, 2038. So an important point here is anytime we refinance old bonds, we never extend the original maturity date. We always maintain the original maturity date with any bonds that we refinance. And so we need to meet all of the parameters of this within 180 days. We'll go up to market within 180 days and meet all parameters before we can move forward with the actual pricing of this deal.
 So currently on these bonds right now we're paying seven and a quarter percent. So a very, very high interest rate on these bonds. Again, this goes back to the 2013 issuance. These bonds are special revenue bonds primarily backed by the 2% dedicated hotel occupancy tax revenue. The projected gross savings on this deal is about $6.9 million. The net present value savings again of about $5.4 million.
 When you look at the net present value, 20% is phenomenal. So our debt management policy says we'll refinance any time we exceed 3%, and we're looking at 20% net present value benefits. So just tremendous, tremendous savings that we're going to be able to generate for these ballpark bonds. The projected true interest cost rate of what we're projecting by the time we go to market is at 3.23%. So you can see from 7.25% down to 3.2%. Again, just a phenomenal opportunity to take advantage of very low interest rates.
 and again save on the overall cost of the ballpark debt. So again this is a resolution to allow us to move forward with the issuance of the special revenue refunding bonds for debt service savings. I did add one slide that was not posted. I actually put it, added it this morning. I'll go through it really quickly. It's a question that I received from one of the council members. So this is the slide that shows the historical comparison of the overall cost of the ballpark.
 And so I just referenced the $6.9 million that we're estimating on this refinancing. In 2016, we did another refinancing, saved almost $11 million, so overall about $18 million. So when you look at the original 2013 official statement, overall debt service was estimated to be just under $154 million. After the refinancing in 2016, the overall cost of the ballpark for the debt service was just under $143 million, again, the reduction of almost $11 million.
 And then in 2021 with this refinancing factoring in the estimates of what we're expected to see as far as interest rate and savings, bringing the overall cost down to just under $136 million. So the overall again, just under $18 million of savings or about 12% of that original 2013 overall cost. So just over the last few years really taking advantage of favorable market conditions. Obviously this was a very challenging financial deal when it was done in 2013.
 not the ideal type of financing that we would have preferred to have to deal with now, but obviously making the best of it and generating savings for the city and for the ballpark overall on the cost side. So with that, I'll be happy to take any questions. Thank you for looking at that. I know it's important that we continue to look at savings. I know that last time we talked when we refinanced back –
 The original refinance we talked about how it would actually the break-even point for the ballpark financing and the ballpark for the city would come in a lot earlier than projected. And then now, I know we had a year of COVID, which has kind of changed that a little bit, but that you do perform based on the savings of this year to where we look at the break-even and where the city of El Paso will no longer be subsidizing it?
 I have, but I'm not ready to share that information yet. I want to wait and see, get a couple more months of data, especially related to the hotel occupancy. I mean, that's really going to be the biggest driver. You saw David Coronado present that information to you all yesterday. Although the occupancy is up at about 80%, the overall average daily rate is still down. And that's really intended to encourage more and more people to stay at hotels.
 The deal of our revenue on the hotel occupancy tax continues to be down. So we will still have a subsidy for this year. I'm projecting right now to still have a subsidy for next year, although minimal. Not as bad as it would have been had we not done the refinancing. So 2023 is right now what I'm projecting to be the first year in which we will not need a subsidy from the general fund.
 Great. No, I thank you for that. And I know that COVID kind of changed, you know, some of the projections. So that's why when I asked the question, I want to make sure we knew that. And based on the refinancing, it actually made a big difference. So I want to thank you for forward looking. Absolutely. But we continue to monitor every week. You know, every chance I get every month reaching out, getting the updated hotel occupancy, looking at what we're seeing as far as the occupancy, the average data rate.
 um just to see the overall revenue impact and hopefully hotels we start to see the bounce back a little bit quicker than what we originally expected but again it's better to be conservative and i don't want to give you false hopes and say that we won't have a subsidy in 2022 so right now we're looking at 2023 realistically as far as the team revenue and the dedicated revenue from the hotel occupancy tax to fully cover the payment
 And when is the refinancing for the balloon? When are we looking at that? 2023. We have another small balloon payment that's due. So we'll do another refinancing before then. Unfortunately, we cannot refinance that today, correct? That's locked through that date? Right. So we're already working on what that timing is going to look like down the road and when's going to be the best opportunity to bring that forward. Great. Thank you for that. And with that, Representative Hernandez? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
 Mayor, the upside to that, though, on the refinancing is that the payment is a lot less. I don't know if that's the point you were trying to make. Yes, sir, absolutely. That was the point I was making. Yes, sir. That was the point I was making.
 Right. So by refinancing those two times, what the projections had the numbers at, it's been considerably less in terms of the payment, just for the council's information and the community. I think that's the point you're trying to make. Right. That's exactly what the point I was making due to the refinancing that we would be...
 in the plus a lot quicker than we had forecast originally, even though that we had a year of COVID-19 that kind of hurt the income a little bit. But doing this has actually made a big difference for exactly what was my point to my comment. And then I look forward to in 2023 to refinance that balloon. And I think that will be probably our last, hopefully it won't be a hurdle, it may be a plus for us. So.
 I thank you for that, Representative Lundes. Thank you, Mary. You asked a lot of my questions, but just a clarifying point. The overall savings, that's not an annual overall savings after the refinance. That's just the overall life of the loan? Correct. So it's $3 million. Okay. And then are you all prepared to talk about the capital plan for that or any of these savings to help re-divert to those capital plans to ensure that it's
 intact and the infrastructure is good? That's a good question. So let me go back to the savings first. That's $6.9 million. The way that we're structuring the deal is we want to recognize a majority of that savings up front in the first couple of years. So we've got about $600,000 estimated for this year, about $800,000 plus for next year. And then it starts to taper off after going into year three and four, but it's still about a $400,000 decrease in the annual payment. So
 Again, it's just a tremendous opportunity to really help us get through COVID and lessen the impact that we've seen from the decrease in the hotel occupancy tax revenue. In regards to your question on the capital projects for the ballpark, we're going to have that discussion as part of the budget process. That's absolutely sort of what we were thinking of utilizing these savings that we're going to realize from the ballpark refinancing.
 and using those to reinvest into doing those capital projects which were deferred or have not been done. Only those ones that were related to safety have taken place. So we do still have some projects that need to get done at the ballpark. The baseball team starts play here next, I believe the middle of May is when their season is going to kick off. So yeah, there's desperately some much need to capital improvements that need to take place at that facility in order to maintain that and keep it at the high level that it is at currently.
 Okay. Yeah. And I just wanted to reiterate, because there were some safety security enhancements that they wanted to do, which I have, you know, mentioned that I think it's a priority. And if it's a priority for the city and engineering and the team, then let's have that conversation during the budget cycle. But I wanted to express my support for that because it sounds like it's going to be in our favor. The other thing I want to mention is
 I have been speaking to the Hotel Lodging Association
 And they're talking about how there's not even occupancy in their hotels at this time. So I would even consider the occupancy rate to be significantly higher. I mean, of course, we rely on the data that we get from the state. But, you know, the word is, is that it's very difficult to get a hotel in the city of El Paso, which is very it's very good as it relates to our hotel tax or hot tax. So I'm very confident that it's going to overperform.
 And just hearing from our colleagues there that work in the hotel industry that it's very promising. It's a good problem to have to not have occupancy. So I think it speaks to all of the work.
 with economic development and tourism in our city and how our community is very much eager to to give back out and enjoy our entertainment and quality of life services so um the strategy is working and so i'm very very happy to hear that from from the industry but i wanted to share that with you in the event that that was something that you all were leaning towards or considering i definitely would be open having a conversation uh at this forum um in the near future thank you mr christians for the update
 Thank you, Representative Hernandez. And with that, do we have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the resolution on item number two. On that motion, Board Director Schwarzwein. Yes. Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Nay. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. Board Chair Leiser. Aye.
 Yes, ma'am. And the motion passes with eight affirmative votes. Board Director Molinar voting nay. The motion does pass. That brings us to the end of the agenda. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. All in favor? Yes. Aye. Anyone opposed? And the Downtown Development Corporation...
 Board of Directors meeting for April 13th, 2021 is adjourned at 4.33 p.m. Is there a motion to reconvene the regular city council meeting? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Yes. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 4.33 p.m.
 We're on page 15 on item 36. This is a presentation and discussion on the City's Capital Improvement Program. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Sam Rodriguez, City Engineer. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen. Good afternoon, Chair. So what I'm going to be providing to you is a CIP overview in correlation with the subsequent items that Robert Cortines will be covering over the next three items.
 What I'm going to cover is give you an overview of all the quality of all the programs, active programs that we have underway, give you a status of the funds that have been borrowed and what's been proposed today for the issuance of $141 million. That's going to touch pretty much all the programs with the exception of the quality of life program.
 As part of a COVID response and what we share with you, I shared a very similar presentation with you in February. Of course, the last council meeting I gave you, Jerry Demeer gave you a very detailed quarterly update of what we completed over the first two quarters.
 As far as the strategy and the response, we've been working very closely with Mr. Gonzalez and Robert Cortina on the cash availability and timing of the new issuance and what's being presented to you today for action. We're also taking a look at the operational cost of some of these projects and how that impact is going to be modeled into the tax rate both this year as well as next year as some of these projects move forward into construction.
 Through this process and what we stated before, we're obviously very committed to public safety and the public safety bond program that was approved by the voters and you'll see a big portion of what's proposed for issuance today will include money for that particular program as well as our commitment to getting street projects completed. Excuse me. As part of the story line as well and what we heard from industry, we want to make sure that we have a strategy to complete these projects before
 ESCALATION OF THE COST FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTINUES TO INCREASE. WE RECEIVED A REPORT FROM THE AGC, THE AMERICAN GENERAL CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATIONS. THEY'RE ESTIMATING THIS YEAR ALONG A 12% INCREASE IN INFLATION AS A RESULT OF MATERIAL COSTS AND LABOR SHORTAGES RELATED TO GENERAL LABOR FORCE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
 We have $1.4 billion CIP, of which $850 million is dedicated to fund streets, public safety, and other basic services such as facilities. $471 million is slated for the quality of life bond, of which we borrowed $353 million, and we spent $224 million of that particular program.
 Over the last six years, since 2017 and through to 2023, we've been projected to spend $263 million towards our streets. This is the slide that you've seen before. It shows you the status of all the programs and the funding.
 provides the budgets have been approved, the amount of money that's been issued, and the remaining funds that have been authorized by previous approvals on these programs. You also see a list here of cash available of note there. In the second line, we have $90 million of Prop 2 dollars that's slated for library and CAD as well as the MPC and Children's Museum program as part of that particular quality of life bond.
 We also have the 2012 Street CIP program. This is a program that we're looking to get the final funding that will allow us to complete the streets within a 10-year time frame when it was originally approved in 2012.
 And then the balance of that against just the various capital programs that allow us to keep the projects moving forward. Of course, almost $50 million of the proposed issuance would be slated for a public safety bond. The proposed issuance, again, will include almost $50 million for public safety bond. Overall, when you add the 73% and then 7% for MPO, you're looking at 80% of the issuance slated for public safety.
 And streets for our community. You also have funding for flat fields, the councilor pool, and then the contractual obligation, which is a children's museum. More specifically, we're looking for $30 million that will allow us to complete a 2012 street CIP. We have six projects that have been deferred that we're looking to get into construction as if this bond passes today or the item passes today, as well as.
 allow us to complete the projects that are under construction. We also have, as far as timing standpoint, this funds will allow us to complete the 2012 street program towards the end of next year. And that will be within a 10 year program, which again, when you consider the COVID response, the COVID impact that we had, we basically delayed some of these projects for a year. It's a very, very good progress that we've made on this program. And again, will allow us to complete it. Also saving $50 million overall issued
 The original program was approved at $218 million. We're looking to complete that program of $203 million. For the 2017 capital plan, again, we're keeping up with the federal projects that are underway and providing the cash influx to our local match dollars to include Oregon Streetlights and getting that project moving into construction. The Eastside Sports Complex, again, this is funded through PID and TERS out in the Eastside part of the city. We'll complete out a complex.
 That's currently eight fields out there will allow us to have the biggest complex in the city. Really a major quality of life amenity for this area of the city and really for the whole city. When you think of the potential for tournaments for 16 fields and the programming that that could bring for the area.
 On the 2018 capital plan, we do have the federal projects that are slated to get funds for this. We also have the public health facility. If you all remember, in November, City Council did approve the reprogramming of some of these dollars for the health lab. And so this will be following through with the construction and completing out that project. We also have Hawkins reconstruction that's underway. And then we're looking to begin Schuster reconstruction with the additional dollars that are proposed.
 The 2019 capital plan will have projects that are part of our top 25 arterial program. We currently have seven corridors under construction, as well as $20 million is slated to go into the Children's Museum as part of the contractual requirements for that project. If you remember this Children's Museum, the city entered into a public-private partnership with a nonprofit organization that would
 IN ESSENCE, IT TURNS TO SAVINGS IN THE LONG RUN. THE CITY IS SCHEDULED TO ONLY PAY FOR ONE-THIRD OF THE OPERATING COST AS WE MOVE INTO OPENING THAT FACILITY IN 2023. SO IT WILL TRANSLATE TO MAJOR SAVINGS AND THE PAYBACK OF THAT $20 MILLION IN A VERY SHORT TIME FRAME.
 The 2019 public safety bond, obviously we're in the process of wrapping up the design, continuing the design with the Eastside Regional Command Center as well as Fire Station 36. Those are scheduled to go into construction with the additional funds that are proposed today. And then from the agenda later on today, you also have the design contract for PD Central Command facility, again looking to move these projects into the next phases as we move forward.
 2020 capital plan again it's not scheduled to get any uh any funds at this time and we do have 12 million dollars cash on hand that's going to allow us to keep up with the federal projects and you've heard a lot of the uh the work that alex offman and the planning studies that are underway will allow us to again that's that's the the program that is funding those those particular efforts
 In the 2019 public safety bond, again, we're looking at an additional influx of $48 million that will allow us to move Eastside Regional Command Center into construction, as well as Fire Station 36 on the west side of the city. We've began the construction.
 The design for five state fire stations for the remodels of those. We completed the full assessment throughout all the facilities for fire department. And we're also in the process of acquisition for the academy and negotiations for that property as we speak. And then we're also looking to begin the design on some of the major projects, the PD headquarters, the academy, and then fire station 38 that will serve the east side part of the city.
 This is the schedule and the rollout reflecting the COVID impact of 2022, basically pushing most of our projects out one year, as well as the fire department. This is the rendering of Fire Station 36. You saw this presentation with the fire department yesterday. This is by Trans Mountain Hospital and Ressler in Route 375. Of course, the Eastside Regional Command Center, you've seen this rendering before.
 On the Street CIP program, as I stated, we have six projects that are, have been deferred that we're looking to get into construction, but we also have 16 projects that are underway in construction. And this is the list. We have two projects that are wrapping up design, Canterbury and Phillippe, and then we've sent four projects out to bid. And these are 12 projects are scheduled to be in construction right now and are scheduled to be done by summer of this year.
 On the resurfacing, we're very close to completing those projects. The only project that we have that's still pending on the arterial is Hawkins. We're waiting for a PSB project to complete before we complete that segment. And then on the resurfacing for residential on the 2012, it also will complete. We're waiting for Riverbend to wrap up before we do the final resurfacing on that road that will complete the 2012. We share with you the street resurfacing on the 7 million that's...
 also been deferred and we're scheduled to start construction on that next year as part of the $7 million residential program. The $3 million collector program for collectors is underway. We did complete all of our allocation for fiscal year 20 and we're scheduled to begin resurfacing this summer for fiscal year 21 allocation.
 Just to highlight the 2012 quality of life, as I stated, we're not scheduled to borrow any funds today and the action items that will follow this presentation. But we want to give you an update on the progress that we have in the Children's Museum. If you have not driven by that site, it's very well under construction. A lot of the foundation work is under construction.
 has already started. You've seen some actions here recently related to electrical easement that was approved today. So it's definitely well under construction and getting this project underway. They are scheduled to be done complete and completed by the end of next year and then opening up in 23rd. So no renderings on that project.
 The Mexican-American Courts Hall Center is a project that has scheduled to be deferred for another year. We are in the process of completing the design. You've seen these renderings before. And it also includes the remodel of the main library. So both projects
 are deferred. We do have a contractor that's under contract that is a construction manager at risk that will be ready to go when this project kicks back up. And Sam, the only comment I would make, the longer we defer that project or any project, the more that those projects are going to cost. And the estimates we gave were based on timely execution of those projects, Council. So just as a reminder, you know, we pride ourselves and when we give you a number, we stick to it. We're
 COVID impacted some of these projects. And so it's just in our best interest, whether it's this project or any other project, if we're going to do it, to do it with haste in mind.
 Mr. Gonzalez, to your point, COVID did impact us quite a bit on some of the projects we didn't do. But one of the good things, and I know you and I talked about this just the other day, interest are at record low today, which they weren't a year, year and a half ago, two years ago. So, you know, where COVID impacted us, we have a good opportunity right now to offset a lot of that because of the interest rate savings that we have moving forward.
 So, there, like, I did for you, you just did for me, you made my point. That was a very good point. And that's exactly what I was attempting to say that projects like these that we need to get moving on. Then maybe we need to get busy, get moving on on those kind of these kinds of projects, because in the end, we'll say the taxpayers a lot more money. So thank you for saying that.
 In the projects that are currently in design, what you see on here is TBD. We're working closely with the zoo on some of these projects to get these
 program in a way that doesn't impact their operations, as well as looking at the operational costs. But they're moving ahead and completing the design of the paved trails as well. We're in coordination with the El Paso Electric Company on these corridors, as well as El Paso County Water Improvement District to get the rights to move these projects into construction. The design is underway and the coordination for the property is also proceeding.
 We do have 23 projects underway. One big one on here is the Joy Barraza and Vino Park. That's scheduled to go into construction later this summer and then scheduled to come online in fiscal year, in summer of 22, which is fiscal year 22. We actually met earlier to discuss some of the operational cost impacts that some of these projects will bring on a line that will be discussed as part of your budget hearings over the next three to four months.
 And then we do have 23 projects under construction to include some of the library remodels, as well as the NIP program number four that's scheduled to wrap up here by the summer. We do have 137 projects completed out of this program. We shared that detail with you in the past, and this is part of your backup as well.
 I'll just highlight some of the things that I know Ben Fyfe is working with some of your offices to do grand openings on the rec centers as well as the water parks, the 50-meter pool on the east side. You saw that presentation from Tracy Jerome and the various departments on how they're opening up these quality of life facilities, especially the brand new ones that have been completed and getting these opened up to the community. It's going to be pretty exciting for us to have.
 The furniture out in Cohen has actually already been laid out, so if you get a chance to drive by there you can actually see it through the fencing beds. It looks very amazing.
 The 2017 capital plan that we have, and then this is for discussions for fiscal year 22 and beyond, and looking at completing some of these programs that were coming up on specifically 2017, coming up on five years old. The one major project that will be pending on this will be the Eastside Regional Park Phase 2, and as I stated before, this includes additional flat fields and one that was not included in this particular program for funding today.
 mainly because of the priority of public safety and streets, but also just looking at the operational cost that these additional factories will bring on, looking to defer this project into the future. But at some point, we're going to, as the city manager stated, we need to really come to a decision on moving these projects forward into construction, not only for...
 for the additional cost that the firm will create in escalation, but also for the commitments that we made to the communities. A lot of these projects have had a lot of community input and feedback, and the expectation is that at some point these projects will come into the community as physical improvements.
 The 2018 capital plan, you see some of the projects that are well underway. As I stated, Hawkins, the public health lab is scheduled to open here this month, as well as the brand-new construction is underway. Some of the projects that we're looking to start with is the Schuster Roadway reconstruction, the low-cancellary pool, as well as the IT infrastructure in 2022.
 The 2019 capital plan, as I stated, has a top 25 arterial program. We do have seven quarters that are under designed that we deferred and we look to start that in 2023. The MAC again is another one, as the city manager stated, hopefully we get that going relatively soon in 22 as part of budget discussions that will be coming up looking at what's the next issuance that we can include this money to get this program and this project completed as well.
 The 2020 capital plan, the HVAC at City 1 has actually started construction already. We see some activity there, the HVAC City 2. And of course, the roofs at Nations Tobin and the pool also will begin construction. And then the Eastside Sports Complex, as I stated, will be looking at opening up this facility in 2022 as well. With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 Thank you for your presentation. Do you mind going back where the MAC was? I kind of wanted to see the entrance. Absolutely. Thank you. I actually met with Senator Rodriguez today and I had a conversation with him on it.
 So the intent of the project, Mayor and Council, is the redesign of Cleveland Square Park. And the entrance would be right now, if you go to the library, the entrance kind of... Sam, just real quick. Cleveland Square Park isn't the project proper. Correct. So I just want to...
 THE FACILITY ITSELF IS ONE THING. I THINK CLEVELAND SQUARE IS ANOTHER ASPECT OF IT THAT WE WANTED TO ADD TO IT, BUT THAT'S REALLY MORE OF A SEPARATE PROJECT, SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE THAT CLEAR TO COUNCIL. I'M SORRY, SAM. KEEP GOING. YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT, SIR, BUT THE ENTRANCE AND THE EXPANSION WOULD MODIFY CLEVELAND SQUARE PARK THROUGH THIS SEGMENT BECAUSE WE ARE EXTENDING THE EXISTING BUILDING AND PORTRUDING INTO THE PARK AND THEN CREATING A NEW BUILDING.
 creating an entrance plaza that will be proper for ADA and proper visibility is also part of it. The balance, if it's correct, you're correct, is additional improvements are proposed under this project for the balance of Cleveland Square Park. But again, that would be a separate project as well. And then the entrance for the MAC will have its own entrance?
 The MAC will have its own entrance, Mayor, into the MAC. The buildings themselves will be connected through as they are now. And the design includes doors, roll doors, if you will, that will allow the MAC and the library to be separated if they have different operating hours. Or they could be opened up so that anybody at the main library coming in from Oregon could easily go into the MAC as well. But it will have its own designated entrance.
 Yes, it will have its own designated entrance with its own signage on Franklin next to the History Museum. And then the library, we're giving it its own prominent entrance on Oregon as well with the addition of the entrance and creating the circulation stairwell that will connect the multiple floors of the main library. Thank you for that, sir. Now we have Representative Adanella.
 DIRECTOR HAMPSON- Thanks Sam. Can you go back to slide 39 40. SAM NELSONS- Definitely. DIRECTOR HAMPSON- I just want to know these are the projects that are in design. I just want to know for these two slides have these projects been funded for completion.
 Yes, Representative. If they are Prop 1 dollars, we do have those funds already in the bank and are working towards executing these projects. The deferment on some of these projects and what we discussed before was related to the operational cost increase. So, for example, the penguin exhibit at the zoo is a great example. We did defer that. We were actually bidding that project a little over a year ago, and then we just...
 terminated their procurement because of the operational costs, again, of bringing in penguins and Betsy at the time. So now, as part of the discussions that we've had about rolling some of these projects out, all of these projects are basically moving ahead, and we'll be starting construction as soon as we complete design.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay. And just want to be clear again even the ones that say TBD those those are. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Yes. DIRECTOR RIVERA- You have the dollars. Okay. Thank you. I just wanted to. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Yes. And I'll just highlight on here because we do have like Eastside Regional Park Phase 2 which I discussed. So that's really you know again at some point we're going to move that forward ahead.
 But some of the rest of these projects that are part of remodels, that are part of improvements to parks, trails, trailheads, we're moving those into construction. Sam, we probably need to get with the council on this.
 On central command, because I need to get up to speed on that too, in terms of location, because I know there's some dollars set aside for it. And we need to probably sit down with some folks and find out exactly what we're considering in terms of options.
 You're talking about the PD facility, sir? The Central Command. We can talk offline with the council about that individually, because I was mentioning to some council members about headquarters and also the Eastside Regional Command, but I'm not up to speed on the Central Command work. Yeah. And Tim, I think what he's referring to, because I know as part of the financing package today and the...
 IT'S FOR DESIGN OF CENTRAL COMMAND. AND I WAS A LITTLE CURIOUS ABOUT LOCATION AND ACQUISITION. YEAH. AND I'LL JUST NOTE ON THERE, PART OF THEIR SCOPE OF WORK IS TO HELP US FINALIZE THE LOCATION. OKAY. TO HELP US FINALIZE THE LOCATION. WE DO ALL COUNSEL A BRIEFING ON SOME OF THE LOCATIONS THAT WE HAD IDENTIFIED WERE NOT AVAILABLE OR WERE NOT SUITABLE FOR IT IN WHAT WE BRIEFED YOU BEFORE. SO WE DO ALL COUNSEL A EXAMPLE OF THAT.
 executive session briefing on what's available and what we're recommending to move forward. And that's part of the help that we want to get from this consultant as well. Okay. I appreciate that. Yeah. Because I know acquisition needs to be discussed in executive. Yes. So I appreciate that answer. And thank you, Mr. Gonzalez, for bringing that up. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. And with that, we have no other questions. Ms. Pryor? No.
 Thank you. Yes, Mayor, that brings us to item number 37. This is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas Combination Tax and Revenue Certificates of Obligation Series 2021A and Series 2021B.
 So these items are going to be taken separately. They'll be voted on separately. However, Laura, can you read all three of them into the record? Because my presentation will cover all three. Yes. Item number 38 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas General Obligation Bonds Series 2021 and General Obligation Refunding Bonds Taxable Series 2021A.
 And item 39 is a public hearing on an ordinance approving the issuance of City of El Paso Downtown Development Corporation Special Revenue Refunding Bonds, taxable series 2021, Downtown Ballpark Venue Project. Thank you, Laura. Before I get started, Mr. Gonzalez, did you have some opening comments you would like to make? Yeah, thank you, Robert.
 Council, we have a lot of needs and I talk about that quite often and we need to find ways to fund those needs. That's why we work so hard on leveraging our resources. And so you'll be hearing a lot about that today. So when you ask, how are we going to get this done? I often answer with these kind of responses. You know, in this case, you know, over the course of the last seven years since we put the strategic plan in place, we have almost $60 million in savings from refinancing old debt.
 You're hearing about some of it today. Is this something we've been working on for quite some time? We've had six consecutive years of surplus, meaning dollar savings each budget year that we have added to the city's fund balance. The city's fund balance for people that are listening is our city savings account.
 So this surplus has led to almost $42 million increased reserves, which is our savings account, and created a stabilization fund. It's these kinds of actions
 that position us to prepare ourselves for our current and the future needs. You hear me talk to you often about horses, and I talked to staff the other day and I said, you know, when I started working here and when we put the strategic plan in place that you approved, that this council approved, that's your strategic plan, our collective community strategic plan, we had a bunch of horses already in place. They just weren't fed very well.
 They're kind of starving in some cases, whether it's police, whether it was streets, whether it was quality of life. And then we say we want to bring in new horses. And when you bring in those new horses, they're brand new horses and they run really fast. You have to feed them with that high grain, high octane grain kind of thing. So we have a lot of needs, right? And so when I say new horses, it's those new community centers that are beautiful. A lot of you have already walked through them.
 The new water parks that are gorgeous, that I think our young families and families in general of all ages are going to enjoy them immensely. So it's these kinds of things like these kinds of savings that really put us in a position where we don't see that huge of a tax rate impact that we otherwise would see.
 That means that in the current year we're in, we didn't increase the tax rate. I know we're working very hard for a similar result in this next budget cycle while we're opening up our services. So we are also focused on kind of spending our dollars wisely and carefully and responsibly. This is evident when outside independent auditors look at our books and have said we have five consecutive years of zero external audit findings.
 Compliance is critical. It's critical to ensure that we receive state and federal funding correctly. It's also critical that we don't have these findings. As you remember, seven years ago, we had 21 audit findings, which is a big red flag, and can and should have resulted in a bond rating decrease, meaning a downgrade.
 But for the grace of God, we did not have that. We went out whenever we put the plan in place, we met with them and we told them that we were making adjustments. We were going to right size the budget. We did that. We showed them we were doing that. So they didn't downgrade us. They were going to because of those audit findings and a lot of the fact that the fund balance was being used quite a bit for different projects.
 without any plans. You can use your savings account, but you have to have that in your plan. You have to show that in advance. But today, we now have annual set-aside funds to pay for those horses, the existing ones and new ones. We have set-aside funds for streets, for public safety. And public safety, when I say that, I mean for public safety capital, because we were bond financing that.
 And when you put that in perspective, that's like paying for a lawnmower and putting it on credit as opposed to paying for a lawnmower in cash. It was those kinds of expenses that we were doing
 We weren't buying lawnmowers for police and fire. Don't misunderstand me. But it was the equivalent of that kind of capital expense that you should be paying in cash as a well-heeled organization, as opposed to issuing debt for something that's a minimal item that you should, as a good organization, a strong organization, be able to pay for it in cash. And that's capital equipment for police and for fire. Yeah.
 So that was very, very important that we had those set-aside funds in order to be able to pay for those things, not only in streets, the public safety, but parks and facilities as well. Because as you know, we have a lot of facilities that need HVAC replacements, paint jobs, and a lot of those things have been done in the last several years. There's a lot more that we need to do for those existing horses that I've talked about. We also have new revenue sources that we didn't have before. Hotel audits.
 are now being done and they weren't done before on the hotel audits for their occupancy tax. Sales tax audits hadn't been done before either. We hadn't done this in the past. I don't know why, but we worked. It's considered a best practice and yet we were not doing it.
 And now we're also doing franchise fee audits. The El Paso Electric franchise fee is another new revenue source that we've talked about that we were able to secure and negotiate. And you approved all of that. You were a part of all of that. You led that process. We also had a turnaround of $23 million for the Butterfield Trail golf course over a 20-year period. Before, we were losing that over a 20-year period. We eliminated a $27 million deficit in Sun Metro, and now we're up.
 in that particular fund, which is good news because that's funded by a sales tax, half a penny. Remember, I've told you before, we don't have a full penny. And so the fact that we zeroed out that deficit is a huge shot in the arm whenever the bond raters look at what deficit you have in funds other than the general fund. So how do we get these results?
 we got these results because we talked to you about a culture of continuous improvement and now that sounds good but what does that mean that means that we've improved our systems we've improved our processes so when you heard seven years ago a big big article about we you know you know the city didn't get 20 million dollars from TxDOT in reimbursements well that went by the way all the way to 2009. I started working here in 2014
 We put the city's strategic plan in place in January of 2015. So we were able to recover $19.2 million of those reimbursements because that's what we were owed, not $20 million. That tells you how bad the system was. Even the accusations were inaccurate financially. Now, that's telling you something.
 So the improved systems and processes have come about because of the training in Lean Six Sigma, Baldrige Examiner Training, and Communities of Excellence Partnerships. All of those I think the council themselves can attest to. We have briefed you. Some of you have been trained in it.
 We have included the council and communities of excellence partnerships. I know that Cassandra Hernandez, who's on the council right now, Claudia Ordaz, who's a state rep, was included in that. And so we look to include others in these processes in the future. That happened in 2018.
 We invited everybody on the council. We still invite you for all these programs so you can learn more about them and help champion them so that we can continue to get better in this continuous improvement culture and environment that we're all successfully developing and cultivating over time. So when we say we invest in our workforce by investing in them via training programs, these are the results that we've been able to achieve.
 So when you hear today that we're taking advantage of all-time low interest rates, I don't know if you remember, but we said we didn't necessarily want to be right, but we were, unfortunately, when we told you that the interest rates would be rising. We didn't just say that on a whim, okay? And we don't read just the current articles that are out there. We base that on historical trends.
 When we do the budget, we don't do it just based on whatever people's wish list is, the community or anyone. We listen to those inputs, but we base it on historical trends. And the way we do our budget now is based on actual dollars expended. So when we looked at these interest rates, we looked at the historical trends, and the historical trends told us that we would be looking at these adjustments
 There was a lot of experts out there that wrote a bunch of articles that said we would not be seeing that in the next 12 months. But history wasn't on the side of those so-called experts. So anyway, these low interest rates translate into almost $13 million in savings on old debt. They include COs, they include GOs, and they also include the ballpark debt that Robert mentioned. Also, because of the low interest rates, if we did not take advantage of it,
 We would not be able to save $30 million on the savings on what would be the regular interest rates. So we're doing a lot of what our needs, the majority of these projects are needs. You know, when I say needs, I mean these bread and butter kind of projects, like the streets, things that everyone wants us to do. I know there's a quality of life in here, and I'll talk about that. There'll be no impact to the tax rate as a result of these savings that will cover the costs.
 And then finally, this gives us an opportunity to complete the 2012 Street CIP. So this $15.1 million in savings from the original authorization of $218 million, it's now $203 million that we're doing this. So what it represents is on time and under budget in terms of that 2012 package that was approved by that council at that time, not by the voters.
 but by the council. So those were COs. So when you look at the percentage, there's 80% of the 2021 funding is for public safety streets and public health. And there is a portion, as I said, for quality of life. It's already been mentioned, but it is for the Children's Museum. The only thing I can tell you is when we worked that project that was passed in 2012 by the voters,
 What we were able to negotiate is an agreement with the private sector where they would pay for two-thirds of the budget operating costs for the Children's Museum. We don't have that for any other museum in the city. So if it's a $3 million budget, they have to pay for $2 million. We only pay for one. All the other museums, we have to pay 100% of the costs. So we feel like that $20 million that's being invested in that facility, it's going to be a world-class facility, by the way.
 we feel like we'll recover that in that 20-year period. So we believe we've negotiated a strong agreement with the private sector for our community in order to do the best we can to give the community what they believe they voted on in 2012. So I wanted to give you that snapshot to give you kind of the context that I think is very important in the background before you hear Robert's presentation. Thank you for that, Robert.
 Council I just want to remind you to please make sure your cameras are on we keep losing one or two and at Some point we get very close to losing a quorum. Thank you Thing you forgot to tell him that you and I have been together since 2014 Thank you So items 37 38 and 39 are three bond ordinances and they're listed here and
 Item 37 is the combination tax revenue certificates of obligation for series 2021A and 2021B. The series 2021B is the series for the Children's Museum since the 501 issuance. The second item here, item number 38, is the general obligation bonds. So this is going to be the funding for the public safety bond projects. And it also includes the general obligation refunding bonds, which we're going to discuss here in a minute.
 and then finally the third item item number 39 on the agenda is the ordinance for the special revenue refunding bonds which you all as the downtown development corporation just approved so again our financing team same as the ballpark deal led by our city manager mr gonzalez myself our city comptroller and our city attorney our financial advisors maria urbina our bond council mr paul brady and our selected underwriters for this deal so this is a
 Really, really great news. So there's been a lot of work that's going into this. I mean, ever since going back to last year with the impact of COVID, obviously we all are very aware. Sam's done multiple and multiple presentations on all of our capital projects that are in the pipeline in some form or fashion. Having to defer these projects was something that again, was put along with all of the difficult decisions that were a part of this current budget year. Mr. Gonzalez from the get go always said, we need to find a way
 anyway looking at old debt trying to refinance generate savings to at least move some of the projects forward there were a lot of projects that were about to enter the construction phase or about to reopen and so we needed to do everything we could to really find a way to get this done and so this package that we've put together there's multiple pieces to it and it's all one one really nice piece that is going to accomplish multiple things
 So as Mr. Gonzalez mentioned, looking at the interest rates, obviously COVID has had a tremendous impact. One benefit that we've seen on the financial side, though, has been all-time low on interest rates. Back in February, when I presented the item on the notice of intent to do the publication for the CEOs, we talked a little bit about the rates at that time and what we were looking at. Since then, just in the last two months, we've seen already a little bit of an uptick on the interest rates, but we're still seeing extremely low rates compared to what we normally see.
 And so we're looking at the new money for the GEOs and COs. So for the public safety bond projects and the projects that Sam covered, and I'll recap here at the end. Right now we're estimating by the time we go out to market a little bit later this month of getting a 2.8% interest rate. That compared to historically on average of about a 4%, sometimes a little bit higher, but on average around a 4% interest rate. Over the life of those bonds, that delta, that difference,
 equates to $30 million over the life of the bonds. That's $30 million in interest costs that we're saving by taking advantage of these low interest rates. And so I'll take a step back here for just a second. So deferring these projects was, again, a very, very difficult decision. It's something that we had no intent on bringing forward in issuance this year. We were planning to wait until next year. But it was all of these different pieces and all of these potential to generate the savings that really made this deal financially
 and being able to pull up all of these different pieces to it. So again, saving on the low interest rates, the 2012 street projects, it can't be stated enough. Not only will this be the last issuance for the 2012 street projects, so as you heard Sam mentioned, those projects are all expected to be completed by the end of next year. This will provide the funding needed to get those projects done. Not only will it get them done, but it's gonna get them done $15 million under budget from what was originally authorized. So the 218 million that was originally authorized
 We've issued about 173 million so far with what is being recommended and what's included in this package is another 30 million dollars for these projects that will bring the total to just over 203 million for the 2012 Street Package. So again, another really good piece of this overall financial package that we've put together. On the refinancing of old debt, so on the old 2012 and 2013 GEOs and COs.
 estimating approximately $6 million in gross savings, and then on the ballpark again, estimating about $6.9 million in savings on that deal. Just to recap on the issuance process for the certificates of obligation, you all approved that notice of intent to publish or for us to publish that notice back in February. We did so on February 18th and February 25th. It's been posted on the city's website. Also on April 6th, we posted the notice of introduction in the public hearing so that the committee would know when this hearing was going to take place.
 The parameters that are included in the ordinances, again, we have six months to enable the sale. So six months to go out to market and actually get the bond sold. You're delegating the final processing authority to the city manager and myself. Again, as I mentioned earlier, in the Downtown Development Corporation, the refunding bonds must produce at least 3% net present value savings. And then we can only move forward with the deal if all of the parameters are met. These are the specific parameters related to the different insurance lists. So on the refunding,
 The not to exceed par just under 106 million. The maximum true interest cost rate is 3.5. Again, that's higher than what we're expecting. However, we want to be able to provide a little bit of flexibility in case we do see a little bit of an uptick and interest rates over the next couple of weeks before we go to market. The maturity data as I mentioned earlier, when anytime we do a refinancing, we never extend the maturity date. It's about lowering those payments.
 without extending it out because if you do that, that's a really poor practice and all you're doing is you're paying more on the long end. So we never extend the maturity dates anytime we do a refinancing. And then again, this deal will generate over at least a 3% net present value savings. The general obligation bonds, this is for the public bond project. So $48.7 million. The maximum true interest cost rate again, 3.75. However,
 we're expecting to come in well underneath that but again just to provide flexibility in case rates do go up a little bit over the next couple of weeks on the ceos 93 million dollars again same interest rate as the maximum true interest cost 3.75 percent and then again on the ballpark which we talked about earlier the 27.5 million not to exceed par maximum interest cost four percent and the maturity date again staying the same as the original maturity date not to exceed december 31st 2038
 TO RECAP WHAT MR. GONZALES JUST TALKED ABOUT AGAIN, TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THESE EXTREMELY LOW INTEREST RATES RIGHT NOW EQUATES TO ABOUT A $30 MILLION SAVINGS AS COMPARED TO THE NORMAL RATES WHICH WE GET ANY TIME WE GO OUT AND WE DO FINANCING FOR THESE CAPITAL PROJECTS. THE 2012 STREET CIP FINISHING AT JUST OVER $203 MILLION, $15 MILLION LESS THAN THE ORIGINAL AUTHORIZATION OF $218 MILLION.
 The ballpark refinancing, again, $6.9 million. And then the GOCL refinancing of $6 million, a total of $58 million. So it was all of these different components that really made this deal really doable. Because as I mentioned, we really had no intention on bringing forth an issuance this year, but it was really all of these different components that really made this an ideal situation to take advantage of these low interest rates and get these capital projects that have been deferred.
 get them back up and running and get these out to the community who's been waiting for these projects to be completed. Sam covered this. I'll go through these last two slides pretty quickly, but the total package between the GOs and COs, just a little bit over 141 million, 48.3 million of that, the GO for the public safety bond, the remaining 93 million in COs is for these various CIPs that have been previously approved by city council. All of the projects again included in those plans are all previously approved by the city council.
 This is a breakdown by category type. Again, Sam covered this, but again, just to recap, 48.3 million for public safety. Then you look at all the street project funding that we have built into this package, 33.5 for streets, another 14.6 for streetlights, 10.6 million to leverage federal funding, where the city's putting up approximately 20 percent of the project and the rest is coming from the MPO, 80 percent. The public health lab, 6.6 million. Again, that's going to help complete that project.
 And then we talked about the Children's Museum a little bit earlier, the contractual obligation we have with that, but then the long-term benefit coming once that project is completed on the operating cost side, with the city only paying one-third. And then finally the flat fields, that project will be funded by the TURs and the PID that was created. And then finally the Leo Cancelary Pool, which is adjacent to the Westside Editorium, which was recently, a couple of years ago, opened up one of our Court of Light projects. It's a beautiful facility, and we have a...
 unfortunately the steel councilor i pull needs some desperate upgrades and some some serious renovations and so this funding will allow us to move forward with doing that so again three bond ordinances we have items 37 38 39 we have the geo new money the geo refunding as one item the ball park refinancing and then finally the issuance of the ceos so with that i'll be happy to answer any questions
 Thank you, Mr. Martinez. I got two quick little comments. Based on Mr. Rodriguez's explanation and prior presentation, would I be accurate to assume that all the items that we're talking about today are voter-approved items or streets or lighting? Would that be correct? The only ones, well, so the public health lab was not voter-approved. Which one's that, sir?
 The public health lab wasn't voter approved. I didn't see that on his presentation, though. I had said that yesterday when I made the comment when we're going over the agenda review. But today, when he went through his presentation, that was not part of the $6.6 million. It went to capital improvement 2017. It's in one of the CIPs that was approved by the city council. It's in one of the capital improvement plans. In 2017? Yeah.
 I can pull up the presentation, Mayor. Yeah, that's what it showed on your presentation. I just wanted to make sure that it looked like it was all, I think...
 And then also when you said that we're not exceeding the original term, that is by law or charter, but we cannot ever exceed the original term, correct? We don't have an option. It's in our debt management policy, actually. And we could if we wanted to, but it's not financially responsible to ever do that. So it's in our debt management policy, and we're obviously following what that policy states. I thought it was not optional for us to do that. I mean, I'm glad it's not. We never have.
 But I always thought it was not an option for us to be able to do that. But I don't want to do that, of course, because then you're defeating the purpose of what you're doing. Mayor, I covered... I see the 2017 capital improvements, $6 million, federal projects, Oregon Street Lights. It's the 2018 capital plan there where we have the public health facilities.
 so um that's that's uh the lab that's in the 2018 capital plan and again that project was approved by city council on november 7th or 8th it was in that council meeting um that the city council approved the health lab into that into this program no yes sir not that my favorite that but that's what in office that's irrelevant at this point but uh i just it looked to me like
 So go back to that and I don't mean the labor. Yeah so this is the other this is the other one mayor where I covered the projects that are under construction at Hawkins Public Health Lab health facilities let me go back to this list here. Sam can you explain why it's in the 2018 plan and explain why that we took the savings from the railroad project so the mayor. Correct originally we had railroad reconstruction as part of the 20
 18 capital plan for I believe, off the top of my head, 12 or $14 million. We were able to work with the MPO and get that project funded through the MPO. And so it allows to free up $8 million that was needed for the public health facilities. And so that was the action that was approved in November of last year was to add public health facilities to the capital program and allocate $8 million of savings from the railroad onto that project.
 So it really is and it's not. It looks because to me by looking at your presentation and I see that I keep looking at it I would say that it's all voter approved based on what I see that you're saying you took savings from one product to another so technically it would be or no? Well it was approved by the city council so the the motion or the action that the council took was
 At that time in November was to add the project to the capital plan and then move 8 million dollars from the railroad reconstruction project into the public health facilities project. I think that operationally, you can make that point that you're trying to make, but I think technically we just want to be.
 straightforward with you and the council. And so technically, we have to show what's been voter approved and what's been approved by council. That's all the staff's trying to tell. That's the only difference is the 6 million, 6.6 or 8 million. I can't tell. Yeah. And I mean, I'm not a favor of this, except that if we start over, it probably costs more than 8 million to come back and bring it back. And I know that based on...
 the financing and rates starting to change today as we speak. Yeah. I think based on your experience in financing, you're right. I mean, I think that's the point we were making in terms of the market being what it is. I,
 I do know that the street projects are what they are. This is the completion of that program that was approved in 2012 by that then council. Several councils since then have approved these projects in various forms. Yeah, and I don't have a problem with any of those because streets and lights and all, that's how we're going to pay for them. And I know that I just... Right. Yes, sir. No, so all I was saying is that...
 That was passed in 2012, and the Council has not only continued to pass those same projects over and over whenever we're doing them, then they've issued new debt for additional projects because there's more need out there. So what this presentation portion of it represented is that the 2012 package will be complete instead of 2018. It's only going to cost $203,000.
 So we're under budget and on time with that program. But you're right. And I think the point that some have made, those are certificates of obligation that were approved in 2012. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Okay. Thank you for that, Chair. With that, I have Representative Rodríguez followed by Representative Hernández. Thank you again. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Kortynetsky, please go back to the presentation to slide 10, please.
 Okay on this one, has anyone spoken to county to see if they can help us with the one-third operating costs of the children's PCOM? So I've asked that question to Sam Rodriguez and Tracy Jerome. I don't know if they want to expand on it but my understanding is that the non-profit organization has reached out to them but at this point we've gotten no, we haven't gotten any inkling or feedback.
 Anything really from the county as far as them being interested in participating in providing any additional funds for the operating cost. But is it something worth looking into? Is it worth reaching out to them? I mean, it just seems like, you know, this is for the entire county of El Paso that they would, um.
 at least be interested in coming to the table and speaking to us about the operating costs for the Children's Museum, especially since it is going to be a beautiful Children's Museum. I feel that, you know, it should be also a responsibility of the county to help us with those operating costs.
 Representative, if I may, Tracy Jerome, Deputy City Manager. There were discussions earlier in the process of the project with the county. And these were led by the then Executive Director of the Children's Museum of the project, along with the foundation, to discuss a commitment, a financial commitment from the county. And there were, my understanding, were there a lot of discussions about,
 there was no commitment made. It does not mean that we can't go back and revisit with with the county at this time to see if they would now consider a commitment but conversations, real conversations were had and there was there was no commitment that they were willing to make to the project. So I think it'd be worth trying to reach out to them one more time.
 I mean, worst they can do is say no again, but I think that that would be worth looking into and seeing if they're interested in helping us with those operating costs. But that is it. That was my only comment. So thank you so much. Okay. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. With that, we have Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say thank you to all of you for coming.
 So really great information, Mr. Cortina. And I wanted to compliment you because you gave a lot of details about the policy. So I appreciate that, how this plan would align with also our debt management policy. And I'm just curious if because I'm very I'm very pleased with the interest rates. I'm curious if we can be a little bit more aggressive here.
 And I know that that changes a lot, but specifically as it relates to the signature projects, what can we do to start some of these projects a little bit quicker? So the Children's Museum is there, but what about the Mexican American Culture Center? I know we talked about that a lot, but what are the plans for the rollout of the financing for it?
 So obviously there's some limitations on what we wanted to bring forward. I mean, obviously taking into account what we did adopt as our tax rate. And so we wanted to make sure that the savings we're going to generate off of the refinancing was going to be able to cover what the debt payment is going to be. It's a discussion that the city manager and myself have already had. He's asked me a similar question. I've had some discussions with Sam also.
 because we don't know how long these interest rates are going to maintain. It may be a while. I mean, we may see it hover around, you know, where it is right now for a while. So it's something that we've thought about, something that we're going to start putting some more work into. We've already published the CO side. We've already done the publication. There's some state requirements. So there's a little bit of time that's involved with that. But as part of the budget process, it's a discussion that we need to have. And so our intent is that we're going to be bringing this forward as part of the overall budget discussions here in the next couple of months.
 on what that rollout is going to look like how aggressive do we want to be there's some state legislative items that are sort of in the pipeline right now some state bills that could potentially have an impact on potential funding opportunities for the city related to ceos so it's a discussion that absolutely we want to have sooner than later and so yeah i mean i we hear you but obviously there's limitations because really the city manager referenced it earlier is
 AS WE'RE DEVELOPING THE BUDGET FOR NEXT YEAR, OUR INTENT ALSO IS TO MINIMIZE THE IMPACT ON OUR TAXPAYERS. AND SO IT'S REALLY ABOUT STAYING WITHIN THE MEANS, REALLY LOOKING AT NOT ONLY THE OPERATING SIDE BUT ON THE CAPITOL SIDE AS WELL, AND TIGHING THAT ALL TOGETHER AND BRINGING FORTH THE BEST RECOMMENDATION POSSIBLE. AS WE GO A LITTLE BIT FURTHER ALONG INTO THE BUDGET PROCESS, WE'LL CONTINUE TO HAVE THOSE DISCUSSIONS. BUT ALSO THE WAY THAT THE VOTER APPROVED ITEM WAS PUT
 in front of the voters, Ms. Hernandez. There might be opportunities where there's dollars sitting in the bank right now that's not being used that could be used for this project. So there could be some opportunities there where that could be expedited. Okay, so I mean, I look forward to those discussions. I think it's, you know, it's my opinion. I'm not speaking on behalf of council. But these signature projects are really going to help reform our downtown. It's going to help the industry with construction.
 And these are the type of signature projects that create a lot of stimulation around the development for that area.
 our DePlaza district is really critical for our downtown rehabilitation. And so I wanted to I just wanted to share share that with you because I'm eager to have those conversations. When we first got onto council for me it's been since 2017. Of course we didn't expect the pandemic but then we had made a clear directive to city management to come back with an aggressive plan to start the construction on that.
 And then we can consider like, hey, well, what is in the best interest of the taxpayers? This is already voter approved. Not that we need voter approval because it is 100% within city council's discretion to act on behalf of our constituents, which is why we were voted to be their voice. But there is a clear mandate from the constituents to have something that commemorates our culture. And so I want to make sure that we don't forget about that.
 I want to emphasize that we need to start having that conversation. And of course, keeping in mind all of the stakeholders as part of that conversation. Of course, our Friends of the Library, there's lots of renovations that need to start with the library. So I support that. I wanted to share that with you. Because you need to hear more from Council what direction we need to go with these signature projects and quality of life projects. And I don't want to, you know, ignore and I want to bring it back to the forefront.
 As it relates to the certificate obligations, the only thing I wanted to mention is that certificate obligations do not require voter approval. However, our debt management policy dictates what we can issue debt for.
 And I'm very pleased to see the ratios that you have cleared out, like you have carved out that 80% is going to go to street infrastructure and to our high top priorities. I mean, that is what we're here to do is to make sure that our infrastructure is sound and our streets are paved and our communities are safer for pedestrians and vehicular traffic.
 And I joke about it, but my daughter literally tells me every time I hit a pothole, Mommy, you really need to fix these streets. And so that is what we are tasked with doing today, is to look out for the best interest for our taxpayers, making sure that these high-capital projects are funded. And so I would urge council to support this today, as is, as recommended, because all of these capital plans, they're just idling. They're not being funded. And so we need to take advantage of these projects.
 very low interest rates as Mayor Leaser mentioned, so that we do what's in the best interest of our community. And so I support it. I'm just saying that we can be a little bit more aggressive with our quality of life projects. I'm happy that our 2012-2013 street package is coming to a close. It's something that we've been harping on year over year, so I'm happy to see that that's coming to a close. But now we need to start thinking about the next five to ten years.
 our recovery from the pandemic, new construction. We play a big part in the recovery of our economy. I'm very hopeful that that's going to help. Now, the third point I wanted to talk about is our public health lab. I heard some discussion about our public health facility.
 That portion of the public health lab is in my district. There's a lot of development happening in the Medical Center of Americas. There is a need for the growth and the expansion of the existing universities that are in that footprint.
 And so we need to look for alternative. The relocation of our public health department is imminent. And now more than ever, we understand and we recognize the importance of public health in our community. So we need a plan to fund it. And that is the expectation of our constituencies to make sure we're paying for that.
 But we do it with the lowest interest rates and keeping in mind of the tax rate. So my pledge or my ask here isn't to increase the tax rate. My ask is that can we be a little bit more aggressive?
 with our capital plan so that we can help with the recovery of our economy and to fix our major infrastructure. But that's the comments I wanted to share today because I know there's a lot of like concern about issuing debt, but I wanted to, you know, pledge my support to the plan that the city manager and Mr. Cortines have laid out today. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, we have no questions, but do we have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Before we go, we represent Schwartzwein. Second.
 Mayor Prokofiev. Mayor Prokofiev. I appreciate the presentation by staff. A lot of these projects are extremely important. It's great to see projects like the Schuster reconstruction project that is a major gateway into our community that highlights one of our important
 assets and institutions UTEP is finally going to be getting off the ground. I can't speak for District 8 but I can certainly speak for District 1 and that is a project that both of our districts have heard quite a lot about over these past few years so it's very exciting to see that that project get off the ground as an asset for our community. I do share share it's great representative Zarago thank you for your virtual support.
 I do agree with Representative Hernandez that we need to be looking at some of these projects. However, I do think that for this upcoming budget year, we do need to be mindful about the City of El Paso's contribution to the tax burden that our community is facing right now. I've fielded many calls and taken them personally about people that are very concerned about
 what they feel is the overvaluation from the Central Appraisal District. And I do think it's important that this institution, even though it is 26% of our taxpaying dollar, be sensitive to what we can do in terms of the recovery of our families and the recovery of our local businesses here, just the same way that we're,
 We've been heard as an institution. There's many, many families, many, many businesses that are still trying to get their feet out from under them and moving forwards. And so very happy to support these projects. Just wanted to put that out there as well. Thank you again, Mr Cortina's for a great presentation. Thank you again, Tommy, for the work here. And those are my comments. Thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Shortspoon. And I do want to say that we do need to hold the line on taxes as it's very important as our taxpayers, you know, just as we as a city, as we've discussed, work through our recovery of COVID-19 and financial stress within the city and our budget, our owners, our constituents.
 are feeling the same thing we are. So we do have to make sure we look and take care of our constituents and they can afford to live in our community. So, and I know Mr. Gonzalez, you and I have had this conversation and I thank you for continuing to have this conversation with us. And with that, Ms. Prine. Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 37. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzman. Yes. Representative Anello.
 Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Nay. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. No. Rivera. Yes. Lizárraga. Aye. And the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representatives Molinar and Rodriguez voting nay. The motion passes. The next item is 38.
 This is an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas General Obligation Bond Series 2021 and General Obligation Refunding Bonds Taxable Series 2021A. Move to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 38. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Nay. Salcido. Rodriguez. No. Rivera. Yes. Lizárraga. Aye.
 The motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representatives Molinar and Rodriguez-Odine, the motion passes. The next is item number 39, and this is an ordinance approving the issuance of City of El Paso Downtown Development Corporation special revenue refunding bonds. Motion to approve. Motion approved. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 39. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthby. Aye. Representative Anello.
 Hernandez yes Molinar nay Salcido aye Rodriguez no Rivera aye Lizárraga and the motion passes with six affirmative votes representatives Molinar Rodriguez voting nay the motion passes mayor may we move to call to the public at this time yes ma'am thank you
 Thank you. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda.
 this afternoon we have four members of the public that signed up to speak the first person is mr ron como his topic is animal services sir if you press star six you can unmute your telephone and begin speaking for three minutes good evening everyone i want to start with um march 2020 paula powell said that 76 of the animals under el paso animal services care was taken care of by the community i would like
 Mr Herrera to show the report that comes up with that information. I also want to state that when Mr Herrera and I had our conversation in the parking lot, he said he was not going to guilt the people into fostering anymore. 311 confirmation number 972878, Sunday, April 4th from phone number 9154912906.
 They told the man that found the dog to put the dog back out on dire because he couldn't foster it. And then the people proceeded to tell him to stop catching dogs if he couldn't foster them. It's time we stop doing this. The shelter needs to do its job. The HOSS program needs to go back to San Antonio. We need you guys to look at these 311 calls. You need to listen to these calls.
 We've got information out there that proves that they're not taking dogs in. It proves that they're telling people to let them go. You guys all have pets. Mr. Mayor, I was in the council when you said you were an animal advocate. I am asking you to please investigate these claims by our animal services. Please contact your vets.
 Ask them what they think about what's going on right now. Ask the people in the front office what they think about the conversations they're having with your taxpayers about what's happening at Animal Services. Mr. Mayor, we need to do an anonymous survey like they do in car dealerships and find out why we're losing so many good employees. It's time for a change. We need to make a change. We're inundated with pets, puppies, dogs.
 And it's because they left healthy, unaltered strays on the streets. We need to fix our problem. We have been working constantly. Honestly, sir, I'm 63 years old. I'm exhausted. I am tired. I have been all over the country delivering our dogs. And I'm not putting a dent in what's there.
 It's time. You guys, please investigate these things. Stop taking the percentages they're giving. You get actual numbers. Talk to the people on the streets. Talk to the vets. Talk to the people who are actually doing the job. I'm begging you. We have a problem. It needs to be corrected. We need a director that can go in there and fix the problem.
 Mr. Mayor, would you ever take your advertising person and put them in charge of your dealership? We need a qualified person to handle the shelter. The shelter is not doing its job. We're losing good employees. Thank you, sir. Please, I'm begging you, talk to people. Mr. Kamu, you've reached the three-minute limit. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Ms. Loretta Arredondo. Thank you, sir.
 Mesa Redondo's topic is the human and animal support services policy that has been used by the city's animal services department throughout the pandemic. Mesa Redondo, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Ms. Prine, what was the name of the previous speaker? Ron Komu. Thank you. Yes, sir. Mesa Redondo, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good evening, ma'am. You have three minutes. Yes.
 My name is Loretta Arredondo, and I am here to speak about the animal crisis we are facing here in El Paso. El Paso has a huge problem with abandoned and neglected animals out on our streets. I am here to speak on their behalf, and they are the voiceless. While I understand that El Paso is trying to mirror a program out of Austin and San Antonio, this program is not helping those lost and neglected animals here in El Paso.
 First of all, the Austin Pets Alive program slash HASS, they offer an array of services to include veterinary telehealth, along with tech support, lost animal and return to owner initiative, foster care programs, behavioral and training services. El Paso Animal Service does none of this. And I do mean absolutely none of this.
 Here in El Paso, when someone reaches out to 311 for assistance from animal services, the first question that the 311 operator asks is, does the dog look healthy? Well, tell exactly what the caller knows, whether the dog is healthy or not. And if the caller does answer yes, just exactly how healthy will the animal be a week from now?
 without food and without water. Afterwards, citizens are advised by the 311 operator to either take care of the animal or leave it out on the street to fend for itself. I personally have been told to drop off the dog in the desert and let it go. So how is leaving these animals out on the streets helping? Leaving innocent animals to die or to procreate is cruel and making the problem only worse.
 Citizens of Austin, Texas may be able to afford to care for these animals, but demographically, El Paso is a very poor city. Now, by chance, a citizen such as myself is lucky enough to speak with someone from Animal Services. They try to guilt us into caring for the animals that some of us cannot afford to keep by threatening to euthanize the animals. So guess what? We keep them anyway. Enough is enough. Animal Services has more than a decent budget, and they need to step up and do their job.
 Local rescues and private citizens such as myself are sick and tired and we should be on the payroll for animal services Because we are doing their job and I for one cannot afford it mayor liser. We beg of you. We need your help. Thank you Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is miss gabrielle stark. Her topic is the human and animal support services program Miss stark star six please to unmute your telephone to
 Good evening. My name is Gabrielle. I'm a foster for animal service. We foster over 400 animals and I think the shelter needs to be open and help all the animals in El Paso. It's really sad seeing puppies, adult dogs, every dog outside and there's a lot of dog fighting, especially not east. I'm not too happy about it and a lot of people calling me and saying, hey, can you help?
 I got my own already seven dogs and I cannot take any more. I am full and I have my support from my husband and a lot of rescue who are helping me. And I think Animal Health Service is doing a good job but we need open. I think when we open Animal Health Service, we're saving a lot of money. But people want to have dogs. They want to help but they cannot help. And you need more foster and everything and
 Some people are tired of fostering. Fostering is a lot of work. When you have bottle babies, every one and a half, two hours waking up. And you need to have classes to foster and helping the animals. Michelle, that's a volunteer and everyone. And that's pretty much all. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Hector Montes. Mr. Montes.
 We'll be speaking on the dangerous speeding traffic on Scenic Drive with no speed limit enforcement. Good evening Mr. Montes, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good evening Mr. Montes, you have three minutes.
 Good evening and thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you, Mayor. My representative, Ms. Anello, and Representative Schwartzbein, who represents most of Scenic Drive, and others are aware that I have been concerned for years about the danger of speeding on Scenic Drive, long before a car recently went through the wall and over the cliff.
 And that my neighbors on Wheeling Avenue have complained for many years about the speeding coming down Wheeling Avenue from Scenic Drive, which continues to be a danger for even after some ineffective solutions attempted by the city some years ago.
 Although my address is on Queeling, my garage is on Scenic Drive, so I am more affected by the speeding on Scenic. I ask everyone tonight, if you had dangerous speeding right by your house with pretty much every single vehicle speeding, sometimes at twice or more the speed limit, and the speeding was dangerous not only to you, but to your visitors, to the...
 pedestrians to bicycles riding by to domestic animals and wildlife would you want something done about it would you expect the police department to issue some tickets or the city to make some effective changes to slow down the traffic i assume your answer is yes
 Recently, my suggestion for speed humps on Scenic Drive was rejected by the streets department, including a couple of speed humps I requested near my house, which would greatly alleviate the danger. The speed limit posted on the sign nearest my house is 15 miles per hour. In the other direction, 20 miles per hour. Literally no one will face those speed limits.
 My representative's office tells me that there are plans for some lighted signs and some concrete barriers that may be installed. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need is speed limit enforcement, not more signs for drivers to ignore or unsightly barriers. The car clubs and everyone who speeds on scenic drives, as if it were their personal racetrack, will be amused by the signs but won't obey them.
 Common sense tells us that speed limit signs work only if there is reason to believe that there could be enforcement. I have asked for an officer with a radar gun to make examples of some of the speeders so the work can get around, that you can actually get a ticket on scenic to no avail. I am convinced there is a fundamental misunderstanding of the danger on scenic drive and what scenic drive really means to the community as well as to tourists.
 Yes, it's a road from the west side to the east side that many used to commute in the morning as if it were the freeway, but it is also a park and a natural area with lots of different species of wildlife, including foxes, skunks, roadrunners, of course. One lives on my windowsill and crosses Scenic Drive twice a day.
 A neighbor once told me, once showed me a photo of a ring tail that had been killed by a car. The ring tail is a rare small animal that lives up in the mountains. Thank you, Mr. Montes. Unfortunately, could I have 30 more seconds, ma'am? Your closing statement, please, sir.
 Most in our community are not aware of this animal. During the last administration, the city staff member asked council if Scenic Drive really is a tourist attraction. I was astounded by the question. Mayor Margo explained that yes, he and his family usually take visitors to Scenic Drive. How could anyone have visitors from out of town and not take them there?
 In conclusion, I ask the city, please, that the city please not attempt any more ineffective solutions that will negatively affect the natural beauty of scenic drive and will not solve the speeding problem. We need speed limit enforcement. Thank you, sir. Speed limit enforcement. Thank you, Mr. Montes. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mayor, that concludes call to the public this evening. Thank you, can we resume item 40, I think?
 Yes, sir. We're on page 16 item number 40. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending title 15 public services Street rentals special privilege licenses and permits to add paragraph 12 signs may be located in the public right-of-way Second there is a motion and a second to approve item number 40 There is no public comment on that motion mayor Pro Tem shorts by representative. Anello Hernandez no, well, you know, I
 Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizada? Aye. And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Hernandez voting nay. The motion does pass. The next item is number 41. This is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating the city right-of-way over Guadalupe Pass Drive, Hueco Pass Drive, and Picacho Pass Drive within Butterfield Trail Aviation Park Unit 3. Move to approve. Second.
 There is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item 41. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsway. Representative Anello. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is 42. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title IX, Health and Safety, Solid Waste Management to address the need for safe access to residential properties by the Environmental Services Department. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item 42. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye.
 Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizardo? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 43. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title IX, health and safety, food and food handling establishments to include kiosk as an establishment and added definition of kiosk and to add kiosk as a license category. Motion to approve. Second.
 There is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item 43. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. You know, Ms. Prina, I love me some kiosks. I'm voting yes. Representative Anelo. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizárraga. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 44. This is discussion in action on the approval of a resolution to authorize the Director of Aviation to sign and submit a grant application and related documentation to the Federal Aviation Administration in connection with the application process for the Airport Improvement Program project. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 44. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Aye. Representative Anello.
 Sorry, I actually have a question. Is there going to be a presentation on this? Oh no, I'm sorry. I'm on the wrong item. Aye. Thank you. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga?
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 45. This is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services with ASA Architects PC for a project known as architect and engineering services for El Paso Police Department Central Regional Command Center. Motion to approve. Second. Can we see the presentation on this item? Yeah, yes, absolutely.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Council, San Rodrigo City Engineer. Let me share my screen. So this is the item before you is an approval of a professional services contract for the design of El Paso Police Department Central Regional Command Center. This is funded through the 2019 Public Safety Bond at a budget of $24.6 million.
 What we're asking the consultant to do is to help us evaluate available properties for feasibility located in the Central Regional Command. And then once we make a selection and council approves a location, then proceed with the programming, the design, and then provide construction administration services for the Central Regional Command.
 This was advertised through RFQ through the city's A&E selection process. We did receive nine statements of qualifications, and we're recommending a word to the best qualified consultant, which is ASA Architects, in the amount of $1.968 million. And we'll be happy to answer any additional questions. Mr. Representative Vanilla? Thank you.
 Hi, Sam. Thank you. Can we move into executive to talk about land acquisition for that? Would you guys be prepared to do that at this time? Exactly. Representative, I don't have any information on that as of today. The real estate group is still finalizing that presentation. I'm hoping to get that into executive relatively soon, but I will be ready to do that today. Well, I'm just concerned about approving cost for design when we don't know where the location is. I know you said earlier that that's part of this cost,
 Is that what you said earlier? That is correct, Representative. So part of their scope of work includes helping us do some of the evaluation on the proposed facilities, the proposed locations that we're considering, so that then we can make our recommendations to City Council. So that would be part of their scope of work. We would not be kicking off any design.
 of the facility up until we come to a location of the way this facility is going to be located. And council will make the final decision based on the designs? No, council will make a decision on the property once we make a recommendation. But the consultant, again, what's included in their scope is we've identified X number of sites. They're going to help us evaluate the existing facilities or existing sites.
 and so that we can make a recommendation to Council. We'll do that through executive session, proceed with acquisition, and then once we acquire the site, we'll be able to kick them off into doing the design of the facility at that time. Okay. I understand that. I'll support this, but I am just concerned about moving ahead with design aspects without knowing a location. I guess just in the future if we could put those on simultaneously.
 Thank you. I think Representative Anello, I think in this particular case, as Sam mentioned earlier, they attempted to find a site. I think they located one that did not work, and so they included that as part of the site.
 the work that this consultant will do. But I think it's in your area. We're happy to meet with you. As soon as we know more, we will sit down with you and brief you to give you that information. And we'll brief the rest of the council as well in executive session as soon as we have more information. Thank you, sir. With that, we have Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Mr. Rodriguez, I noticed it was a word to a New Mexico-based company. How many local companies supply?
 You look at the back of the other nine companies that submit statements of qualification and you look at my back real quick. And also, what merits did you pick that company on over the years? Yes, so the A&E selection has multiple criteria to include similar projects that they may have designed in the past as well as
 as well as there is a local component there's 10 points out of 100 that are allocated for for local knowledge and it's based on the project manager the expertise based on the topic project that we have and that's that's the criteria the general criteria representative i don't have it right in front of me but i'll be happy to send that to you okay
 Have they been working here in El Paso before? If so, can you let me know where? Absolutely, yeah. ASA, they've done quite a bit of work for the city in the past. And they've done actually, I believe, a couple of public safety facilities. But the real consultant has an expert that has public safety facilities for PD.
 And so all the teams, all the nine teams did include a local component. So a local architect and whether they were the prime or were part of the sub consultant team. So out of the nine, all of them had eight. All of them had a local office as well. So a local component, a local architect. So could you let me know where they have a building here in El Paso? ASA Architects.
 Yes. And will they be working with the... Will they also be working directly with the...
 with a member of the El Paso Police Department on their input or? Oh, yes, absolutely. So all these projects, we have a team that includes Chief Silva, Chief Arrura, Chief Macias. We actually have a briefing, for example, on the Eastside Regional Command Center. We have a briefing with Chief Allen tomorrow. So they're all part of the design and the programming of these facilities. And so they're intimately involved as well as IT and also streets and maintenance from the maintenance side of it.
 So their office for ASA is on Rio Grande, Representative, on 519 East Rio Grande.
 I would say, just to be clear for you, Representative Rivera and the council, yeah, they're going to get their input on operational needs, but in terms of design structure, we need engineers to be involved with that. Sam will be leading that process with his team. But all the input in terms of the needs, obviously, will be taken into consideration and will be included in how the design ends up looking like in the end. Okay.
 Okay, because I know they had gone around doing studies from other departments. Thank you so much, Mr. Rodriguez. Appreciate you. Thank you, Mr. Berland. Thank you, Representative Rivera. With that, we have Representative Schwartzbein. Thank you, Mayor. I'm curious about a couple questions. Are there any community representatives that are going to be involved in this in terms of input about how it would interact with the neighborhoods that this facility would be placed in?
 Yeah, there would be a public comment representative, public outreach. We did so, for example, on Fire Station 36. We had public outreach meeting on Eastside Regional Command Center for that neighborhood as well. Before or after the site is selected? So that's the challenging part, as you know. And so part of...
 The real estate acquisition side, it's hard to go public with it if you have not finalized the location. It's just going to be from a real estate aspect of it and the acquisition of it, I'm not sure how much public outreach we can do prior to the final selection of the site. But definitely during the design, we can anticipate public outreach at that time.
 How does the police master plan that was recently completed factor into the selection of the site location? One of the recommendations from the police master plan was looking at amending some of the police regional districts.
 as well. And so is the site of this, is the site of this central command district going to reflect that next stage, that amending of the sort of evolution of these regional districts, or is it going to be based upon current police regional district boundaries?
 So it would we would anticipate a modification to the service areas that would be more centralized. We discussed based on the planning document or the study that was completed and was briefed that this would be centrally close to like, you know, the
 the spaghetti ball, if you will, that then would allow for the modification of the boundaries to include the modifications to the east and the Mission Valley Regional Command, Pebble Hills, and of course, with the Eastside Regional Command being able to recalibrate to where these facilities are centrally located to the service areas.
 I just ask that I know that I could probably ask a couple of representatives here. Representatives here, how long we've had the current boundaries of our police regional districts, which I think have been probably sometime in the 90s, if I'm guessing there. I guess by the head nod, I'm guessing I'm somewhat right here. So we haven't had those boundaries change in any way, shape or form in over 30 years in this community.
 And so that's something that I just, I hope when we look at that site selection, that we're not basing it off of these sort of older sort of regional district boundaries, but really taking into account what the police master plan had recommended and where our community and how our community has grown over the last 30 years.
 Understood. Yeah, that was anticipated. Sam, if I could take this. Mayor Brooks, you're raising a good point, one in which I've had conversations with staff about as it relates to not just these regional command centers, but or any facility for that matter. But all these different new construction that we're doing and the facilities were
 They're getting older and what are we doing with them? I've asked our staff to do a demographic review. Alex Hoffman is leading that effort to look at what type of services we're providing throughout the city so that we can right size those services in all areas, whether it's library services, recreational services or any other services that we provide to include public safety. So that I think that's a very timely question and one in which we've assigned that out.
 I actually assigned that out over a year ago. That was, we had a reprisal of that a couple of weeks ago, where I had a meeting with all the department, well, not the department heads, but a lot of senior leadership, which included Alex, included Sam, included a lot of people in Sam's camp, and a lot of other senior leaders like Kerry Weston, D.O. Mack, Jerome, Cortinas, and obviously Sam. So anyway, that's a very good question, one in which we're working on.
 DIRECTOR HERSEY. OKAY. OKAY. OKAY. I JUST HAVE TWO QUESTIONS I JUST HAVE TWO QUESTIONS I JUST HAVE TWO QUESTIONS REALLY QUICK, MAYOR. REALLY QUICK, MAYOR. REALLY QUICK, MAYOR. ONE QUESTION RELATING AGAIN ONE QUESTION RELATING AGAIN ONE QUESTION RELATING AGAIN TOWARDS THE EAST SIDE MASTER TOWARDS THE EAST SIDE MASTER TOWARDS THE EAST SIDE MASTER PLAN AND AMENDING THE POLICE PLAN AND AMENDING THE POLICE PLAN AND AMENDING THE POLICE REGIONAL DISTRICTS. REGIONAL DISTRICTS.
 I don't know if there's an answer for this right now, but I do wonder sort of what the timeline would be in the process to to sort of finalize those recommendations and and actually go through the process of amending our police regional districts. I do wonder about that. And I don't expect an answer right now from from staff about when we would look at that. But I do think that's something important to to start zeroing in on and thinking about how
 As we go through this bond package, as we go and increase these facilities, that we also do the update on the regional districts as well, being sensitive to how the city has grown and different hotspots and places of interest.
 Of commerce as well. So I just wanted to throw that out there. I don't disagree with that member, Tim. But I will tell you is that at this particular time, the only area you can really affect that in is the new. Eastside regional command center is being built. I think that goes hand in glove with what I just said and what you're kind of bringing up. I think that in the 2012 package, it was a package that was put together to do a lot of maintenance, but some of it was new stuff as well.
 But I don't think a demographic review was done in alignment with that. I think that's – I believe that's what you're alluding to. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah, no, we did a police master plan, I think, back in 2019. Right. And some of the recommendations were there were to amend the regional district boundaries. And so –
 You know, we've had the same boundaries for 30 years. Our city's expanded areas that have become, you know, more popular, better. Well, those are operational adjustments. I'm sorry. I misunderstood. Yeah. Those were operational adjustments that really aren't necessarily CID related in terms of capital improvements.
 So, yes, we can have that conversation. Okay. And then the last question, I wouldn't be the representative that I am if I didn't ask. What is the sort of qualifications or what are the expectations working with the designer and architects to make sure that the design for this command center is both sustainable and environmentally friendly? Okay.
 Well, I will tell you right now that we're looking at ways where we can partner with the federal government and where we can take advantage of earmarks and or opportunities in the infrastructure bill to make a lot of the new facilities that we're working on.
 You know, maybe not net zero, but that would be the goal to maybe get some of them at net zero. And what net zero means is it contributes to the grid and that you don't have to use electricity by doing geothermal type of improvements to provide electricity for the facility in and of itself.
 but Sam understands that he already has a plan for that to make them LEED certified at minimum. So we are also working with the REAC in order to have a strategic plan with them that I've asked
 Uh, Kerry Weston and the co free to work with the react on. So, I just got briefed on that the other day. I think I advised the council about that. So all of that is in the works. Those are my comments. I'll let Sam speak on it further. Yeah, because the way this, even the building or against towards the sun and even future proofing it where the roofs are built to accept.
 solar conduit and other sort of things is all things just, you know, obviously that designers should be thinking about. And I'm sure that they are. Yeah. So I've told you what kind of what we're doing in the macro and what we focused on with the react. I think Sam needs to make some comments on it as well. Absolutely. Yeah. So we're under the ordinance. We're required to meet, um,
 LEED certification as well as either the LEED or Green Globe certification. And part of that includes an energy model that we're looking to incorporate renewables. So as an example, the Eastside Regional Command Center includes in the design solar panels. That's part of the design that's been included in there.
 to to address some of the energy consumption as the city manager stated to to try to maximize the renewables as best as we can on these projects in conjunction to meeting the lead and or globe on certification that's part of our ordinance sure the rockefeller foundation will be very happy to hear that we're doing that and following through with our resilience plan awesome thank you so much again thank you mayor thank you thank you sir and with that i know we've had i think three yes or so far mr yes
 There is a motion and a second to approve item number 45. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizara. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 46. This is a presentation and update on City project proposals selected for the FY 2022 Federal Appropriations and Service Transportation and discussion and action on a resolution supporting the County of El Paso's project submission. Good evening members of City Council. Elizabeth Trigg, Strategic Partnerships Officer. If IT can please bring up the presentation. Hello Ms. Gibson. Hello.
 So today is an update on the projects that we submitted through Congresswoman Escobar's office for consideration during the federal government appropriations process, as well as some smaller projects to be considered through the transportation and infrastructure legislative process.
 This is a follow on to the March 29th presentation. We hadn't yet identified the projects that would be submitted at that time, and so we just want to ensure that council has eyes on these projects as we move forward. We don't know yet which projects, if any, will be advanced, but we are making every effort to move these along, and also looking at working with the other members of our federal delegation to do this.
 Next slide, please. Again, purpose is to provide an update to you all on where we are in this process.
 And then also this is an action item where we're asking you all to consider a resolution providing support to the county for the nine projects submittals they put forward. And just for reference, the county commissioners yesterday did approve support of a resolution for our 16 projects that we put forward. So we very much appreciate that support and partnership. And.
 showing that there is community-wide support for each of the projects submitted as really a critical component to these being successful. And so this is an important step in that process in doing something good for our community. Next slide, please. Again, it was a very quick timeline. We appreciate the patience that you all have had with this process. As I said before, we found out that,
 towards the middle of March, that we would have the opportunity through federal earmarks, although they're being called community-funded projects. Then we moved very, very quickly to put together some criteria for council to guide us in selecting those projects, while also maintaining the federal guidance that was provided, which is critically important that we align our projects with.
 Council gave us that authority on the 29th, and then we moved forward very quickly to put together our applications and gather the needed community support to move these forward through the Congresswoman's office. Next slide, please.
 So just as a quick reminder and I won't go through this in detail we went over it on March 29th. There were federal guidelines that we had to follow. With respect to the community funded projects there is a funding cap of less than one and a half million although we were provided guidance to try to keep it between 500 and 1 million 500,000 and 1 million. So these are smaller projects but still important projects.
 A local match was required with limited exceptions. It was recommended that the more the local match likely, the more successful the project would be in moving forward. Again, community support is critical. It's one-time funding for FY 2022 only. Broad range of categories that we could submit, and you'll see that in our project list that we really did try to draw from a large grouping of projects to put forward. Next slide, please.
 And then with respect to the surface transportation funding opportunity that we had, there was not a cap necessarily. We were just provided the guidance that each congressperson can only submit between $15 and $20 million worth of projects. So it was just important to keep that number in mind when we were selecting which projects to put forward.
 This one does require a local match. It follows the federal government, the typical match required of at least 20% local. Again, community support, very important. One-time funding for FY 2022. And this is for surface transportation projects only, which include highway projects as well as public transit projects.
 We were also provided the guidance that the projects really should be on the state transportation improvement plan or the regional plan. And if they're not on that plan, that they need to be easily added to the plan. So that was another limitation that we were cognizant of when we were moving forward and selecting which projects to push forward. Next slide, please.
 And so this is the organizational criteria that the council approved for us to guide us, at least as we were looking at those projects that fit the federal guidelines, but really looking to tailor them to align with our strategic plan and certainly to further our 25 by 2025 visionary initiatives. Next slide, please. And then in addition, we highlighted these 11 categories as priority areas for us.
 and so ensure that each of the projects selected fit within one of these priority categories. Next slide, please. And so with that guidance in place, both the federal and the guidance provided by Council, these 11 projects were selected to be submitted through the Congresswoman's office.
 Several of them you'll notice were submitted in partnership with other community organizations. For example, the Deck Park Design is really a partnership between the city and the Paso del Norte Health Foundation. They've done a lot of really good work in looking at how we can move this project forward. And so it was really important to us that we work with them in making this submission.
 Similarly, the trail master plan and pilot segment, which is a one-mile segment that if funding was received, we would be able to connect the zoo to the Medical Center of America, which is a great opportunity. And so this was also done in partnership with the Paso de Norte Health Foundation. They've done a lot of work with the Water Boundary Commission to secure facilities
 Some verbal it's not a it's not a hard commitment yet, but but some partnership opportunities to use their land to build this trail. So again, when we were selecting these projects, it was really important to think about how we could partner and leverage one another's resources to make the dollars go further so that we're a little bit more successful.
 in securing these things. Another good opportunity is the Casitas Community. This is actually a project put forward by the El Paso Center for Children to address youth homelessness. So homelessness in youths aged 18 to 24. It's a tiny housing project modeled after one of the projects that is in Austin today.
 It would be about 15 units. It's a great opportunity. I will say with this one there was not a local match identified. And so that that would perhaps put us at a disadvantage, but there's a lot of community support for this project. And so we thought it worth pushing forward, especially because it does address one of our priority areas which is homelessness, housing and homelessness. And then there's several other projects on the list. I won't go through them all. But but again they cover a wide range of topics.
 And we've been working very, very hard to secure the community support needed to make a good showing. And the final comment I'll make on this slide is that, again, we're working to submit through the other members of our federal delegation. Congressman Gonzalez's office is accepting applications through April 16th. And so today we did put in an application for the trail master plan and pilot.
 We think that that's a really good opportunity to be not just a citywide master plan, but a countywide master plan. There's a lot of wonderful open space opportunities in the eastern part of the county in his district that make a lot of sense to make those connections through our city neighborhoods out to those. So that is one thing that we did submit through his office. Next slide, please.
 And then with respect to the surface transportation opportunity, we put forward six proposals. You'll see the deck park design was put forward once again. I think it's just to emphasize that this is an important project. It's one that we have a really unique opportunity to hopefully leverage some federal dollars so that we can get a schematic design going, you know, and work in tandem with TxDOT as they're going through their evaluation process.
 looking at adjusting I-10 in the downtown corridor and us looking at what we can do to really reconnect the two neighborhoods in that corridor. Some other projects that were put forward, you'll see two bridge projects here. The Isleta Zaragoza Feasibility Study. This is a higher price tag. Again, we tried to be cognizant of that per congressperson cap.
 But at the same time, this is a project that was identified through a border master plan recently approved by Texas. It would help us understand where we need to put our resources, which we know are very limited when it comes to the bridges, where we need to put our resources to really build on the infrastructure we already have in place and make this a much more efficient port of entry.
 So we did put that forward. We additionally put together a project submission for intelligent transportation system at the Stanton Port of Entry. We know that the state delegation helped secure funding through the previous legislative session for two of our other ports of entry for a similar system, and so this would be the complement to that and would just really make our region a lot stronger when it comes to international trade and moving people and goods through our border.
 Next slide, please. And so that is the summary of what we've done so far. We are continuing to be in contact with the Congresswoman's office, and we will continue to make contact with our federal delegation to push those projects forward.
 I believe the federal appropriations discussions begin the third week of April, so we're getting closer to that timing, and we'll just make sure to stay on top of it so that we know what, if anything, they need from us to make these projects, just to make a strong showing for these projects.
 The last part of this presentation provides some information to Council about the county-submitted projects. Again, the county submitted nine projects forward. They're all very good projects for our community. Six were community-funded projects and three were transportation projects. And so we are requesting today Council support for those projects.
 This would be provided to the Congresswoman's office and to the other members of the federal delegation, just showing that there is community-wide backing for the projects. Next slide, please. The six projects put forward for the community-funded project, or through the appropriations process, are on this slide. Again, broad range in a lot of categories, but all of them do fall within the 11 priority areas that Council identified for us on March 29th.
 So they fit well and align with things that we're trying to do. You also see that the county did a lot of partnerships here as well. Again, this is a good opportunity to really push those partnerships forward. Next slide, please.
 And then finally these are the three transportation projects that would that were put forward. They're all in eastern El Paso the eastern part of the county addressing the east side growth that we see out there in that area. And so they're they're good for both the city and county residents providing other options other routes to hopefully alleviate some of the congestion that is on that side of town. Next slide please.
 And that's all. I'm happy to take any questions or provide any additional information. Thank you, Professor Christmas. We have a couple of questions coming. Sorry, there's one here. Is that better? There we go. So confused. Have these been submitted yet or just the items on slide 10 have not been submitted?
 DIRECTOR HAMPSON- No they have been submitted. We did get them through last Friday was the deadline for the transportation projects.
 I'M SORRY. SO I GUESS MY ONLY ISSUE WITH SO I GUESS MY ONLY ISSUE WITH SO I GUESS MY ONLY ISSUE WITH THEM IS, YOU KNOW, I SUPPORT THE THEM IS, YOU KNOW, I SUPPORT THE THEM IS, YOU KNOW, I SUPPORT THE DECK PARK. DECK PARK. DECK PARK. I'M STILL VERY IFFY ABOUT THE I'M STILL VERY IFFY ABOUT THE I'M STILL VERY IFFY ABOUT THE WIDENING AND ALSO WORRY THAT WIDENING AND ALSO WORRY THAT WIDENING AND ALSO WORRY THAT WE'RE MAKING THE DECK PARK WE'RE MAKING THE DECK PARK WE'RE MAKING THE DECK PARK CONTINGENT ON THE WIDENING BASED CON
 out the deck park, right? So just looking to be cognizant of the wording on the deck park and maybe removing the portion that says the widening. My next question is, I know you said everything has a match except for the homeless housing. Where did that match come from? Or where are those matches coming from? And how do they impact future projects or future, I'm sorry, obligations?
 Sure. So I think, let me go back to the deck park very, very quickly. So, yes, I hear you loud and clear about wanting to make sure that it's the design is not contingent on the widening. I mean, we understand that if we move this along and TxDOT does decide to do the widening, we have an opportunity to build off of that project because we would hope that they would provide the funding for the support there.
 But that being said, we will make sure that the design can work with any of the alternatives that TxDOT selects, even if that alternative is the no build option.
 So I want to be clear about that. And I think that we'll get into more detail in the next item about that. With respect to the local match. So these local matches are not all necessarily from the city. Again, we tried to partner where we could with other organizations.
 So, for example, the Paso del Norte Health Foundation and the Deck Park, it's a combination of the local matches that we're looking at. And we looked at available funding sources. Certainly, we'll bring everything forward to council for approval. But we were very, very careful about that, which is why the casitas didn't have a local match. We didn't have a readily available funding source to commit here. Okay.
 So we were very careful about doing that. The bridges, for example, we looked at the P3 fund as an opportunity for funding there. And then you'll see some other projects, like, for example, the Merkison Park design. That's one that council has previously provided support for.
 We know that the community foundation is doing fundraising for the construction of that. So working with them to secure that local match that you see on that page. You don't need to list them all right now. You want to do a follow-up email with each project and where that match is identified from. And so, yeah, my only issue would be the wording over the widened I-10 for the deck park. Thank you. Thank you.
 And that we have no other questions. Thank you, Mr. Trigg. Just as a reminder. I'm sorry? Just as a reminder, it is Action 9-0. Tim Lomanar has a question. I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you very much, Elizabeth, for your presentation. I just want to be sure I'm clear on two different things that today we're acting or, correction, voting on the county's nine projects, correct?
 And then the other part, I'm a little bit disappointed, because I really, really wanted to see something reference the Borderland Expressway. It impacts a lot for the city, and I was really, really hoping something would come out of that, but I'm not sure if it's too late for that or not to be reconsidered. I think so. With the Borderland Expressway, that's moving forward and being driven a lot by TxDOT.
 It was a it's a very big ticket item. And so again, we were trying to be cognizant of this is this is for smaller projects. That being said, although we don't have a lot of information and I'm not prepared to go into detail on it today, we know there is a big infrastructure bill coming from the federal government and we will definitely keep tabs on that.
 and look at whether there's opportunities for some of our larger projects to move those forward and hopefully secure some federal support through those. Again, I don't want to commit to that, but I do want you to know that we're being aware of it and making sure that we're looking at all opportunities. Thank you. I appreciate that. Yes, sir. You said just now that the...
 The Northeast Expressway is a large project. You wouldn't consider the capping of the freeway a large project? Oh, no, certainly. I would think that's probably as large if not larger. Certainly, it's a large project. So the project request is only for the schematic design.
 and that's not something that TxDOT is undertaking. TxDOT is looking at the freeway itself, not at the park that would cap the freeway. That's something that the community is looking at taking on itself. So it's limited to only the schematic design for that project. It's still a large project though. I sat through the presentation and saw the budget on it. So it's a very large project. Yes, sir.
 And also one of the things that I think is important when you said local match doesn't mean that it's going to be matched from city budget. It could be from private sector. It could be from many things you were talking about. So at this point, I think you said you were going to bring it back to city council once these projects are designated by Congresswoman Escobar. And it could be, it doesn't need to be city money. It could be, like I said, private sector. Correct? Correct.
 Yes, sir. We're working to leverage funds from wherever we can. The more partnerships, the better. Thank you very much. With that, I have Representative Schwarzwein, Mayor Polkman. Thank you, Mayor. So just so everybody's clear, what was the request or what is the size of these proposed projects in terms of funding?
 So the community funded projects were limited to no more than one and a half million. It's not written guidance, it's verbal guidance that we got from the Congresswoman's office as well as from Merchant McIntyre which serves as our federal consultants. The transportation projects, each congressperson is limited to a request of between 15 and 20 million dollars.
 and so we were asked to be cognizant of that and not consider that limit. So we were careful about that. Essentially for the projects like the deck park design and others, those can't be more than a million and a half. So that really limits doing any significant infrastructure projects. It could help with the design for one. In terms of the borderline expressway,
 or the northeast expressway um that has already been designed at this point is that correct i believe it i believe it has i um if yvette or sam are on the line i i would ask them to jump in but it's far along yeah it sees that project is sort of far along like would it make sense to have it there to pay for the design of it to northeast expressway because that's already those steps have already been done
 I don't know if anybody can chime in there. Yes, Representative Swartz. I think Elizabeth has stated the best whenever she said that the infrastructure bill
 Is the big dollar asked? And so the Northeast corridor project or any other large project that is not funded by TxDOT would be something we would consider placing in that. Now, it is a TxDOT project, so we believe that TxDOT would be asking for funding for that in the infrastructure bill from their ask list.
 It's important to understand that everybody has their category of asks that they're going to put forward, and we think that TxDOT would put that forward. If they don't put it forward, we would put it forward. We want to maximize our opportunities because the infrastructure business— I get it. I just—
 If it's going to be a large $2 or $3 trillion package, then El Paso needs to get a significant amount of that package, especially since we're the poster child for everything that the federal government's been talking about. Yeah. You were going to say something real quick?
 Yes, Representative Swarsbein. I just wanted to confirm that you are correct. The design has already started. We recently received the 60% design. So to phase out that smaller cost would not work with this type of ask. You're correct.
 So, but it's well along there and, you know, it's absolutely important project to our global and regional viability to have that Northeast Expressway completed sooner than later. Would it make sense to have the design funded through this as the funds have already been secured and the design is already well underway? So I think that's important there. I'm...
 I'm kind of curious really quick, the language that we have here for these projects, right? This is both sort of county projects and also city projects. The county voted yesterday for the exact language for every single one of these proposed asks of projects? For the cities, yes. They had a list of the 16 projects in the description, and they voted to provide the support.
 Do you know if the vote was unanimous or anything like that? It was not unanimous, but it wasn't because the projects weren't supported. There was just a recommendation that one of the whereases be removed. And two, the county judge and one of the commissioners didn't feel that the whereas should be removed. So it wasn't a question of whether or not to remove one of the projects. Okay. Yeah.
 THAT'S A VERY POSITIVE THING THAT WE HAVE THAT SUPPORT. I MEAN, I UNDERSTAND WHERE REPRESENT VENELO IS COMING FROM IN TERMS OF JUST HAVING MAXIMUM FLEXIBILITY AND IF THERE WAS, IF
 you know, nobody can 100% predict the future. You know, they're still well on their design. They're still figuring out their designs and their alternatives. So I just wonder if it would make sense just to have with ongoing, like, I-10 improvements or I-10 reconstruction as opposed to widening, because that would give us maximum flexibility in case who knows what happens in the future.
 That's I just but that's my own sort of only comment. I don't know if that actually makes sense to do it or if anybody on council feels important about that. DIRECTOR HAMPSON- Very much understand the concern and we will definitely share it with her office as well as with the rest of the delegation as we meet with them. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Because I mean I think that the deck park really has an opportunity to be a very transformative connective project that can go and can help
 further connect our uptown and downtown and help to improve some of the accesses that occurred when I-10 was constructed in our urban core.
 Thank you so much for this work. Really great list of projects for our community moving forward. I'm very, very happy that the Climate Action Plan was included as well. That's a very important project, imperative with the work that we're doing with so many different other organizations and with the work that we've done with the Rockefeller Foundation and others to make sure that we uphold our commitment towards our resilient plan and go a step further for a countywide Climate Action Plan.
 There's too many cities across this country that have already committed towards this, and El Paso, again, needs to be bold and decisive with our own actions as well when it comes towards climate change and addressing those issues. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative DeSarga?
 Thank you, Mayor Leeser. Elizabeth, I just wanted to really thank you for all your hard work on this community project funding proposals. I'm really excited about the deck park design. I think it's our opportunity to have an iconic downtown area.
 A park over our downtown is really exciting for me, and I'm happy that that's on there, as well as the Casitas Community item. I think that's going to be, I don't know what projects will be selected, but I just wanted to thank you for your service to our beautiful city of El Paso.
 Thank you. Thank you, Representative Sadigan. And with that, we have no further questions. And Ms. Trigg, thank you very much for your presentation. May we have a motion to approve the resolution? I'm sorry? May we have a motion to approve the resolution? Move to approve. Was it an action item? I didn't see that. Yes, sir. Okay, do we have a motion? There is a motion and a second to approve the resolution on item number 46. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthyne. Representative Anello.
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 47. This is discussion and action and requesting city council support for the staff recommended projects that have been selected to submit for the Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development Grant Program. Move to approve. Second. Motion and a second.
 There is a motion and a second to approve item number 47. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzmeister. Sorry, is there a presentation? No, I have to support Rep. Bonilla. I need to see a presentation of this. Yes, there is a presentation. Let me show my screen.
 Good evening, Mayor and members of Council. This is a discussion in Action Item 47. We have, as typical of the federal government, we have changed our acronym. So today, the NOFO, the Notice of Funding Opportunity, was posted. And the new acronym is the RAISE grant, Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity.
 Items within this infrastructure grant are the same. I have made changes to the presentation. I'll be sure to bring those to your attention. DOT continues to have a $1 billion infrastructure grant. This is for the surface transportation infrastructure.
 A hundred million is limited to be awarded to a single state. The applications have a maximum when it pertains to construction of 25 million and a minimum of a five million dollar ask.
 For planning grants, that's the second type of application that may be submitted. $30 million has been identified to be awarded nationwide. There's no minimum when asking for a planning grant. And a new item with the RAISE grant is $10 million of this $30 million will be awarded to projects
 located in or a direct benefit to areas of persistent poverty. So since I got this this afternoon, I've already asked for assistance to see whether or not the city of El Paso qualifies as persistent poverty. So currently researching that. The grant funds must be obligated through September of 2024.
 The applications this year are due in July, and by November of this year, DOT will announce who was awarded these grants. With the RAISE grant, the federal funding may not exceed 80% of the project cost. The selection criteria does remain the same that we saw in Bill.
 So it's five different criteria, the second being the second tier. So the first five of safety, economic competitiveness, quality of life, state of good repair and environmental sustainability remain the same. There's additional direction expanding on what environmental sustainability means. So I've included that within the slide to consider climate change and environmental justice.
 advancing long-term environmental sustainability, reducing emissions, energy efficiency, and redevelop existing infrastructure. Then the second tier are innovation and then partnerships with other stakeholders.
 The project outline remains the same and Council has seen this in some previous requests for support limited to 30 pages describing the project scope of work where it's located since
 The federal funds can only amount to 80% of our project costs. We really need to show how the additional 20% will be funded. The selection criteria that I just went over on the previous slide,
 Project readiness for construction projects. They want to make sure that we can construct in a timely manner as you notice that funds need to be obligated at a certain time and expensed as well. And then the benefit cost analysis. What is the return on the investment for the federal government to support our projects. The eligible projects remain the same.
 So the scope may consist of highway, bridge, road, public transportation, rail, port infrastructure, and intermodal. And so the top paragraph that you see is directly taken from the NOFO as I was reviewing it this afternoon. The administration wants to select projects that result in good-paying jobs, improve safety, and
 apply transformative technology, and address climate change and racial equity. So the proposed projects, we will be proposing two projects within each category, one for construction and the second being for planning.
 So the construction project was taken from the City of El Paso strategic plan. So looking at goal one, we've identified to activate targeted redevelopment. So specifically what has been identified are the high priority corridors, the Medical Centers of America, Alameda corridor, and then also the street corridor.
 So the project itself is a construction project, and this will include pedestrian enhancements, ADA ramps, mid-block crossing, HAWK system,
 landscaping and really looking at the complete street elements, which ties in with what we've heard the Secretary of Transportation, Secretary Buttigieg, talk about, that he is really interested in bringing that element back to our city. The limits of this construction project is starting from Texas at Kansas, and it would extend to Alameda and terminate at Baisano, where we have the two roundabouts.
 So looking at the criteria, recently Smart Growth America did rate El Paso as the 20th most dangerous. So placing the ADA ramps, pedestrian safety meets that criteria. Economic competitiveness with all the businesses that we see along this corridor. Quality of life, really making a walkable environment.
 neighborhood for our residents, a state of good repair, looking at our infrastructure and making sure that we don't have gaps along these corridors. And innovation, really looking at what can we invest within this corridor in terms of traffic counts, in terms of smart lighting, and making sure that we're keeping ahead of the game as other cities have already invested within these corridors.
 So the strategic planning, making sure that we're spending construction dollars into making the transit-oriented development, looking at safety with pedestrian enhancement, bringing in that smart corridor, and then also being transformative, addressing the environmental and equitable justice. So the budget of $12 million really attests to construction along this corridor, which can be the framework citywide.
 So this is building on many of you within Council. We're here for the first corridor plan that was drafted in 2018. And so really building on that momentum of looking at land use policy, addressing the redevelopment efforts, and the plan can identify these catalyst zones and where we really want to invest these construction dollars along the corridor. And so,
 Additionally, to the establishing or sorry, submitting this grant, this is in line with the new Alameda plan that has kicked off this month, looking at the TOD really promoting that multimodal infrastructure program.
 you know, alternative modes of transportation. Alameda-Brio runs through this corridor, cycling. So we can set up the framework for this corridor that can be implemented citywide in our high priority corridors.
 And so to give you a snapshot of some of the data that we'll be collecting, it's just really looking at block groups and using the replica software to determine, okay, what are our needs? Where are our areas of concentrations? And what you see here is just an example, but running a quick analysis.
 data analysis within this corridor, we see some of the TRIPS originating within this area. And so the idea would be to turn, you know, the purple and mauve colors more into that highly developed areas as the yellow and orange. The second project, as you heard Ms. Triggs within her presentation, is also submitting
 We want to ensure that just the community funding with Escobar is not the only silver bullet for this this financing of the project. We also want to submit for the.
 the RAISE grant. And so for the upper deck it's looking at the feasibility study looking at the environmental analysis within this I-10 area making sure that we meet the criteria of safety state of good repair that economic competitiveness that it will be transformative. And so one of the items that I know that came up in the last item is how do we separate the two.
 So the RAISE grant is looking specifically at the cap, how we ensure that it works with our demographics, how it works with our traffic patterns. And one of the things that we do want to keep in mind is we wanna capitalize on the opportunity
 that TxDOT is designing, proposing, going through the environmental study for I-10. Their Westside segment is ready to let later this year. So we know that the state of good repair, we have pavement issues and the design is to fix that, right?
 To capitalize on what TxDOT is doing is we want to ensure that they pay for the structural component for the deck. So having this feasibility in line with their timelines, we're able to calculate the loading, what type of features we're going to have on the deck, and that would be used to support the structure that TxDOT can finance as a transportation project.
 And so another example of how we capture data is this is an example of people living in the area. So you see the concentration and the density within South El Paso. And one of the things that we really need to prove to the DOT is the need and purpose for both of the projects that we're submitting. So we want to make sure that this application is really data heavy.
 So with the support of Council, we can begin, and now that the NOFO, the project has already advertised, began working on really strong applications to submit for the DOT on the construction project on Alameda and the planning grant for the upper deck at I-10. And with that, I will take questions that you might have on these projects.
 Thank you very much for your presentation. I know you briefed me on this and I thank you for this. Again, one of the things you did tell me that you already have private sector willing to help with the additional part after the 1.5, so the city wouldn't have to pay that. I thank you for that and I thank you for the presentation. With that, I have Representative Anello followed by Representative Schwarzman.
 ANEESA ROIDADO- Yvette, thank you. So just looking at this presentation, this question has come to my mind. You said the projects had to be constructed by 2024. Is that also contingent for the planning grant? YVETTE CAMERON- I wanted to clarify. Sorry. So the funds need to be obligated by 2024. If memory serves me correct I believe they have to be expensed
 project completed by 2029. So planning needs to be done. Yeah, because I was like, I think we're going to get that deck done by 2040. Right. So with the planning grant, sorry for clarification, with the planning grant, I would have to begin the feasibility study, the environmental analysis, like I would have to obligate those funds by 24. Prior to that, we're good, we're golden, we can do that.
 But we need to make sure that it's accomplished before 2024. And we definitely want to do that. Yeah, I was like, you're doing big, Yvette. And so for the council has context. Yvette did brief me on this. I brought up a concern of mine with the Alameda project. And so just for context, I don't think that that's a bad project. I was just a little confused because we as a council put together a long range plan list.
 last year and so I was not sure why we were not taking projects from that list put together by council members as high priority. And so I know you said that we have not heard back from the MPO on those projects so I don't know if you have a timeframe on when we expect to hear back on those long-range projects. I believe it's quite a process.
 thankfully under the direction of Eduardo Calvo,
 We did start earlier this year. You know, working with the federal government, the Federal Highway, they need to review our long-range plan. Last year, we found ourselves almost out of conformity because they had not approved the plan. So thankfully, we started early. It's a four-year process. So I believe that we have an initial ranking that was submitted from those members that sit on the Transportation Policy Board.
 decision lens entered in all the projects in addition to other parameters and we have an initial ranking, but it has not been finalized and I think I can double check with the MPO, but I
 I think they should have a better idea of which ones will be added in towards the end of this year. And by end, I think December is the month that they reported. But I can follow up with that. Well, and I understand that. I understand not wanting to reapply for a project we've already asked the MPO for. But we're also asking, applying for two grants for the deck park project.
 So I still just to me I'm still like a little bit lost why these council projects weren't chosen for this. I mean I think it's it is a good project. I just I don't know if you can help guide me on that any more than you already have. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Right. I think and my personal feels when I met with each of the representatives of the eight districts the focus is we really wanted to place what are the needs of each district.
 So when you look at the projects, albeit they're great projects, and we ranked really high. If you remember when I came back to Council, the 20 spots, although it hasn't been finalized, I think we held 16 of the 20. So we had excellent projects that met the criteria for the MPO.
 What I feel is they don't meet the criteria for being a regionally significant project. And I really feel that when the DOT looks at our benefit cost analysis, they're going to want to see that does it have a regional impact, albeit the projects that we recommended have more of a district and direct needs to our transportation network.
 and i understand that being close to the mca and all of that it's just disappointing to again see a downtown mca project be on our high priority when council did go through every single district and say you know these are important projects for the city so i will support this today but i really do want to see more diversity in these grants to impact other areas of the city right because
 um there are a lot of communities in need uh throughout every district um that have been blighted and do not have uh you know curb extensions or sidewalks um because of a lack of maintenance from the city and and i you know i completely understand and have been supportive of of the downtown area and the mca and the mca impacts my district as well and so i don't want
 uh to give the impression that i'm disregarding the importance of those areas but um i do moving forward after this year i would like to see some diversity um in our grants so thank you thank you for your feedback thank you representative vanilla with that we have mayor pro tem
 Thank you Mayor Oscar Leeser. I appreciate the opportunity to speak and address this council and address city staff as well. Thank you again for this great work. Your presentation as well and taking the time to brief us on this item was really
 Very well received. And thank you again for taking the time to do it, Mr. Hernandez. I just want to state that as this item is there, I know that we have already written letters of support for the downtown reconstruction project for I-10. I do think it's really important that it's made clear to TxDOT and other partners in that project as the designs are finalized that the treatment of
 that roadway, especially the frontage roads that go through our urban corridor through downtown, that they are made in such a way that the design is pedestrian-friendly, pedestrian-oriented, and
 and would be appropriate towards a dense urban environment. Building a frontage road as some of the alternatives show that Texas has proposed building a frontage road through downtown that looks like it could be on the far east side or far northwest of El Paso makes absolutely no sense whatsoever. One, to what exists in our downtown and two, towards any sort of idea, dream or goal of having a deck park in downtown El Paso.
 building a frontage road that has speeds of over 50 miles per hour with gigantic texas u-turns that does not have on-street parking may be really good for getting 18 wheelers you know through our downtown and on our frontage roads and and helping with vehicle um vehicle crossings however it does nothing to make
 to make El Paso families and businesses feel comfortable visiting a deck park or feel comfortable doing any sort of activities around there as well. You look at Clyde Warren Park in Dallas, which is shown as an example of what could be for a community with a downtown deck park. And you will see that their frontage roads that align that park
 have on street parking, have speed limits under 40 miles per hour, have spaces for food trucks, and are on the length and width of the lanes are oriented in such a way that they would feel appropriate for an urban downtown corridor. And I think it's really important that that even though this isn't 100% remain towards the BUILD or RAISE or whatever name the acronym is at this moment,
 It may not be 100 percent germane towards that. And I apologize, city attorney, in advance. But we need to be having those conversations and there needs to be actions taken by this council that further that that further clarify the kind of design that.
 It's not what we wish to see there, but what needs to happen in order for this downtown reconstruction project to be a success and to represent and honor our community and our wishes. And so that's something I just wanted to state publicly. Perhaps there's something that staff can come up with to bring back to this council that we can further clarify what our support for a downtown I-10 reconstruction project looks like.
 So that's kind of all I got. Thank you. Thank you. We do have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 47. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Nay. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizárraga.
 And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Molina voting nay, the motion does pass. The next item is number 50. This is discussion in action to direct the city manager and the city attorney to begin the municipal districting commission process in accordance with El Paso City Charter Section 2.4. Motion to approve? Second. Motion in a second. There is a motion in a second to approve item number 50 on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsley. Representative Anello.
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga?
 The motion passes unanimously. And the final item is number 51. This is discussion in action to support SB1704 designating US Highway 54 in El Paso as the Korean War Veterans Memorial Highway by adding the item to the City-State 87th Legislative Session Agenda as a support item and that a letter of support for SB1704 be provided to the Senator and any committees that will be considering the bill. Motion to approve. Second.
 Mayor Fernandez. Thank you, Mayor. And this is just for clarification for this body. The Career and War Veterans Association, Mr. Pete Flores has been working very closely with Senator Blanco on these efforts to rename a portion of 54. And so Mr. Flores is a constituent of mine, but I'm very pleased to co-sponsor this with Representative Anello and Representative Molinar.
 And we would be supporting Senator Blanco's bill to rename that process. It's not within our jurisdiction, so we would add that to our legislative agenda for the state session. And this would go as part of our priorities for the 87th legislature. And I'm not sure if my colleagues would like to speak, but those are all the comments I have. And if there's anybody who signed up to speak, we can take that as well.
 Senator Nunes, we do have a timeline on this. We've been in touch with Ms. Crayar and also Senator Blanco. And we do have to have the letter in by tomorrow morning before 8 a.m. And we are prepared to submit it and get it ready and sent out for you. Thank you, Mayor. Appreciate that support. Thank you all. Yes, sir. And with that, we have a motion and a second.
 Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 51. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Thank you, Mayor. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Thank you to my colleagues for this item. Absolutely, yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizárraga. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to the end of the meeting. DIRECTOR HERSEY. Can we reconsider item 50 really quick. I just want to have a just a little bit more of a discussion about what that process would look like in terms of the municipal redistricting process as I don't think anybody here has been on council when that has happened previously. So it'd be great to hear from staff a little bit more about what that process looks like. DIRECTOR HAMPSON. Move to reconsider.
 There's a motion and a second to reconsider item number 50. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Yes. Anyone opposed? So... And we are back on item 50. This is discussion in action to direct the city manager and city attorney to begin the municipal districting commission process in accordance with El Paso City Charter, Section 2.4. So again, this is an item that is sort of handled by...
 by our city charter dictated that with the census every 10 years that a redistricting process would occur for the City of El Paso. And just wanted to hear a little bit more from staff kind of what what this would look like moving forward and why it's so important. Well we know why it's important but.
 Mayor Pro Tem, this is going to include the city attorney's office, the planning department, as well as a lot of senior staff. And we're also going to engage, obviously, the members of the city council in this whole effort. It's going to take a lot of time. It's going to take a lot of resources. It's also going to take a lot of work from the legal department to really kind of dig deep into this and make sure that we...
 get everything right. This is a very proactive step that the Council is taking. So we appreciate y'all placing this item on the agenda in order to ensure that we stay a step ahead of the game. The Council appoints people on this commission so that we can prep them prior to the census being completed. And so that we are kind of leaning into it and not back on our heels.
 So thank you for bringing this up and for talking about it a little bit more, just so that you know and the council knows it's going to take a lot of time and resources, a lot of commitment from the staff and also from the city council. And one of the things I saw on this item, I did do research on it, and
 every city council member will appoint somebody. Yes. They cannot have any affiliation with the city or be on any other boards based on our charter. I do have a question. I don't know, Tommy, if this is best for you or for somebody else from staff.
 is from what I understand that the census results have been delayed. That's a federal issue, right? The federal government does collect the census and there's been, when the results were supposed to be supplied have not happened yet. So is there any indication how that would affect or how that might affect our own city redistricting process?
 Tommy, can I speak? Representative Schwartzwein, we will come back at the, now that we've been directed by Council to move forward with this process, we will come back with a presentation that will show you and lay out the timeline. You are correct that the census has been delayed. That is a question that we ourselves have, and we need to figure out what the timing of that will be because of the delay. Okay.
 We should have received the census numbers in March, but because of COVID, they've been postponed to September. Okay. So once we have a better timeline, we will come forward at the next council meeting or the following with those timelines, and then you can see the steps and then explain what the membership and the composition of the board pursuant to our charter requires, as the mayor was referencing. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. With that, do we have a motion? Motion.
 Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 50. On that motion Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. I'm a vote yes again. Representative Manello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Liz Arraga. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. May we have a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, April 14th, 2021 is adjourned at 7.16 p.m. Thank you. Good night. Good night, everybody. Good night.