Excuse me. Good morning everyone Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, April 25th 2023 mayor Lisa is present and presiding inside council chambers along with representative Kennedy mayor pro tem Manolo representative at Nantes alternate mayor pro tem Molina representative Salcido representative Rivera and representative Fierro Representative canales is running a few minutes late. I
 It is 9.02 a.m. And now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain and Sun Valley Baptist Pastor Dennis Kaufman. Thank you for this opportunity to open this prayer to the El Paso City Council.
 If you would join me, we will pray. Father, I thank you for this opportunity to bring this prayer before this council. I pray, Father, that you give them all wisdom and guidance, Father, today as they conduct the business of Passover. I thank you for the many blessings that you have given this city to bless this. Father, I pray that you give these that are here your truth and your wisdom as they conduct this business. That all that we say and do would bring glory and honor to you.
 And we thank you for the gifts of the Holy Spirit and the salvation you provided through Jesus Christ. We pray that you would again bless this meeting and give your guidance and your wisdom to all that are here present. And we thank you for it in Jesus' name. Thank you. And this morning to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, we have Pablo Villarreal, Rebecca Villarreal, Abigail Villarreal, and Jimena Villarreal.
 I'm not quite sure if you noticed while Representative Salcido was handing the certificates, they all had the same last name. And it's amazing. I told them just now when I was talking to them, they told me that they were quadruplets. And I said, so is that like two sets of twins?
 So we were quadruplets. So congratulations. I know Ms. Lamone, where's Ms. Lamone? Ms. Lamone, can you come up for a minute, please? You were a principal, so it's like coming into the principal's office. You're coming up. Can you kind of give us a little background, Ms. Lamone? Certainly. Mayor, back about 2014, 2013, I...
 We became aware that one of our city employees his wife had had quadruplets and we found out that they were using 36 diapers a day and we knew that there was a need so we had a baby shower for them and it was an incredible help to them. Over the years I kept in touch with them. They are just incredible incredible children.
 They are third graders. They all attend the Alicia Chacon International School. The three girls their third language is French. They learn English and Spanish and French and Pablo English Spanish and Chinese. They're incredibly respectful honorable beautiful beautiful children and I think they have an incredible future ahead.
 And it just gives me great, great honor to be a little part in their lives. And certainly thank you, Mayor, for allowing them to come and lead the pledge today, as we used to lead the pledge every week when children led it for us. And you started that. That was your recommendation. I took credit for it, though. Absolutely. Well, you told me to tell everyone. It was your incredibly fantastic idea. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. And thank you for serving our city, Ms. Lamont. Thank you.
 And I always start the meeting with a moment of silence. And today I want to have a moment of silence to, you know, thank for the gift of life. And I think today, you know, having our two sets of twins come up to us, the quadruplets, and, you know, that's a gift of life and it's a gift that we all are thankful for. But I think we just have a moment of silence and kind of look back and thank for a gift of life.
 Thank you, and again, we thank God for the gift of life, and we thank God for the citizens of El Paso, and may God bless every one of you. With that, Ms. Pryor. Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation this morning is Michelle, at Jimmy, and Dave. Hi, good morning. If the Jimmy and family can please step forward to the podium.
 I will read the proclamation to the record. The proclamation of the city of El Paso, Texas, whereas Michelle Teresa Jamien, born on April 21, 1983, to proud parents Bertha and Michael Jamien, and with deep sorrow on November 16, 2022, at the age of 39, we lost Michelle too soon. Thank you.
 And whereas Michelle was a star member of the people living with disabilities community through her experience and compassion, she was a champion for inclusiveness and challenged administrations to improve accessibility amenities and not just quantity but quality.
 And whereas Michelle participated in numerous advocacy organizations such as the Spinal Cord Injury Local Chapter, the City Accessibility Advisory Committee, was the Board President of Volar Center for Independent Living Center, she was the President of Sun Metro's Accessibility Advisory Committee, and a Peer Support Specialist for Children with Disabilities Information Coalition.
 And whereas on top of her advocacy, Michelle was an active member in her neighborhood alongside her parents Mike and Bertha leading the Cielo Vista Neighborhood Association in meetings, events, donation drives, and initiatives to benefit and improve the community. And whereas though Michelle left her legacy in many causes, what made her most memorable was her kindness, her independence, her empathy towards others, and her smile that could light up a room.
 And whereas we celebrate Michelle's life and her first birthday away from us, she is incredibly missed by her family, her friends, and community, and we are grateful for her time with us. And now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that April 25, 2023, shall be known as Michelle Ajamian Day. Signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council. First of all, I'd like to...
 i say thank you for the support cassandra and her office has given us this has been a tough road for my wife our family to travel she was taken too soon however when she was born the doctorate told us she was going to live up until the age of 13. well she made it to 39. for those of you know michelle she is a fighter she fights for what she believes in she was strongly involved with the
 Making it what it is today, and I have decided to also continue her legacy a Replaced not replaced. She is with me on the city accessibility Advisory Committee And I was also elected recently to a newly formed community needs Advisory Committee we're gonna do things that El Paso needs for the benefit of all not only the disability, but the community as a whole and
 I want to thank my family for the support, our close friends that are today, my niece. Put these shirts together for us. State Senator Cesar Blanco gave us a resolution from the state. Also the flag that's flown over the state capitol. There's been two dates that we've had the star on the mountain lit. One was this past Friday, which was Michelle's 40th birthday. We had a small celebration, close friends and family, and on December 24th,
 coach james rutledge and burgess high school community again i want to thank you for your support for those of you michelle you were blessed to have known her for those who did not she's still with us right so i want to thank every each one of you for your show of support when you first heard of michelle's passing many of you sent flowers cards phone calls i see that mr gonzalez is not here today but he was one of the first that called me on my phone to give his condolences
 But it's much appreciated for all that you've done for us and we continue to support you and move this city forward and what we believe in Thank you very much. Have a wonderful day. Thank you. And I just want to say that I had the opportunity
 my first term in this second term to work with Michelle and I think she changed the word from disability to people with abilities and I think that's really important to talk about because they had she had the ability and the abilities to do things and change things so I would like to refer to it as people with abilities because she told she she had the ability and she showed us a
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Coincidentally, this is also my wife and I's 42nd wedding anniversary.
 And we have some token of not only our appreciation, but the support that you have shown the community, the Sella Vista Neighborhood Association. Michelle was really critical in everything we did. We're going to miss her, but we also want to honor the love that you have shed among this community and our office has a small token of show of gratitude and support for the love that you share with all of us.
 So thank you for joining us and thank you for allowing us to honor Michelle. Thank you, Cassandra. Thank you. Thank you and happy anniversary. Thank you. So we've got some bookmarks that we'd like to pass to each one of you with a small prayer also. For the record, Representative Canales is also in chambers. And if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers, the council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once all the ceremonial items have been completed. Thank you again. Thank you.
 The next proclamation is Las Americas Day. Representative Ranella, Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. I'm waiting for Las Americas to come to the podium. Welcome, y'all. The proclamation of the City of El Paso, Texas, where as Las Americas Immigrant Advocacy Center is a nationally known immigrant advocacy center dedicated to providing high quality legal services to disadvantaged socioeconomic immigrants and asylum seekers from around the world.
 And whereas Las Americas was founded in 1987 by two El Paso human rights advocates, Ruben Garcia and Delia Gomez, who recognized an unmet need to provide legal services for a large influx of Central Americans fleeing their countries and assist women and children detained by the INS through its Justice for Women and Children Project and represented battered undocumented women under the Batter Immigrant Women Project.
 And whereas this nonprofit organization based in El Paso, Texas, currently holds a threefold focus. Las Americas Mexico Program, Community Migrant Advocacy Program, and the Detained Deportation Defense Program.
 And whereas since its founding, Las Americas has served nearly 50,000 persons while advocating for a robust asylum system, working to reunify separated families, and calling out abusive immigration practices. And Las Americas continues to be one of the few non-profit legal service providers assisting in low income immigrants in the border region.
 And whereas Las Americas will be celebrating 36 years of continued service to this border community on May 1st, 2023, and looks forward to continuing their mission of providing high-quality legal service to low-income immigrants and to advocate for human rights. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that May 1st, 2023, shall be known as Las Americas Day. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leiser. Congratulations, y'all. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Leaser and Mayor Portamonello. Thank you for the proclamation. My name is Marisa Limon Garza. I'm the Executive Director of Las Americas Immigrant Advocacy Center. And so honored and thrilled that our colleague and staff member was able to secure this proclamation on our behalf in honor of our 36th anniversary as an organization here in El Paso.
 This is clearly a time where we need to be using all of our resources to support those in need Specifically our migrant brothers and sisters and so that's what we are here to do. So thank you again for this recognition Thank you for your service to the community and thank you again for the acknowledgement. Thank you and I know you've been working really hard with us and I
 The asylum seekers and everything so we do appreciate all the work you do and continue to do for us Thank you, and I'd like to really celebrate my colleagues and a board member who's here with us as well And thank you for for the opportunity. Thank you Hey Marissa, are you related doing anyone in here? Just asking the next proclamation is Fabiola Campos Lopez day. Thank you Thank you mayor
 Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas Ms. Fabiola Campos-Lopez first began her in-depth civic engagement in 2017 by presenting herself as an active member of the Playa Neighborhood Association with many other neighborhood association leaders.
 and before the city council to challenge a rezoning case in their neighborhood. And after championing the rezoning case, Fabiola Campos Lopez made it the decision to begin the Corridor 20 Civic Association which encompasses
 District 3 6 and 7 in the Mission Valley to help residents in the area with similar zoning challenges and whereas at the 2019 neighborhood summit of the campus. Lopez was awarded the 2019 community leader of the year by the city community and human development department and elected by the neighborhood association president as the new chairwoman of the El Paso neighborhood coalition serving more than 85 neighborhood associations across the city.
 And whereas at the 2021 Virtual Neighborhood Summit, because of the community initiatives that were proposed, adapted and implemented during the COVID-19 pandemic, Fabiola was again awarded the 2021 Community Leader of the Year by the City Community Human Development Department.
 And whereas the El Paso Community Coalition under Fabiola's leadership and in collaboration with the City Neighborhood Service Division and Visit El Paso participated, were selected to bring these to the city of El Paso for the first time, the Neighborhood USA Conference to be held on May 24 through 27, 2023. And whereas new initiatives, community initiatives were created under Fabiola's leadership and with the support of neighborhood association leaders such as to adopt a school,
 holiday ham drive and back to backpack events. And whereas because of her excellence in volunteerism, high quality of work, social creativity, and community responsibility, Fabiola Campos Lopez was awarded and recognized for the third time this year of 2022 community leader of the year during the recent 2022 neighborhood summit. And she was also reelected to serve as the El Paso neighborhood coalition chairwoman now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and city council
 the city that on April 25, 23 shall be known as Fabiola Campos Lopez Day, signed by the honorable Oscar Mayer, Lee, sir. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you all. Like they say, my name is Fabiola Campos Lopez and I'm honored to receive this recognition.
 Thank you for publicly recognizing the novel value of community volunteerism. A leader does not walk away when challenges arise. In every situation, there are always two options. You allow the challenges to destroy you, or you accept them and work towards making it sound. Not only for the individual, but for the group of people whose trust has been earned and who believe in the quality of your work. This is the high caliber of a community volunteer.
 Thank you for recognizing the many hours and energy dedicated unselfishly by that person who wants to live in a fair and better city called Community Leader.
 Allow me to dedicate this recognition of my work to the many outstanding community leaders from the neighborhood associations Who dedicate their time? Energy and sometimes their own resources to bring hope to their neighborhoods and care for the common good like Robertson, Dubai from Montoya Heights, Susanna Martinez from South white Lucinda Quayle from borderland Charlene Tevi from current place
 Pablo Lopez from Southside, Manny Silva from Chihuahuita, Hilda Villegas from Familias Unidas del Chamisal, Mario Ceniceros from Rosedale, Betty Halliburton from Sunrise, Ingo Thomas from North Hills, Manuel Padilla from Las Tierras, Silvia Carrion from Mission Valley, Dolores Boshe and Torres Family from Pueblo Viejo, Juan Mendoza from Thomas Manor, Ivan Lopez from Playa, Ana Duenas from El Paso Lower Valley,
 Perla Villalobos from Valley View Heights, Chris Hill, a Jamien family from Cielo Vista, Elva Villagran from Stiles Garden, Nadia Antoine from Franklin, Fred Borrego from San Juan. This extraordinary leadership is to mention just some of the 87 amazing community leaders from the five districts.
 Lastly, this could not have happened without my strength, my support, my family, my husband Jose, my son Jose Roberto and Ivan, and my daughter Sofia. Once again, thank you for this recognition of my work. Thanks to Mayor Leaser and especially to Representative Isabel Salcido for this special recognition to my community services.
 Muchas gracias. Y termino diciendo, todos somos neighbors. Thank you. Thank you. And I want to congratulate you on bringing the convention here to El Paso. I know that you asked me, I think, I don't know, three years ago, to give the opening remarks and be there on the opening day, and I'm looking forward to that day. I know it's coming soon now, but I know that –
 You took great pride in showing off our community and being able to do that. And we're thankful, and I'm looking forward to being there with you on the 24th of May.
 May 24. Right. To that 27. Yes, ma'am. So I look forward to being there. And like I said, I think you asked me right before I got elected. I think you knew I was going to win or something. I don't know. Because you asked me right before I even got elected that you wanted me to give the opening remarks. So I thank you for that. And congratulations on all you do for us.
 not only the neighborhood associations but I see you all around at community events so thank you for that thank you and I just want to take the opportunity to thank every one of the City Council reps for supporting us and allowing us to invite the neighborhood association presidents to this conference thank you all thank you very much thank you we have representative
 Thank you very much, Mayor. I just want to take this opportunity to speak a few words. First, to the Aegean family. It makes a difference every day when you are part of a neighborhood association, not only for your neighborhood but for the community as a whole. Prime, prime, paragon example there.
 the Gompos family as well, the Lopez family, your stalwarts in your community. It makes a difference in how things operate, the differences that you can make, and both of you are shining examples. And everyone that you read right now, the different names, the presidents, and things like that, every day is a challenge, but it's also an opportunity. And thank you for doing that investment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, and congratulations again. Thank you.
 And the final proclamation is prevention of cruelty to animals month. Representative Kennedy. Thank you. And my rescue dog gave me a pause up today for this one. Whereas April is recognized nationwide as prevention of cruelty to animals month,
 And whereas the City of El Paso Animal Services and the El Paso Police Department Animal Cruelty Investigations Unit aims to increase awareness around the important issues facing animals in El Paso, Texas and the surrounding communities, and whereas animals are voiceless members of our community and rely on animal welfare organizations and the community to speak up on their behalf,
 and whereas animal cruelty and neglect is a severely underreported crime crossing all social and economic boundaries and whereas data on domestic violence and child abuse cases reveal that a staggering number of animals are targeted by those who abuse their children or spouses and whereas in 2022 the city of el paso animal services investigated 4543 cases for basic animal care needs and
 The El Paso Police Department Animal Cruelty Investigation Unit investigated 500 animal cruelty cases, and whereas the City of El Paso stands by having zero tolerance of any mistreatment of animals and aims to increase the awareness of animal cruelty and educate the community on ways they can decrease animal cruelty,
 And now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that April shall be known as prevention of cruelty to animals month and it's signed by Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning, Mayor and Council Members. Gina Ramirez for the record. I wanted to take this opportunity and thank you all for your continued support. Animal Services and the El Paso Police Department Animal Cruelty Investigations Unit, which is also here with us.
 We work diligently every day to combat cruelty and there's just never enough staff but we'll continue to fight every day. And April is dedicated to renew awareness and help the community to speak up and not be afraid. Unfortunately.
 animal cruelty is linked to domestic and physical abuse and evolves to something so much more and We're gonna continue fighting. We're gonna continue Bringing awareness one victim is too many and I again I really want to thank you for your continued support and as long as we're here We're gonna continue fighting for the pets in our community. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning chief. Good morning Terry capsule animal services director
 I just wanted to thank council for all your support for police and for animal services animal cruelty is a it's one of the ugly sides of that happen out here in our community but
 Part of this campaign that we have here bringing light that there is animal cruelty into our community. We want to remind everybody before it gets to that there are resources to please reach out to animal services, reach out to the police department. If you're if you're having any difficulty. So animal cruelty is a lot of that is that standard of care, making sure that your animal is properly fed.
 And make sure it's housed properly those types of things so before it becomes a an issue Please reach out to the city the animal services and we can provide resources We can provide that guidance before it gets to that. So I just wanted to remind everybody That's a big part of this campaign is bring that awareness and we can prevent it before it does happen. Thank you Thank you. Don. Can you come up? Can you come up for a minute? Yes, sir. Of course. You didn't want to I
 Good morning. And I think it's important to kind of talk a little bit about what we're doing back right behind us. If you take a minute to kind of explain that. Because I think it's something really important as we're continuing to expand.
 Sir so what we're working on right behind City one here at the old El Paso Times building is a Our third satellite facility as you all know, we have the shelter We have the one down in Socorro down by speaking rock and this will be our third At present we have about 120 animals in there currently all dogs and you know, it started as a
 just an overflow for our distemper pandemic that happened there at the shelter but then it quickly grew into also you know having to be an overflow for our hvac project that's going on at the shelter that project got underway at the beginning of april and very soon we're going to have to display some animals from the shelter so they will be transported over here to the site as well while they work on various areas of the shelter
 So, you know, as Chiefs mentioned before, you know, kind of out of sight, out of mind. It's very important that we get eyes on those pets that are here at the Times Building. So starting on April 1st, we will be having our official opening to the public to where we'll allow members of the public, volunteers. We're also gonna do a Shape It Up program where city employees can go and walk dogs for Shape It Up points.
 So that will be announced later on this week through a press release But you all heard it first here and in council and we're very excited to get get going and Having those adoptions more frequently through that facility. I know he meant May 1st chief May 1st. I'm human May 1st We all knew that
 Don if I may I'd like to thank Mayor Leeser for that idea. I was actually with Mayor Leeser at the site recently and he had the brilliant idea of bringing our employees together with the dogs bringing the shape it up program together with animal services. It's a win win. So Mayor Leeser thank you very much for that support.
 And that great idea and we're looking forward to activating on that Staff is working off through all the details at this time as you said, there'll be a press release later this week So thank you very much for that. Thank you. Now how many team members will we have back there staff working there? We will have about 12 and that's why it's important that City employees city team members people that work down here to go back there and walk those dogs so you don't I mean when I went in there the other day we had 126 and
 and we don't have time to walk every one of them. And once that pavement out there gets to be 90, it's going to be really hard for them to take a walk back there. So if people could go early mornings and start going down there and taking them for a walk, it would be really important. I think it will really help the dogs a lot, and we'll start the adoptions out of there. Like you said, grand opening on May 1st. So I'd like to hopefully see a lot of volunteers going out there every morning and walking dogs in the back parking lot. There's a lot of room back there.
 And thank you for the business here downtown. So we really want to You know get the word out that those and those businesses know that we're here that maybe they their employees want to stop by and and See the dogs during their lunch breaks or whatever but I think it'll be really good for for downtown and And for the community to have another the third satellite location. Thank you mayor. Thank you. Great job. Thank you again. And with that miss, right? I
 Yes, Mayor, that brings us to the Consent Agenda. All matters listed under the Consent Agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the Consent Agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Mayor I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions page 7 item 18 moved to the forefront of the regular Jenner per representative an ello Page 7 item 19 moved to the forefront of the regular agenda per representative an ello page 8 item 24 moved to the forefront of the regular agenda per representative Fiera second Representative Hernandez
 Yes, I have another revision. I spoke to Mrs. Prine earlier about it. I'm seeking to be excused, so I have a family emergency I have to attend to. And so if I can seek to be excused after 10.30 a.m. I know there's a rowdy a second, so if that could be included. I don't think we need a motion to approve her leaving at 10.30. It'll be noted. Yeah, it'll just be noted. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. And hope everything's okay. Okay.
 With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir, we do have public comment on item number three from Ms. Turner. Item three is a resolution that the city manager or designee is authorized to sign a lessors approval of assignment on Butterfield Trail Industrial Park Lease between the City of El Paso and 50 Walter Jones Boulevard, Inc. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Just curious, this is a 40-year lease with one option to extend for 10 years.
 Do I read this right that the rent on this property will not change at all over 50 years if that lease is extended? I'm sorry, Mr. Turner, what item? Item three. Three, okay, I'm sorry. Go ahead. We do have Mr. Rodriguez on there.
 DIRECTOR HERSEY. Yes. Good morning Mayor and Council. Sam Rodriguez director of the airport. As as we briefed yesterday this is the lease assignment. So we're assigning the lease. The terms of the agreement remain the same. Our per FAA requirements our lease does include escalation clauses every five years. The rates do get adjusted Mr. Turner. So it's not the same rate for 40 years. It goes through an escalation process based on CPI every five years. DIRECTOR HERSEY. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you. Ms. Prine do we have a motion? Yes, sir. There was a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanillo seconded by Representative Piero to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number 18 that was moved to the forefront and this is discussion and action to recognize the El Paso County Juvenile Probation Department and their efforts towards Global Youth Service Day.
 2023 this item was submitted by Mayor Potem-Anello. Thank you, Mr. Pryor. I will make a motion to approve and then read the resolution. It says whereas today's investment in our youth will provide hope for our future here in El Paso community and we need to come together to provide them with the necessary resources and opportunities for them to succeed. Therefore making it vital to commit to enhancing the education, health, and overall development of our youth.
 And whereas Juvenile Justice Center, alongside with community partners, host an annual Global Youth Service Day project, celebrating the mobilization of millions of youths around the world, working together to improve their communities through community service with this year's 2023 GYSD theme as Preparing for the Future, where youth participants will engage in service learning and community projects throughout April and attend a community service learning summit and career exhibition to be held on Saturday, April 29th.
 And whereas the Preparing the Future Summit will provide these young adults the opportunity to gain skills, tools, and resources that will allow them to be successful in their future endeavors, and the Juvenile Justice Center has partnered with local agencies that will provide presentations focusing on career education, local resources, and skill development, providing participants with opportunities for enrichment and positive youth development.
 whereas the juvenile justice center seeks to provide the opportunity for participants to work together with fellow community members and community leaders in service learning opportunities so they can contribute to the creation of safe spaces for youth to be heard and identify solutions to obstacles and whereas the juvenile justice center staff along with EPCC workforce solutions border plex the jura productions and other numerous local community organizations are honored to provide the involvement and commitment to global youth service day
 whereas global youth service day is the largest youth service and civic action event in the world and the only one event that celebrates and builds capacity of all youth ages 5 to 25 to help their communities thrive by working together for a common good and now therefore be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso the City of El Paso is proud to support the El Paso County juvenile probation department as it provides opportunities for our city's youth and builds a better future for our community congratulations y'all thank you so much for being here good morning
 Good morning. My name is Jennifer Contreras and I'm the field compliance and community improvement supervisor at the El Paso County Juvenile Probation Department. And on behalf of Chief Rosie Medina, the executive team, and the Global Youth Service Day Committee, we would like to thank you for this opportunity and also for the sponsorship of the Global Youth Service Day 2023. Our theme is preparing the future.
 and this has become an annual tradition with El Paso County Juvenile Probation Department and we're very excited to be part of this worldwide initiative that provides a platform for our youth to thrive through enrichment opportunities and what better way to celebrate our youth and
 and are assisting with preparing for the future then coming together as a community and through our Ciudad El Paso, Texas. So thank you very much, I really appreciate your time and . Thank you. Thank you so much. And I'll make a motion to approve. Ms. Prine. Yes, there's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anelo, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Olenar to approve item number 18. On that motion, call for the vote.
 And the voting session and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Fiora. Item number 19. One second please Representative Fiora. I was going to ask the team of the members to introduce themselves but I guess they took off. Oh okay. That was too fast. There are some up there. Do you all want to introduce yourselves?
 Hello, good morning, mayor and city representatives. My name is Elizabeth Cervantes. I'm the community engagement supervisor at JPD. And I just wanted to emphasize our appreciation for your support on this event. This event is very near and dear to our hearts because this is something that our youth is asking for, that they want more services in providing vocational and continuing education opportunities.
 And we're thankful to be able to hosting this event this Saturday and with your support because it's only with the community that we're able to do this. So thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor, City Council. My name is Omar Hernandez. I'm the one in charge of the Prevention Intervention Program in El Paso County Junior Provision Department. So I just want to thank you all for the opportunity to have us here. I know lately it's been rocky, but we're doing everything in our power to assist our youth because we recognize that they're the future of El Paso. So once again, I want to thank you guys for the opportunity. City Rep Anello, thank you for sponsoring, and we appreciate everything you guys do for us. Thank you.
 Good morning, Major and City Councils. My name is Adriana Diaz. I'm one of the Provision Officers that work with the youths. I really appreciate all the help and everything that you have helped us with this event. Thank you. Thank you. And remember, she's a puede. Thank you. Thank you all. We have two more resolutions, and then we'll be taking photos. Yes. Item number 19 is Discussion in Action.
 to recognize april 29 2023 as dia de los ninos dia de los libros and recognize the work of the el paso public libraries and parks and recreation department as they provide free books to children at the event this item was also submitted by mayor pro tem on l.o
 Thank you. I'm going to wait for our library friends to come up. I'm really excited to be hosting this event for the second year in a row in District 2. And while they make their way up, I will read the resolution. And it states, whereas the City of El Paso through the El Paso Public Library and Parks and Rec's departments is dedicated to emphasizing the importance of literacy for children of all linguistics and cultural backgrounds.
 Whereas research demonstrates that children who participate in cultural and linguistically diverse literacy activities are more successful readers, and the City of El Paso is dedicated to support healthy minds and healthy bodies. And whereas many of El Paso's children face greater challenges in developing strong literature skills due to the lack of access to resources and books to use at home. And whereas on Dia de los Ninos, Dia de los Libros, the El Paso Public Library and Parks and Recreation Departments will give away free books to the city residents at Washington Park.
 These expenditures serve the municipal purpose of providing educational and cultural activities to the residents and visitors of the City of El Paso, which benefits the community, instills community pride, and aligns with the vision of the City of El Paso. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that April 29, 2023, be declared Dia de los Niños, Dia de los Libros, and the City of El Paso will host an event to provide books at no cost to attendees of this event.
 Congratulations y'all. Hello Norma. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning Mayor. Good morning Council. Thank you so much for having us here. Thank you Mayor Pro Tem for the resolution. We are very excited to be back for the second year. We outgrew Memorial Park last year so we're going back to Washington Park and we're very excited to bring this to the community.
 We are excited for for the community to come out and support and I want to give a big shout out to all of our supporters this year. The Great Khalid Foundation. The Children's Hospital. Raising Cane's. For us
 phrase federal credit union and our wonderful friends of the library. Thank you very much with all of their support We wouldn't be able to do all of what we do at the library I also want to give a big shout out to all of our employees all of our community Dia de los Ninos community that that take care of all and putting all of this together and this week is National Library Week So I want to give a big shout out to all of our employees for everything that they do for the library and for the community
 Thank you. We also have a little token of our appreciation to you guys if we may approach to give them to you guys. And while you're handing those out, I will make a motion to approve. And I think one of your big, I got to go to the opening, the Khalil Foundation. I'm sorry, Mayor, I didn't hear that. The Khalil Foundation was a big supporter of yours this year. Yes, thank you. Thank you very much.
 There was a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanillo seconded by Representative Rivera and Molinar on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you. Again thank you for your support.
 Item number 24 was also moved to the forefront and this is discussion in action to recognize April 2023 as Parkinson's disease awareness month Parkinson's disease is a serious and life-changing disorder and the observance of Parkinson's disease awareness month unites people around the world in their commitment to improve the quality of life for those fighting the disease and this item was submitted by representative fear and
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. As the group is walking up, I'd like to take the opportunity to welcome Dr. Brooks and all the rock steady boxers who in the old days allowed me to work out with them and that's how I get this pristine muscular body, Mayor. I know you're always asking. But Dr. Brooks, I found this quote today and it describes you to the T and it was, care and support doesn't always take the form of one treatment.
 In the form of awareness like a pedal in the lake, you ripple outwards to serve the greatness of the whole. So thank you for everything you do and I'm honored to read this resolution. Whereas April is Parkinson's disease awareness month, and this occasion provides a fitting opportunity to promote better understanding of health and issues. Whereas according to Parkinson's Foundation, more than 50,000 Texans age 45 and older have the disease,
 and in El Paso, an estimated 2,300 people are living with Parkinson's, and second only to Alzheimer's. Whereas although more work remains to be done in identifying the causes of the disease and developing a cure, a number of treatments are available to help symptoms, including medication and various therapies.
 Parkinson's disease is a serious life-changing disorder, and the observance of Parkinson's Disease Awareness Month unites people around the world in the commitment to improve the quality of life for those finding disease. Now therefore, be it resolved that the City Council and the City of El Paso recognize April 23rd, April 2023, as Parkinson's Disease Awareness Month. The City of El Paso encourages citizens to learn more about the disorder.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council. Thank you very much for helping us bring awareness to Parkinson's disease. Recently, there was another study done that
 showed us that the numbers of diagnosis in the United States increased from 60 thousand a year to 90 thousand. So that tells us that either more people are getting diagnosed every year or we just needed to have correct numbers in the past. The gentlemen behind me are just a small example of the fantastic group we have in El Paso. I'm just their assistant and trying to get the awareness out.
 So I want to thank you very much for helping us because the more people we can get to learn about the disease and get Diagnosed the faster they can get into treatment and seek the help that they need. You know when I introduce yourselves Good morning. My name is And I was diagnosed six years ago Good morning. Thank you. Good morning mayor and representatives. My name is Ken Posey and I was diagnosed in 2017 good morning
 Good morning. My name is Leo Arriaga. I was diagnosed back in 2013 and I'm still boxing. Good morning Mayor and Council. My name is Greg Fogle and I was diagnosed in 2013 also and I'm with Leo. I'm still going to the boxing therapy. And then there's another gentleman behind me that's Kent Dillard and this is Greg's wife. So thank you again very much. Thank you. Mayor with that I make a motion.
 There's a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item number 24. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Thank you. There's a motion and a second to recess the city. There's one more item in there. All in favor? Your item. Anyone opposed? No? Okay. The meeting is in recess at 9.51 a.m. in order to take photos with his morning's honorees. Thank you.
 We can begin mayor. Can we please move 21 is there a motion to reconvene? There's a motion in a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed? I
 The meeting is back in session at 1015 a.m. Mayor Pro Tem. Can we please move 20? I would like to make a motion to move 21 up to the forefront. Yes, we can do that. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. Item 21 is discussion and action on approving a resolution to implement a city of El Paso municipal ID program. This item was submitted by Mayor Pro Tem Manalo. Can we please take public comment? Yes, ma'am.
 We'll begin with a list of speakers that signed up for item number 21. The first person is Alan Lizárraga, followed by Fernando Garcia, Samantha Singleton, Susana Herrera, Wesley Lawrence, Lisa Turner, Irma Cruz, Alan Lizárraga. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, City Council. My name is Alan Lizárraga. I am here on behalf of the Board of Networks for Human Rights to speak in favor of item 21.
 For the past few months I've had the opportunity of learning firsthand about the institutional and bureaucratic barriers members of our community face due to the lack of a government issued I.D. I've learned from mothers who have been unable to pick up prescriptions for their sick children from college students who cannot open up a cell phone accounts and from hitter households who cannot access bank services which has led them into the hands of predatory check catching services with high fee rates.
 These are only a few examples of the harsh barriers thousands of Opasso residents face to simply access essential services most of us take for granted. It is vital that we acknowledge the role of identification in our everyday lives. Identification is security and identification provides visibility and access to vital services. Item 21 will kick-start the long-awaited process to examine the implementation of a community identification program for the City of Opasso.
 As proposed by the BNHR, this identification card will provide access to a range of municipal and private services, including library access, identification for emergency services and financial services, among others. By doing so, this card helps better identify city residents and provides them easier access to public and private services, helping make for a more connected, more engaged El Paso.
 As a council, I encourage you to remember your duty to address the needs of all El Paso residents. A community ID is a step forward to granting all El Paso residents, including veterans, transgender individuals, mixed legal status families, and those experiencing home insecurity and victims of domestic violence, the right to an identification, the right to the everyday privileges of our community life, and it symbolizes the privilege of local belonging.
 As a community we can no longer progress by leaving others behind. It is time that we provide an equal opportunity for everyone to participate in our booming economic development an equal share in community safety and security and begin fostering community inclusion. I am El Paso and I encourage this council to vote in favor of item 21 and I support the creation of a community identification program. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Fernando Garcia followed by Samantha Singleton.
 Good morning. You have three minutes. Buenos dias. Good morning City Council members For almost a decade almost ten years. We have been working on this essential issue in first I would like to express our appreciation and recognition of representative Danilo for Being there introducing this for the first time several years ago We were almost there Things happen and now
 IT'S IN THE TABLE AGAIN. SO THANK YOU FOR THAT. AND ALSO I WOULD LIKE TO RECOGNIZE THE LEADERSHIP FOR CITY COUNCIL WOMAN HERNANDEZ BECAUSE ALSO SHE'S BEEN A CHAMPION ON THIS, TALKING TO US, TO THE STAFF ABOUT THE NEED OF THIS PROGRAM AND THE REST OF YOU THAT ACTUALLY HAD MET WITH OUR MEMBERS AND OUR ALLIES BECAUSE THIS IS AN IMPORTANT ISSUE. IT'S BEEN NEVER AS IMPORTANT AS IT IS TODAY.
 We had thousands and thousands of members in our community. And last count was like 70,000 at least that they don't have access to official identification. And you know that, that is the challenge. I mean, mothers that cannot pick up their kids from school.
 families, workers, that they can open a bank account and therefore they cannot be part of our booming economy and help them to integrate, right? People in homelessness status or transgender has been mentioned, veterans. So I think this is for everybody in El Paso. So we are really pleased that this has been brought up for the discussion. We believe that this is gonna be good for our economy
 for a safety because these community would actually be recognized by the Paso Police Department which actually is encountering with people with no identifications and it's harder for them to process people to know who they are so in that sense
 Anybody that is concerned about safety and security should be very glad that this is something that we have. It also has an El Paso, and everybody, myself and others, could be proud of having an ID that has El Paso logos.
 and also because we can have access to services, that to services. So I think, I believe that this idea has been successful in many cities already. I think every city has demonstrated how this has been successful for economic integration and development. So I really thank you all, and I hope that we're gonna have a positive vote on this issue. Thank you again. Thank you. The next speaker is Samantha Singleton.
 Followed by Susana Herrera and Wesley Lawrence. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning mayor. Good morning city representatives My name is Samantha Singleton and I am the policy director at the border network for human rights as you all know the I am El Paso community ID campaign is something that the border network for human rights has been pushing for almost a decade an Organization who has committed to improving the lives of the community. We believe that everyone has the right to proper identification and
 When an individual is not able to get essential needs of every human being because they don't have proper identification, they don't have a sense of belonging. Think about the individual who finally has the courage to get up and leave everything behind because they could no longer take the domestic abuse. A community ID will give them hope and the strength they need to start over.
 How about the person who's been overpaying check cashing prices because they cannot open a bank account? A community ID will give them security. What about the person who's been a victim of a crime and they can't report it? A community ID gives them safety. The person who cannot check out a library book because they can't get a library card. A community ID gives them freedom.
 A person needing medical attention. A community ID gives them another chance at health, at life. Imagine being a working parent who cannot depend on family to pick up your child from school because they don't have proper identification. A community ID gives that parent peace of mind. After all, it takes a village.
 Community IDs will improve the lives of our community. So today, you as city council representatives have the opportunity to do the right thing for the community of El Paso and pass this resolution. Make the community a better place for all El Pasoans. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Susana Herrera, followed by Wesley Lawrence. Thank you.
 Susana Herrera, good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Buenos dias. Mi nombre es Susana Herrera. Y quiero agradecer esta mañana, ¿verdad?, a la representante Alexa Nelo y a Cassandra y a todos los representantes que a lo largo de los 10 años que tenemos en esta lucha por una identificación.
 nos han estado apoyando y desafortunadamente pues ya es necesario, ¿verdad?, que actuemos porque sabemos que es muy importante para nosotros como madres de familia el tener una identificación para la vida diaria, para nuestros hijos, y que nosotros, como madres de familia, tenemos que tener una identificación para la vida diaria, para nuestros hijos,
 And we want you to have the support of the other representatives this morning to know how important it is for our communities. We know that it is a decision that has taken a long time to make, but we want you to take action today and please support us. It is very important for our El Paso community that we all have an identity because it is a right that we have as humans. Thank you.
 And Ms. Herrera is in support of the municipal ID program and she wishes to acknowledge Representative Anello for placing this item. She says it's time that the city has a municipal ID program. The next speaker is Wesley Lawrence followed by Lisa Turner. Good morning you have three minutes. Thank you. Good morning Mayor and members of council. My name is Wesley Lawrence and I'm a community advocate who proudly represents Texas Democrats in SD 29. Today I urge you to pass item number 20.
 As you know El Paso is a city of hope and opportunity with a strong and vibrant culture that defines our people. And now we have an opportunity to create a community ID program that will ensure that every member of our community has access to basic human needs. It's important to remember that oftentimes IDs gatekeep people from basic services such as health care, registering a child for school, access to libraries and banking systems, and reporting crimes of the fear of harassment or arrest.
 There are many vulnerable groups in El Paso that are in need of municipal IDs such as unhoused people, youth in foster care systems, low income individuals, people with mental health illnesses and disabilities, and formerly incarcerated individuals reentering society in order to get back on their feet. Studies have shown that not only having an ID affects primarily black and brown individuals as they are asked to provide IDs at a higher risk than people such as myself in situations that are not really necessary such as paying a check or encountering the police.
 I thank you for giving the time for this discussion to happen and I hope that item 21 passes so that we can have a city that truly puts equality and inclusion first. And last, I want to add that as someone who deeply cares about this community, I look forward to seeing this program implemented because it will ensure that no matter where you come from, El Paso can and will be your home. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next speaker is Lisa Turner followed by Irma Cruz and then D. K. Chavita Cantu. Good morning. Miss Turner You have three minutes. Good morning Not to do this What I hear makes sense, but I'm not hearing anything else how it will be implemented What kind of standards there will be?
 So if somebody can get with me so I can understand it a little more I would appreciate it Thank you miss Turner this item on the agenda is to direct the city manager to look and study and bring back And that's when you'll hear what you're asking Okay, so that's the item on the agenda that the direct the city manager and make prop and then look at proper
 budget items moving forward for 2024 and bring back within such as 120 days on how it would work and what needs to be done if so this item is just to move forward to do a study to bring back what you're asking all right thank you thank you mr
 The next speaker is Irma Cruz, followed by Enrique Chavira Cantú. Good morning. You have three minutes. Muy buenos días. Mi nombre es Irma Cruz y soy directora de campañas de la Red Fronteriza por los Derechos Humanos. Gracias a todos por la oportunidad de hablar frente a ustedes, representantes de la ciudad.
 I want to tell you a little bit about my history at Red Fronteriza. I started volunteering in 2006 at Red Fronteriza, and since then I've seen the need for a municipal identification, an identification to be able to do the basic needs that sometimes those of us who have an identification give for granted.
 And some examples of them is to get a birth certificate for our citizens' children. Sometimes, because we don't have an identification, we can't get a birth certificate for our children born in this country.
 Another example is when our children are going to get their driving license for the first time and the parents do not have an identification. It is a big problem, right? For the young citizens to be able to get their identification.
 Y esto no es solo una cuestión para personas con estatus mixtos, personas en familias con estatus mixto. Esto también incluye a los ciudadanos norteamericanos. Recuerdo yo tenía un vecino…
 americano, anglosajón, él no tenía su licencia porque algún problema había tenido, con su licencia se la habían suspendido, no la podía sacar, sin embargo necesitaba recoger su medicamento para la ansiedad en la farmacia y no podía recogerlo. Entonces me pidió a mí, yo que en aquel entonces era residente todavía,
 y tenía mi licencia, me pidió a mí que yo fuera a recoger su medicamento, algo que él como ciudadano no debería de tener ningún problema. Sin embargo, así nos topamos con muchos casos y es importante que de esta manera podemos ver cómo es importante una identificación para desarrollar nuestras necesidades día con día.
 Hoy me da mucho gusto que se estén tomando cartas en este asunto, un asunto que es de la comunidad y que por años, desde el 2015, hemos luchado y hemos pedido una identificación municipal. Y hemos logrado reunir a lo largo de estos días.
 este años más de 13 mil firmas de apoyo de la comunidad que hemos nos hemos dado a la tarea de conseguir no sólo online sino también afuera de centros comunitarios afuera de iglesias afuera de tiendas y este y más de 13 mil firmas más de 13 mil personas han pedido que sea realice este programa de identificación municipal
 y espero que pronto podamos ver la tarjeta de identificación como una realidad Muchas gracias porque no tenían una
 y dice que más de 13.000 personas han firmado una petición en apoyo del programa de ID municipal. El próximo hablante es Enrique Chavira Cantú, seguido por Dulce Carlos, Ruby Gordillo, Patricia Martínez. Enrique Cantú, Chavira, no lo veo en la cuota. Si estás en la cuota, empieza a... Hola. Hola, señor Chavira Cantú. Sí. Siga, señor, tienes tres minutos.
 Buenos días, mi nombre es Enrique Chavira Cantú y soy el Supervisor Paralegal del Oficio El Paso de los Niños en Necesito de Defensa, también conocido como KIND. Como hemos mencionado también en nuestro testimonio publicado, KIND está aquí para abordar este tema de agenda, para solicitar con respeto que la resolución sea aprobada para lograr el objetivo último de establecer y implementar un cartel de ID municipal que sea accesible a todos los residentes de El Paso, que beneficiará a nuestra comunidad.
 Since 2008, Kine has been dedicated to providing free legal and social services for unaccompanied immigrant children who arrive alone to the United States, including here in El Paso. Many of the children I have worked with have reported being robbed of all their possessions or losing them, including official documents that they are unable to replace.
 Some, to no fault of their own, are never issued birth certificates or passports at all. After release from federal custody to a caregiver or family member in the community, most unaccompanied children lack coordinated post-release services and face enormous barriers to accessing social services that are vital for their healthy integration into the community.
 We have clients who face language access barriers as Indigenous speakers, clients who are as young as three years old who cannot advocate for themselves, and many clients who have also suffered from high levels of trauma due to exposure to violence, sexual assault, and trafficking. Despite their eligibility for various services and benefits, our clients are often turned away from these vital resources because they lack a valid form of identification other than their federal Office of Refugee Resettlement Verification of Release form.
 No child should ever have to go hungry, be unable to attend school, suffer in pain from lack of medical treatment, or be without housing simply because they do not have an official ID, especially when they or their caregivers are legally eligible for all of these services.
 As a recent American Academy of Pediatrics and Migration Policy Institute report issued in April 2023 highlights, local efforts to create identity documentation for all community members can improve unaccompanied children's access to medical and mental health care. Kine knows from experience and working in many other localities that have similar community ID initiatives that these programs are successful and help everyone in the community.
 Passing this resolution would be the first step towards improving so many lives of the children we serve. Thank you for allowing El Paso to be a leader in supporting the health, safety and success of all of its residents and children. Thank you. The next speaker is Dulce Carlos, followed by Ruby Gordillo, Patricia Martinez, Angie
 Good morning, my name is Dulce Carlos. Today I want to thank all the representatives who have listened to us in this fight against municipal identifications that we are asking for. As my colleagues have already mentioned, there is a great need in the community. We collected more than 10,000 signatures about the people who really have a need in the community.
 And I think the reasons are more than enough. I think that El Paso City could be a city of change and inspiration, with the example of the inclusion with a community identification. Thank you very much.
 gracias miss carlos is also in support of the municipal id program she appreciates city council's consideration as their over 10 000 signatures were submitted in support and she believes there's ample reasons to implement the program the next speaker is ruby gordillo
 I want to first of all thank you for giving us the opportunity to be here. In my own experience, I want to tell you that two years ago it happened to me that I went with my child to school and I had to take him out to take him home and they told me that my identification was valid. To which my child only intertwined my hand because he felt that he was going to stay there.
 creo yo que soy una buena persona, he demostrado ser una buena ciudadana, soy voluntaria de mi comunidad y creo que...
 We deserve this opportunity because we want to work with the school, we want to be volunteers, we want to participate in the walks of our children from the school that we cannot if we do not have an identification that is not valid here. This really is our children. It affects them a little when we want to do things. They ask us to go and we can't. So more than
 .
 este que que podrian tener que la mayoria son papas que no dieron una identificación para poder ser voluntarios entonces mi voz es por todas esas madres que queremos participar en los paseos y porque queremos participar como voluntarios para proteger la area por fuera de nuestros hijos muchas gracias a todos Ms. Gordillo is also in support of the municipal ID program she says she struggled to pick up her child at school because she didn't have an ID and her child thought that
 they were gonna have to stay at school because her the parent didn't have a an ID as required and she believes citizens do the right to have an ID in order to participate in programs and volunteer with their schools activities the next speaker is Patricia Martinez followed by Angie Armendariz Margarita Arvizo
 I ask that you help us with the ID, since I have been struggling personally because they ask for my name and I don't have an ID. In fact, I also request medical services and I can't have them, studies and all that, because they ask for an ID.
 Entonces, si no tengo ese ID, un comprobante a mi nombre, no me dan los servicios, solamente cosas básicas, pero ya estudios ya más profundos, no, pues no. Me piden un ID o comprobantes de domicilio, cosa que no tengo. Entonces, pues les pido por favor que…
 que nos ayuden, que nos echen la mano con eso, que nos apoyen. No nomás soy yo, somos muchas personas las que no tenemos un ID, y que pues en verdad la necesitamos. La consular a veces no nos ayuda mucho, entonces nos piden un ID oficial de aquí de Estados Unidos. Entonces, pues yo les pido que nos echen la mano, que nos ayuden en lo personal. Pues yo la necesito de verdad, y creo que varias personas necesitamos un ID de aquí de Estados Unidos.
 Gracias. Gracias. Ms. Martinez es también en apoyo del programa de ID municipal. Dice que le pide ayuda al consejo para ayudarle a obtener un ID. Dice que luchó a veces para obtener servicios médicos y testes, como hay muchos lugares donde le piden un ID oficial de los Estados Unidos. El próximo hablante es Angie Armendariz, seguida por Margarita Arvizo.
 Hola, buenos días. Mi nombre es Ángela Armendariz. Le estamos pidiendo, por favor, que nos ayuden con las identificaciones. Soy personal, he estado batallando para poder sacar documentos oficiales para mis hijos. No nos están dando opciones ni nos están dando ofertas con la consular. Estamos batallando muchas personas. Pienso yo que no soy la única persona que hemos estado batallando para poder sacar, ya sean las actas, ya sean los…
 los medicamentos de nuestros hijos nos están pidiendo demasiados este las identificaciones no lo hemos podido hacer estado teniendo problemas para poder sacar documentos oficiales de mis hijos en especial las actas de nacimiento
 Por eso les estamos pidiendo y estamos el día de hoy aquí parados, muchas personas, para que por favor nos escuchen. Nos escuchen y nos atiendan por favor a poder sacar esas identificaciones que estamos necesitando. Sé que son demasiadas que hemos estado pidiendo esto. Es lucha tras lucha y por el día de hoy estamos aquí parados otra vez para poderles pedir que nos ayuden.
 Gracias. Gracias. Ms. Arvizo también está en apoyo del programa de ID municipal y luchando por obtener registros para sus hijos, como certificados de nacimiento o medicación. Y dice que hay varios también que están pidiendo su apoyo con este programa. Y le agradece al consejero. El siguiente hablante es Margarita Arvizo.
 Buenos días a todos, muchas gracias por el apoyo que hemos recibido de cada uno de ustedes. Pues como mi nombre es Margarita Arbizu, soy miembro de la comunidad, pero también soy voluntaria de la Red Fronteriza por los Derechos Humanos. En esta lucha tenemos un poco más, como más o menos 10 años, ¿verdad?, pidiendo una identificación comunitaria, la cual pues no hemos obtenido, ¿verdad?, ningún resultado. Pero esperemos que el día de hoy, ¿verdad?, ustedes puedan ver la gran necesidad que como comunidad tenemos, en especial, ¿verdad?,
 Esta semana, ¿verdad?, tuve una emergencia y lamentablemente no tenía una identificación para sacar mi medicamento. Por fortuna iba mi hijo conmigo y él pudo presentar su identificación, su ID, y le preguntaron que quién era yo para poderle darle la medicina. No pensé que me iba a pasar a mí, pero la consular no me sirvió de nada. Ahora que necesito medicamento controlado, necesito más su ayuda.
 Y creo que no soy yo nomás. Tenemos muchas, muchas personas que estamos sufriendo o padeciendo de esto, tanto para los servicios médicos como para sacar a nuestros hijos de la escuela, obtener una cuenta en el banco. Y si no tenemos la ayuda de ustedes, ¿qué vamos a hacer nosotros?
 Nosotros también colaboramos en esta comunidad, somos del paso, ¿verdad? Entonces necesitamos que se nos integre, necesitamos que se nos vea como seres humanos y necesitamos que seamos parte de esta gran comunidad. Muchísimas gracias por el apoyo que nos pueden dar y aquí les dejo a su consideración todas las necesidades que tenemos como comunidad del paso. Gracias. Gracias a usted. Buenas tardes.
 la constituyente le acusó de tener un ID y está en gran necesidad de uno. Hubo una emergencia recientemente y no tenía un ID para esto. Sus médicos no se le dieron a ella debido a esto y su hijo tuvo que usar su ID y debido a esto, esto es debido a su consulado ID no ser bueno para este tema. Le acusó de que muchos sufrieron de este problema y
 y necesitan ayuda, ya que son parte de la comunidad y necesitan visibilidad. Gracias, Mariana. El próximo hablante es Rocio Esteban, seguido por Rosa Coria, Miguel Miranda, Rosa Avila. Buenos días, mi nombre es Rocio Esteban, soy voluntaria en la Refronteriza. Mi problema también es para poder el solo hecho de abrir una cuenta en el banco.
 no la matrícula consular no me la aceptan en una ocasión yo por error o sea fui a consulta al hospital tuve
 mis tratamientos y todo, y pagué 100 dólares de más. Entonces, el hospital me lo regresó por medio de un cheque, y hasta la fecha tengo como cinco años que me lo han estado mandando, ya le dije que no me lo mandaran de regreso, porque no me aceptan la matrícula consular para poder cambiar un cheque en el banco.
 Cuando mis hijas estaban, llegamos aquí y mis hijas estaban chicas, fuimos a la biblioteca que nos quedaba cerquita de la casa. No pudimos sacar un libro, no pudimos sacar, yo no les pude sacar un libro para que en vacaciones pudieran estar leyendo. Entonces, teníamos que ir y quedarnos ahí todo el día o parte de la mañana para poder que mis hijas pudieran estar practicando la lectura.
 Entonces, sí, realmente es muy triste en no contar con una idea en esta ciudad. Muchas gracias. Gracias. Hello. Mrs. Devaney has advised that she is part of the Red Fronteriza. She also said that she has not been able to open a bank account. She even went to a hospital once and since she overpaid $100, she was not able to transfer
 to cash her check for those $100 due to not having an ID. This adding to the fact that she was unable to take books during the summer, take books out of the library during the summer for her daughters to be reading. So instead of she had to spend the summer in the library with her daughters in there. Thank you, Marianne. The next speaker is Rosa Correa, followed by Miguel Miranda, Rosa Avila, Michael Gutierrez.
 Buenos dias, mi nombre es Rosa Coria. Mi experiencia sobre el ID es muy triste porque tuve que ir al ARS. Yo pago impuestos y no me dejaron entrar por mi ID consular, que no era válida. Me han también...
 por los documentos de mis hijos y todo eso, y me sentí discriminada, no sé por qué el policía no me dejó entrar. Que esa ID no era válida aquí en Estados Unidos, a pesar que nos la dan aquí, tiene nuestra dirección de Estados Unidos, no nos la quieren valer. Entonces, yo le quise explicar al policía
 que venia a solucionar algo del ARES, de mis impuestos, nomas porque traia mi carta de que me citaron, me dejo entrar, pero me dijo que tenía aquello, que esa ID no me la llevan a tener, vale de ningún lado, y me sentí mal. Y pues por muchas cosas que ya han contado mis compañeros, de los documentos, sobre los hijos, y esperemos que tenganos un apoyo, porque hemos luchado por mucho tiempo, y gracias.
 Ms. Rosa Coria says she was unable to enter to the IRS due to issues with her taxes. She also hasn't been able to get records or documents for her children since her consulate ID has not been valid and even if it has it's her home address. She says she has been having issues through the years with this in the matter of her children's documents. So she is asking for your help.
 Thank you, Marina. The next speaker is Miguel Miranda, followed by Rosa Avila, Michael Gutierrez, Betty Camargo, and Manuel Guzman. Good morning. Buenos dias. Mi nombre es Miguel Miranda. Yo también traigo todos esos mismos problemas. Yo tengo un hijo incapacitado mentalmente al 100%. Ya ve que pues constantemente tiene sus convulsiones.
 .
 lamentablemente las hay de que da el cónsul de méxico no sirve no lo aceptan aquí y eso pues es triste que tiene bastante tiempo que no deberían sufrir en esta parte porque nosotros queremos ser parte de la ciudad y trabajar y hemos trabajado duramente para estar aquí sin hacer problemas al gobierno es ahí que nos pudieran a ustedes otorgar es bueno para la policía bueno para nosotros y es digamos ellos van a identificar quién soy yo
 Al contrario, pues tiene que buscar la manera de quién es esta persona si hay un problema. El problema, digamos, que tenemos todos nuestros compañeros es ese. Y si usted nos apoya con ese gran ID que se lo vamos a agradecer como latinos y mexicanos, porque somos agradecidos con las personas que nos ayudan. Y Dios también nos va a ayudar. Gracias y muy amable por atenderme. Gracias.
 El señor Miranda le ha avisado que tiene un hijo con discapacidad al 100% debido a las cámaras y está en la cama.
 Due to not having an ID, he is not able to get his meds. He says that all they want is to be taken as part of the community since they work hard and they do want to be part of this community. This ID would help with the authorities also to identify them and they would be really grateful if they get it. Thank you, Mariana. The next speaker is Rosa Avila, followed by Michael Gutiérrez.
 Buenos días. Buenos días. Pues ya estamos aquí para pedirles su apoyo a ustedes. Gracias a todos los representantes porque sabemos de algunos de ustedes que nos apoyan con esta identificación comunitaria.
 Mi nombre es Rosa Ávila, yo trabajo en las comunidades del área del U.S. y he visto toda la necesidad que tiene nuestra gente y hasta nuestra familia. Hay veces que, por ejemplo, en mi experiencia, lo que he pasado de que me han pedido familiares míos que yo saque un acta de nacimiento de mis sobrinos con una carta notariada para que ellos puedan tener las actas de sus hijos. Entonces, creo que es necesidad.
 No es tanto el tener una identificación para hacer cosas que no debemos, simplemente para las necesidades de nuestras comunidades en la forma de la escuela, los cheques que las personas a veces sabemos que como hispanos a veces estamos en el proceso de y no tenemos identificaciones para cambiar unos cheques o para abrir cuentas de bancos, ¿verdad?,
 Entonces, pues sí le pido su mayor apoyo para esta identificación comunitaria, porque la gente realmente la necesitamos. Muchas gracias.
 Mrs. Avila says she she assists with the Westside community. She's asking for your support. She has even had family members asking her to get her nephews and nieces birth certificates since the parents do not have a valid I.D. with a notarized letter. Also she asked to keep in mind that people are not able to cash their checks or open bank accounts in order to start saving for their own children.
 Thank you. The next speaker Michael Gutierrez submitted a statement to be read by representative mayor Pro Tem Manalo. Hello council my name is Michael A Gutierrez a constituent of district 2 unfortunately I was unable to attend in person with my colleagues as I am a full time student at UTEP but despite my absence I am writing to voice my support for agenda item 21. As someone who strongly believes in the importance of inclusivity and equal access to resources I wholeheartedly support item 21.
 Municipal IDs have the potential to benefit a wide range of individuals including undocumented immigrants, homeless individuals, and transgender individuals who may face significant barriers to obtaining identification through traditional means. By providing a municipal ID, these communities can access vital services such as opening a bank account, accessing healthcare, or even simply providing their identity to law enforcement.
 Item 21 promotes inclusivity, supports marginalized communities, and facilitates access to important services. I urge council to support item 21. Thank you, Ms. Prine. Thank you. The next speaker is Betty Camargo. Good morning. Good morning. My name's Betty Camargo, and I am the state programs director with Border Network for Human Rights.
 I'm here today to ask our city council, our city mayor, to please support the process to create a mechanism for the city of El Paso to implement the I Am El Paso community service identification. In a moment where our country has been so divided, I am proud to be from El Paso, a city that has always been welcoming and inclusive to anyone in our community.
 You have already heard from my colleagues and the residents of El Paso why this community service identification is vital to be able to carry out day-to-day activities and how we can be a better community.
 It's important to mention that the creation of this community service identification would be for everyone in El Paso, to use it as a secondary ID to which could be linked to our city services. But most importantly, it would allow El Paso residents who are unable to obtain a state identification due to being homeless, going through a transgender process, or a survivor of domestic violence to feel integrated and be able to access those same services.
 This is an important step for our city to show the rest of the state of Texas our values and principles of integration. We know this is good for our economy as other states have already implemented it and has been nothing but successful. I encourage for you to vote in favor of the city to conduct the study to examine and prepare a report of all the benefits that would occur by implementing and issuing a community service identification. Thank you for your leadership. Thank you. The next...
 Speaker submitted a statement, Manuel Guzman, it says, Hi, my name is Manuel Guzman and I'm a resident of District 1. I'm with Texas Rising testifying in favor of a municipal ID. With many people getting denied access to health care, education, and banking, having a municipal ID will surely relieve many people of this burden.
 Not having IDs affect communities of color, mainly black and brown. We have seen in cities such as New Haven, Connecticut, that issue municipal IDs have bolstered relationship between law enforcement and the people. Having a municipal ID will help the most vulnerable in our city. Please vote yes. The next speaker, Adriana Cadena. Ms. Cadena, go ahead. You have three minutes.
 Yes, hi. Good morning, members of the Council. My name is Adriana Cadena. I am the Director for the Protecting Immigrant Families Coalition. It's a national coalition of over 600 organizations across the country working at the intersection of immigration and access to public services.
 beginning this process to ensure that El Pasoans have access to a community ID. I can tell you from the work that we do that there is a lot of need to ensure that families, and in particular the parents of children, are able to identify themselves so that they are one, do not have fear in terms of accessing public support systems or even
 for the children or even to enter into public buildings where identifications are necessary. For us as a national coalition, this is an important step to ensure that children in particular and the parents are served by the services for which they are eligible and for which they qualify. Thank you for the time. Thank you. Thank you, the next speaker is Carlos Menchaca.
 Good morning. Buenos dias. My name is Carlos Menchaca. I am a proud El Paso native, born and raised, and graduated, went to college, and then went to city council and joined the city council in New York.
 I am proud of the roots that El Paso and the experiences that El Paso has given me to represent communities in New York. But it was the El Paso experience that allowed me to see the needs that you are hearing today that allowed for legislation to be built in New York City. In 2014 we passed legislation to create a community identification card. I helped write it.
 I helped negotiate it with the mayor and the police department. I learned a lot about that experience and then oversaw the implementation of this community ID card in our communities. That card now is held by over a million people in New York City and it allows for us to understand the impact
 You're hearing the needs right now and this resolution which I'm in support of will allow for that to continue to be your champion opportunity. Each of you. And I know there's there's some champions but all of you will be able to go back to your districts and really own this community card as a way to connect people. I want to give one quick story about my mom and my family. We live in a mixed status family and my mom helped her
 clean the library in the morning, but I never saw her use the library. That was the kind of theme in my family that city services were not necessarily able to be connected. This card will allow for an identity to be used to get into the libraries to be able to go into park and rec centers.
 The biggest thing I saw in the negotiations with the police department were their incredible resistance to this. That will come up in this study as well. What I saw was the police department in New York City grant incredible access to the card through their own initiatives so that the police can develop relationships with communities. Communities then started coming to local precinct meetings and safety conversations began to change.
 That is the kind of power and access that this card will give, and that's why I'm in support. The last thing I want to say is that the culture of the city is so beautiful. I've returned since, and I'm now living here, and I'm loving my time here. There's new museums that are on their way. The museum saw a massive uptick in membership because the ID card allowed for a one-year membership. That's what we negotiated with the museums. Thank you.
 That allowed more families to come in that had never been connected to museums before. Library use went up. These are the things that have community impacts, and each of you will be incredible power, powerful champions for your own districts and for you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you.
 Hope that you pass this that this resolution today and I will make myself available to whomever for any other support Thank you so much for hearing the testimony of our community. Thank you and welcome home. Thank you. Thank you my friend The final speaker submitted a statement to be read by mayor Pro Tem anello from Alexa Carranco. I
 Hi, my name is Alexa Caranco and I'm a resident of District 6. I am with Texas Rising testifying in favor of municipal ID. I believe municipal IDs are crucial to the well-being and health of people regardless of their legal status. Having a municipal ID will help the most vulnerable in our city including the older population. Without an ID, my family members and my grandparents are not able to receive sensible healthcare and meds or basic necessities such as access to work benefits.
 I have tried to help my grandparents navigate the system without an ID and it is infeasible. My grandparents pay taxes and contribute to the economy, therefore they should have the right to have a valid ID regardless of their status. Please vote yes. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you. We have Mayor Pro Tem followed by Representative Canales. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. It's been mentioned a few times that this was brought up in 2017 at City Council and didn't pass.
 I think about that item and that vote a lot those think the first thing that I put on a City Council agenda The second and there were two things that day this one failed and it was a real eye-opener for me I like to think that I've grown since 2017 some people might disagree But as you mentioned mayor, we're doing this a little bit different You did already address
 Ms. Turner and you read some of the resolution to her, but from what I've learned from Representative Canales, I am gonna read the bottom part of the resolution to clear some things up.
 And it states, so now therefore be it resolved that the City of El Paso and the City Council, I'm going to skip down to two and three, which state that the city manager or designee be directed to provide a report on the feasibility and benefits of El Paso City Identification Card Program and include a plan for the adoption of such program as set forth within 120 days of the effective date of this resolution.
 three that the city manager or designee is directed to make all appropriate funding allocations in the FY 2024 budget for implementation of this program within the first quarter of FY 2024 and so you know we're doing this a little bit differently this time there has been a working group set up but I want to thank representative Hernandez for kind of spearheading that working group with staff the county BNHR and I also want to thank Misty on Mac who has
 really investigating this she helped with this resolution I know she is really committed to finding a program that works best for the city there's been talks about what this can look like and so while there you know we are not approving or we're not with approval of this resolution today we are not starting to issue the card or starting that program but I do want to make clear that this action today will direct city staff to do that so while it is not
 and there will be information in 120 days. This is the action from council to set forth this identification card. And I want to talk a little bit about, we've heard a lot about the resources that will become available with this card. I read in a statement that this will also help individuals who are unhoused
 It will help individuals have access to libraries, which we know currently we charge individuals in the county. We want to be able to increase the education in this community. But I think that the banking element is a really important part of this.
 We know the state is coming down on some of our cash checking ordinances that we have in city. We're being preempted from protecting our individuals from having their wages stolen. And I think this is really the best time.
 for this council to stand up for this community and fight for them against all of the odds, including some of our counterparts at the state, and determine that safe and secure banking is something that will really help our constituents and will help this city and community flourish. So with that, Mayor, I will allow other speakers and take any questions if there are any. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Canales, followed by...
 Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Um, Representative Inello, uh, stole my thunder reading the, uh, the resolution out, so I'll, I'll, I'll spare you all from, from, uh, my usual routine here. Um, I, I think this is a, uh, very important resolution and it hopefully will lead to a very successful program. Um, you know, I'm, I,
 was living in New York at the time of the implementation of the municipal ID there and went through the process of applying it was accessible but also appropriately stringent right identity was verified residence was verified it's it's not a process that is easy to abuse and so I think that we can
 implement something similarly beneficial to the community here in El Paso and that we can do so in a way that's cost effective and swift and effective at providing people access to the services that so many folks have discussed today in their comments.
 So I'll keep it brief here. Again, I think the benefits have been very clearly explained by the speakers, by the resolution itself, by the mayor pro tem who spoke before me. And so I will close by just saying that I plan to support this today, and I look forward to hopefully a very successful implementation of this program. Thanks. Thank you, Mayor. You're more than welcome to read it again if you'd like. I'll pass this time.
 representative thank you mayor yes sir you know my concerns as a former police officer here uh first and foremost i'll ask what is the liability towards the city in in this municipal card if you can answer that for me please and then
 Thank you for your question, Mr. Rivera. So my understanding of the proposal today is to direct staff to come back with a program that would address some of these needs. So we would be working with Ms. Dionne Mack and the rest of the team to figure out what the program would look like and then clearly not run afoul of any federal or state laws. Okay. So then again, I would like for that to be answered before I even implement the program.
 I could I could vote for a feasibility state of the day but not to make an automatic program at the end of 120 days I think you should come back and brief us again and see if the council feels the same way then when they have that information as opposed to Right now when we don't I need to know if what measures will be taken against fraud I need to know if police supports it. I also need to know if if if
 If there's a cross-functional team involved, I need to know if they have contacted DPS to provide maybe a service from them through a valid Texas ID card, if those efforts will be made. Before Ms. Mack answers those questions, so it is my intention to have our group, and there's two lawyers that have been working with Ms. Mack on this project and we've been
 it is our intention to vet the program before anything is launched and they were in the early stages of learning what other cities have been doing and we've mentioned some cities that have been doing it in other parts of the country so depending on what the proposal is we will vet it alongside ms mack to ensure that there aren't any legal risks to the city so then i have a problem with it within 120 days effective of this resolution to implement the program
 That's what I'm having. I'm having. So 120 days would give us sufficient time to come back before that to ensure that we're not proposing anything that would run afoul of federal or state law. Okay. In point of clarification, the resolution says quarter one of FY24 for implementation. Okay. Yes, ma'am.
 Dion Mack deputy city manager in order for the program to be implemented we would have to have An act of ordinance and so our this action is going to allow us to develop the feasibility Answer the questions talk to our community partners. We've also been talking with the Sheriff's Department And other members at the county all of that comes back to you within that 120 days So you understand the full scope of that work? We address any other privacy issues and concerns across functional team will of course include our
 of service providers state and county as well as practitioners in the field all of that work will come in late August back to you once you make a choice and decision about how we move forward beyond that point we will then be coming
 you with the introduction of an ordinance we would do our due diligence as we ordinarily do with any ordinance go out to have community meetings have all of those discussions all of those what happened within a time frame as allocated here within the first quarter of 2020 thank you miss Mack and I know you you you're diligent about your work and so I look forward to those 120 days before we can actually decide on this I mean a national program thank you so much thank you sir
 Representative Hernandez. Hi. Good morning, everybody. Buenos dias. Estoy practicando español a ver si sale bien. Y la representante Salcido me está ayudando también. Y mi abuelita me dice, hasta yo te entiendo, mija. Soy una hija de un inmigrante. Y mi abuelita y mi mamá vienen de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
 y sus historias están muy frustrantes. Las necesidades básicas deberían ser un derecho fundamental. Y gracias por compartir sus historias y seguiríamos luchando lado a lado con ustedes. Y gracias por tu coraje. And we all, I was trying to speak Spanish and I'm still trying to learn, so Representative Sudo can help.
 But I'm really grateful for you being here today and sharing your stories and to the border network for human rights. I still remember back when I was a city employee and meeting Fernando for the first time, I thought, who is this force of nature?
 really fighting for basic human rights because absolutely having an ID is a fundamental right. I have my son here today and I started to think about your stories and I started to think I would not be able to pick up my son this morning due to a medical emergency if I didn't have an ID. The basic, you know, just the basic needs and the basic privileges I have
 I certainly take for granted and today it was a great reminder of what we take for granted. I won't even be able to take them to the doctor's appointment without my ID. And so it's incredibly important that we talk about what can we do to help bring all persons, whether you're a veteran, unhoused, whether you're an immigrant, how to bring you out of the shadows so that we can make you part of our community.
 Sorry, I'm super loud, so I don't know if the mic is on still. And we also all benefit by helping you achieve economic prosperity. You should have your fundamental rights. You should have basic liberties, equality. Every person in our community deserves to be part of community, which is why it's so important for me to lend my support, not only as a daughter, as an immigrant,
 but as a human, as a person. And to have a community ID will give you greater access to banking systems, will give you greater access to your children to pick them up, access for basic medical care. And the hope is over time and in the state that we're in today with mass shootings happening every day, you can't go into a school without an ID, right?
 And that is the unfortunate reality of today, is that without having IDs, access or encountering law enforcement can be scary.
 Even going into certain businesses can be scary. And so we need to Together this body we need to find a way in a pathway To give you that access so that you can be part of this community. You are part of this community We want you to be here. We want you to come out of the shadows, but most importantly this will allow for you to prosper to have to cash a check and
 When those stimulus checks were being sent out, I had a number of people who called me that says, I can't cash this check that the government just gave me. I mean, hundreds of dollars that were absolutely necessary with an expiration date, a lot of people could not cash. How unfortunate. That's so incredibly unfortunate.
 But I do want to lend my support to the BNHR and to thank you. You have my deep gratitude and support. And it's so frustrating to hear how long it's taken, and I think we're a step closer. The County Commissioner's Court, along with all of law enforcement, have really been great leaders, including our county manager, and then very big thanks to our city manager,
 to Tracy, Mario, Dion, and to our city attorneys, because without your leadership, we won't be able to get here. So it's absolutely critical into our future city manager
 Kerry Weston, Colonel Weston, we need your leadership, we need your support so that we can provide a pathway and access to basic needs for our community. Those who live in the shadows and even those who are experiencing changes in their life. So gracias a todos, gracias por su apoyo, thank you for all your hard work and I'm so excited today to vote yes on this. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Representative Molenar.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. And so to everyone that has come out and spoke here today, thank you very much for taking out the time of your day that I used to do that. For those of you who called in, those of you who wrote a letter or an email to different representatives, thank you very much for that. However, I did hear a couple of times that this municipal ID would help veterans. So if someone on the call can...
 Kindly answer that question is how exactly that's gonna help veterans I believe we have command sergeant major Paul Albright if you could help us out with that, please Thank You representative Mullen are for the record Paul Albright chief military officer for the city Yeah, we've definitely experienced problems with our veterans that don't have ID cards Case in point is our homeless veterans a lot of our homeless veterans Unfortunately lose all their documentation during the time that they're homeless Well, that's through being
 you know subject of a criminal event like being robbed or mugged or just through the course of their time traveling they lose all their documentation when they lose their documentation it slows the entire process down really bogs it down a lot we have to try to find them an identification just to get them their basic support services started and we don't have identification that causes problems another case in point a repatriated veteran
 a deported veteran that becomes repatriated that comes back to our community wants to start a life here doesn't have an identification card it slows the process down it really hinders the issue a municipal id could definitely help we can't even seem to get them processed through the department of the va very well without an identification card so we've brought this up we've been talking with
 with Miss Deon Mack and the team, the city manager, and we're looking for solutions to this. So I hope that answers your question, Representative Molinar, but definitely causes problems for veterans. Yes, thank you very much for the two great examples. I'd like to talk to someone from the police department. Miss Mack referenced the process, and I know it's early on, but still I would like some answers.
 Specifically I would ask in the process of someone and I assume it's going to be responsible to the police department to issue out this identification card, so No, sir. One of the items in the resolution is for us to identify the department. That's most appropriate Okay in some cities that's a completely separate apart department and so we'll be doing that research and coming back with the recommendation and
 Based on that we will also be looking at costs that are associated with how we we issue All right, so I accept that but I still like to ask you something so cheap I see us as our interim police chief for the city of El Paso and
 Having an identification is critical especially when you're out in the field making decisions on who's who and trying to find out Who we're talking to in a field call and a traffic stop or anything like that Would it be your recommendation to that? Let's just say if it is a I don't know who would do it. It's just a public library and
 I don't know who else, what other department would do it, not the police department, to capture identifying data, to include physical traits, whether their body, their weight, their hair, colors, glasses, things like that, any scars, marks, tattoos, and also to roll their fingerprints through AFIS.
 So I'm not entirely Peter Pasea Centrum Chief of Police for the record So I'm not entirely clear on what your question is, but if you're asking I'll make it clear then So if you were charged with identifying making the issuance of the municipal IDs would that process include? rolling the fingerprints into a vis automatic fingerprint identification system any scars marks tattoos physical attributes whether they're
 You know, they have their height, weight, color of hair, color of eyes, things like that. So as part of this resolution and what I understand is occurring with this vote that you all are going to be taking is that we'd be part of the cross-functional team or the group that's going to be brought together. So we would provide the information that we feel is critical to be able to identify somebody as who they say they are.
 And there's various factors or matrixes that we would be considering that need to be able to positively identify somebody because there is an issue across not just the city of El Paso but the state and the country with people identity theft for the short of it. So we would make it a point to make sure that who we're gonna be identifying as part of a municipal ID in this work group is that there is a matrix in place to make sure we're
 Giving a card to a person who says they are who they are Okay, and this card would be acceptable at the city whether it be libraries Let's just say your entrance into any city facility the county the state the federal I couldn't answer that question at this point We need to be part of that
 Okay, before you leave so as you know Rivera as well, you know as police officers you're trained to identify a valid ID You know You can give me your Texas driver's license or Texas ID card and I can without looking at I can feel it I can touch it and I can tell you whether it's valid or not. And of course we're trained that way I'm not saying it has to be to that extent but It's I mean we're gonna issue an ID. Let's not do it. I
 50% of the way. Let's not do it 70% of the way. I think that valid ID needs to be just on its face a valid ID that not only contains a picture because we have all these people here holding a sign, City of El Paso, and thank you very much whoever designed that because that's the beautiful Mexican poppies that are found on the eastern slope of the Franklin Mountains in District 4.
 That is now also a national monument, but I know that's not going to be covered on that But nevertheless, I think if we are going to do this that it needs to be done very well so that it fraud is prevented That it's acceptable at different facilities different levels of government and things like that So I do look forward to that information coming out. Thank you and Mr. Representative and Shaka word. Where do you live now? What district? Oh
 Oh, in Socorro. All right, thank you. Close enough. Thank you. Welcome back. That's all I have. You know, and I think it's important that we know that,
 City and its team has been working on this and miss Mac has been working on this and This is what needed to go to the next step to be able to continue to work on it. So And I did talk to mayor Potem and she did tell me that she's been working with the city team and this was really the next step to try to continue to move it forward and clarify some of the questions and hurdles that need to be answered and
 With that, Representative Kennedy followed by Representative Salcido. Shockingly enough, I'll try to be short. This is a question for the city attorney. This item just approves the study and to come up with a plan and allocate funds for next year, but it does not approve the plan itself, correct? That's correct, sir. It's only to get us on the track to start the program. It's not, this is the program that's going to be rolled out. We're not there yet.
 We don't know what the plan is, so it would be hard, in my opinion, to vote no on something when you don't know what it is yet. We're asking, let's find out what it is, what's the effect, what's it gonna do, who's it going to affect, and how, and then we can take a look at it. Yes, city manager. I think I can help you, perhaps.
 What's going to happen is whenever the information is put together and then brought back to the council you'll have to approve it Because it's a policy decision, so I think that should address your concern and maybe representative Molinar is a representative at us you
 questions because when it comes back you'll have an opportunity to approve it it does say that it's a resolution to implement a city of El Paso municipal ID program so I understand the confusion and that you read that and it says we're going to implement it and that's what your votes going to do I think
 Think that with everything else that we do whenever it's a policy decision We'll bring back to council taking another look at it before you approve it and I'm sure you're gonna have a lot of questions And I'm sure the community will as well And it'll be a good opportunity for us to share it with the community in a in a public setting at a council meeting So hopefully that addresses your question sir. Yeah, and I'm relatively sure we'll have a plethora of questions and some of them might even be relevant I
 But I don't know how you vote no for a program when we don't know what the program is. I mean, let's take a look at it. Let's see where it goes, and then we'll come back and figure it out. That's all I have. Thank you, Representative Kennedy. And I think Representative Menchaca from New York said that they had some hurdles to clear and some things to overcome, and this is our next step.
 And this is exactly what we've been talking about, that what is the next step. You can't vote against something you don't know what you're voting against because it's still those things that city manager and his team need to continue to work with. And we need it to take the next step today. And, again, I thank the city team for where we've gotten so far and Representative Salsita.
 thank you mayor and uh thank you so much for the city staff that worked really hard on this i definitely think that this definitely will help us integrate provide access to the community so for the basic needs that they have
 And as mentioned, that we're going to really look at the process because that is one thing that I'm very want to make sure that the process is handled the best way we could do and so we can prevent fraud or whatnot, but that we have something that can really help the community integrate and be able to have the basic needs and the basics access needed. So I'm looking forward to that. I want to thank everybody that's worked hard and will continue to work hard to bringing something back to us in, I believe, 120 days. Looking forward to that. Thank you.
 Thank you, ma'am. Representative Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks, Mayor. I wanted to bring up one more area that hasn't been discussed today, and that's public health.
 Um, this council during covid was very adamant that our vaccines would be available to anyone. But you didn't need identification to get your follow up vaccine. And I spoke to many people. I actually think Representative Molinar was on a tour with me. One of those vaccine facilities were members of the public health team said, you know, a community ID would have really helped us.
 during this situation. So I just, I wanna put that out there. I also wanna thank Councilman Menchaca for coming and I wanna thank you for your words because I think your conversation about public safety was really important and is gonna be really important for this council and this community.
 We always have friction over these things with public safety, but I think that you remind us this is a great opportunity to really bond those communities versus work against them. So I thank you for that. And I want to thank you again to BNHR for all the advocacy. I know that you have all been here for years, and you've done a lot of work meeting with people over the last couple weeks. Dionne, if you could remind the council, because I think I'm going to not get the figure correct here,
 Back in 2017 when this was first proposed, the county had allocated, was it $500,000? I don't recall the amount the county... It's either $500,000 or $300,000, I think. How much? I'm not sure. Is it $500,000?
 500,000. 500,000. So the last article I saw related to this was February of 2022 that the county had a conversation and discussion regarding support of this. In our meetings with the county, they did talk about an allocation that would be available. They also talked about
 providing at least a 50% cost match moving forward, but I do not have the specifics. Yeah, and I think Chief D'Agostino is correct. It's 500,000. They have continued to allocate that in that budget every year since 2017 or 2016, I guess.
 in hopes that the city would finally come to a partnership. I think they've said they can't continue to do that, and so really excited to move through a budget allocation RRN to meet that match and to meet this goal. And so again, Ms. Mack, thank you for working so closely with Betsy on this issue and their Office of New Americans.
 i'm sorry man yes it's okay thank you so does that mean 500 000 a year for six years you have three million set up no no no it's just five hundred oh i'm just checking yeah we could have worked that out better but unfortunately we didn't vote for it in 2017. so with that i'll call the question thank you do you have a motion to represent a male program motion to approve second
 Mayor, we do have two members of the public that signed up to speak and I did not call them initially. We have Yvonne Diaz. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I mean, a lot has been said already. I was going to tell you about when I didn't have an ID, didn't go to a bar until I was 25 because that's when I got my DACA, but that's irrelevant. The thing is that many lives are dependent on this.
 A lot of basic services cannot be accessed without having an ID. Not having an ID affects primarily black and brown individuals, and studies show that they are asked for identification at higher rates, even in cases when an ID is not needed. And this is compared to white populations. And I have the data in case that you all need it. And recently we have seen an increase of
 abuses of law enforcement, so it is important to implement an ID in order to foster these relationships with a lot of the communities that lack an ID. And on a personal note, my father has a rare form of cancer and he has been without treatment for almost two years because of a lack of ID. And this is inhumane.
 And the sad part is that his case is not unique. I am also a former case manager, and I saw many people go in and out of crisis and hospitalizations because they were not able to access their medications after a discharge. So I know that you have been talking about logistics. If you think about it, how many or how much hospitalizations and crisis and emergency services cost?
 And if we can avoid having people go to crisis every time, that's money that can be saved. And this is something that will benefit, as people said, veterans, own house population, and the most vulnerable. So please, I really urge you to vote yes on this item. Thank you. Thank you. The final speaker is Sophia Abad-Mir. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. Hi, my name is Sophia Vatmir. I am also with Texas Rising and I just wanted to say that our community has many vulnerable groups whose quality of life would be drastically improved by the passing of this item. Many members of our community are unable to find adequate healthcare, schooling, banking, library services, as well as other social programs due to circumstances beyond their control.
 So IDs are necessary to access certain things needed to stay alive and they also just make life easier for those wanting to access certain resources. So thank you. Thank you. Without Ms. Pern we have a motion and a second. Yes sir the motion was made by Mayor Potemanelo seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve the resolution on item 21. On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 Mayor would you like to go to item 42 next? Yes, we're on 42 then 26. 42 is discussion in action to approve a budget transfer to increase FY 2023 confiscated funds and appropriations a total of $750,000 in state and federal confiscated funds Yeah, what's your motion motion to approve? There's a motion and a second. I
 Yes sir, we do have public comment on this item from Miss Turner. No, she said no. No? Okay. So the motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 42. We do have a quorum. Representative Hernandez, can you come back for the vote? Yeah, but it's all right, we have a quorum. Go ahead. Go ahead, Miss Pryor. Thank you, sir. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 The motion passes unanimously. Representatives Anelo, Hernandez, Salcido not present. Sir, the companion item was 41. Ms. Cruz-Costa, can you please ask them to? Mayor, the companion item was 41 also. Was 41 on there also? Yes. May we ask the members of the public that are not attending the remainder of the meeting to please exit chambers? 41 and 42. Yeah. We just did 42. 41, ma'am.
 41 yes 41 then we'll do 26 last after this one item 41 is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager or designee to submit fy 2024 grant application for the motor vehicle crime prevention authority moved to approve second there's a motion made by alternate mayor pro tem molina seconded by representative rivera to approve item 41 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 The motion passes unanimously. Representative Anelo Hernandez not present. Thank you, Mayor. Item 26. 26. Item 26 is presentation on the City Watch Camera Expansion Project. Good morning, Mayor, City Council, Assistant Chief Humberto Talamantes. If I can have the presentation, please. Is this somebody from IT? IT, this is item 26, please. Is it here? Yes.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council, Assistant Chief Humberto Talamantes. Today I will be presenting you with an update of the City Watch Camera Expansion Project that City Council approved back in May of 2022. Once fully implemented, this project will greatly enhance the existing security camera network that the city has for public facilities and other public venues. First slide, please.
 As mentioned, City Council approved this project back in May of 2022 and decided to allocate $7 million from the American Rescue Plan Act. Our objectives for this project are to enhance public safety for our community, improve first responders efficiency and safety, augment investigative capabilities, and maximize situational awareness to maintain security of critical areas and infrastructure.
 This slide serves to tell you a little bit more about our City Watch program and what it entails. It is part of our Fusion Center, which is located at the 911 Communications Building. And as many of you already know, our Fusion Center is a hub of information sharing and coordination for first responders and law enforcement and intelligence communities in our area of responsibility.
 The City Watch provides tactical decision and investigative support for all local, state, and federal law enforcement agencies and real-time critical incident assistance for all emergency responding entities in our city. As part of our fusion center, the City Watch is also a 24-7, 356 days a year operation that offers law enforcement access to public and private sector security cameras.
 These systems include hospitals, highways, shopping centers, and of course various types of other city public facilities. Our project will build upon our existing security camera infrastructure that will advance our City Watch objectives, which are to proactively mitigate all crime, all threats, and all hazards impacting our community.
 This slide tells you a little bit more about our equipment and the type of technology that is required for us to implement this project. Since the project main goal is to improve public safety through the use of security camera technology, we will accomplish this by using a variety of fixed, mobile, and aerial security camera platforms. And of course, procuring the required equipment such as servers, devices, internet infrastructure, and the staff necessary to facilitate the real-time monitoring
 to support proactive crime intervention strategies. At the beginning of this project, a cross-functional team from various city departments was convened. Subject matter experts from El Paso Police Department Fusion Center, the City of El Paso Information Technology Department, personnel from Parks and Recreation, staff from Streets and Maintenance, and
 from our budget and purchasing work diligently to strategically identify public venues and city facilities that would benefit from security enhancements. This slide, I'm sorry I got the wrong. Our team of subject matter experts use a data driven approach to identify such locations. Data on crime trends, vandalism, disturbances, and other incidents were researched and carefully evaluated by the team.
 THE VOICE OF THE CUSTOMER CITIZENS WAS ALSO HEAVILY CONSIDERED WHEN SELECTING THESE SITES MEMBERS OF OUR TEAM RECEIVED FEEDBACK FROM CITIZENS AT COMMUNITY MEETINGS SENIOR CENTERS RECREATIONAL CENTERS AND OTHER PUBLIC VENUES WE'VE ATTENDED ABOUT THE CONCERNS OF OUR CITIZENS AND NEEDS WHEN VISITING THESE TYPE OF PUBLIC PLACES ADDITIONALLY CONSIDERATION WAS ALSO GIVEN TO THOSE VENUES THAT ARE HIGHLY VISITED BY THE PUBLIC THIS WAS DONE TO TO HELP US REDUCE THE RISK AND THREATS
 and hazards associated with such locations. If you can see on your slide to the right, to the right hand, a total of 44 priority venues were selected and over 300 security cameras are expected to be deployed for this project.
 In this slide, you can see the, give you a better idea where the camera, security cameras are going to be located throughout the city. It's important to note that this map doesn't reflect the existing camera infrastructure that the city has. These are only the additions that we'll be making throughout the city. In this slide, we can see the different types of security camera technology that will help us achieve our objectives.
 Picture number one shows a large event as the ones that are City Commonly co-sponsors throughout the year, such as parades, marathons, and entertainment events. Those events at large, that draw large crowds. Mobile and pole camera platforms are ideal for these type of events, as our staff can reposition them rather quickly and as needed. The second picture is from an aerial camera utilized to recover a weapon that was used in a crime.
 It would have taken, it took investigators only minutes, but it would have taken officers hours, long hours, to secure and locate this weapon as evidence without using this technology. The third picture shows a barricaded subject call and the camera technology we utilized to provide a common operating picture for all of our emergency crews that responded. This was not only done to increase our safety and awareness, but the safety of the surrounding neighborhood and the public as well.
 Now pictures four and five those are of existing camera systems at the Cincinnati Entertainment District and San Jacinto Plaza. This is just to show you the type of quality monitoring systems are capable of. In fact our department has solved several high profile crimes that would have gone unsolved if not for the leads that our investigators were able to obtain with this type of cameras.
 Now picture number six is of a fire downtown in which crucial and real-time information was shared with emergency crews and our fire department. This helped our emergency crews better mitigate the hazards that they encountered that day and to quickly resolve the emergency scene. This slide shows you the different types of camera technology that we will be using for this project. We talked about fixed platforms, those that are usually attached to a building or structure.
 and about the pole and mobile camera platforms, which are very versatile and easy to relocate. So we have, since we have close to 300 parks and hundreds of other public city facilities, it's not possible for us to install cameras at every single location. So the mobile camera platforms will be, allow us to relocate these strategically throughout the city to address developing crime trends or any rising criminal activity at any given location throughout the city.
 Now obviously we all know that all the technology in the world is ineffective if not without people. So staff is needed to effectively manage, monitor, and maintain security camera systems to capture and record critical evidence, scanning video footage for any public threats, and support the real-time emergency mitigation for our emergency responders. But rather than have uniformed officers pulled from their regular assignments,
 We will retain civilians that will be fully dedicated to proactively and consistently monitor our city's extensive and growing security camera infrastructure. Now I will ask our IT project manager, Joel Martinez, to come up. He'll be talking to you a little bit more about the project's funding distribution, the recurring costs, and the project timeline.
 Good morning. Joel Martinez with the Department of Information Technology Services here to discuss some of the logistics of this project. As you can see in the slide before you, the majority of the expense or the majority of the investment is going to be attributed to the actual hardware that will be procured to carry out this large endeavor.
 Contingency is being allocated as well to cover some of the costs as we're seeing changes in technology costs along with everything else that's been a factor of a lot of our technology projects.
 So as with any project, you can imagine there's recurring costs. In this case, we have two types of expenses, both operational and replacement. With operational expenses, this is an annual expense that will be incurred, and most of that's going to be comprised of paying for licenses, maintenance for the cameras. We're looking some—that will amount to about $210,000. Now, with replacement expenses, it is IT's recommendation to continue to replace this equipment as it does age, just with—as does every else piece of the technology.
 So that is comprised of servers and actual cameras. Servers, you're looking at a replacement timeframe of anywhere from six to seven years, and the cameras will begin to degrade in the seven to ten year mark. And so obviously we make this recommendation to ensure that there's no degradation of services and also avoid any other technology-based issues that we foresee.
 Now the project is comprised of six different groups as you can see here, the first two of which have already been completed. As Chief spoke, there are two phases, the first two phases comprise mainly planning for this effort, gathering data and ensuring that we visited these sites and doing a little bit of analysis on the terrain and some of the visibility that we can provide for the parks.
 After doing all this analysis, we prepared somewhat of an estimate to senior leadership, met with senior leadership, took their feedback, and refined and finalized the plan for the implementation. We're currently in phase three of the program.
 to which we have about 18 months left to completion. Now, you'll notice that within each one of these phases, we have several groups that we're going to be working on in parallel, and that's in order to stagger the efforts and ensure that resources are available to continue to drive this project to completion. It also provides us with an advantage of making sure that we don't have any resources in idle and effectively completing this by our due date of October 24th. Thank you.
 Mayor City Council So we are very excited about this project that you've all approved and the the team worked diligently to to
 to make sure that we put this project on a successful path. And we know that we're gonna be reaching our objectives and we're ready to move forward with it, but just wanted to make sure that you receive this update from us. And Council, I would just like to add that as part of the strategic plan, it's important that we not only hire more police officers, you can have an item later on because it's very expensive,
 to do that, but also look at the technology that's out there, take advantage of it, and then have them be force multipliers, again, to help them solve a lot of these different crimes that the chief alluded to. The very first time we started using them more in an enhanced fashion, I think they were able to solve even a murder, and the person lived up north, so they otherwise would not have been able to do that. So these cameras are very useful, and they provide another tool for our police department.
 Thank you, Chief. I think technology continues to grow, and if we want to grow, we need to grow with it. And I think this is a perfect example of how we can continue to make our community safe, and that's our number one priority as elected officials, that we give you the tools to continue to make our community safe. So great presentation, and I thank you for continuing to show how we can grow to make sure our communities stay safe.
 Thank you mayor. Thank you City Council. We have representative Molinar and representative you better both from former police officers. Thank you, man Chief Delamante, it's always a pleasure to see you again. Thank you very much for this presentation. So familiar with the technology on camera systems and things like that, but I guess all of the Resolution of the images was that going to be taken into account of whatever? I'm not sure I guess maybe for the gentleman from IT. I
 Good to ask that. And also, number two, the capability of whoever the person behind the camera that they can manipulate it to, in other words, focus in or narrow with the scope of whatever the image may be.
 Yes, sir. Yes, and Joe, if you want to come up. And those are very good, important points that you're making, sir. So we are taking that into account. We convened the subject matter experts, and those are issues that we really took into account. But I'll let Joe out on the technical.
 I'm sorry, could you repeat question one? The first part was the resolution. Taking into account, for example, I want to say it was in Michigan where the shooter went to that University of Michigan and did what he did. Unfortunately, people lost their lives. However, based on the camera technology, they were able to take a screenshot or an image, even though it necessarily wasn't the picture.
 best, but it was a good thing where they were able to capture, let's say, the fact that he had red shoes, red tennis shoes in a certain style, that they were able to make a quick ID and then shoot that out to different people, different officers in the field through their cell phones and or their MDTs in the vehicles and things like that. Would that be also be capable of that?
 Absolutely. So a part of the lessons learned that we gathered before we began looking at the sites is the current resolution of some of the video that we have out there. We can't really move it into an investigative piece of evidence. Go ahead, sir. I'm sorry.
 We had a hot mic. And so part of the investment in the infrastructure is to buy cameras that are not only 4K, but of the highest specification that allows for it, but also the storage to store this video. And so that's why you see that investment in the servers, not just the cameras, to ensure that we have that high resolution to support for further evaluation. And so the operator would be able to manipulate it so that it could –
 resume and focus on whatever might be happening. Yes, sir. So part of the analysis that we're doing is each camera site, we're deciding between using a fixed camera or what they call a PTZ, which is a pan, tilt, and zoom camera.
 Now, this allows for whoever the operator is to pan around, tilt, and zoom the camera and have that control. Because we see often where technology is used, but it's not the best technology. Like you said, everything has a lifespan, but a lot of times the camera angles are not what's best out there, or there's a lot of distortion on what's happening or not happening. But thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you, sir. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to thank you all for that great presentation. It's nice to know that technology is taking a good hold of the department to cover our city in places that we can't be there or, I'm sorry, that police can't be there 24 hours a day. And with that technology, it just makes this even a safer city than before. And again, I thank you so much for your presentation. Great presentation. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Mayor, Council. This will really help us, this technology, improve our community, protect our investments, our parks, our recreation centers, our senior centers. A lot of city infrastructure that will really help us meet our objectives, as I mentioned at the beginning of the presentation. Thank you all. We have Mayor Pro Tem. Sorry, I know I didn't sit through the presentation. I'm going to ask you a question. No, I just wanted to thank you. I know that the senior centers have been asking for this. There's been a lot of meetings about it. So I just, I wanted to express my gratitude. Thank you.
 Thank you, thank you so much. And the cross-functional team from Parks and Recreation, Mr. Pablo Escobar, Deputy Assistant Directors here, IT, Fusion Center, a lot of departments from street department as well, contributed to the success and the planning of this project. So thank you all so much. Thank you, sir. Mayor, we do have public comment on this item from Mr. Turner. While I enjoy safety, I have to question privacy.
 As I sat through this presentation, the first thing I thought of was Amazon's taking video from Ring cameras and sharing it with police without the use of a warrant, without use of permission from the owner of the camera. Am I gonna be on TV 24 seven, even in my own house? If I have cameras in my house for security purposes, is my police department using facial recognition
 license plate readers or anything else I mean are we going to be a city that's safe or one that's under constant surveillance you know I know it's hard to go anywhere because you've got cameras on ATMs and cameras on stuff yes you have to have cameras at your facilities but in this presentation we're talking about other things talking about pulling stuff in from elsewhere like I
 If you have a camera on your door to see who's there, that's what they're talking about. These are the things I'd like to know. These are the things the people in this city would like to know. Are we going to be a surveillance state or are we going to be a safe city? You can't have both. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Is that Ms. Pryor? Yes, ma'am. There's no action on this item? Yes, ma'am. Pardon me? I think we're back to number one. Where if we...
 Hold on, I had it set up here. We're back to number 17. That's correct, Mayor. Item 17 is discussion in action to direct the city manager and city attorney to contact state agencies as they relate to ongoing public safety legislation appropriations to include any state efforts to establish a new Department of Public Safety, DPS regional headquarters in El Paso. This item was submitted by Representative Rivera.
 Representative Rivera. Mayor, thank you, Mayor. City Council and city leadership, this is a proactive item that I placed on the agenda for the city manager and the city attorney to be allowed to compile a list of public safety legislation or appropriations to identify, prioritize, and position the city of El Paso for future public safety funding.
 as we saw just now with the presentation before. Identify potential land or resources for proposed DPS regional command, which I understand is in the works to come to El Paso. Currently in the appropriations, they were in Article 11, which is a waiting list, but the takeaway here is that items on Article 11 were not deleted and they have merit to succeed to those communities and were not defeated.
 So with having an additional, with a regional headquarters here in El Paso would be substantial for not only for our local constituents and community, but also be beneficial for other law enforcement agencies besides our own El Paso Police Department, other agencies to use that facility. I believe Chief Macias wanted to say something on this. You do now, Chief.
 Good afternoon, almost afternoon. Peter Pacias, interim chief police for the record. So yes, for several years DPS has been trying to establish their regional headquarters here in El Paso as far as it goes. Steve McCraw, the director of DPS, is a native El Pasoan, a Burgess graduate.
 and they've been trying to establish this for several years. They've already gone through one, two, three regional directors trying to get this established here in El Paso. So they're a great partner, the El Paso Police Department and the community. Anytime we've asked for assistance from when the Pope visited and bought us to any other major emergencies, DPS has always been there to help.
 stand with the El Paso Police Department so we would support the regional headquarters for DPS to be located in El Paso thank you sir and also mayor and council with this regional command coming here it would grow the lab that work that they have correction the lab facilities that they have here to accommodate the agencies that actually use it and so would bring possibly at
 But I'm hoping for is at least 100 DPS troopers to live here and reside here in El Paso, which would be great for our economy. So with that said, I make a motion to approve this. Second. Second. Okay. That's okay. We'll let you.
 No, thank you for that. And I know that I've had some conversations with local DPS, and they are looking forward to expanding their headquarters. You know, they have a presence, and we've noticed the presence has become even larger recently, and they are looking forward to being able to do that. Mayor Pro Temp.
 So the I'm confused as to what the action is because the backup says Direct the city manager and city attorney to contact state agencies as they relate to ongoing public safety legislation and appropriations To include to you. So we're just directing the city manager and the city attorney to what contact DPS contact no contact any outside agency they need to to and DPS included to you know have a list and and they're looking for a
 for property to be uh so you want to sell property to the state for a location pardon me you want to sell our property to the state no no no that's that's for uh our team to look at and see if it's uh they're allowed to you know they're they have the land available to build their their uh dps headquarters here
 I guess I'm just confused on what the ask from the city manager and the city attorney is. It's to file a list of... You want a letter of support? I just don't understand. Genuinely, I'm looking at the back of my head. Let's be proactive on this so that we can get the regional headquarters here in El Paso. Okay. I know they're looking to expand, so I think that just kind of, I think would be what we're doing is proactive to talk to them, see what we can do to help them move forward with their wants and their needs. So...
 I don't think we're going to give them, we're not offering to give them land or anything like that. We're just asking to see how we can work with them to help them and hopefully make this transition of expanding in our community a little bit easier and quicker. Right. Right. Because they do want to build one here in El Paso. Right. Mr. Molinar? Yes, sir.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much, Representative Vedder, for bringing this item to our attention. I would recommend that if they do build a facility that they build it in District 4. As you know, we're going to have a training joint training.
 police and fire academy in district four we're gonna have our new police headquarters in district four it just kind of makes sense you do have access to right uh us 54 railroad mccombs trans mountain loop 375 and easy access to interstate 10. so thank you represent canalis thank you sir
 Yeah, one more time. I kind of share some of the same questions as Mayor Pro Tem. I just want to make sure this is then just directing the city manager and city attorney essentially to open the lines of communication with DPS and potentially other state agencies. Nothing more than that, just to start the conversation. Correct. Okay. Understood. Thank you. All right. We have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. We have public comment from Adam Pacheco. How are you, sir? You have three minutes. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Adam Pacheco executive director for the El Paso Association of contractors on behalf of our 150 members We are in support of item 17. We would like to thank a representative Rivera for being proactive and Placing this item on the agenda It places the city of El Paso in the in the forefront to gain funding for public safety and the expansion for a new TPS facility
 Furthermore, this item is important to everyone in El Paso because it has public safety securing our community and can build capacity for construction Opportunities across our city. I thank you all for your consideration and urge a council to approve this item. Thank you. Thank you, sir Yes, sir. I'm sorry. I did have more questions. Yes Sorry
 yeah I guess this question is for city management mr. Gonzales do we have ongoing communication with DPS and other state agencies about this particular issue
 I think the way this happened is the council members who went to El Paso Days learned of this. I know that we have the state delegation that's working on this. I know that there was just a message from Senator Blanco referring to it. So yeah, once we were advised, I know that Elizabeth Triggs called me when she was at El Paso Days. If you remember, we were back here working on the collective bargaining agreement during that time. So it was nothing more than a general update to us.
 And this item being on there, we'll have Elizabeth and we'll have Sam Rodriguez and Yvette and on this probably work on having more discussions with the state delegation as well as other state agencies. Okay, so to this point we have not had formal, proper conversations with DPS about the potential for headquarters? I don't know how many discussions Triggs had with them or has had with them, but I can find out. We can certainly send that to you all.
 Okay, thank you. That's all now. Representative Kennedy? Yeah, this is kind of like asking you guys to do what you already do. I mean, if somebody's looking for land, we talk to them. And you've been very aggressive at keeping open lines of communication with the state agencies. So I'm trying to figure out why we're asking you to do what it is you do anyway.
 Mean you know you probably aren't ignoring if state comes and says we want some land and we want to build something else in town I would figure you're not blowing them off. No. No, we we consider all different options I mean, especially something like this that can be very synergistic with public safety Moniker they were known for so yeah, okay. It would be a good partnership. I was just confused There's prime. We'll try this again. We have a motion in a second. I
 yes mayor the motion was made by representative rivera seconded by representative molinar followed by representative salcido on that motion call for the vote in the voting session the motion passes five to two representatives kennedy anello voting name representative hernandez not present the remainder of council voting aye the motion does carry thank you council uh can we take our call to the public ma'am yes sir we now go to call to the public
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business Norma any member of the public uses forum for political statements or campaigning Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda However, council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda this afternoon We have nine members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ron Como and
 Followed by Karen Washington Lisa Turner Elizabeth Crawford. Mr. Como's topic is animal services. Good afternoon Mr. Como you have three minutes Good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. I'd like to read something to you. I received last night actually
 The city of West Laco did their homework on best friends and they refused to let them into their facility They have an amazing ACO and a consultant they work with after seeing the devastation they have caused and the mounting Lawsuits and the suffering in the communities. They decided that was a better way and not with best friends we We signed a contract as everybody knows let me read something it's very important about our conversations and
 Citizens not only have the First Amendment right to speak out against government policies in which they disagree They have a constitutionally protected right to demand that the government correct The wrongs are identified as the US Supreme Court has previously ruled speech on public issues occupies the highest wrong of the hierarchy of the First Amendment Values and is entitled to special protection chronic versus Meyers So basically
 Cities are supposed to be transparent because being transparent is how we protect the strays the employees and the volunteers in our shelters We now have a problem because we have signed a contract saying we can't say anything about what's happening in the shelter Does that mean we don't care about what's happening? Does that mean we don't care if our employees get hurt or our volunteers get hurt? I
 What exactly what is it that best friends is hiding that they have to have this non-disclosure agreement? Well, they call it disparagement clause I firmly believe that the person who signed this contract needs to be the person who signs the paperwork For the 30-day notice to remove best friends from the city of El Paso. We've had enough of the Haas program We've had enough of people hiding what's happening in our shelter. The shelter needs to become more transparent and
 and it needs to become more effective. We have problems in the shelter. We need to come together and fix them. But we need to do it without tying people's hands, their mouths, their eyes. We need to know what's going on in the shelter. We need the people in the shelter to be able to come to us and feel comfortable doing it.
 We need them to be able to talk to the ASAC committee members so that the ASAC committee can do its job and recommend things to help get the shelter back in line. That doesn't mean we get gagged. It doesn't mean we get muzzled. It means we speak out against what's happening. If we see something wrong, we need to report it. It's our rights. I wanna remind everybody, the ASAC committee is a volunteer staff.
 We don't work for the city of El Paso. Thank you. The next speaker is Karen Washington followed by Lisa Turner Miss Washington's topic is animal services and counsel you have a printout of Miss Washington's information Everyone I have not been up here to speak in front of you for some time, but I've I've had my fill and
 Saturday morning as I was driving out east to rescue a husky that had been dumped in the desert with her three puppies I got a call from a young lady that lives on the west side. She says I have found two dogs I live in an apartment complex and I cannot keep these dogs. What do I do with them? Well, our shelter is still not picking up healthy dogs Did you go through these pictures all these living breathing creatures that depend on us for their survival? You all need to see these
 I think you're hearing it, but I don't think it's soaking in. There are hundreds and hundreds of dogs on our streets. And you know what? People are turning them loose. The Best Friends contract, their focus is to prevent the killing of dogs and cats in the shelters across America. What about the dogs and the cats that are not in the shelters? I don't know how this contract got put into place here. It appalls me.
 it appalls me we are the taxpayers we're paying um terry kepschel's salary we're paying animal control to pick up dogs they're not picking them up and i'm here to beg you this has got to go we've got to rescind this contract and get back to doing what animal control is designed to do it is not the public's responsibility to take in these stray dogs it puts their families at risk it puts their pets at risk
 This is ludicrous for a city this size to have this many dogs on our streets. And this is why I printed these out. This is only a few days. A few days of dogs that I took pictures off of social media. This is only from social media. A few days. We haven't been picking up dogs since January. So please, let this contract be rescinded. Get Best Friends out of El Paso. It has no business being here. It's not working. I'm begging you to rescind this contract.
 The next speaker is Lisa Turner. Ms. Turner's topic is Proposition K. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Ms. Turner. Proposition K. Y'all getting this stuff? Utter BS. Total lie. I went to a little presentation. It was called a Veterans Town Hall, but it was basically about Proposition K. And in it, I learned that our own people...
 Think about us like we were described in the Glass Beach study when we were going to do the downtown plan, when we were going to remarket ourselves as being old, lazy, dirty, cowboy, driving trucks,
 our own people from the Chamber of Commerce, Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the borderplex. I listened to the guy from borderplex. He sang this song called the gringos are coming, the gringos are coming, the gringos are coming, and they're bringing Jane Fonda with them, please save our money. It is a piece of junk. I understand the science. I couldn't even get a straight answer from El Paso Electric.
 This is bogus, just as bad as the people who put the thing on the agenda to be voted on. It was crap, pardon my French, and I told them so. It wouldn't work. It'll get voted down, but our own business leaders think of us just like the Glass Beach study. How in the world can we progress when our own leaders in this city look at us like that? Explain to me, Mayor, Council. Thank you.
 Explain to me how we can progress when the very people out there cutting deals for the city, giving away taxpayers' dollars, think about us like that, old, lazy, Mexican, and dirty. It's offensive. It's like that witch that came down from Texas gas, felt the same way, acted the same way. I wanted to use the B word, but I know I shouldn't. And we let people like that walk all over us, and we don't care. We don't care.
 Well, I do. I don't find it acceptable. I used to respect the chamber and the Hispanic chamber. I've lost all respect because of this crap. It's utter, bold-faced lies, and they know it. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Turner. The next speaker is Elizabeth Crawford. Elizabeth Crawford, Malloy-Calendine. She's coming up right there.
 Ms. Crawford's topic is abortion. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Thank you. Good afternoon. I appreciate the opportunity. Thank you. I just want to address...
 the safety and security that's being spoken about, to the point where even we're talking about animals and pets. I'm an animal lover, so, and I do realize that what's going on is a huge situation here. However, I think it's far more serious what has gone on with the lack of protection for the unborn children.
 and what has happened in El Paso over these past months to not stand against Planned Parenthood.
 As we know, we're right next to New Mexico, and New Mexico has gone radically pro-abortion to the point where they will do the late-term abortions, et cetera. I was in Albuquerque passing through last summer, and someone pointed out to me, this is the abortion center, that's the hotel where the girls stay overnight for the late-term abortions, and that's where they do research on the body parts that are –
 confiscated from the abortions what has America come to it is barbaric I wouldn't let a dog be killed in the way that babies are being slaughtered if you think I'm exaggerating I would just say watch an abortion go online watch what the procedure is and for us in any way to be
 standing with Planned Parenthood is unthinkable. No, they don't do surgical abortions in El Paso. However, we know that they are in with the abortion industry. We know that abortion is right across the border in New Mexico. God's word tells us, know ye that the Lord, he is God. It is he that has made us, not we ourselves.
 We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. God is the creator of life. God is the creator of life in the womb. The life of a human being is infinitely more precious than the life of an animal.
 A person is created in the image of God, and we have absolutely no right, no right condoning what Planned Parenthood stands for. And God's word commands us to repent and believe in the gospel, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. We have no business with that. We need Christ, and we need to stand for righteousness. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Malloy Calendine. Ms. Calendine, star 6, to unmute your telephone.
 maloy calendine go ahead you have three minutes um
 is
 cruel with them, but in the end, when people are more concerned about animals, and they slaughter, kill, murder human beings, babies in the womb, which is the future of the country, because in the end, there are other countries where they have killed so many innocent people and they haven't given birth to babies, and right now those countries are in decline, France and others.
 is what is happening here in America. Very few of us see now what the future of this country is, to spill the blood of the innocent little ones. And the government, the presidents, all the people in charge, who make laws and who...
 dan instrucciones, son responsables de lo que Dios puso al gobierno, los puso a ustedes como responsables para cuidar, para proteger, sobre todo proteger a los que no se pueden proteger, los seres humanos, los bebés en el vientre. Quiero leer estos pasajes de Proverbios, mucha sabiduría en la palabra de Dios la vivimos.
 7 de Jehová de todo tu corazón y no te apoyes en tu propia prudencia, reconocelo en todos tus caminos y él enderezará tus veredas, no seas sabio en tu propia opinión, teme a Jehová y apártate del mal, porque será medicina a tu cuerpo y resicero para tu cuerpo, no te niegues a hacer el bien a quien es debido cuando tuvieras el poder para hacerlo.
 No intentes mal contra tu prójimo, que habita confiado junto a ti. No envidies al hombre injusto, ni escojas ninguno de sus caminos, porque Jehová abomina al perverso. Mas su comunión íntima es con los justos. La maldición de Jehová está en la casa del impío.
 pero bendecirá la morada de los justos. Y quiero saber que, quiero que sepan que solamente a través de la sangre que derramó Cristo Jesús y la fe en Él.
 Podemos tener santidad, podemos ser buenos ante los ojos de Dios, apartados de la fe y en Cristo. Todos somos pecadores y estamos destituidos de la gloria de Dios. Necesitamos la fe, la salvación en Cristo Jesús para poder hacer obras buenas. Yo les pido, les clamo a que clamen a su nombre, a su nombre de Jesucristo.
 Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias.
 Ahora, me gustaría agradecerles a todos por todo el trabajo que están haciendo. Tenemos que hacer nuestro parte. Como los chicos de los perros y cosas así. Tengo una sugerencia para ellos. Tienen una organización de no profesionales, 503-1. Pongan el número y entonces obtendrán mucho dinero. Así que mi tema es que quiero ayudar a mi ciudad...
 ¿Ok? Y les voy a preguntar una pregunta a todos ustedes y les digo qué tipo de sistema usan ustedes. ¿Ok? Estoy enojado con el micrófono. Ok, todos ustedes que escuchan un ruido y luego se despiertan, ¿quiénes son? ¿Entienden mi pregunta? Cuando estás durmiendo y escuchas un ruido, digamos que escuchas un coche corriendo por tu pared,
 Sin mafios. ¿Se acuerdan o no? ¿Quién se acuerda? ¿Usted, señor? ¿Usted, Isabel? Bien, los que se acuerdan, como ahora, tienen un sistema acelerado. Así que no me lo dijiste, pero te lo diré. Te encuentras muy rápido, así. Te encuentras. Bien, los que se acuerdan, y tienes que controlarlo porque tienes un sistema acelerado,
 If you don't take care of yourself, you're going to die from cancer. Simple as that. The ones who have a passive system, that you guys don't wake up, stuff like that, that's very great. Because you can eat anything. The accelerated system, we cannot eat red meat. My job, more than that, you have a fat liver, and also my major. You guys have fatty liver.
 You need a lot of vitamin D. I have time to tell you how to do it But after this I I can tell you how to do it and you can do it in less than three months Okay. Now I promise that I gonna get my CD the most North City in the United States Thank you, sir, thank you guys Thank you, sir
 The next speaker is Martin Pena. His topic is the star on the mountain. Good afternoon, sir The the flag we got the star that's on the mountain we get the flag We get the X and waters, but it's a waters But why not do the star might make it in the daytime? we look at it at night and
 And it looks nice. We look at it every day. It looks nice, but why not do it in the daytime? But we can do it in the daytime. We can do it by having the, what do you call it, we can have it by having the solar panels. And the people will come in as well, but that's besides the topic.
 But first of all, the star needs to be done. And it needs to be done in the daytime. When you drive by, you'll see the star. You know, you'll say, hey, you know, the star's going on. You know, we look at it during the day. At night, I mean, I'm sorry, at night, we see it at night. But we don't see it during the day. But that's what I got to say. But what we have...
 You know, going in Juarez, the flag, the X. We have that going on, but what do we have here? We don't. We don't have, but at night, oh yeah, it looks nice at night, but not having, you know, in the daytime. But that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Steven Strummer, followed by Marilyn Ortiz.
 Mr. Strummer's topic is Memorial Day and patriotism. Good afternoon, Mr. Strummer. Good afternoon, city council. How are you, sir? Fine, sir. Thank you for asking. I am asking you to remember those who served and faithfully served our nation far overseas in the foreign lands and here in El Paso and Texas throughout this great nation. The penultimate day for me is Memorial Day.
 This is my belief. I am troubled, truly troubled over so many Americans who choose to frolic and flaunt liberty on this day. Memorial Day is a holy, holy day of enormous proportion, of a vast, deep, epic size. It is my prayer that El Paso, Texas would return back to honor and true repentance
 of those who have given their lives in service. Memorial Day is not a day of restaurants, swimming pools, and malls. Truly, this is enormous disrespect to those who have served. 98% of businesses should be closed for the day. It is a day of church worship dedicated to those, thanks to those that serve.
 service members, all of our service members. It is the enormous flag held hoisted up by veterans on Dyer Street, Joe, on the fire department, 38 foot high, a huge 18 foot or longer flag on Dyer Street. It is, cinemas should be closed. We must teach, yes, teach this lesson across this city to our youngest youth across all neighborhoods, colleges,
 and university now will face grave consequences. It is no small matter of reverence and repentance. Gasoline stations should fly our flag, hallowed flag, outside their businesses. It is a day of deep, somber prayer. In tears for our service members, no exception, the cable and news outlets must honor our service members faithfully with service films and discussions only. This is my prayer. This is my belief.
 i thank you for hearing me today thank you sir the final speaker is marilyn ortiz marilyn ortiz if you're in the q star six marilyn ortiz i don't see the phone number in the queue mayor that concludes call to the public yes ma'am i'd like um i'd like to take a recess till one yes sir is there well you moved them all up in front of them
 You did. All right, we'll do that. We'll do that. Item 20 is discussion and action to direct the city manager to implement a city program to provide free menstrual products in all city facilities. This item was submitted by Representatives Anello, Salcido, and Canales.
 Yes, ma'am. I'll be really quick. Can we hear public comment first, though, so we can look at them? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Yes. The first speaker is Wesley Lawrence, followed by Jocelyn Molina, Lisa Turner, Plegeza Turner, Sophia Vanmier, Ivan Diaz, and Michael Gutierrez. Wesley Lawrence, good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. It's good to see you again. I think you know who I am, Wesley Lawrence, representing ST-29 of the Texas Democratic Party. I urge you today to support item number 20. It's long past time that cities throughout the state of Texas take this historic step forward toward destigmatizing administration, and we ensure that everyone, regardless of their socioeconomic status, should have access to these products without the fear of being judged.
 As someone who has young nieces, I often take them to the store to get their stuff and I
 As a male buying this for my niece, it is quite stressful and quite odd and embarrassing at the checkout counter. If they had access to this at a local city facility, whether that's a park where they feel safe to access these products and not a store where they might not feel as safe getting these products, plus they get taxed on top of that, it would just make our community a little less stigmatized toward menstruation. And lastly, I would just say that
 Having access to these products is not a luxury, it's a basic human right. And that when we allow city facilities to offer these products free of charge, it really helps that.
 I want to also let people know that poor menstrual health has a severe impact on a woman's physical and mental health, whether they be cisgender or transgender. And when we promote equality and inclusion in our city facilities, we ensure that these issues don't impact our community. Health care is something I deeply care about, especially with the tragedy that is the 88th legislative session and state of Texas.
 and they're going after that harder than they ever have in past sessions especially if you're a transgender youth. So once again I ask you to take this historic step forward by voting yes on item 20 and thank you Mayor Pro Tem Manalo for putting this item on the agenda. The next speaker is Jocelyn Molina followed by Lisa Turner Lejesa Turner Sophia Abad-Mir. Good afternoon you have three minutes.
 Good afternoon. Greetings, council members. I am Jocelyn Rachel Molina, and I'm an economics student at the University of Texas at El Paso, UTEP. And today I'll be speaking on behalf of Deeds Not Words, and I'm here to testify in favor of item 20. So I would like to clarify that I'm not speaking on behalf of the university nor Student Government Association.
 menstruation is a natural body function that many people experience unfortunately it induces financial burden and an aspect out of a person's control therefore providing free menstrual products in the public spaces would possibly impact the lives of those vulnerable to
 period poverty in a system in their time of need. In my experience leading Project Period Period, a project initiated by YouTube Student Government Association which provides free menstrual products in the women's restrooms across 20 buildings across campus. The products are replenished weekly and the products range from pads of various sizes and tampons. This initiative started in the spring of 2022.
 and continues with increasing demand from the student body. The positive impact of this project has influenced similar projects across universities of the UT system. If the Council approves this ordinance, it could really impact the community greatly, as a similar initiative is being done in the university.
 I have first-hand experience of the full impact this initiative could potentially have in the great city of El Paso. We have seen positive results in combating period poverty.
 Surveys and feedbacks from students show there is a great demand and a vast number of replies from students expressing their gratitude for this project. I have full confidence that implementing this resolution in El Paso will have positive results that this initiative will bring to a community together and spark generosity in the lives of fellow El Pasoans. Project Period Period is a small example.
 but item 20 could have a greater impact in providing menstrual products to the City of El Paso. It is for these reasons that I encourage the Council to support item 20, thank you. The next speaker is Lisa Turner, followed by Lacheyza Turner, Sophia Van Meer, Ivan Diaz, Michael Gutierrez. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. This is a no-brainer, okay? Y'all have never been served up something so easy to vote yes on.
 Especially when you consider the city is over half female. It would be a smart move on your part. But this is just the beginning of the issues that many women face. Our clothes that we buy, there are higher tariffs on our clothes than what you guys have to pay. We may have to pay $13 for a pair of underwear. You get three pairs of boxer shorts for $9.00.
 There's a huge tax on being female, and at some point, somewhere along the line, everybody's going to have to come to the realization that it's not fair. But let me tell you, I'm in full support of this, and it would be silly to vote against it. Thank you. The next speaker is LaJaysa Turner, followed by Sophia Avant-Mir, Yvonne Diaz. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council.
 Thank you for allowing me to be here today. I am LaDaysia Turner, the Social Equity and Empowerment Coordinator for YWCA El Paso. I stand before you in full support of creating a city program that will provide free menstrual products in all city-owned buildings. All restrooms were created equal, but they should have been created in equity. Thank you.
 For much of their lives, nearly half of the population constantly carries tampons and maxi pads on them at all times in hopes to avoid the embarrassing and sometimes inevitable unexpected start to their period.
 Somehow, someone decided that public restrooms should be stocked with free toilet paper, soap, paper towels, and even toilet seat covers. So why do we draw the line in menstrual health products? Just as we all expect there to be toilet paper in public restrooms, we should expect the same for period products. Menstruation is a natural occurrence and should not be treated differently than any other basic bodily functions.
 It is unhygienic to not have access to menstrual products, no less than the lack of access to toilet paper. According to the Journal of Global Health Reports, 16.9 million people who menstruate in the United States live in poverty. Providing access to menstrual products in public spaces lightens the stress of the financial burdens caused by period poverty.
 It is unethical for women to be profited off of because of the lack of access to basic care and the failure to consider menstrual needs is a form of sex-based discrimination that disproportionately affects women. Menstrual products are vital to the participation of women and girls in all aspects of our community.
 Inequity regarding menstrual health has been able to prevail because of the stigma that surrounds the natural bodily functions of women. Today I am asking you to help change negative taboos surrounding menstruation and bring us one step closer to ensuring that everyone who menstruates has access to menstrual hygiene. Making these items more available in our community is just one way we can create a more equal society. Menstrual health is a matter of human rights and everyone should have the right to the dignity of menstrual health. Thank you.
 The next speaker is Sophia Avantmeer, followed by Ivan Diaz, Michael Gutierrez. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon. My name is Sophia Van Mier and I'm here with Texas Rising in favor of this item. Everybody deserves to have access to menstrual products. Our community is very vulnerable and I have witnessed so many people unable to pay for their own products. Spending my adolescence and now early 20s here, I have witnessed friends and even family members
 make makeshift pads because they couldn't afford to purchase their own products and Doing that is neither safe nor sanitary nor comfortable so please don't in favor this item because menstrual health is a human right and We should be able to menstruate in peace. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Yvonne Diaz followed by Michael Gutierrez Nicola Ciaccio
 Good afternoon. Hi, good afternoon. I want to speak in favor of item 20. Thank you for introducing such an important item for all of us who menstruate. This is a step forward to reduce the stigma and taboo around the topic.
 It should not be hard or shameful to access menstrual products, especially for the ones more vulnerable. I remember my days in college. I feel like you all know a lot of my life already, but it's been hard. So I remember my days in college before they had the menstrual products program in the restrooms. My friend and I used to give advice to each other to use less pads or tampons so we will actually drink lots of water excessively so we can...
 go to the restroom and pee and like we will have to not use menstrual products. And other things that we used to do, we will exercise for a couple hours because our period will last three days instead of four. And that was one day less of using menstrual products. And there's a lot of people, or I can continue going on and on about the things that we used to do to avoid like using a lot of menstrual products. But...
 Yeah, we had a lack of resources and
 And I just wish that people didn't have to go through like these measures to actually like not having to spend on menstrual products. I lost my train of thought here because it's actually like I didn't know how triggering it is to remember that and to think that a lot of people are actually going in the same situation like me or like my friend like when we were in college. So I think voting in favor of this item, it's super beneficial for the most vulnerable populations.
 for people that menstruate and do not have the resources to buy menstrual products. Thank you. Thank you.
 And Mr. Michael Gutierrez submitted a statement to be read by Mayor Pro Temanillo. Good morning I am writing this email to indicate that I would like to provide written comment on item oh I'm sorry that's the wrong part hello council my name is Michael Gutierrez a constituent of district 2. Unfortunately I was able to attend in person with my colleagues as I'm a full-time student at UTEP but despite my absence I am writing to voice my support for agenda item 20. At UTEP our student government identified the same problem that the council is addressing in item 20 period poverty exists in our community and is an issue that must be addressed
 We have witnessed a reduction in stress among our fellow students after providing period products and campus facilities at no charge. I believe item 20 is a policy proposal that will have similar beneficial impact on our community and I encourage council to support item 20. Thank you. The next speaker is Nicholas Siacho. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Hi, my name is Nicholas Siacho. I am the president and campus organizer of Deeds Not Worth at UTEP, the UTEP chapter. We came here to present this resolution because we're very excited about the results of the
 menstrual equity and mental health is a human right one in six women here in Texas above the ages from 12 to 44 live in poverty line and Spend about 20 to 40 dollars per menstruation cycle with ads about to 11 to 18 thousand dollars in a lifetime For one person that is insane. I believe this is a resolution that can easily be implemented and is beneficial for the community and improvement of our health care and
 And also, I grew up with a sister, and she's incredibly close to age with me. She's a year and a half younger than me, and I would have to see the amount. Growing up poor, I have to see the amount of money just spent that my mom would have to spend on menstrual products along with my sister. That is all I have to say. Thank you.
 The next statement was submitted by Manuel Guzman and it reads, hi, my name is Manuel Guzman and I'm a resident of District 1. I am with Texas Rising and Deeds Not Words testifying in favor of providing menstrual products in all city facilities. Menstruation provides a heavy financial burden to the person with people spending over it.
 an average of $20 on menstrual products per cycle. This cost amasses to an estimated $9,000 over a lifetime. Item 20 would combat period poverty, which affects black and brown communities. Research published in 2019 by the Obstetrics and Gynecology Research Journal in St. Louis, Missouri, states that 20% of low-income women couldn't afford products every month and 50% stay in it.
 stated that they had to choose between products and buying food. There are multiple cases of government programs providing menstrual products. Since 2017, five states have passed legislation requiring schools to provide free products to great success. Even here at El Paso, with Period Project Projected,
 A student led initiative to provide free products in bathrooms across UTEP which I am part of. This initiative has seen great success from the student body with great appreciation and approval. Item 20 will be extremely helpful to many people who need these products and relieve this burden from many people. Please vote yes.
 The next statement was submitted by Alexa Carranco and it reads, Hi, my name is Alexa Carranco and I'm a resident of District 6. I am with Texas Rising testifying in favor of menstrual products in all city facilities by implementing item 20...
 Visitors in City Hall or any city-owned building will have access to period products. I'm in support of item 20 because it is crucial to implement and promote menstrual equity. Not everyone has access to menstrual products and aside from that, they are sometimes inaccessible due to the pink tax. As a student at UTEP, I have seen the benefits of the implementation of period products in restrooms. Many students cannot afford to buy these products every month or sometimes every two weeks.
 All people with periods, including women and non-binary people, should not have to scramble per menstrual products during an emergency. We should all have access to health supplies regardless of whether or not we can purchase them. Please vote yes. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item.
 Thank you. I'm going to go Mayor Pro Tem followed by Representative Canales. Thanks, Mayor. So first I want to thank Texas Rising and YWCA for always being super supportive, but I also want to thank Deeds Not Words for helping draft a lot of this resolution. It's always great to see our UTEP students interacting with their government and for waiting.
 half the day to come testify. I want to talk a little bit about why I'm bringing this up. I was actually inspired by the city of El Paso. In 2019, it was right before the pandemic, we opened the new bathroom downtown. The first time I went there, there was a bowl of menstrual products.
 then the pandemic hit and I kind of forgot about it and now every time I go into a city facility I look for them but I've never seen them again and actually IT can you pull up the images that are on the backup and so then I was in the Dallas airport recently and I saw what they're going to pull up but I'll talk about those in a second and I thought that this is really important for us to do and I met with some of the DEED students in Austin and they told me that they were working on this so happy to present it
 Part of this resolution talks about the budget. Do you want me to just read it? Should I just read it, Representative Canales? There'll be a result, so I'll just read it. The City Council of the City of El Paso directs the city manager to create a city program for providing free menstrual products in all city-owned buildings at all times, including during emergencies such as natural disasters and public health emergencies, and will allocate all necessary budget allocations for this program in FY 2024. Budget for...
 Sorry. I'm going to skip down. So it says that the city manager needs to come back and present the plan for this program on city council meeting that would be held in July 2023, including presenting a proposed campaign for advertising around the city. And so if IT can pull up those images. Do you have them, Adrianne?
 Part of this is, and you'll see in these images, so it's not enough to just have menstrual products available in designated women's restrooms. There are also individuals who do not identify as female that menstruate, and it's also – so if we can scroll down to the next image –
 That one, yeah. So having, it does not have to be this, it does not have to be this program, but making sure that if it's in a library or a rec center, there are menstrual products behind the desk that individuals can ask for if it is not available in the restroom that they identify with. I think it's going to be really important as part of this program. Thank you, Adrienne, I appreciate that image.
 And the last thing I wanted to talk about, so a lot of what has been spoken about is extremely important. As someone who grew up low income, it is a real expense to be able to afford these products, but I actually received a phone call after placing this item.
 from an individual and it was something I hadn't even thought of but he shared with me that he was a single father with two daughters between the ages of 12 and 15. And when they need to go to a rec center or a library, you know, it's something that he doesn't think about and then suddenly they don't have the menstrual products that they need, right? And so it's really important that they were remembering that this is an impact on families as a whole, not just financially, but on the stress that it causes to parents, you know,
 for their children and for themselves. I imagine if you're a mother and you're at a city facility with children, you may also forget your menstrual products, and then when you need them, they should be there for them. So as a city who is providing recreation and educational activities for family, we should be making sure that covers health equity as well. And so with that, Mayor, I will make a motion to approve, but I know that Representative Canales also wants to talk. Second. There's a motion and a second, and Representative Canales will speak.
 Followed by Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. I'll keep it really brief. This is an issue of equity. The huge segment of our population comprised of people who menstruate pays what amounts to a monthly fee for their biology. It's a financial penalty for something that's totally out of their control. And this penalty, of course, disproportionately impacts those who are low income or who otherwise face barriers.
 to accessing proper and very necessary menstrual products. So the goal of this action today is to help alleviate that burden. I hope that this is just a start,
 when it comes to the provision of menstrual products by other local public entities here in El Paso. In particular I plan to speak with my colleagues on the EPISD school board whose districts overlap mine to better understand how I can support similar efforts in our schools. I challenge my colleagues here on the council to do the same so that hopefully we can move the needle on on making menstrual products available free of charge in schools as well.
 for El Paso students who need to access them. Thank you again to everybody who spoke, to everybody who helped with the resolution, and to Mayor Pro Tem Anello for her leadership here, and I plan to wholeheartedly support. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Alcino. Thank you, Mayor.
 I just want to start off by saying that menstruating is a basic fact of human existence. Menstrual hygiene products are necessity, not a luxury, and should be treated as such. Many people lack access to resources. If they cannot afford menstruation product, girls, women are more likely to miss school or work during their periods. These products are essential to our health and our well-being. Every woman knows that we must normalize these conversations.
 and offer effective solutions. So my goal with this item is for us to really look at possible grants that we can get so that it could facilitate and pay for this initiative as well as figuring out ways that we can implement it in the budget, work with the school districts as well. But this is just definitely an equity thing that we wanna address. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Ms. Pryor. Yes, Mayor, there was a motion made by Mayor Portimanelo, seconded by Representative Canales to approve item 20.
 On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously Representative Hernandez not present. No, we're gonna recess till 1 15. Is there a motion to thank you everybody Is there a motion to move? Second there's a motion in a second to recess a City Council meeting until 1 15 all in favor Anyone opposed and the meeting is in recess at 12 52 Pm and will reconvene at 1 15 p.m I
 We have a quorum and we can begin. Do we have a motion to return? Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1 20 p.m. Mayor, would you like to go to item 22? Mayor Pro Tem, can I go to 22?
 Thank you, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Item 22 is discussion in action to direct the city manager to have staff supply each representative with a monthly report on general fund, discretionary fund, and gas card usage for the transparent use of tax dollars and financial management. This item was submitted by Representative Fierro. Representative Fierro.
 Thank you mayor members. I put this item on the agenda and I My plan is to continue to put items on the agenda to improve the onboarding process I was elected January 3rd and since then there you know There's issues that we can make it easier and better as more and more as we're gonna change We know that in 18 short months There's gonna be to represent to at least two new representatives and a new or a new mayor and
 And, and, and, well anyway, so Mayor, I'll go back. So it's important that we have an onboarding process that makes it transparent and we hold everybody accountable. We have, today I am asking the city manager to direct staff to supply each member
 this body with a monthly recap of their gas card expenditures their p-card expenditures and a monthly budget their monthly budget recap and with with the correct descriptions and codes and the receipts are accountable for the for the items I unfortunately had a situation that
 It took 90 days to overcome, and that's why I think it's important that we address this as a body, and we ask the city manager to come up with a policy. Again, we need to make sure that we're transparent and we keep the public informed on what's going on. Now, do you want to see...
 Each representative to have a monthly report or you want it to come in as a notation? No, I'll give an example. I served four years in state. Every month on the 6th, we received an email with our constitutional budget and our office budget. Each month, we knew exactly what we had moving forward and how much we spent or did not spend the previous month. I think as representatives, and my understanding is
 Some are a few people up here are receiving this again. It took me 90 days to find out that that was available I think we need we hold it. We owe it to our constituents to be accountable for our budgets and so now I would represent Rivera spends a
 Is not my concern what art spend and to for the of the constituents of district six are my concern Well, you got this discussion action that I'd like to see also in motion. Hopefully brought forward that Prevents us from having unlimited usage of gas cards. I think that that's not the best way of using the gas cards that elected officials and other officials have and
 Unlimited use I think they should when I left office last time we had a hundred dollar limit on usage because it needs to be used Strictly for city use and business use only and that didn't mean going to work and going home It means actually doing some type of work So I would like to see in this amendment as you move forward represent Bureau that we do limit the usage in the amount of those cards
 mayor there's item 23 which addresses the gas cards we can yeah I'm fine with adding it on to here or waiting for item tweaking we can wait for item 23 that's that's a good point but it was all in here but we can move because I do I think if we need to limit the usage in the amount of usage it unlimited is it's not the right the proper use of a city funds thank you ma'am thank you without the other motion sir I
 Yes, I had a motion and we have a second we have a second first, but yeah Yes, sir. Good afternoon members of council Kerry Weston. I just wanted to come up on this item Representative Fierro to tell you that the CFO has already instructed the comptroller to put together an accounting report Of the expenditures in each area in each of these areas and you all will receive that monthly Thank you, Colonel that people I'm sorry mayor. It's the mayor's show. I'm sorry. Thank you. I
 So we have a motion and a second? Yes, Mayor. We also have public comment. Hold on. We have Representative Molinar. Colonel Weston. Colonel Weston.
 Will that also include the information for the general fund for our offices and to include the discretionary funds as well? Yes, sir. Everything that's listed on this item will be a part of the accounting report of the expenditures that you'll receive. And do you have a – is it going to be like on the 20th of the month or the first of the month? I'll get with staff. I don't have a date, but we'll make sure that there gets to be a routine when you should expect that. I just want to comment on that.
 Good afternoon Robert Cortina. So the office of the comptor typically closes each month by business days after the end of that month. But we'll set a date going forward. We'll give them a couple of days just to make sure if they run into any issues but we'll we'll set a date going forward.
 Typically takes my business days for them to actually close after the month Of course the same thing of course anything whether it's a holiday or a weekend or anything like that That's we accept that part or if we went into IT issues Unfortunately, that does happen every once in a while, but typically it's within five to six days. Mr. Mayor. I have a question for Miss Cortez, please
 Cortina's is out of the description that I have put there on the item Is there anything that I'm missing that we need from a budgetary purpose to be accountable and transparent for our offices? No, and you mentioned the delay and I believe that that delayed may have been caused by maybe some Communication as to what it was exactly you're looking for And so what we need to work on is the office of the management budget will have to work with the streets of maintenance departments since they administer the fuel carts and
 They're the ones that do all the processing and they actually deliver the fuel cars are the ones that handle Posting those expenses and so we'll make sure that we coordinate with them so that we have all of that detail whenever we provide you all of that information, but this was more than just the Gas card there was also issues in regards to the the usage of the p-card Being in a monthly format the first the first
 documents I received were not in the monthly format. They were, in fact, we ended up starting with a 14-year-old budget, so.
 Hi, Representative Piero Nicole Cody, Director of Management and Budget. So I just want to clarify. So when we did meet in person, I want to say it was the beginning of February and I'll be able to provide you with those dates. We did provide you with that monthly report you requested and then you had asked specifically for additional detail. So I apologize that we did go back as far as we did, but I know we wanted to make sure that we're being responsive to your request regarding all the detail.
 Just I just want to just wanted to be able to clarify One more comment as well So every P card holder has on a multi basis the requirement to going to do the reconciliation for your card for all of your expenses So you have access to those? I'm sorry to interrupt mr. Cortina's but that's not true. The information I received was
 date an item in a name and an amount it was not art purchased on the 12th art purchase paper for anything it was just the date that I am the person who purchased it and an amount we'll have the comptroller staff get with you to make sure that you have access to that Wells Fargo system so that you can see every transaction that occurs but it should be on a monthly basis you do the reconciliation you see all of the charges
 You can print out that report and have access to that at any time. Not only for yourself, but for your staff as well. Okay, I'm just sharing with you the information I received after requesting it from the city manager. And Ms. Cody came to my office and gave us that information. And at that time, I brought it up also. Senator Rivera. Thank you, Mayor.
 Mr. Cortinas, I'd just like to ask. I'll save you some paper. Can I just turn in the gas card? I've never used it. I never will. So I believe all of the members of council and all of the members of FOAC know that there's currently an audit going on by the internal auditor. And so out of that, whatever comes about, any recommendations, we've already started looking internally to see what we can do to make that a little bit easier. You talked about putting a possible cap on that. We have some other ideas on how we can limit the use of that fuel card. Yes.
 So that's something we're already working on to bring forth some recommendations to that policy and make it a little bit a little bit tighter And and I do get the you know, do you know when when the cap was changed because like I said when I was in office Last time and took a vacation for a couple years. We were at $100 now. We're at unlimited usage I don't I don't know if Richard Bristol or anybody else around the line that I'd like to know I'd like to know when that happened and how it happened, please. I
 but yeah to just complete it I do get a monthly report with the P card expenditures in detail so thank you on that appreciate that but the gas cart I don't use it now the gas carts are currently distributed through the city manager's office is that who this year I think Camilla was the one distributing the gas carts that correct statement we're not sure
 That's my understanding is that street domain is delivered to Camilo and Camilo delivered to the individual representatives Okay, thank you And also, you know, we could do the gas card either way because you did put on item 22 gas card usage So we can do either or whatever you want to I'm fine with I just want to make sure that we do bring back a limit So you want to wait for item 23? All right. Thank you Well, pardon me. I think maybe in this next item but the answer to the question. Okay. Thank you. I
 With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. We also have public comment on item 22 from Ms. Lisa Turner. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. The more I listen, the more concerned I get. I thought this was just an attempt at micromanagement. Now, usages have been gone from a limit to unlimited. I was always under the impression that my city had rules and regulations in place, correct, for the use of all this?
 So is there anything here that needs to be done outside? Are we duplicating what we already have in place? It's basically what I'm asking Well, I think in response there are rules I think I think that what this is going to show us through the audit process will be recommendations in terms of what we do from a specificity standpoint and improving the policy
 The intent of the policy, even though there isn't a cap set, should always be, and it's supposed to be, that you're utilizing that fuel card commensurate with the business that you have to go and drive your vehicle to in official events as part of the city and not for personal usage. Okay.
 based on how that policy is written right now and the uh report that we'll get back from the auditor in terms of the findings and recommendations we'll shore that up but that's the intent of the usage of the fuel card and like again we still don't know who changed it and hopefully somebody had the authority to change it thank you go ahead thank you mr turner so we have a motion and a mayor i requested so we have represent canalis uh yeah i just wanted to
 Hopefully put in mr. NERDS mind a little bit more at ease even in that there are a lot of controls and for example every time one of those fuel cards is used by a Representative or by anyone else who's filling a city vehicle, for example the the odometer Reading has to be entered into the into the pump to track to make sure that it's only used for the one particular vehicle And so the usage can be tracked over time
 So there are other controls like that that are in place to ensure that people are using these properly. I just separately from that, I wanted to commend Miss Cody and her team. I've never felt like I didn't have access to the information about the financial state of the office, whether that's before as a staffer or now as a representative. You know, we've periodically requested staff.
 a status update on our accounts and have always received that very quickly and in a manner that was very thorough. So thank you. And again, we have access, we have to have access to all that information because we have to reconcile our P cards internally within our office, our purchasing cards month to month. And so we should have a good idea. That's why I only ask you for an update every few months because we have a good idea of what
 spending month to month and you know we can just subtract thank you for the help you've provided over the years and to all of your team and you know I don't think it hurts to receive a monthly report here but I hope my colleagues understand that's always been available to us on request and I've never had any delay in receiving that thank you thank you representative
 Thank you, Mayor. Representative Canales, you're welcome to see the information that we've received and see if it's the same as yours is. It took me 90 days to find out that we could ask for this on a monthly basis. And Miss Cody did offer to come in and sit with us once a month and go through it with us. But it took me 90 days to do that.
 As we as we're turning over to adding new members to this council I think we need to have an onboarding process that when they they get to their office They're able to see what happened before and what and so they can plot their plan for the future So I you know, I I'd love to see what you get versus what I got Thank you, and we'll make sure that that's a standardized report that goes to everybody consistently the same now you said a little bit Colonel about that the I
 the rules and laws were not as clear. But when we take oath, there are some penal codes, Chapter 39, that kind of gives you what you will and will not by the state and the law. So I mean, I know that, Ms. Neiman, I know that I've read it, and I kind of think that a lot of the things we should do as elected officials kind of fall under that law. Yes, sir, I concur. And again, I think it goes back to that. And I shared it with you and had this discussion with you. Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
 It goes back again to your official capacity, and if you're utilizing funds, public funds for your official capacity, it should be commensurate with the amount of work and travel you're doing with the funds that you're going to be using for the fuel card. So it's not to...
 Utilize a fuel card fill up your tank use it for personal and use it for business So that's incumbent on anybody that uses that fuel card is to make that estimate based on what your official Capacity is going to entail in terms of the use of that card that you're doing the right thing. Thank you, sir representative mayor pro tem
 I was going to make a joke about how I don't do anything outside of work, so that's easy for me. But the actual statement that I wanted to make is that kind of in the conversation you were having is that we are given a set of rules when we got our cards. We are well aware of that.
 The activities that we could be using them for The vehicle that we should be using them for I mean all of the rules that you know, mr. Turner had questioned Those are laid out I think making sure that we are following those rules is another conversation But I just wanted to say, you know He's a council member who received a gas card received a set of rules with it and have followed those accordingly. Yes, ma'am Thank You ma'am represent of Molina
 Thank you. Yes, sir. Mayor, so, Colonel, what you just stated is absolutely correct. But two things to come to mind really quick for me is whatever happened to good common sense? Yes, this whole body, we're elected officials here, but there's one thing to say. This is the law. There's a line, and you cross that line, and guess what?
 It's bad, all right? So good common sense says, hey, I'm gonna gas up my car, my personal car, and yes, I'm gonna drive to work, I'm gonna attend a meeting, whatever. But there's gonna be things that, you know, you can't take that gas out. So you're gonna have to drive someplace. If I go choose to go some other place on my personal time,
 For me specifically I can tell you I spread the date that I fill up to the next time I fill up Because I do compensate that hey, this is my car and I do use it on weekends But I also work on weekends as well I don't work at night and I can tell you so one of the times when we were just say 2021 I was one of the few City Council representatives to include the mayor that came to work and
 that were literally here in this building working others opted to work at home which is that that's their right that's their prerogative but that's fine your representative say he doesn't have never used the gas card never will that's fine that's good common sense on his part but the thing that's very different when you abuse that card
 actually abuse that card now I know mr. Neiman you're gonna tell me this is not I can decide my next conversation is not on the meeting agenda but what happens when you get a car allowance for fuel a monthly whether it's maintenance whether it's fuel oil changes stuff like that and you don't do those oil changes you don't buy new tires you don't change the windshield wipers you keep that money
 You don't return it to the city. So in essence, what you're saying, we need to, what do we do or what do we not do? How do we compensate for that? Because some people are getting monthly car allowance, period. And if you don't return that money, you're keeping that money. What happens on that cost? I think it goes back to what you were describing earlier, which I agree with, is you're looking at this from an estimate of the professional business work that you have to do.
 No, you can't drive a car and say, I'm just gonna drive it for business and that without obviously on that tank of gas having to also do personal things. So I think it goes back to a process like you're describing
 where you're really looking at, you know, how much should I utilize it. In terms of an allowance, we're talking about that, and we're talking about what would be kind of a potentially an equitable option in looking at this that makes sense based on the kinds of things that you as council members have to do
 on the business side or from the professional side. And some months, they're not all created equal. You know, you're gonna have some months where that's gonna be higher and some months where it's not. So trying to find a balance in between just doing the right thing and being ethical and honest about how you're applying these kinds of,
 These kinds of funds to the city business. It's being I'm glad you said that we're ethical and honest because here's the thing how many people in the city starting with mr. Gonzalez on down receive a car allowance and
 That impacts our budget tremendously and if it's for one fiscal year I get it But when you start multiplying by five you start multiplying by ten that adds up We're facing fiscal challenges every fiscal budget year And so we need to really look into that to say where what what can we cut back on that? Thank you, sir Kennedy since we're all comparing use I've never used my gas card. I have an electric truck and
 So the only thing I use gas for is my lawnmower. You won't see any four-gallon fill-ups, okay? I was going to say a couple of things real quickly. First of all, as you mentioned, some of these are being audited, and the final report is not in, but we'll be coming to FOAC, and we're looking at possibly mid-May. We're checking schedules to see when it would work. Don't know if it will be finished at that time.
 but I'm presuming it probably will be. At that point, I know we'll be making some suggestions from our end on what we think. I was just going to say, having had at some of my previous business activities a company car where you're logging miles to make sure to and from work doesn't count, but those are all IRS issues, not city issues. And I was going to say that one of the things about having car allowances, businesses a lot of times will find out that car allowances saves them money.
 because when you have somebody that is driving extreme miles in their job, it's sometimes easier to say, well, instead of having all the hassle of tracking it, we're good to this point. That's kind of
 business standard I'm not talking about city I'm just I concur and you're also putting wear and tear on the vehicle for the use of city business and city price so a lot of different things just a matter of what should that level look like and I agree I mean if there's a general view of all the policies there I think that makes good sense and I think that once the auditor brings back from the legislative side for lack we'll be taking a looking at it see what recommendations we might have
 Sure, and then once we get the final recommendations, as we do on all of the audits that we receive, once we get final recommendations and findings, we will put together a plan to implement that, and then just because of the nature of this, we'll bring it back to the city council and tell you what changes we made to the policy based on the audit recommendations. And I look forward to working with financial and, you know, city manager once this comes back where we can sit down and start taking a look at ways. Yes.
 to make things better as we always try. But I would suspect we'll know more by mid-May. Yes, sir. Just a couple of comments. Number one, we do onboarding, and I'll resend that to all the council. That was sent to y'all when we were doing the onboarding, and we've made adjustments to it, but I think Representative Fierro makes a good point. If we can make adjustments to it, make it better, it could always get better.
 And then with respect to what you brought up, Mr. Kennedy, that was one of the things we looked at whenever this was brought to our attention about, you know, a car allowance would maybe address this issue so it wouldn't have to be so tedious. So those are some things we're considering, but we do want to get ahead of when the audit gets completed. So we're, again, waiting for that to be completed. I think Linda was out of the office this week, and so once that's finished, then obviously that will get brought back to the FOAC. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
 representative Rinello I just wanted to Representative Molinar's point prior to being on FOAC one of the audits that I requested that's being done this year is on Fuel usage I do an open records request found that there are duplications in city vehicles Reim car allowances reimbursement. So I know that that is being done in this fiscal year So just to address some of those concerns as well, which is kind of separate from what we're talking about Senator
 You don't I'm sorry I want to ask these questions for the public but also just to make sure I I understand that the true purpose of the fuel card essentially the city has a Limited supply of fleet vehicles correct and so the provision of nine fleet vehicles for the mayor and council would be pretty burdensome and then Employees who drive their personal vehicles are entitled to mileage compensation that
 Mayor and council are not able to receive as elected officials, correct? And so this the gas card is is kind of the vehicle so to speak the mechanism by which The the mayor and council can use their personal vehicles for city business and then not have to incur those costs personally Is that yes, that's not the correct interpretation of the purpose
 Okay. And so, I mean, again, I think it's reasonable to have some sort of cap if folks want a cap implemented. I would hope that nobody is abusing this. You know, we – as folks said, when you receive the card, it came with a set of rules. And more than just a set of rules, it was a document that we had to sign agreeing that we would abide by those rules. And so I think, you know, we find –
 mechanism there for if there's wrongdoing I think we can point to that document and show that anyone was was aware you know prior to their use of the card if this audit should turn up any impropriety in the use of the cards thank you that's all I'd say thank you thank you mayor thank you Ms. Cronin yes mayor there was a motion made by representative Piero seconded by alternate mayor Pro Tem Molina to approve item 22
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present.
 Next item is number 23 and this is discussion and take action to direct the city manager to clarify whether City Council members gas Cards applied to the city's lame-duck policy Including an explanation of the procedures and a summary of the guidelines if no policy currently exists Direct the city manager to develop a policy. This item was also submitted by representative Pierre represent Bureau
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Members, I put this on here because I was able to find a lame duck policy for board appointments and it's very clear, it's black and white. I found a lame duck policy for RP cards. Again, it states it all there. After numerous emails and phone calls, I have been unable to find lame duck policy for gas cards. So if there is no lame duck policy for gas cards.
 I think we need to instruct the city manager's office to produce one as quickly as possible Yes, sir. And again, I think we should put a limit on which I think we kind of covered on the last item But I think you had to put that in your motion Make sure we do come back with a limit This is you know in most most city reps when they go to the community meetings I would think they're within their districts and so
 So I think we need to take that into consideration. Yes, sir And in response directly to your question representative Fierro So the the use of fuel cards does not apply to the lame-duck policy as written only the use of discretionary Funds falls under the lame-duck policy I would think it but apply more to the gas cards because you're campaigning you're knocking on doors. You're you're
 You're really out there. But just my opinion, and that's fine. I guess we need to put one in place and move forward. Well, I think that kind of goes back to once we're able to take a look at what the overall audit findings and recommendations are, and then here also some of the input from you as a body of counsel,
 We are going to be putting together, making adjustments to that policy based on not only that feedback but also the specific audit finding reports to bring back to council. Thank you for that. Mr. Prime, can you add the mayor's addition to my motion, please? Hold on. We got Representative Kennedy and then we'll have you. Move as such, sir? No. I was asking Mr. Prime to add your addition to the motion. All right.
 Yeah, I was going to say this might also be something that when we look at the audit, a recommendation may come out of FOAC. But I would say if we're looking at discretionary funds and gas cards, we should probably also look at P cards, anything that is in expenditures through the lame duck time period. And we may want to ask that people look more particularly at campaign season because...
 campaign season I know that there's many more miles driven and things along that line but I think that that once we get the audit back we may have it but I wouldn't want to make sure that we also include because you said discretionary is included discretionary discretionary funds are only included in the lame-duck right I think if we expand that and beef that up to have any of the expenditures that could come out of a representatives office or a mayor's office you know anybody where you were on that you're on the clock
 Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem. You all keep referring to this lame duck policy. Where is it referred? Is it in the charter? And the budget resolution every year. So there's an item in the budget resolution that we added I don't remember how far back maybe four years ago and so in that item I believe it's item number 68 in that item in the budget resolution it states that.
 City Council cannot have any expenditures from discretionary funding between the lame duck policy which is I'll let Ms. Neiman clarify if I say it incorrectly is clarified or defined as the election date until the new member takes office. And there's nothing in the charter that defines lame duck. So there's a different provision in the charter regarding appointments. So the lame duck period is the same from the first day of the election to the day that the council members are sworn in but it only applies to appointments.
 So the lame duck provision in the charter is to board appointments which are prohibited during the lame duck. And so there's no where that it just says lame duck and fine. I mean but this goes back to what Representative Molinar is saying. It's a common sense. If you've. So that item in the budget resolution was added specifically for discretionary funding because.
 City Council wanted to avoid having an outgoing council member go and spend all the discretionary funds right before leaving office? Which is what they used to love to do, yeah. So that's why that item was specifically called out in that particular item. I remember that was the district board thing. I was caught in that one. It's been at least four years, maybe longer. Yeah, it was in 2017, I think we did it. How quick did you forget there? Yeah. I think it got brought up in 20, right when Mr. Robinson was leaving? Yeah. He had a real big issue with what had happened to him. So I think that's when the discussion was had. It might have been.
 14 or 15 15 but that's where I that's what I remember Six what's that? It was four and six who brought that up to you remember you Remember it look for mr. Robinson way back then and then there's been additional council members that are brought it up since Canales oh, you're not done. Okay, you asked a question mayor and then I said I'd like an answer to it and
 What was that question? I don't know. I asked many questions. Was it today? When the gas card policy had changed to remove the cap. That's it, yeah. Can we get that answer? I mean, someone's got to know that. I was texting Richard Bristol right now. I believe that they may have somebody on. Renee, are you on the line? I mean, if there are still questions, we can come back to it. But would love an answer to that. If he's not, we'll get the answer to that. I mean, when I came in, there was no cap. And so I don't know when that changed. There was no what? It was a credit card.
 I'm not aware, but we'll get you an answer. I would hope that if when it did change, somebody had the authority to change it. I mean, if it changed sometime after 17, when did it change and why did it change and who authorized it would be really something important. Because, I mean, we had a pretty good policy when we had it at $100. We'll go back and look, Mayor. Thank you. If there was a cap or whatnot, I mean, it's just –
 It was a council item and so I'm not aware of who has that information But that's reason the audits being done as soon as we get more additional information We'll share it with with the with the council, but the audits taking place So we're really kind of deferring to Mundo to have him answer all these questions that y'all have we had a lot of similar questions So so yeah, we're waiting for him to finish it. I
 Did ask when it changed and the only answer I got was in 2019 from whom I was told it was a 19 The auditor Companies just recently, but anyway, it could be but it was in 2019. We'll get that information to make sure we clarify I don't want to say anything that may be different from what you may have been told Oh
 um yeah just in response to some of the discussion before i think part of the difference is that the lame duck period uh the portion from the charter with regard to appointments and then the portion from the budget resolution with regard to discretionary fund spending both of those exist because they impact the availability of
 funds or the availability of board appointments to fill for the predecessor, right? I mean, sorry, for the incoming council member. And the fuel card, because it's not an expenditure necessarily coming out of the office's account, that doesn't necessarily impact the availability of future funds for the next council member, correct? Right. So I mentioned the original intent behind that item in the budget resolution to have that lame duck policy. Right. I believe, and again, I'm sorry.
 I believe at the time that it was intended to address that issue. If you think about the lame duck policy, though, it covers from election date to when the new member takes office, almost a two-month time period. So obviously the representatives still have work and business to conduct during that time frame. Yeah, and I think it's worth pointing out the lame duck period applies to the entirety of the council, right, not just an outgoing member or someone who is up for reelection. And so there could be someone in the middle of their term who still has to conduct their business. Do you have a language?
 I'm looking at it in the budget resolution. It says a city council member shall not expend funds from their discretionary accounts during the lame duck period, which is the time period from the date of any city election until inauguration of those elected. And so I remember this impacting the office I was working in in the mid-year. I asked for legal clarification last month for that. Last lame duck period, I asked for legal clarification, and we were told that's not the case. That's just why I brought that up. Just for those that are up for election in that year. Okay. I'm just saying that this would have been –
 several years ago I don't know in in the mid the the off term in the office that I was working on was so you know two years into the term essentially it was our understanding that we were prohibited from spending during that time as well and we did refrain from doing so um I I think maybe that's warrants some clarification um how it's written it seems to me that's it applies to any city council member okay that I think those are all my comments not really any questions here but um
 Thank you, sir I was gonna say that that I think that the time to do this would be as a single Item if we're looking at having an audit come back Potentially with some suggestions would be the time to also probably clean up some language which we'd you know work with the city attorney city manager full act
 internal auditor and have clean language that's easily understandable so there's not and I agree the way it's written could very well mean During that election period it's a lame duck. Of course, you're not a lame duck unless you're going out of office So this would be a time for us to go through and touch all the bases and make sure we clean everything up policy and everything else and then just move forward from there and we're all kind of pending the the final report from the auditor and
 And like I said, we're looking at the 17th of May to have a FOAC meeting where we take a look at it and then obviously bring it to council. And hopefully it will clean up more than some languages. Yeah. Seriously. Process and languages will be obviously going through fairly extensively at that point. Yes, sir. Thank you.
 Mayor, I've spoken twice. Can I just read the language just so we hear it one more time? The language, this is the portion from the charter about the appointments. It says, lame duck, elected officers not to make appointments. It's the section header. From the date of any city general election until inauguration of those elected, neither the mayor nor the city council shall make any appointment of a city manager or any appointments to any standing or special public boards, commissions, or committees of the city.
 I think that one clearly applies to everybody I think the other one does as well in the language, but we can we can I think that's one for a FOA act to look At and clear up. Thank you. Sure. Well that do we have a motion in a second miss prime? I have a motion from representative Piero. We have a second And mayor there is public comment from Miss Turner on this item. Miss Turner. You're getting your exercise today. Miss Turner I
 The more I listen to this, the more I start shaking my head. I'd fall out of my seat laughing if it wasn't serious. Lame duck is somebody who's filling out the last days of his office. I don't think that needs further definition, and I don't see how one person being a lame duck will affect the rest of the council if they haven't, quote, unquote, run for election and lost it.
 What do you need to set the P cards, not the P cards, but the gas cards at $100? Do you need something on city council or just tell the city manager to institute that? The gas cards, you were talking about unlimited versus the way it was at $100. Right. It used to be $100. Now it's unlimited usage. So what does it take for city council to change that? Another something on the agenda? Yeah, that's what he added that to the amendment.
 That's an amendment to his motion right now. So that will be in two weeks then, right? All right. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Fiora. Thank you, Mayor. In regards to Representative Canales, just for clarification, I have an email that says that the gas card comes out of our discretionary funds.
 Can we take a vote? Yes, the motion was? Can I get a clarification? He said set it at $100 over what time period? No, $100 a month. Oh, okay. $100 a month. So I'm sorry, Nicole Cody, about the, it comes from your, the fuel card is charged to your general fund.
 So we need to, I think we'll allow on the motion to bring it back to whatever the average based on the audit is. I think that would be better than any amount today. So I think that the amendment that we can put on there that after the audit is completed that we can look at the average usage.
 Mayor what you know as I said keep saying the audits not complete But just one of the things that came to mind is I mean it would be cleaner We just have a car allowance for the council so that you don't have to keep up with a card so that it's like you said an average and
 So again, we're waiting till the audit is complete. Don't know when it's gonna be finished. I know that I assigned Kerry Weston to it with Mundo and Robert so that he can report to Kerry. So if there's any questions y'all have, you can refer those on the administrative side to Kerry or directly to Mundo. We can do whatever the average may be and then put that into a car lounge number.
 Are elected officials allowed to have it? I still think we need to look at the average and not make it above any of the average. Well, that's what we're looking at. Yes, sir. So we haven't come back, we're not coming back yet with any recommendations or any discussion about that just yet. I'm just telling you that those are some of the principles that we discussed with respect to how can this be made easier for the council to use.
 So that these questions can be avoided in the future so that you have something that's a little bit more Directly aligned with what the average might be. Yeah, I'd like to see that Nation based on average usage by the body Yes, mayor the motion was made by representative Vieto seconded by alternate mayor protein Molly not and this is I
 to direct the city manager to clarify whether city council members gas cards apply to the city's lame duck policy including an explanation of the procedures and a summary of the guidelines. If no policy currently exists direct the city manager to develop a policy that includes a limit on gas cards based on the average usage identified in the internal auditors audit. Is that correct. Yes ma'am. Thank you. On that motion call for the vote. And the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. That brings us to item number 25. Yes, ma'am. And this is discussion in action on a resolution declaring that the expenditure of discretionary funds from City Council District 2 to fund the registration costs of the 2023 National Neighborhood USA Conference for the presidents of recognized neighborhood associations in District 2 serves a municipal purpose. This item was submitted by Mayor Pro Temanillo.
 Mayor Pro Tem. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Manalo, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, to approve item 25. On that motion, call for the vote. And the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 27 to 30. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by alternate.
 Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the first reading of ordinances items 27 to 30. On that motion call for the vote. Representative Fierro were you going to vote on this one? Thank you. In the voting session and the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Fierro and Hernandez not voting. The next item is 31.
 And this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2023-0232, cleaning services for public art sites to Edith Castañon, DBA Señor Clean. There is a motion made by Mayor Potem Anelo, seconded by alternate Mayor Potem Olina to approve item 31. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. In the voting session, the motion passes. Six supermatter votes. Representative Hernandez-Ferrona.
 Voting item number 32 is the award of solicitation 2023-0373, Modesto-Gomez Park Improvements to Keystone GC LLC. Second. Yes, there is public comment on this item from Dora Villanueva. Dora Villanueva, I don't see her in the queue. Or Ana Dominguez.
 I don't see Dora Villanueva or Ana Dominguez in the queue. They requested to participate virtually. However, their phone numbers are not listed in the queue at this time. Representative Mayor Pro Temp. I've got a quick question. Okay. You can go first if you want. Huh? You want to go first? Sure. I just have a quick question. When will this project start? Do you know? Do you have an idea? Yeah.
 Summer? It's gonna start next week, right? Like I'm really excited. It'll be done by August 1st. Super excited. That was the unofficial answer. I haven't grown up in that area. I'm getting calls. Purchasing and strategic sourcing department. So after work, the contractor have to submit PMP bonds and insurance. So that takes about 14 days plus the time we take to execute the contract. So as soon as the contract is executed, CAD will be issuing NTP.
 thank you thank you we have a motion in a second i still have problems huh i still would like to say something jerry hi jerry jerry i want to say thank you i just want to take this second to thank you uh for all of you who don't know jerry has spent a lot of time uh in the last year that i've represented the area he's met with these constituents every three months
 It's been a lot of work. I know that some of you are familiar with the situation with this park. I just want to say that, you know, I'm committed. I hope Jerry's committed that this is just the first phase of improvements for this park.
 you know we all kind of inherited this this was part of the 2012 bond decided by councils before us prices have elevated since then but this community deserves a lot more than what they're getting that's for sure and this is really a band-aid on a much larger conversation about how
 predominantly low socioeconomic communities of color have been treated across the city. And I think that this is a great improvement for now, but there really does need to be a commitment from this council in enhancing this park and this neighborhood. So thank you. And I didn't know you grew up there, Representative Rivera. I would've made you come to these meetings instead of Jerry. I'm just kidding. Okay, just kidding, thank you. Representative Canales. Yeah, I just wanna echo the thank you to Jerry.
 Mayor Pro Tem said you've met with the residents a lot in the last year, but you've met with the residents a lot in the last half a decade. I think this was a project, I believe it was originally programmed for 2022 into 2023.
 one of the last projects in the rollout of the 2012 quality of life bond and then my predecessor repli sarga when it was this area was previously in district 8 accelerated that project to 2019 2020 and then the pandemic happened and then the first contractor wasn't able to to complete the project and so it's kind of been a hurdle after hurdle since the start of pandemic it's great to see this is finally getting awarded and hopefully the community there can have a
 good project and a good platform to build upon at that location thanks again Jerry and to all of the CID team who's worked on this thank you over the years thank you thank you and I played a lot of softball in those parks and there was no fence so once you got in the gap you were able to hit a home run so I know that's I'm saying no I thank you all I like I said back in the 70s I enjoyed playing a lot of baseball out there on Sundays thank you
 With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Temanelo, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 32. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. Item number 33.
 Is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2023-0311 Blackie Chester Park Storage Facility Improvements to Black Stallion Contractors Inc.? Much approved. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 33. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present.
 Item number 34 is the annual presentation to council on the stormwater utility. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council, Gilbert Trejo, Vice President for Operations and Technical Services for El Paso Water. I'm here this afternoon to present on the annual report on the stormwater utility.
 I'll be brief for the presentation so I could have a lot of ample time for your questions and answers presentation highlights include just a brief history on the guiding document behind the projects that are completed by El Paso water stormwater utility list of projects that have been completed for construction in construction and are planned over the next year as well it's a matter of history the stormwater master plan was approved and
 in 2009 after the storms of 2006 here recently in 2017 a steering committee was put together comprised of business community the commercial development community members of the public service board and a
 the homeowners associations around the city and they updated the master plan to reprioritize their projects to have a fair representation of smaller localized projects, but also some of the larger infrastructure infrastructure projects that are needed around the city Since the implementation of the stormwater master plan we've completed just short of 270 million dollars worth of projects all across the city
 With the encouragement and support of council last year, the public service board
 voted to accelerate the rate at which we are completing the capital improvement program for the stormwater utility. There in the center graph, you'll see the impact of that policy decision in terms of how much work was completed, just short of 50 million of the $70 million were committed and is work in progress and currently working for towards achieving the goals of the utility.
 Projects completed across the city. So last year, fiscal year 2020, 2022, 2023, the map shows projects completed all over the city. Here's a list of projects that were completed. This is not all of them, but roughly 120 projects were completed last year.
 You'll see 10 of the most representative ones here on the screen. I also want to highlight the corrugated metal pipe program that took into effect last year. So over the last two years, we've completed the assessment of 18,000 linear feet of corrugated metal pipe underneath city streets. Corrugated metal pipe.
 as you'll see in some of the photos, corrodes, and that could cause street failure. So this is a very important project that we've commenced. We've identified 39 projects, seven of which were completed last year, but we continue headlong into this program so we could finish them and ensure that these pipes are rehabilitated.
 Here are some of the projects and photos of the projects we've completed last year. Carolina Drive, this helps reduce flooding in the Alameda and Carolina intersection with the completion of a pond. Old Spanish Trail, there is a flume that removes water off the street and conveys it into an arroyo. Lafayette Channel Improvement.
 Again, lots of channels across the city. This one in particular had failed. You can see the joints have failed. The channel was rehabilitated and renewed.
 Here's a good picture of current corrugated metal pipe. This is at one point in the history of the city This was the type of pipe that was installed to convey stormwater Underneath city streets and in the command system. You can see the corrosion that occurs along the walls We use a method that renews this pipe without digging it up. So I
 This has been proven to be a successful program for us, and again, we have several more, thousands of these that need to be completed over the next several years. Moorhead Dam, so those are some of the, Moorhead Dam is one of the larger projects that was completed last year.
 not only a detention basin to capture any large rocks and sediment, but then to convey the water in a slow controlled way. Memphis then does the same thing, construction of a sediment basin and then able to slow the water down as it's coming down the mountain and then conveying it in a controlled manner along its path.
 Kilkearney Pond in the Eastwood area. Again, just another structure that seems simple but does is very effective towards removing water off of city streets and into our ponds. Thunderbird Channel this is a more
 severe case of a failed channel. I showed the image of the Lafayette Channel, this one on the west side. When the joints fail, water gets underneath through the and underneath the concrete and completely destroys the channel. There are several of these instances across the city that we work towards renewing. Again, we finished one of these larger segments last year.
 Projects currently under construction the map shows again a fair representation of them across the city These are 15 projects that are currently under construction. So they they were awarded last year and are currently underway Omega pond
 Again, on the east side, a flume and a structure to capture water off the street and convey it safely into the pond. You can see the destruction that is caused when there is no flume in place. Prior to this, there was just a pipe that would overhang into the pond, and it causes this amount of destruction when there's large rain events.
 Yandel and Boone, a lot of erosion occurs along our ponds. We want to protect Yandel Street, so this erosion control using concrete is an important project as well.
 Fort Blitz diversion access boxes. I'm going to spend a little time on this one because this is an extremely important project. So the mountains, impervious surface, very much like a roof on a house. The water hits the mountain and just rushes down. These channels, we have 390-inch pipes, actually, that capture water off the mountain and convey it down into a low-lane area. Okay.
 depressed area known as the forklift sump. These three large pipes, you can tell by the size of the workers there next to them, extremely important, but every time that it rains, these large 90-inch pipes, all three of them get filled with sediment, as you're seeing in that middle picture. Once they're filled, they lose capacity. You cannot convey the water through there anymore. So this is an important project in order to be able for our crews to access these pipes and clean them out after every large rain event.
 Upcoming projects this coming year, again shown in yellow on the map. We have 13 projects planned for construction this coming year. They were planned to be let out. The design is complete or near completion, but this year they will be let out for construction. Thank you.
 I'll be highlighting two of them. The Will Ruth Pond is one that has been going on. That is a, I describe it as a classic stormwater project because it just about has everything, several phases to it from land acquisition to environmental,
 cleanup of the land that needs to be used for the pond now it's moving into the construction phase the design is complete we hired a construction manager at risk so they can start on the project while final design details are being figured out this is a delivery method that is effective so we can get moving with a project without these last final I'll say ten percent of details that are needed to to finish it up so
 Again, this is an important project for the Northeast. The Northeast Municipal Court and the Regional Command Center are gonna be protected once this pond is in place. Another good news for, more good news for the Northeast residents, 600 parcels will be removed out of the floodplain as part of this project as well. And we did receive a $5 million grant from the Texas Water Development Board to help with the construction of this project.
 The other project I'll highlight that's moving into the construction phase is the Palisades stormwater system and trailhead improvements. This is located right off Robinson Road.
 In the current area. So the importance of this project can't be overstated. So frankly, it protects the University of Texas at El Paso. It protects Mesa Street, Stanton Street, Oregon Street, a very important project that this that this pond will do. Again, it'll be a dam that is constructed up in the mountain, hold the water and it could be released at a controlled rate to avoid any destruction downstream.
 Upcoming projects for next year. I just went through what's going to go into construction. This is projects that are entering the planning and the design phase, shown on the screen with the orange dots. There are 15 projects that are planned for design this coming year.
 I'm sorry, let me Highlight these right here. So 15 projects that are planned for design. I'm gonna hide the ones in southeast El Paso There are several ponds that are needed to protect public and private property in the
 I-10 loop 375 area right off of the SAC. We refer to them as SAC Pond 1, SAC Pond 2. These are also very important projects to protect that property downstream and to protect I-10 itself here at the I-10 and Joe Battle.
 In totality, these are all the projects that have been completed in construction or planned for design here in the past 20 months and moving forward. A total of $104 million worth of money at work using stormwater fees that are collected from our customers. Here they are in totality. There we go.
 So fair representation parts from all over the city are represented with all the projects that we're working on. Quick mention of the upcoming monsoon. So from the National
 OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION FROM NOAA. THEY HAVE NOTIFIED OR HAVE MADE THE NOTIFICATION THAT WE ARE MOVING FROM AN EL NINEA TYPE MONSOON TO A NINO IMPLYING THAT WE'RE MOVING TO MUCH WETTER CONDITIONS WITH WARMER TEMPS HERE IN THE COMING SUMMER. THEY DID MAKE NOTE THAT THEY EXPECT THE MONSOON TO COME LATER THIS SUMMER.
 versus spread out more through the traditional monsoon season that runs from June to through September now that was the report on capital improvement projects now operations from an operation standpoint these are El Paso water crews working to maintain all of these structures that are in place last year from
 All the ponds that we have, so we have just short of 1,900 ponds across the city.
 Here you see 362 acres of those ponds maintained last year, 19 miles of channels and levees, 30 miles of agricultural drains, 1.6 miles of storm drains. These are the storm drains directly underneath city streets or adjacent to city streets on the right-of-way. You can see 5,800 inlets cleaned and 434 acres of dams that have been maintained by El Paso Water Crews.
 So in addition to some of the cleanup that our crews have to work on, illegal dumping remains an issue for our crews and for the stormwater system. This is just an example of the type of debris that we encounter in our larger channels. This one in particular is a crossing underneath US-54.
 Just a reminder for the council and for the public that illegal dumping is illegal and it does cause Havoc on the stormwater system and does cause flooding simply because capacity in our channels are Taken up by the trash and debris last year 30,000 sandbags were picked up and used by Customers all across the city. We have three locations in the central northeast and west side parts of town and
 We, the storm, the storm bag, I'm sorry, the sandbag sites open up in July and our customers are free to pick them up through September 30th and they are free to the public.
 Brief mention on partnerships and collaborations. So I have a slide here where we collaborate with the El Paso County Water Improvement District. So this is the local irrigation district. We use their infrastructure to place stormwater into their system. We have a program with them where we will enlarge.
 crossings underneath roads to allow for stormwater capacity. They were originally designed just for irrigation purposes or agricultural drain purposes, but we have a program in place with them so that
 More capacity could be added to those road crossings to allow for the stormwater. The other mention on collaboration is, of course, with the city streets and maintenance department. We coordinate with them closely. So as they are going to repair or reconstruct the street, we go in and put in either new stormwater infrastructure or we repair stormwater infrastructure. So that type of coordination is always going on with the city streets and maintenance department as well.
 We are always actively pursuing funding to assist the construction of the
 of these large projects and to lessen the burden on our customers. So last year we achieved $15.83 million in grants that assist with construction of this stormwater infrastructure. And currently we have a request in for $10.5 million of additional grant funding with the Corps of Engineers and the Texas Water Development Board.
 We will continue our campaign and awareness for, again, for the public, not only from the legal dumping part of it, as I mentioned, causes havoc with the infrastructure and causes a lot of flooding across the city, not only with the large debris in the channels, but just litter and debris that clogs our drains, causes a lot of localized flooding that really shouldn't be, doesn't need to be happening as long as we keep our streets clean and folks do not litter.
 Our public service announcements, you'll also see as we enter the monsoon season, the Turn Around, Don't Drown public service announcements that we work jointly with the National Weather Service and the Office of Emergency Management as well. We'll continue with radio spots, billboards, bus displays, and we encourage everyone to...
 adhere to these warnings. When you see water flowing on the street, do not trust that you can drive through it. It doesn't take but six inches of water for a car to get caught up in the flow.
 So during flood events, of course, you can call customer service residents and customers affected by flooding can call our customer service department at 915-594-5500. We have customer service agents available to help them.
 There is, if there's less urgency or just giving them another option of contacting us, we have the storm at epwater.org email as well. We have folks that are always checking that and responding, so that's another way to get ahold of us. And of course, if it's a matter of health and safety and an emergency, please call. It's best for them to call 911.
 There's also the option of 311 for non-emergency reporting, and all that information gets to us as well, and we'll be able to respond to the issue that they're reporting.
 So we include this help because stormwater, as I mentioned, whether it's the illegal dumping or the littering, everyone can help and the council can help as well. So, of course, spread the word of the public service announcements in terms of the Turnaround Don't Drown that will always be helpful to protect people's health and safety.
 The next one I'll mention is the update of the city streets and drainage manual. So the effects of climate change are clear in terms of the rain intensities that we get here in El Paso. Much stronger rain events of intensity and duration throughout the monsoon. If we do not update the city.
 design manual that controls what size should our infrastructure be. We'll continue to design our infrastructure undersized for the capacity for the type of rain events that we now see. We're working closely with the city's planning and development team, Mr. Philip Betwine, so that we can update this manual so we can start building infrastructure to reflect the size that's needed for the intensities that we see.
 Support for the stormwater fee increases. So again, as I mentioned earlier, there's a plan in place to accelerate the rate at which projects are being completed that requires more funds collected from
 from our customers, your support in these increases is needed. So not only to build these larger structures and all the structure and complete everything that's in the stormwater master plan, but with that comes more maintenance that needs to be done as well. So the fees will also help with the operational costs, additional staff equipment that we need to keep up with the additional maintenance of these structures. Thank you.
 And finally, I want to encourage and support and asking for your support with green infrastructure. So green infrastructure has proven to be an effective way with low impact, environmental impact to control, hold, store stormwater.
 We do have nine pilot projects for green infrastructure going on around the city right now. And we are tracking them. They're constructed. We want to see how they work and how we can adjust them for the types of rain events that we get here in the desert southwest. With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions that you all may have. Representative Hura, thank you for the presentation. Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Raho, the 915-594-5500,
 Maybe you said it. I just wasn't listening because my neighbor here was talking But is that is that 24 hours a day that somebody could call and report something? So we have we have agents during the day. We have agents in the afternoon as well during the monsoon I will ensure we have agents available. Oh great. And then the other thing can use or Mr. Lund can wonder you send us information on the nine projects agreeing with
 I just had green the green infrastructure. Yeah, please. Yes, you're like information on that. Yeah, please. Thank you Thank you very much, man Thank you very much for your presentation great job for you and everybody else that put that together from EP water I'm gonna call your attention to slide 21 Depicts the before and after for district to for police diversion access boxes but
 This shows different employees, and you mentioned the size of the tunnels there, the pipes. But are those EP water employees or like a subcontractor that are cleaning that up? Those are contractors building an access box that those pipes will run through. Okay. Thank you. Also, on slide number 25, I believe it is, where you talk about the pond out there, Will Ruth. Okay.
 I KNOW IT'S COMPLETED THE BACKUP SAYS START OUT IN SEPTEMBER OF 2023 IS THAT STILL ON SCHEDULE SO THIS IS ON SCHEDULE YES OKAY BUT I'D LIKE TO ASK IF YOU OR WHOEVER FROM E.P WATER COULD BE ONE OF OUR GUEST SPEAKERS AT ONE OF OUR MEETINGS FOR DISTRICT 4 THE COMMUNITY MEETINGS WE GET A LOT OF CALLS A LOT OF INPUT A LOT OF QUESTIONS ABOUT THE WILL RUTH POND WHEN IS IT GOING TO START WHAT IS IT GOING TO LOOK LIKE YOU KNOW THEY'VE BEEN AT THIS FOR QUITE SOME TIME AND THINGS LIKE THAT SO
 I'll reach out to your office if you could help us with that. That would be great. We'd be happy to. Thank you. Yes, Ms. Turner signed up to speak on this item? Yes, ma'am. No. It's McCray down there where it intersects with I-10 still flooding. I-10 and where? McCray. Lake McCray.
 So I'll answer that question and if he said a lot like Nina or someone operations manager on sweat on she can but so the flooding that occurred at I 10 and McCrae was was caused by littering so it was a result of Litter and trash collecting in the inlet. There are inlets that are there but in that particular case when it flooded it was Debris that caused that type of flooding
 I ask that because it's been flooding since, I've lived here since 1981, and it's been flooding since 1981. That's why I was asking if it's continuing to flood and are you all gonna do anything about it? So that, those catch basins that are clogging up, those are also having to be a TxDOT, they're in TxDOT right of way as well, so we'll work with the state on it. And I'll ask Ms. Gisela Dagnino to add some more detail on that answer.
 Good afternoon. Gisela Dagnino, Chief Operations Officer for Stormwater. That is correct. That I-10 and McRae, they are both textile streets.
 So they are responsible for the maintenance of those structures. We are looking into doing improvements of streams that can catch that water before it gets to that point. But that's something that we are looking into. Yeah, we need to work with them to not have that because at the end of the day, it may be their problem, but it becomes ours after that happens. Yes, sir. It becomes more expensive for us. So thank you. And with that, there is no action item. So thank you.
 Next item, Ms. Prine. The next two items, I don't know if you want to take them together, Mayor, they're related. Yes, please. Item 35 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas water and sewer revenue bonds. Item 36 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas municipal drainage utility system revenue refunding bonds, Series 2023. Good afternoon. For the record, Arturo Duran, CFO for El Paso Water.
 How are you, sir? And I know you all went around and briefed everybody on this. Yes, we did. Thank you. So we have a couple of items for City Council to approve. The first one is for water and wastewater bonds, Series 2023. And just to remind everyone, this is not taxpayer debt. These bonds are paid from the ratepayers from El Paso Water.
 And what do we need this funding for? We need this funding to improve infrastructure. That's the main thing that we're using this funding for, is for improving infrastructure. What we're seeking is approval of 192.25 million, and this is for water and wastewater ponds. And what we're gonna use this for is 150 million is gonna be used for CIP projects,
 $40 million is going to be used to refund notes from our commercial papers, and the rest is going to be for issuance costs.
 Now the board approved the budget and with it is on the CIP this 430 almost 433 million dollars that was approved for bond funding. And there's four projects that are included. The main one is Bustamante plant. Bustamante plant serves the east side part of the city. And this wastewater treatment plant is going to need improvements over the next five years of over 700 million dollars.
 So this funding that you see here is going to last about a couple of years, and the work has already been underway. The Bustamante plant needs to be expanded. The current capacity of 39 million gallons daily is going to be increased to 51 million gallons daily. This is the CCQ requirements for us to operate the plant, and this is due to the increased growth in the east side.
 The other one is the Frontera Force Main. This is on the west side. And this one is to complete that line, that force main on wastewater. And that would give us a lot of safety for that area.
 The other one is the headquarters for the main building for Hawkins. We're doing a new building. That's the we we are growing that building is a very old building. So we need a replacement on that one. And the last one is on the John T. Hickerson Wastewater Treatment Plant. And this is on the west side. And the same thing, we need improvements for infrastructure.
 So those total fundings that we need on bonds, we're only asking for $150 million. $150 million is what we expect to spend in the next 12 months. The rest of it, the $282 million, will come back to city council for approval next year. So what's the debt for the utility? Currently on an annual basis, we spend about $98 million on principal and interest payments.
 With this additional debt that we're requesting, it would add about $12 million a year. So our debt is going to be about $110 million a year on the next four to six years.
 Now, some questions on the rates. So all this that you see is already being approved by the board, and the rates are already including this new debt that we're seeking. So currently the typical customer pays $76. Now,
 On the water side, one penny equals two gallons of water. So for every penny that you see, our typical customer gets two gallons of water. Now on average is, if you get the water, wastewater, and stone water, is for $2.50 a day, you get those three services.
 Customers that are low users, those are the, that consume three or less CCFs, about 2,400 gallons a month. And there's 48,000 residents or customers that we have on a monthly basis that consume three CCFs or less. Those ones pay $42 on average. Okay.
 And that equates to $1.43 per day for the three services. One of the main things that we look at the utility is affordability. We want our rates to be affordable.
 Now, the challenge right now that we have is implementing plans like the ones for waiver or fees such as if you're a low user, you're going to get the fee waived. And that's $14 that we're using. We also increased the minimum from four CCFs to five CCFs. That way customers are, those customers that pay and that use less water would pay less.
 That's the things that we're doing on affordability for the utility. Now what we're seeking is the approval for water and sewer revenue bonds series 2023. The delegation, the parameter authorization that we're seeking is the delegation of pricing to be for the president and CEO, for the CFO, and for the vice president.
 We're also asking for a maximum true interest cost of 5.75%. That's 100 basis points or 1% more than the current market. And the amount not to exceed 192.215 million. The final maturity is on 2049, which is 26 years. That's the maturity that we want on this bond. And the expiration within six months.
 Who's gonna be selling those bonds we have underwriters Steve Owen Nichols RBC Frost Bank and Cabrera and capital those are all Firms that have been approved by by the city to be underwriters So the next the next step if approved will go ahead and do our tentative we will do the pricing on on the week of May 17th and to complete the pricing and the deal closing on June the 14th and
 With that I'll answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Mr. Dunn a good job briefing. There's no questions Do we have a motion motion? Who has a question mayor only number that was only the presentation for number 35 for the sewer revenue bonds, correct? Yes, sir I think both were read into the record. Do we write that's rotation for the second one? I think that will of the council was to take them together. Yes Yeah, go ahead
 Even though you briefed them all go ahead. That's fine Okay, so on this one So we have a line of credit on the stormwater utility and the current amount was 25 million dollars on that line of credit Now what we're what we're seeking is that line of credit expires on June 19 What we're gonna do is just pay off the balance that we own the 25 million and that's what these bonds are gonna be used for this is for the stormwater utility and this is used for CIP projects and
 The current annual debt that we pay is about 12 million. This is going to add another $2 million a year. Same parameters as what you just saw. The only difference on this one is instead of 26 years, this is for 20 years. There's 20-year debt on the stormwater utility. Same underwriting team and same closing and pricing. So with that, I conclude the stormwater bond presentation. Do you have any questions? Move to approve.
 Mr. Turner items 35 and 36 an item 35 in the backup. It says that in 2022 you all borrowed four hundred forty one million dollars and in less than a year you're back for another 192 now 40 million 40 million of that is to go into their commercial paper fund Which will give them back their full 80 million dollars usage, which I'm not correct in 270 days. I
 That's the limit on commercial paper. So got a problem with that because that just means we're going to spend more money. And on 36, I was reading that we have to carry 1.25 times the average annual debt service plus, which means higher rates, money sitting around in a bank not helping me and lowering rates. In Article 10, Section J, it said that the PSB basically has control over you.
 when it comes to extensions or growth that I find unacceptable. That's your all prerogative, that's city council. And my also is question under this same article, this same paragraph is, does it limit growth? Can we not grow any further, not add any more subdivisions, not add any more customers? Because when I read that paragraph, that's what it said. I don't see anything that tells me that we can continue to grow
 Add-on there can't be any extensions. So what is that true? Can somebody help me understand that I guess on the comments for this is needed infrastructure That service coverage is something that we have to be meeting and something that the rating agencies look at so we have to be making enough revenue to cover that service payments
 As far as the control, the city council gave the control and management to El Paso Water for the storm water utility and the water and sewer utility. I don't know if there's any other questions. Representative Saucedo. Just for the public benefit, I know that I was briefed and they mentioned that something was already voted in regards to the rate, that what's in front of us to vote on is not gonna increase the rate.
 Correct. So the Public Service Board During our budget process in January approves the budget. So those rates become effective on March 1st 2023 So all this debt expenses for operations those are taken into account and in calculating the rates So the rates that I that I showed were the rates that are current rates that are effective March 1st So all the current debt has already been
 included into the water rates. That's correct. Thank you. Yeah, you're right. Thank you for that. And that's no additional comment. Do we have a motion? Yes, the motion was made by alternate Mayor Potemolinar, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve items 35 and 36. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes 6-1. Representative Fierro voting nay.
 The remainder of council voting aye. Representative Hernandez not present. The motion does carry. Thank you. Thank you for that. Thank you everyone. That brings us to item 37 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for governmental use at one zero eight three two Ivanhoe Drive. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 37. There's no public comment.
 On that motion call for the vote. Voting session is open. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 38 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from M1 Light Manufacturing to AO Apartment Office at 5649 Beacon Avenue. May I have a question? Mr. Son, want to answer questions? Yes ma'am, go ahead. In the backup it says that there's one call and two emails of inquiry. Was there any official opposition?
 Good afternoon. I wanted to see if I had any inspections. No ma'am. That was all the communication from the public that was received. Okay thank you. I'll move to approve. There's a motion made by Mayor Pote Manalo seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 38. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. Item 39.
 Is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 1901 Grandview Avenue from R5 residential and C1C commercial condition to SDC special development conditions, imposing conditions, and improving a detailed site development plan. Move to approve. Second. There is public comment on item 39 from Ms. Turner. She's busy. Pardon me, I love talking finance. Item 39, Ms. Turner.
 parking will there be sufficient parking for this. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Yes so again I'm Raul Garcia Planning and Inspections. Yes ma'am. This development complies with the current parking ordinance providing the minimum number of parking spaces. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you. You're welcome. RON PEREZ. Yes and Mr. Turner I don't know if you were able to see the the drawings in the back of the renderings but it includes a parking structure in the plans.
 ROLL I DON'T KNOW ARE YOU ABLE TO PULL UP MAYBE SLIDE 10 IN THE PRESENTATION SHOWS THE THE PARKING STRUCTURE GO AHEAD AND SHOW MY SCREEN SO AS WE CAN SEE HERE YEAH AGAIN THAT UH UPPER LEVEL UM ADDITIONAL PARKING STRUCTURE IS PART OF THIS REQUEST AS WELL AS THE ADDITION A BUILDING ADDITION TO THE EXISTING HOSPITAL BUILDING THANK YOU ROLL
 Thank you. There's a motion and a second. Yes, mayor. The motion was made by representative Canales, seconded by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares to approve item 39 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. Next item is number 40.
 And this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 1820 Myrtle Avenue from M1 light manufacturing to GMU general mix use and approving a master zoning plan with reduction to minimum district area required and 100% parking reduction. Did I move to approve? Second. There is a motion made by Representative Canales. Seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares. There is public comment from Ms. Turner.
 Yesterday I heard reference to some kind of entertainment center being here too. Was that correct? Yes, ma'am, again. And so how can you have an entertainment center and no parking? Where do people park? Roll.
 Yes sir yes sir. Roel Garcia again planning inspections. So this is a rezoning to GNU general mixed use for part of this development does include an outdoor event space. And also part of this request was a parking study that was performed and established that there are enough parking spaces on street street parking spaces to go ahead and serve this this development. FRED PODESTA. On street parking spaces. Now I'm having questions because I don't
 I don't I don't know how many people you're talking about in this entertainment outdoor entertainment area will hold 100 people 200 300. Yes ma'am. So the the parking study did encompass an area of 300 feet surrounding the property lines of this property. And again the study involved going out an hour by hour
 counting the number of spaces that are available. And again based on the results of that study it was established that there there is enough available on street parking to service this this development which is in our older part of the city. It is our G2 traditional neighborhood type area. Again with with available transit lines
 bus routes, some metro routes, and again, establishing that there is enough parking on the street. And nobody, you said it was residential, and nobody in the residential area complained? So there was a notice that went out to all property owners within 300 feet of this property, and we did not receive absolutely no communication from the public, no.
 Well, I can guarantee you the parking it won't be in that 300 feet as we've seen up at Cincinnati in that area and the problems that Not making our arrangements for parking and ignoring it and that's what I'm you know That may be what you're trying to create down here but you can't have something that's gonna have outdoor entertainment and I
 Expect to have sufficient parking in the neighborhood then you're gonna have people who live there Complaining about they can't park their car can't get to their house. I think this one needs to be looked at again. Thank you Mr. I Roll you may miss poker. I may have misunderstood This is in g7 industrial and rail yard and it's surrounded entirely by m1 manufacturing district and so
 The that I I know but I'm looking at the report right here in front of me We can pull it up for you if you'd like the parking study showed during the times of 6 p.m To 1 a.m. When that entertainment venue would be open There were 61 total parking spaces that fell within that 300 feet and 60 available during those hours
 So on average one occupied space. This is basically the same argument we've heard about Cincinnati when it was being developed and all the bars up in there and all those issues up in there. Oh there's plenty of parking, there's plenty of parking and you still have the people up there in Kern raising bloody cane because you've got people urinating their yard, throwing their garbage in their yard. The same thing is continuing to happen.
 The gentleman said it was in a traditional residential area. So, I mean. Raul, can we pull up the map so we can show the. Well, I know what it is. Both from the future land use map and the zoning map. Again, it's a G7 industrial and rail yard, and then the surrounding is all zoned M1 manufacturing. It's not residential. It's very different to the situation. Why did we hear traditional residential? Okay.
 Correct. So for clarification, what I mentioned is it's traditional neighborhood, which applies to our older areas of the city, whether they be commercial, manufacturing, or residential, or like in this case, really when you zoom out, it's a mixed use area. Yes, the majority of the area is zoned manufacturing. However, there are many commercial businesses as well as
 some non-conforming multifamily within the area again in line with this proposal for a mixed use area and I'll go ahead and bring up the sure Raul that's that's not within the 300 foot radius for the parking study correct as far as I can tell that's entirely encompassed by M1 manufacturing zone correct um in terms of zoning yes sir but again there there may be some existing uh non-conforming uses as well as commercial uses within those those 300 feet
 But yes again the the property here is 1820 Myrtle which is what it highlighted this property here again with the study encompassing the the 300 feet area as Mr. Canales mentioned the study did establish 60 on average 60 spaces on a daily basis available for for parking
 And again, as you zoom out of this area, there are other uses in this area, lending itself in line with the mixed use context of this area, which aligns with the current request. And mixed use is, it does include residential, correct? Yes, ma'am. General mixed use would allow residential. However, in this case, the proposal is for the event center,
 as well as as i believe an office space but again as you zoom out of the area you see many types of mix mixed use type of uses role can you please pull up attachment five in the in the packet no you don't have to try to convince me uh representing canalis uh
 understand when the complaints come in I will come up here and remind you of this understand understood in fairness mr. Turner you said this one should be looked at so I'm trying to look at these things okay understood thank you without mr. prime a motion in a second yes mayor the motion was made by representative canales seconded by alternate mayor pro tem Molina to approve item number 40 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. That brings us to item number 43 on the agenda.
 And this is a presentation discussion in action of the second quarter financial report adoption of the revised city of El Paso budget policy which allows for the establishment of a pay for futures fund to solely support police fire and civilian compensation increases and authorize a city manager to allocate 50 million in sales tax revenue surplus from FY 2023 for the fund. Mayor I'm going to ask that we postpone this two weeks and we be briefed individually. I have some questions.
 Some of them are involving a lawsuit we've been briefed in, an executive, which I'm not comfortable asking publicly. So I would like to make a motion to postpone for two weeks. Thank you. I also just think for things like this, maybe we should be briefed in general before it comes to council.
 Motion and a second. Does the council directive? Yeah, absolutely. Sure. We'll move forward. We got a motion and a second to postpone the item. Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Temanillo, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temanillo to postpone item 43 for two weeks. On that motion, call for the vote. If I may make a quick comment, I'll let you vote. But the reason why we're bringing this forward is as part of the budget development process, one of the reasons why we have the recommendation to amend the budget policies and to add this
 Additional savings to the second quarter we put aside into a separate fund is to again adjust the impact that we know we're gonna experience with the collective bargains from not only the police department but the fire department and then the item of trying to get to the $15 an hour by 2026 and
 So this is going to be a financial tool of allocating these savings, reinvesting these back into the budget to help offset some of the impact on the taxpayers. Yeah, but again, I mean, I'm not against that. I just got a lot of questions about the data points that are in the backup. If there's as much of a surplus, we're not hearing about it until now. What the actual impacts of that collective bargaining, but we're excited to talk to you next week about them. Let's take a vote. The voting session is open, Council. Thanks for letting us. The voting session is open to postpone for two weeks.
 Representative Rivera, thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes six to one. Representative Rivera voting nay. The remainder of council voting aye. Representative Hernandez not present. The motion does carry.
 That brings us to item number 44, and this is presentation and introduction to the 49th year annual action plan for the following federal department of housing and urban development HUD entitlement grants, community development block grant, CDBG, home investment partnership home, housing opportunities for persons with AIDS, and emergency solutions grant programs. Following this introduction, a 30-day public comment period will commence.
 Motion to approve. There's no action, so it will be a very quick briefing. Okay, then I'll second it. Actually, you do need a motion to introduce the plan and commence the 30-day public comment period. No, I already did. There is no action. Oh. Oh, there is action. Okay. I apologize to our translators over there in the corner. We all start yelling at once. Okay.
 can we have a motion in a second i have questions comments if you will
 Abraham, someday we're going to move you up to the front of the agenda because I don't have the energy for this. But you and I discussed this. I'm really excited to see this, I think it's a total of $6.3 million for the Housing Authority for, now I'm going to say Northwestern New York because I couldn't remember that name yesterday. Salazar. I think that's a really important facility for the community. I know that you and I and many people met with the regional HUD directors and
 and the community members about doing this. And I think when I see the city putting this much money into a project like this, it makes me think about what kind of project we can get. I know you and I talked, I kept saying Denver, but actually I went to a facility in Chicago last November where the city put money into a housing authority development. There was workforce training. There was transitional housing.
 housing all of these things kind of in one building and so I would really like to look at what our options are with that I'd like to see if we can get kind of the best product out of this I think you know Salazar is extremely important I see Jerry walked in I'm gonna thank Jerry because I know about a year ago I got on him about the 30% AMI and I know that that is what this project is so I'm glad that we are doing that I am appreciative of that
 I say that because I know he thinks I'm angry at him. I am very appreciative of him. But I just want to see, you know, what are our options with this? You know, there are a lot of cities moving out of traditional just housing and creating more wraparound services. I'm not asking the housing authority to provide any of those services. But how are we partnering with those? And I know Jerry's been doing that with Emergence as well, right? But how are we as a city utilizing all of the investments that we're putting in and getting –
 you know, new state-of-the-art products that we're seeing across the country. Mayor Bertram, that's a very, very good comment. Just so you know, from our position, it's always about the value added. And so when we are looking at applications not just for affordable housing, but for homeless services, for other different services that we might offer under these funds, and they're very limited, and inflation is certainly hurting,
 a lot of these dollars, we look for that value added to your point. We've been to that community in Denver, I think you're referring to, I'm not the one in Chicago, and it's been a very, very useful experience because they have on-site job training, they have all kinds of education for their individual healthcare, but one of the things that I can add in regards to the
 housing authority application is that these folks are really leaning in in regards to transportation for the clients, you know, annual income tax preparation. There's food pantry and I'm sure that their CEO can probably speak to that better than I can, but we would never just take an application where someone's just building affordable housing units or someone's just doing something, a single thing. It's all about that ballot added and I think with the guidance of this council, it's about
 increasing that competition. So we'll continue to do that. That will be part of the agreement too, because I think it's important to make sure that folks are accountable for these services to the community. But that's a that's an excellent point and we'll make sure that we're noting that. Great. Thank you And I'm happy We already have a motion. I think I made that second. I'm very happy to support this entire project It's a great great funding year for you all. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 We do have public comment from John Martin on this item. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I want to first say thank you to the mayor and the city council for allowing me to speak. And really my purpose here today is to complement the staff and the leadership within the community and human development department for the process that was put into play this year, which is a needs-based process.
 And so we're very pleased with that. We hope we move forward in the future. And if there are any questions with regard to our piece of the pie, I'll be more than happy to answer that. But I just simply wanted to say thank you so very much. Thank you. And I know you've stepped up and worked with us really well. And I want to thank you for that in the time that we've needed your support. You've done a really good job, and I thank you for it. We appreciate that, but we're not alone. We've got a good team. So thank you very much. Thank you, sir.
 With that, Ms. Prine? Yes, the motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Mayor Potemano-Anello to approve Item 44, the introduction and commence the 30-day public comment period. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. So we did omit home, right? Jerry walked in right at the end when you were talking. I just want to make sure that's what you...
 Yeah, I think we cut all of the funds. Oh, okay. Thank you. I just want to make sure he walked in at the end. I want to make sure he was fully informed. That brings us to the end of the agenda. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the meeting for Tuesday, April 25, 2023 is adjourned at 3.13 p.m. Thank you, council.
 I think I gave up drinking.