Welcome and Ms. Prime, we do have a quorum. Yes, sir. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, April 26, 2022. Present inside council chambers are Mayor Leaser, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthline, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera,
 Representative Anelo and joining us virtually this morning are Representatives Hernandez and Representative Lizárraga. It is now 9 0 1 a.m. Will everyone please silence their electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police Chaplain Joe Morata. And good morning to each and every one of you. If you would like to pray with us this morning I would ask that we bow our heads together as we go to the Lord.
 Heavenly Father, we thank you for the gift that you've given us today. We ask that your will would be done throughout these proceedings. We ask that you bless our city leaders with discernment as they strive to minister to the residents of El Paso. We ask that you give them wisdom to also understand the heart of the issues and in providing solutions to them. We ask that you keep your hand on them and their families.
 We ask that you also would bless our first responders, our teachers, all of our city and county employees and their families, all of those who work together to make El Paso not only safer but a better community. Finally, we ask that you would bless all of the residents of El Paso and our surrounding region. Let peace reside upon every individual and family.
 For those that need healing, let there be healing. For those that are lonely, let them find friendship. Those that are grieving, let them find comfort. For all the needs in this city, we bring them before you and ask that you bring not only a physical and a present hope, but an eternal hope as well. Thank you again for life and strength today, and we ask that your will would be done. In his name we pray. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I mean, you have a blessed day.
 Thank you Yes mayor for the Pledge of Allegiance We have the Texas bandits all-stars tiny cadets to lead us in the pledge this morning. We have Genevieve Perez Rebecca Salcido Isabella Diaz Mia Ligon Hazel Sanchez Jimena Hawkins America
 Andrea Garcia, Mia Martinez, Frida Escamilla, Isabella Campos, Mia Perez, Melanie Cruz, Valentina Villalobos, Jimena Soria, Aria Cordova, Gemma Rodriguez, and Adrian Rodriguez. Turn that way. This hand up, this hand up. Yeah, they got him here.
 guys yeah
 Thank you.
 Thank you again, that was very beautiful. I always talk about the future of our country, the future of our city, and so was the youth. As I look around this room today, I can tell you that the future of El Paso is very bright. Especially the Chapin basketball team and everyone else that's here, the cheerleaders.
 that I always say the youth is our future. And so I do include myself in the youth, by the way, just in case you guys were wondering. Wait, I heard someone laughing there, Ms. Prine. But no, I'm very thankful. And there's a lot of things every day in life that we worry about and a lot of things in life that
 that we're thankful for and you know our freedom and the ability to have a city council meeting and do the things we do every day so i know that we've had some hard times through covid and i know that we've worked really hard as a city to make sure that we can have a meeting like we are having today
 And I want to thank really the citizens of El Paso for really following the rules, because a lot of them were not mandates. They were things that really was gonna help our community be able to be safe. And as we stand here today, I hope you all feel safe and that
 you know that your elected officials have done the best thing we could every day day in and day out to make sure that everybody was safe to make sure that uh we um today would come that we would have herd immunity and you know herd immunity was originally 75 percent and then herd immunity was 80 percent we're at 81 percent as a community and that's from the ages five to you know
 Whatever it is but So it's it's really an honor to be here and and the stand in front of you and really host The youth and the future of our community now. I do want to have a moment of silence for our
 really peace on earth and peace in the United States and peace across the world as we all know that We need to have peace. We need to make sure that Everybody has the freedom to be able to do the things we do today and one of the things I also want to mention And mayor Pro Tem I know that six years ago today you your your
 He lost your father, your father that meant a lot to you. So we're gonna put him in our silent prayers, in our prayers every day. And so please include Mayor Pro Tem's dad, Dr. Schwartzbein, that did a lot of great things for our community. And also, again, peace on earth and peace in the US and may God bless America. So with that, let's have a moment of silence. Thank you. And with that, Ms. Pryor.
 Yes, sir. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation this morning is child abuse prevention law Good morning, everyone today's proclamation for the city of El Paso, Texas Whereas there were four thousand seventy nine cases completed investigations and one thousand seven hundred thirty nine confirmed victims of child abuse and neglect in El Paso area in the fiscal year 2021 and whereas
 There were 1,644 youth served by DFPS prevention programs in the El Paso area in fiscal year 2021. And whereas child abuse and neglect can be reduced by making sure each family has the support they need to raise their children in a safe, nurturing, and healthy environment.
 and by informing families about community resources and services available that could help prevent a family crisis or help them overcome one. And whereas, preventing child abuse and neglect is a community responsibility and finding solutions is contingent upon involvement among people throughout the community and whereas,
 Our community has taken a proactive approach in the prevention of child abuse with the formation of the Coalition of Prevention of Child Abuse that is comprised of over 70 agencies, organizations, schools, daycare centers, and businesses that are actively involved in preventing child abuse through education and advocacy.
 Therefore, it be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that the month of April shall be known as Child Abuse Prevention Month, and that April 8, 2022, shall also be known as Gold Blue Day. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Lizar, this date.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Council. Good morning. We want to thank you for your support to April Child Abuse Prevention Month. Representative Rivera, thank you for joining us on April 8th for our Go Blue, which is our kickoff to April Child Abuse Prevention Month, and thank you for always being there for us.
 April is Child Abuse Prevention Month, but it is a topic that needs to remain high on the list and we as a community need to come together and protect our little ones, our youth from abuse or neglect and we can do this by reporting abuse, neglect, we can do
 being there for a parent or a caretaker in those times of crises or stress and of course make it keep people aware of child abuse and what they can do to prevent. Again we want to thank you for your support and
 for always being there. This is not the first time we're here and we just need to continue to come up and talk about this issue. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Thank you for what you all do. I'll get that. We'll get the proclamation afterwards, thank you. I'll answer the phone. Oh yeah. For you. It's for me, thank you. Hello?
 mr prime the next proclamation is zoo bailey recognition day thank you mayor
 Thank you, ma'am. Whereas Zool Bailey came to the El Paso region in 2001 expecting to not stay too long and at 29 years old he became touched by the beauty of the region and the international airport which meant that he could travel to his concert destinations. And whereas while practicing his cello in the studio in Anthony, Texas he was overheard by an El Paso art supporter Carol Karnes Johnson who encouraged him to apply for the job of artistic director of El Paso Pro Musica.
 And whereas through his hard work and determination was eventually hired to lead the chamber music organization in 2002 and his first concert was with Nuremberg competition winner Wadigan Pratt at the First Baptist Church.
 and whereas for the last 20 years he has spearheaded collaborations throughout the community including working alongside the El Paso Symphony Orchestra, the El Paso Museum of Art, the El Paso Holocaust Museum, libraries, hospitals, senior centers, the Alzheimer's Association of West Texas,
 the Kelly Center for Hunger Relief, and many more. And whereas educational outreach and community engagement has become the priority of El Paso Pro Musica, where Zul works to make music accessible to all, where thousands of students each year benefit from the programming made free of charge to the community through Zul's leadership and love for El Paso.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that April 26, 2022 shall be known as Zool Bailey Recognition Day. Congratulations, Zool. Thank you.
 I'm deeply honored by this and humbled by it. We let music speak for itself to help heal as well as to educate and bring everyone together. So a big thank you to you all for honoring me in El Paso Pro Musica for this. I'd like to serenade you with a beautiful way to start the day on my cello. This is Bach Cello Suite Number One, Prelude. Do you want me to play along with you or anything? Maybe sing or anything?
 Yeah. Well, you know, I've listened to Mr. Bailey's play many times, and it's the most incredible music you could ever hear. And I told him that when I was young, I played the cello, and all I made was really ugly sounds with it.
 So I didn't realize how beautiful music could come from one, and what a wonderful job you do, and recognition not only to yourself, your family, but our community. You do an incredible job, and like I said, I can play, and I probably forgot how to do Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star, but thank you for being here, and again, it's the most beautiful music you could ever hear, so thank you for treating us.
 Thank you again. That was beautiful. You guys agree with me? Ms. Pryne? And the final proclamation this morning is Texas Bandits All-Stars Tiny Cadets Day. Thank you and this is a very exciting morning.
 to be able to showcase all of our talent here in El Paso from cheerleaders to musicians to basketball players. So thank you all for being here. Whereas the city 20,
 Whereas the year 2022 marks the 25th year anniversary for Texas Bandits All Stars from when it was first established in 1997 in its hometown of El Paso, Texas, marking a historical quarter of a century in cheerleading athletics accomplishments, and whereas Texas
 Bandits All Stars has become a local iconic brand in the cheerleading world, celebrating over two decades of all-star cheerleading and graduating thousands of athletes from its program. And whereas the current 2022 class of Texas Bandits All Stars, Tiny's Cadets, made up of 22 four to six year olds, made an unprecedented history in the program by practicing over 150 hours with the dedication, hard work and discipline from their coaches
 Stephanie Rodriguez, Jose Adrian Rodriguez, Isaiah Velasquez, Iris Roque, Alyssa Herrera, Daniela Quez, Isaac Carrion, and Christopher Sotelo. And whereas in season 2022, Texas Bandits All-Stars Tiny Condets
 competed in Frisco, Texas, San Antonio, Texas, Houston, Texas, and El Paso, Texas. Texas Bandits made history and made their home city of El Paso, Texas proud by accomplishing a perfect season of five and O beating out dozens of worthy teams from across the country. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that April 26, 2022 shall be known as Texas Bandits All-Star Tiny Cadets Day.
 Also today, in honor of the Texas Bandits Tiny Cadets, we are lighting the star in their honor. So congratulations on winning a perfect season of 5-0. May you continue reaching for the stars as El Paso's future is bright because of young athletes like you. Congratulations again, Tiny Cadets. Thank you. Ms. Pryor? Yes, the next item is a recognition by the mayor for Underage Drinking Initiative Contest. Good morning. Good morning, council.
 I'm Cynthia Jimenez, I work for the police department as a supervisor for Central Regional Commands PAR unit, otherwise known as Community Services.
 Today we are recognizing the winners of our underage drinking initiative prevention contest. This contest was started by Central Citizens Advisory Board back in 2001 in response to a horrific drunk driving crash that took the lives of five teenagers in February of 2000. The board wanted to develop an initiative to empower and educate youth on the consequences of underage drinking by giving our teenagers a platform to influence each other positively through their own prevention campaign.
 This has usually been done through a poster contest, but this year we decided to modernize the campaign by having a video contest through social media. We reached 29.6 thousand accounts and 3,108 accounts engaged with our content, indicating a successful campaign thanks to the awesome videos submitted by our local students. We would like to thank the social media account FitFam for assisting us in spreading the word to teenagers in the area, as well as Boarderac for sponsoring the great prizes.
 Local high school students were tasked with sending in short videos to show how they have fun without alcohol. We posted 50 videos on our eppd.uadi Instagram account, and the top nine videos with the most likes, along with PD's favorite one. Students, when I call your name, please come to the front to accept your prize, and remain there to take a picture with officers and council. Thank you. Cindy Gana, Parkland High School, 9th place. Kitsia Castaneda, Parkland High School, 8th place.
 Anna Marzia, Young Women STEAM Research and Preparatory Academy, seventh place. Natalia Ochoa, Father Yermo High School, sixth place. Jose Guerra, Silva Health Magnet High School, fifth place. Jairo Baca Jr., Parkland High School, fourth place. Jayden Ruiz, Mission Early College High School, third place. Erin Zamora, Burgess Early College, second place. Tyler Wells, Eastwood High School, first place.
 And last but not least, Joshua Martinez, Irvin High School PD favorite. If you'd like to view any of their videos, they are on our eppd.uadi Instagram account. Well, thank you. We'll step down, take a picture, and congratulations to everyone here. Thank you for setting a great example. Can you turn off my, thank you, my job. Folks, can we get everybody to squeeze in as if we like each other?
 Okay, everybody look over here. This is Pedro, say hi, Pedro. Hold the pose, hold the pose. Good, good, thank you all. We have three more items. Members of council, if I could get you to sit back up there, we have three more items, and then we're gonna take photographs of everybody. I apologize. For the record, Laura Cruz Acosta.
 And just so everybody else who's on the proclamations, if y'all could stick around, we'll take photographs right now. I'll walk you through the process. Ms. Pryor? Do you want me to do it now? Do you want me to do all three of them? Yes, ma'am. If you make a motion to move 2021 and 22 before consent agenda. So moved. There's a motion and a second to move items 20 through 22 before the consent agenda. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Aye.
 Motion passes. We now go to item number 20, and this is discussion in action to congratulate and commend Chapin High School's boys basketball team for being the first team in school's history to make the Sweet 16 and for having made it that far two times in a row and to request the city clerk to submit an executed copy of this resolution to the head coach of the Chapin High School boys basketball team, Rod E. Lewis,
 and the Chapin High School Administration Office. Miss Prent could you read the resolution for us. Yes ma'am let me bring it up. I have it up if you want me to read it.
 You have it. I have it, yeah. You can read the next one. I'll read this one. Great. Okay. Whereas the Chapin High School's boys basketball team made it to the region 1-5A basketball tournament for the second straight season in 2022. And whereas the Chapin Huskies controlled the action from start to finish during their playoff game against Palo Duro High School in Amarillo, Texas, winning their second playoff game in school history with the first playoff win having been in 2010.
 Whereas the Chapin boys basketball team made it to the regional semifinals, the sweet 16 as undefeated district champions and were also undefeated against all El Paso teams during the season. And whereas the 2022 Chapin basketball team was the first ever Chapin boys basketball team to get more than 30 wins during the season. And whereas head coach Rodney Lewis was voted the district one.
 District 1 5 a co-coach of the year this season Junior player KJ Lewis was selected as most valuable player for the district Senior player Martin Eddie was selected as defensive player of the year for the district Atuan Holmes was selected as first team all district for the one foot 5a Manuel Flores and Diego Vanueva selected a second team all district Bryson Goldsmith was selected as third team all district and
 and players Jaden Lavarete and Peyton Parker were selected as honorable mention for the same district. And whereas on March 4th, 2022, after falling to Timberview High School in Region 1 semifinals of the Class 5A Texas Schools Basketball State Playoffs, the triumphant Chapin Huskies basketball season ended with a 31-5 record under head coach Rodney Lewis.
 and now therefore be it resolved that the City Council of the City of El Paso 1 Commends and congratulates the Chapin High School Boys Basketball Team for being the first team in school's history to make it to the Sweet 16 and for having gotten there two times in a row.
 Two recognizes the many achievements of the coaches and players of the Chapin Huskies three recognizes the fans of the Chapin Huskies and the people of El Paso for their dedication and support and For respectfully request that the city clerk submit an executed copy of this resolution To the head coach of the Chapin high school boys basketball team Ronnie Lewis and the Chapin high school administrative office Congratulations. I'm not much for talking. So I'm gonna let I
 my three captains address you guys. I just want to say as a head coach, thank you very much. Thank you. Great job, coach. Don't be scared. No, I'm fine. I just want to say thank you guys for the recognition. And it was an honor being here. So thank you guys. And thank you, Mayor. Thank you, council. What's your name, sir? Mano Flores. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you for representing El Paso in the Northeast. So we're really proud of y'all.
 My name is Antoine. I want to thank you all for giving us a recognition. Yeah, I'm not used to this. This is big. I want to thank Coach for pushing us and getting us through the season and make it this far two times in a year, two times in a row. Thank you.
 I'm KJ. I just want to thank y'all for the support and this honor. It means a lot. I know the whole program is honored for this, so thank y'all again. Thank you. And I just want to tell you that we didn't give you this recognition. We acknowledge the recognition that you accomplished. So you guys did it as a team, and we all know that basketball is a team sport, and when you play as a team, you win.
 And when you're coached and you have a good coach that teaches you the fundamentals of sportsmanship and also on the values of sportsmanship and the ability to believe in yourselves and to win, this is what happens. So coach, congratulations. And again, this recognition was earned by every one of y'all. And we just want to make sure we acknowledge the great job you did. Thank you. Congratulations. Is there a motion?
 Motion to approve There's a motion made by representative on a low second if I represent a tip Salcido to approve the resolution on that motion call for the vote Not locked in you just want to Mayor Pro Tem. Hi Representative at nonetheless. Yes representative Lisa Daga Thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously the next item
 The next item is item 22. This is discussion in action to recognize the El Paso County Juvenile Probation Department and their efforts for the 2022 Global Youth Service Day.
 Ms. Prime, my agenda is not loading at this time. Would you read the resolution, please? Yes, ma'am. The resolution reads, whereas today's youth leadership is our hope for the uncertain future, the principles of community service they learn today will be their values for tomorrow's challenges in our community. Whereas a juvenile justice center along with community partners is to provide an opportunity of enrichment to juveniles through community service learning.
 Local youth will be participating in the Global Youth Service Day throughout April and hosting a celebration on Saturday, April 30, 2022.
 where this year's GYSD project consists of gathering community stakeholders and community members to speak out against violence in the county and city areas of El Paso, Texas, while emphasizing the importance of empathy and unity, where this year's 2022 GYSD project theme is violence, breaking the cycle, and healing.
 and whereas young people will have the opportunity to express themselves through their art, as well as the use of critical thinking by sharing, inspiring, and creating solutions to pervade hate crimes and violence with activities including innovation, technology, art, and creativity. Where the Juvenile Justice Center has also partnered alongside Azucarate Park to pay tribute to the 23 victims at the county's healing garden.
 donating personalized art created by our youth participants, reminding the community that we are El Paso strong. And whereas these community participants are made up of young juveniles from the Juvenile Justice Center working hand in hand with fellow community members and various community leaders, such as county and city leaders, official motivators, officers, art teachers, nonprofit organizations,
 And whereas the Juvenile Justice Center staff and participants, Escarate Park, Project Vida and Security NextGen, along with other numerous local community businesses, organizations and supporters from the community, are honored to provide the involvement and management in this significant, heartwarming, peace-focused event, Global Youth Service Day. And whereas on April 30th, 2022, Global Youth Service Day is the largest youth service and civic action event in the world. Thank you.
 and the only one that celebrates and builds the capacity of all youth ages 5 to 25 to help our communities and democracy thrive by working together for the common good. And now therefore be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso is proud to support the El Paso County Juvenile Probation Department as it provides opportunities for our city's youth and builds a better future for the City of El Paso. Thank you, Ms. Prine. I think there's someone here to speak today or some people.
 Morning, Mayor, Council, thank you very much. Morning. Thank you for this opportunity. My name is Joel Olivas from behalf of the Juvenile Probation Department. I want to thank you for giving us this awesome opportunity and letting you know a little bit about our program. So we're celebrating 17 years already of Global Youth Service Day.
 The kids, it's a way of giving back to the community. We believe in the whole community service, giving back to the community. So this year, our kids from the juvenile probation department have gathered together and they came out with the theme of breaking the cycle of violence and healings.
 So the kids are going to be working on a lotus flower at the Ascata Park, and the kids at the Juvenile Justice Center are doing their research relating to violence, hate crime, racism, bullying, and they're also coming up with solutions. So we're proud to say that the Juvenile Probation Department has given—
 us this opportunity and also the kids' insights, giving solutions, bringing solutions to this type of problems here in the community. So thank you. Thank you for, once again, for giving us this opportunity and sharing about this program. Let me introduce our Chief Medina. She just started. Fresh new this year with us, Rosie Medina. And I have my colleagues, Mr. Israel Tena and Elizabeth Cervantes. Thank you very much. Thank you all for being here.
 Good morning, Mayor, Council. My name is Rosie Medina and as Mr. Olivas indicated I'm the new Chief Juvenile Probation Officer there at the department. I'm not new to El Paso. I've been employed there at the department for 18 years so it's an honor to serve in this capacity and thank you so much for recognizing the hard work that the youth as well as the staff in our organization provide.
 We do focus on rehabilitation and restorative justice and really focus a lot on also restoring our victims back to being whole. So this year's Global Youth Service Day and breaking the cycle of violence is very important to us because we are seeing an increase in violent crime amongst the youth population. So reaching out to them, educating them, and looking to them for solutions is part of our goal. So thank you very much. Thank you. Go ahead, sir. Move to approve. Second.
 there's a motion made by representative molinar seconded by representative anello to approve the resolution on that motion call for the vote representative hernandez yes representative lizada aye thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 Item number 22 is discussion and action to recognize the challenges that members of the transgender community face every day around the world and support creating an environment in which any resident can live without stigma and have the opportunity to flourish. Do you want me to read the resolution, Ms. Priner, or would you like to? No.
 You want me to? Okay. Whereas on March 31st, 2022 is International Transgender Day of Visibility in countries, states and local governments around the world. First taking place in 2009, the occasion provides a fitting opportunity to recognize the outstanding contributions of transgender people in El Paso and everywhere.
 And whereas President Joe Biden said last year when he became the first American president to designate the Transgender Day of Visibility with the White House proclamation, this designation recognizes the generations of struggle, activism, and courage that have brought our country closer to full equality for transgender and gender non-binary people.
 that has given countless transgender individuals the bravery to live openly and authentically, shaping an increasingly accepting world in which peers at school, teammates and coaches on the playing field, colleagues at work, and allies in every corner of society are standing in support and solidarity with the transgender community. And whereas discriminatory and
 discriminatory attitudes towards the transgender community, especially against black, indigenous, and other women of color foster high rates of violence, homelessness, and economic instability. It is essential to develop policies that support the transgender community, develop public education to dispel misinformation and stigmas, myths, and to increase understanding of humanizing transgender people.
 And whereas affirmation of their gender identity and freedom of expression is vital to how children, teens and adults are respected in their communities and ensures a positive quality of life. And whereas the City Council of the City of El Paso recognizes the importance of the act of correctly identifying an individual's gender. And whereas the City of El Paso will take serious steps towards recognizing an individual's correct gender and will eliminate the act of misgendering individuals by their staff and at their facilities.
 And whereas these policies include the same safeguards from discrimination that all Americans seek in employment, housing, healthcare, education, our justice system, and the use of public facilities. And whereas the city of El Paso will continue to promote and advocate for safe spaces within our facilities that welcome all transgender residents seeking help and services. And whereas laws that target physicians and medical care providers to keep them from serving transgender children and teens or that seek to restrict the freedom of transgender individuals,
 are anti-ethical to the City of El Paso's values
 And whereas transgender individuals have always been part of the fabric that make El Paso beautiful, and through visibility and acceptance that we continue to support the values of our community are increasingly visible part of the fabric that makes El Paso what it is. And now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso recognizes the challenges that members of the transgender community face every day around the world and supports creating an environment in which any resident can live without stigma and have the opportunity to flourish.
 approved this 26th day of April 2022. And I believe we also have public comment. SPEAKER 2 Hello good morning. My name's Andy Tiscarano and I use she her pronouns. I am the volunteer coordinator and the youth services coordinator for the Borderline Rainbow Center. And I would like to say thank you for not only acknowledging the struggles of the transgender community but also acknowledging the transgender community as a
 as the community struggles on a daily basis with hate and oppression of our not only our rights but our right to exist our transgender youth are on a constant target targets of attack by not only the state but the country we
 have to we have to work together to do as much as we can to support not just our transgender youth but our transgender community. The right to be able to not only exist but the right for respect, the right to have access to life-saving health care, the right to education, the right to participate in
 simply exist and live without threat to our rights or our lives and so thank you again for This resolution and thank you for acknowledging the community. Thank you. Thank you That's all move to approve Would you like to speak please do okay? Thank you um
 I want to advocate on behalf of trans people in our community because violence against trans people are our ultimate highs in our state, which brings me great shame to know that these policies are being made by people who are supposed to quote unquote represent me.
 From trans youth being attacked by our governor to trans migrants dying at migrant detention centers in Texas, violence against trans people, especially against black and indigenous trans people, is undeniably prevalent in our state. This issue hits personally to me because one of my best friends is a trans woman of color. Her name is Jamie, and she couldn't be here today because she couldn't get time off from work, but she did give me permission to share her experiences with you.
 I grew up with Jamie in the lower valley community of El Paso and since I've always known her, she's always inspired me to be authentically myself, to set boundaries when others disrespect me, and to never compromise myself to make other people comfortable. And it breaks my heart when she shares with me her experiences with anti-trans violence like misgendering or plain bigotry because I could not even begin to imagine how frustrating and terrifying it is to exist in a state where your physical safety is not respected nor prioritized.
 She still experiences bigotry and transphobia in public and even at her remote job and oftentimes believes that progress acceptance, her guaranteed safety and social change is not happening quickly enough. It scares her very much and it also scares me that my friend doesn't feel safe in her own community.
 So I ask you all today to support this resolution because doing so will hopefully model to other community members and leaders to stand in authentic solidarity with our trans neighbors, friends, family, and community. Thank you. Thank you. With that we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes.
 representative lizada aye thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 At this time if council would like to take a brief pause to take pictures. If I can. Laura Cruz Acosta with the communications director. Just a real quick question as to how this is going to work. The organizations that are here for recognitions, if I can get the transgender community as well as those individuals who are part of the juvenile probation folks, if you could go out into the lobby here.
 In the antechamber, we're going to take photos with the council members there first. In the meantime, I would like to ask the bandits, the young bandits, as well as the Chapin team, if you could meet me outside. We're going to organize you all because you're a much larger crowd.
 So with that, I'll ask the council members to go into the lobby entrance and Pedro will lead you through that process as well as the transgender and the juvenile probation. Before we go outside, I know that the bandits would like to present something to the council if you would please and we'll start forming outside now. But if you all want to come up please. And the child abuse prevention, I'm sorry, I unintentionally skipped over you all. If we can also take your photograph in the lobby.
 Council since you're exiting the building may we have a motion to recess? Thank you so much. There's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting all in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 9 51 a.m. May we have a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting all in favor? Anyone opposed?
 The meeting is back in session at 10.07 a.m. Mayor, would you like to go to the consent agenda? Please.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem.
 Yes, proposed revisions for the April 26th meeting 2022 as of April 26th at 8.41 a.m. Page four, item three, delete per airport. Page four, item four, delete per airport. Page four, item five, delete per airport. Page four, item six, delete per airport. Page nine, item 27, move item before item 23 per Representative Salcedo. Page 10, item 28, delete per community and human development.
 Page 15 item 35 postponed two weeks per police department. Page 15 item 36 postponed two weeks per planning and inspections page 16 item 42 move item be taken at 10 a.m. per economic and international development and page 17 item 44 revised per Representative Rivera. Council. Revision is to the district number it should be district 8 not 7. Yes ma'am.
 Council are there any other revisions at this time? Go ahead. I'd like to request to move item 46 to the forefront of the agenda, please well, I think you need to be real careful moving that item as first people signed up to speak and They're being the last item on the agenda I think you would they would not have the opportunity because they're planning on coming at the end So I think we got to be real careful if we had done it yesterday would have been a little different but I think that we will take some people out that will not have the opportunity to speak and
 Okay well then I'll remove my motion. Okay. There are no other revision counsel at this time. Okay. So we have Ms. Prime thank you. Is there a second.
 Thank you. Mayor, we do have public comment on item 8 of the agenda, of the consent agenda. This is a resolution authorizing the city manager or designee to submit a grant application for the city of El Paso project identified as West Texas anti-gang program FY 2023. We have Mr. Jose Barriga that signed up to speak on this item. Yeah, go, please. Good morning, Mr. Barriga. You'll have three minutes, sir. Sure.
 Good morning. Pleasure seeing you again, sir. Likewise. There's a couple of things that I saw when I was reviewing. One is there's some regulation that came up yesterday about UAVs. I want to have somebody look into that. They become programs nobody can request UAVs. But it's something that you may want to ask about. And the other one is you got names there.
 That gave me a, that made me think about countries of interest. And you cannot use grants to pay employment or to pay salaries to somebody who's already working for the city. You have to give the opportunity for everybody to compete for their jobs. And you got helicopters. You got planes. I mean, but you are not listed in the, you are not listed in the...
 In the project summary and the project statement, you don't say anything why helicopters and a plane are going to be required. So for me, this is potential. It's a red flag. So I want you to reconsider that, postpone it, have somebody look into it.
 If not, you can approve it. But I will have somebody look into this because it's like, it doesn't look right.
 You read the project summary, the project statement, and you got planes, one plane, and then you got a helicopter, and you're talking about a couple of million dollars. I don't know about that. I understand if you use them for vehicles, for armor, for one of the suburban trucks, it's fine. But for helicopter, I mean...
 I don't see the reason. Putting names on it? You got three names on it in the positions? I don't know. I got a chance to review grants before. I'm kind of rusted about it. Like I said, I just went through this last night. And there was a reason that I went through your agenda today. And during public comments, I will let you know. And so you can actually understand what happened.
 And the other part is something, take a look at how sometimes the grants are requested. Sometimes I look into it, but I don't say it that much. Well, I appreciate for your time. You know, just think about it. Thank you, sir. With that, Ms. Pratt, we do have a motion and a second. There was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shorthine, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote.
 Representative Hernandez? Mrs. Prine, can you verify if there's a motion to bring which item to the forefront by Representative Rodriguez? No, she withdrew that motion. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. I missed that. But anyway, so yes. Thank you. Representative Lizárraga? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session? The motion passes unanimously. We now move to page number 11.
 I'm sorry, page 16, item 42. This is discussion and action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and Mills Plaza Properties, VLP, a Texas Limited Partnership, and Crest Tunnel LLC, a Texas Limited Liability Company. Move to approve. Second. Motion and a second. Yes. IT can. There we go.
 Thank you. Elizabeth Triggs, economic and international development. So the item before you is a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign a chapter 380 economic development agreement that will result in the redevelopment of the historic and iconic Crest building in downtown El Paso.
 So a little bit about the project and some of the benefits that it will bring. Originally completed in 1937, the Crest Building was a really important part of daily activity in downtown El Paso. It operated for much of the 20th century as a five and dime store by the Crest Company.
 And it did so until 1980. It was later taken over by another company, which following its bankruptcy resulted in the shuttering of the building in 1992 and it sat vacant directly across from San Jacinto Plaza for the last three decades. So we have a really unique opportunity today to work with the private sector to bring that building back online and really revitalize the area around our historic core.
 So, I think under the proposed renovation plan, some of the interesting things to point out is that the building will become home to a new food hall located on the first floor. The hall will feature local food and beverage options and shopping experiences.
 which I think serve to really liven the area and also offer the opportunity for small businesses just starting out to have a location right at the center of downtown. In addition, the basement will include a day spa and full service salon that will be open to the public. Also uniquely, the Plaza Hotel, which is located right across the way because it was a historic building, it was very difficult to put in a spa in that area. So we have the opportunity here to leverage that investment
 by providing an amenity in close proximity to that hotel, which only serves to better market that hotel to visitors. So these amenities are all things that would really increase activity in and around downtown's historic core, while also offering the opportunity to increase the use of surrounding facilities, including the streetcar and the two nearby recently restored hotels.
 Little bit more about the project itself. So the property owner has committed to a minimum eighteen point four million dollar investment It's about three hundred $300 per square foot Which we know historic preservation is very very expensive, but it's something again that I think City Council has shown time and again is important to our community and something we're willing to invest in and
 At the end of the project we'll have a total of 45,000 square feet of retail, entertainment, restaurant, spa services and meeting space available for visitors, employers and residents of the El Paso area. In addition, I think before I get into more of the details of the agreement, what's really important to highlight here, and I referenced it a moment ago, is that historic preservation and rehabilitation is really central to our downtown revitalization strategy.
 Over the last 10 years, the city council has worked with the private sector on a number of different agreements. I think what I want to highlight is that of the 28 completed or active projects incentivized over the last 10 years,
 Five historic renovations have been completed and that represents a nearly $188 million investment in our downtown area. Those renovations include the redevelopment of the Plaza Hotel, which is located right next to the Crest Building, the Paso del Norte Hotel, the Bassett Tower, the Martin Building and the Stanton House.
 With the addition of Crest, that brings that number to six historic renovations and the total investment to $206 million. So just a huge, huge investment in our historic buildings that really make El Paso unique. And the last thing to add here, which I think is important because this ties to another strategy of ours in economic development.
 These five projects have resulted in the addition of four active hotels and more than 600 guest rooms added to our downtown area, which nearly doubles the inventory within a couple of years. That's huge and important when we're looking to bring visitors to the El Paso area and looking to attract convention visitors.
 opportunities. Having the crest building redeveloped and revitalized in the manner that is being proposed by the property owner is just an excellent opportunity to add more amenities that visitors to our El Paso area can use.
 So, going back into the project, this is the project location. We're all very familiar with it. It's located at 211 North Mesa. It has two main entrances, one off of Mesa and one off of Mills Avenue directly across from San Jacinto Plaza. It takes up the better portion of an entire city block. So, again, a huge opportunity to revitalize a critical block at the core of our downtown area.
 These images show the current condition of the building. Again, I'd just like to highlight that there are two prominent entrances, one at Mesa Street and one at Mills Avenue. And bringing this building back online will just increase that activity in those areas with people coming and going from the building.
 With respect to the incentive, so this project is really made possible through a combination of the developer's investment in equity, the opportunity to secure federal historic tax credits in the future. One thing that they failed to mention earlier is that part of this agreement ensures that the property owner works towards having this property listed on the National Register of Historic Places once it's complete.
 So that's important. And then in addition, the third component to this is really the local financial incentive commitment and investment in the project. The city is proposing a $2.049 million incentive over the span of 20 years.
 of a 100% property tax rebate over the 20 year period and 100% sales and use tax rebate over a 10 year period. So again, that's an investment by the city over a 20 year period. The county has also recently approved a term sheet and is working toward the execution of a chapter 381 agreement.
 in which they'll contribute 90% property tax rebate over 10 years in an amount not to exceed approximately $415,000.
 When we talk about community benefit, I talked a lot about the qualitative benefits of just increasing the activity in the area, the economic benefit of having another historic building redeveloped and rehabilitated. But there is also new tax revenue opportunity, not only for the city but for all taxing entities in the county.
 So one thing I'll highlight here in addition to the benefit that the other taxing entities will receive through our investment in this project is that the city will also receive new tax revenue as a result of the project during the 20-year term.
 And this primarily comes in the form of the the sales tax revenue that is generated both on the half penny for Sun Metro So supporting public transit, but then also once the 10-year rebate period ends On the sales tax that comes to the city through the other half penny. And so finally I'll just wrap up this this slide summarizes a number of the project benefits and
 again highlighting that we're really investing in our historic downtown core a project that is in close proximity to to a number of City investments that we can see doing well and thriving it provides new amenities to downtown and it assists and Bringing a wide variety of activities not only for visitors But also for residents and employees of downtown and so with that I'm happy to take any questions mayor. I
 Go ahead Representative Shortswine. Thank you very much. Thank you so much Ms. Triggs for for this wonderful presentation and thank you again to to the group as well for investing in El Paso and continuing to invest in our downtown.
 you know if we look back at this, this is not just something that just happened out of the blue, out of someone's good will. This is a continuation of the momentum and progress that the city has seen over the last 15 years and certainly really over the last five to seven years. You know when I first came into office, the only down, you know there was a,
 three downtown hotels, Double Tree, Gardner, DeSoto, if you want to count that, and I guess the Holiday Inn that's right there off of the interstate. We have seen since that time the Hotel Indigo open up, the Aloft Hotel with the Bassett Tower, which is another
 historic preservation project, the Plaza Hotel, the Paso Del Norte Hotel, brand new Marriott Courtyard Hotel. We now have 10 hotels that are along the uptown, downtown streetcar corridor, and this kind of destination is one that complements so much of what we're already doing with our strategic plan and what we're doing and executing with our vision. Heritage tourism as well as ecotourism is a major focus of our city's strategic plan. We are
 putting those words into action today by supporting this project, you know, and you're 100% right. Again, when we started this project, when we started looking at getting that clawing back that state tax for convention center hotels, it was something that we talked about doing, but the results are there. You know, we have our flagship Marriott Autograph Paso Norte Hotel. We have the beautiful Plaza Hotel, probably one of Trost's.
 most exciting of designs. And have we seen conventions happen? Well, we've all been dealing with a pandemic over the last few years. But we have the Texas AIA convention coming with over 3,000 architects and planners in October of this year that are literally utilizing all of our downtown as a campus for their convention. All the hotels will be used as well as other spaces, San Jacinto Plaza, the streetcar as well.
 We also, in 2024, during the presidential year, are going to have the Texas Democratic Convention with over 10,000 people there. So all of these investments that we have made in our community from the public and private sector are paying true dividends and we're seeing the results here today. I do have one question though for the investors that are right here. One thing that I have heard a lot about, and I don't know if they wanna come up just for a second,
 Good morning, sir. Good morning. How are you all? Good. How are you doing? Good. Another exciting day for El Paso. Do you mind introducing yourself? I'm sorry. My name is William Kell. I'm with Franklin Mountain Investments. Mr. Kell, this is another exciting day, not just for our present and our future, but for El Paso coming alive as well. So thank you for you and your group for making sure that this happened to Mr. Foster as well. One thing that we have heard about with the crest from folks that are just a little bit older than me,
 are when they used to go to the crest when they were kids and with their families. And one thing they talk about was a drug store and the counters and that kind of atmosphere. Can you just let the council and the public know a little bit about some of your thoughts about how you're gonna activate one of the most unique architectural buildings we have in El Paso? Sure.
 We've hired some of the best firms around the country to help us envision and reimagine the CRESS but yet keep it historically accurate as best as we can. We're using a company called Revel out of Atlanta, Georgia, and they specialize in designing food halls all across the country, not just food halls but city clubs, food halls, high end sort of venues, entertainment venues.
 They're really creative, they're full of great ideas. It's been wonderful working with them. And they've helped inspire us on a lot of different things. We're also working with Cooper Carey, an international architecture firm out of Atlanta, Georgia as well. They're the architects that worked on the Plaza Hotel. And they do wonderful work. And so we're working with both of those firms. And with respect to the soda fountain, which is really what I think you were asking about,
 Paul is very excited about keeping the soda fountain. Everybody in town talks about the soda fountain and the memories that they have from that. And so we're gonna do our best to bring back the character and the liveliness that went along with the soda fountain, sort of the fun element that went along with that. There's some wonderful historic pictures of it on the windows of the crest right now. There are some challenges, it's a,
 everything has to be approved by the State Historic Commission and the way it was designed and configured and so on and so forth in the past doesn't really work with today's standards. And so some things have to change, but the basic idea and the concept of the soda fountain will be there and I think everybody will love it. I think it'll be a lot of fun. Yeah. Yeah, and I think the kind of concept y'all are talking about, I think is one that's gonna be really great and very much well received.
 One of the things that I love about going to downtown right now and seeing it is that there's all different kinds of generations of folks that are there. You have people that are having dinner outside at Anson 11. You have kids and teenagers that are riding around San Jacinto Plaza on the scooters.
 A food hall like this that I think will have a variety of price points, a variety of options is something that is so on point with what we see here. And the fact of taking the old with the new, I think, is something that we've already seen around our San Jacinto Plaza. We see it literally with San Jacinto Plaza as well, keeping the Logartos by Luis Jimenez in the center.
 but also having a more contemporary plaza still staying true to the plaza roots. So just want to say thank you again to you, to Mr. Foster, to your entire team for continuing to invest in El Paso. And what a great, great day this is for our past, present, and future.
 Thank you, Representative Swartzvine and Mayor Leaser and everybody on council. Thank you all very much for your support on this project. Paul, Mr. Foster is out of town today and couldn't be here but he's very much aware of everything that's going on here today and is very appreciative of your support for what we believe is gonna be a wonderful project as well.
 Thank you. And I think it's important, you know, we talk about downtown, but I think it's important that investments in downtown really helps the whole community and it helps the whole city.
 And as you see the city continue to grow, you know, in every district and in every area that, you know, you have a focal point, which is downtown. And it's really important to continue to develop. But it really helps develop the whole city and it energizes our whole community. And that's, I think, something that's important as we continue to invest in our city.
 We couldn't agree more with you and we love the energy that downtown has, not just for entertainment in the evenings and whatnot, but the business energy that's beginning to develop where you have the largest concentration of professionals throughout the city and collaboration and synergy and imagination and ideas taking place all the time on the streets, at the restaurants, in all the little nooks and crannies of downtown. So we're super excited about it.
 of that yes sir thank you for that thank you representative lundis followed by represents
 Thank you, Mayor. I share a lot of the sentiments of Mayor Schwartzbein. Thank you for that recap. Similarly to what you had mentioned, your time in council, I spent almost every summer in downtown when I was young when my mother worked in downtown. She worked in downtown for over 25 years. And so every summer we had an opportunity to visit all of the shopping centers and historic buildings and the Crest Building was one of them.
 that I had a great admiration for. And so I really what I just wanna mention today, Mr. Kell and to the Franklin Management Investment Group is to thank you for your belief and for your commitment to downtown El Paso and to the city of El Paso for the philanthropy and the investment that Mr. Foster has made for our community. I couldn't be prouder to support this item today
 It is critical that the city supports these economic development agreements because but for that investment that you all are making in the Crest Building, we would not be able to achieve a lot of those sales taxes and taxes, property taxes. So thank you and we welcome that in the future. And please consider more collaboration with the city of El Paso when you look at future projects. Thank you, Mr. Cale for being here today. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. And you didn't see anybody. Thank you for your comments.
 Thank you. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say that this project is going to be a great addition to downtown. As well as my colleagues, I shared a lot of memories in the Crest building. I used to get on the bus and the highlight was McDonald's Crest and then the Plaza del Algarco.
 truly love it really brings me a lot of memory so I'm going to be happy to go support it and you know you're probably going to bring a lot of memories back to me so that's going to be great and more importantly as a small business owner and a person from El Paso I think it's important for the public sector and I want to thank Mr. Foster for those investments that he's doing in our community and you know to have that vision and to execute it with
 their own dollars and so i think that that's great um it also adds uh jobs and it stimulates us economy our economics so i just wanted to say thank you so much for the investment and i am excited waiting for this to come to life thank you thank you represent us see the representative rodriguez followed by representative molinari
 Thank you. I too am very excited. As you all might be shocked to know that I have a deep admiration for historic preservation and architecture. So this is beyond exciting for me. Thank you all for your investment. You know, you have my support. Any type of historic preservation project, you have my support 100 percent. I want to share that growing up.
 My great-grandmother, actually when she was growing up, she used to live in Juarez, and there was no air conditioning where she lived. So she would cross the bridge every day, every morning, and she would hang out at the Crest Building all day long at the stores to be able to enjoy the air conditioner, because there wasn't any where she used to live. So that was just a little story I wanted to share with you all. And these are the types of memories that you all are bringing back to life. So thank you once again. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Representative Molinar?
 Thank you very much mayor and mr. Higgs. Thank you very much for a great presentation and everything you do for us and to the people from Mr. Paul Foster's group. Thank you very much We're going down memory lane this morning and I would be remiss if I didn't remember my mother my the late Anita Molina And so there was times where the crest just that word vamos a la crest That's all you had to say that meant you got dressed up. I
 You went on the bus and you went downtown. Or they'd say, vamos a la placita. But even if you went to the placita, you went downtown to the Cres to eat that cheeseburger, to get the cider fries, get unlimited ketchup, whatever, and you would be followed by an ice cream sundae or ice cream soda or something like that. It was a joy, an absolute adventure. And, of course, you know, I was the one that had to carry the bags of whatever my mom bought.
 So, but it was fun. So the word CRES is synonymous with El Paso. It's just like I said, going down memory lane and it's all positive. So we thank everyone for their hard work and dedication making this happen and I will support it. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Rivera.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. I think it's pretty well said. Has already been well said by my colleagues here because there are a lot of memories there. I just hope you bring back the baskets with the big old Butterfingers and polar bear ice and chocolate candy that were within reach of a child. So those are great. I, too, want to thank you all for your investment.
 not only downtown, the whole El Paso area, that you are present. And so I just wanna echo what was said earlier. Please keep investing in our community to make it a better one and a greater one. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, I do wanna mention that
 I sold ladies shoes across the street or Baker shoes for many years and a lot of y'all probably don't remember that and We would walk across the street and have you know dollar breakfast almost every day and and sit there and eat the Macquarie tacos so
 I'm looking forward to hoping that you'll keep that in there and we'll be able to go from here over there. But I think there isn't anybody in El Paso or any family that you could talk to that doesn't have memories of the iconic building, the things that happened in downtown. So it's always important to preserve your history. And as they were talking about it, I remember going out over there and,
 we would get a flour tortilla, beans, a hot dog and mustard. So that was the breakfast every morning we had. So again, it was a lot of work.
 it brings a lot of memories, but I think not just the council, to the whole community. And I think you could spend the rest of the day talking to just anybody you wanna talk to, and they'll have memories of El Paso downtown. So again, when we invest in our community, we invest in downtown, we invest in all of El Paso, and we invest and widen the memories that will live on forever. So thank you for that. Ms. Trigg.
 That's all I have so Yes mayor the motion was made by mayor pro tem Schwarzman seconded by representative I know to approve on that motion call for the vote Representative at non this you're on mute. Yes. Thank you representative Lee's Attica. Thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 Do you have a motion to recess for press conference? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the meeting is in recess at 1039 a.m. for a press conference. If I could get all of council to. By the El Paso Central Appraisal District.
 And council IT if you'll please bring up the presentation for the central appraisal district. My name is Nicole Cody I'm the director of management and budget and today we'll have Ms. Diana Kilgore and David Stoner here to present on property valuations as requested by council. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Thank you for having us. This is a busy time for us trying to get you guys your preliminary role so you can start working on your budget. So we won't take up too much of your time. Ms. Cote had a couple of questions that she wanted us to address with the Council. Again, my name is Dinah Kilgore. I am the Executive Director of the El Paso Central Appraisal District here in El Paso, Texas. This is David Stone. He is the Assistant Chief Appraiser for the Appraisal District here in El Paso County.
 So, let's start with what is mass appraisal. We have sent out a gazillion notices. We'll be sending out some more. Totally probably about 430,000 notices are going to be going out this year. That's a little bit more than last year. We're doing a total reappraisal.
 And why are we reappraising? Because the market is changing. We reappraised last year, we'll reappraise this year, and probably again next year. Market is going up. As the market goes up by state law, property tax code, we must follow the market. We must be at 100% of market value. We're not allowed to incrementally raise values.
 We're not allowed to ignore values. We do not do fee appraisals. We do mass appraisal. What mass appraisal is, is we are appraising or valuing a group of properties, a universe of properties using models, statistics, using common standards, a methodology to come up with an average for an area.
 We will look at all of that information. We will analyze it. We will test it and we will come up with average values for specific areas and qualities of houses, quantities of houses, different types of houses. We gather all of that data again every year and when we do, we're going to review it and test it just like we would anything else. Now, what is an advantage of mass appraisal?
 If we were to do individual fee appraisals on every single residential house here in El Paso County, there's about 230,000 of those, let's say on the cheap end it was $300, it's more than that now for an appraisal, it would cost close to $70 million and would take decades.
 So, state legislators and throughout not just Texas, but throughout the country and different states have adopted mass appraisal. Mass appraisal is part of the uniform standards of professional appraisal practices that we must follow. So, we are allowed to look at mass appraisal and adjust values accordingly depending on what we see in an area. Now, that's why it's very important for people to protest because we will not know
 that they have avocado appliances and chag carpet. We will not know that they have foundation damage because we're looking at their neighborhood as a whole. So that's why it's very important and why we want people to protest. Now there's some disadvantages of mass appraisal. Property owners are not required to provide sales or income information. State of Texas is a non-disclosure state.
 Property owners do not have to tell us Texans are really funny They do not want to tell anybody anything about their private business. So we do not get sales information We're not part of the multiple listing service that the Realtors have
 So, trying to get that individual information, it's during the protest season that we receive that. So, people say, well, how can you repraise if you don't get that information? We do a lot of due diligence. We look at deeds. We look at promissory notes. We talk to financial institutes. We talk to brokers, mortgage companies, realtors to find out what's going on in the market of real estate here in El Paso County.
 Now, not only that, but media. Media has been very active. Why? Because the market has been very active. We've been able to see homes selling overnight, bidding wars going on, people paying a lot more than what the appraisals come in at. So we have been very good with our ear to the grind, ear to the ground, to make sure we hear what's going on and to research all of that information.
 We've got an annual tax calendar. It's a little misleading because it starts with January and it talks about the appraisal phase of appraisal districts. Our phase of appraisal actually begins during the protest season when we're gathering data from the property owners as they come in and they submit their individual information. Our field work begins in July and August.
 When we're out there picking up new permits, picking up new construction, doing rechecks on property, looking at new subdivisions, checking agriculture. What was agriculture may not be. It may be sold to a developer. All of that has to be done. So that actually starts several months before your January 1 date. Then of course we send out the notices in April and that starts our protest season. Our protest season goes from April, May, June, July, and probably into August this year.
 Now that does not mean that's the only time to protest. That's the only time to timely file a protest. Any other time of the year, a property owner can file what they call a late protest, but it's very restrictive on who qualifies for that. So this is the time for property owners. And at this point, I'm going to remind everybody, May 16th is the deadline to file a timely protest.
 or 30 days from the date of your notice. So if you don't receive a notice to the end of this month, you have 30 days, which will take you past the May 16th, and that's fine. Say you missed your deadline. Up until the time the Appraisal Review Board, that's a board of citizens made up just like you guys, they're made up of citizens appointed by the local administrative judge to sit on quasi-judicial hearings to hear taxpayer versus the appraisal district,
 The chairman of that board can allow for a protest up until the point of July 20th when they have to turn the records back over to the appraisal district. There has to be cause. So what would constitute good cause to be able to say I didn't file on the 16th when it was due? Being in the hospital. A death in the family.
 something that created an issue beyond your control. Luckily, we don't have that issue here, but say a tornado, hurricanes, things like that. So that does happen. And then they have the assessment phase, which is when you guys come in and actually start having your rate hearings, your tax rate hearings, and start talking to the public about what your rate should be and setting your rates. Then the bills go out in October, and that's our collection time. Not ours, but the Consolidated Tax Office.
 Again, let me remind everybody out there the appraisal district has nothing to do with taxes. We set the values we apply exemptions we have a set of maps that are used throughout the county by all different types of government entities and individuals The only thing we do not do in this whole process is set the rates send the bills and collect the taxes. I
 So let's go in and look at the City of El Paso's numbers this year. It's a little hard to read on this, but overall, your estimated numbers, now your preliminary roll will go out the end of this month, the end of this week, actually. And that will give you your preliminary numbers. Then we have all the hearings, and then you'll get your certified final values on the 25th of July. Now I say final values, it'll be final values up to that date, but that number continues to change.
 as further protests are being heard. Because only 95% of the protests will be heard by that date.
 So as protests are heard, or as people file for exemptions that they're entitled to, that number will continue to go down all year long. Because people can file for exemptions in the middle of the year. They can file for late exemptions. I didn't file for my homestead last year, can I still file? Yes you can. You can file for two years back. So that will change your role. Right now we're talking about a taxable value for 2022 of about $46 billion. Add almost $12 billion on top of that,
 That's actually your assessed values, but you've got about $12 billion in exemptions that are being applied here in the City of El Paso. Those are your homesteads. You're over 65. You're disabled. You're disabled veterans that qualify. So those exemptions are applied. We've got some numbers now talking about taxable values. I'm going to turn it over to David Stone and let him go over the numbers with you.
 All right, council. These are some graphs showing the increase in various property categories from comparing 2021 to 2022. These are the final 2021 values as of right now, but as Dinah said, these numbers constantly change, especially due to lawsuits.
 As you can see overall, the city's 2021 value is about 39 and a half billion dollars. We're going up to 46 billion dollars this year. That's overall. As far as residential property, for 2021 you're at 23 billion dollars. We're going up to 27 billion dollars. So that's a four billion dollar increase just in residential property.
 For commercial property, we're going from just under eight billion up to nine billion. Now another aspect of this graph that's kinda hard to pick out is we're comparing new construction.
 We're going up over six billion dollars in total value, but the new construction only accounted for half a billion of that. So most of this increase is coming from appreciation on existing properties. It's not coming from new development or new construction. As you can see on all three of these categories, the new construction is actually pretty minuscule compared to the overall value.
 On the next slide, we're showing, these are the percentage increases. Overall, we're looking at about a 16.33% increase. Of that, 1.29% was new construction. On residential properties, we're looking at a 17.28% increase. About 1.07% of that is new construction. On commercial properties, we're looking at a 14.74% increase.
 And about one and a half percent of that is new construction. Some additional category values. We've got multi-family, which includes apartments and duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes. They're increasing almost a billion dollars this year. And 10 million of that was new construction.
 Business personal property is going up about 100 million, but these business personal property values are not really finalized for 2022 because the property owners had until April 16th to file their renditions on their business personal property. So we're still processing those. So the business personal property values are in flux
 And all other property categories is going up about $200 million with about $113 million of that is new construction. The percentages on these multifamily are going up 41.35%. The new construction was less than half a percent.
 The business personal property has gone up 6% so far. About half a percent of that is new construction. And all other properties went up about 5.73%. And 3.42% of that was new construction. This next...
 The next slide is a map of what we call the market areas of El Paso County, relevant to the city. A and B are on the west side, C is the northeast, D is central, and E and F are the east side. If you look at the next slide,
 This side is showing what the level of appraisal was before we reappraised for 2022. So these are based on the January 1st, 2021 values and compared to all the sales that we picked up in the year of 2021 after the January 1st date. So as you can see on the west side, we were at 77% of market value.
 In the northeast, we were at 85% of market value. In the central area, we were at 69% of market value. And on the east side, we were at 79% of market value. So as you can see, we are well below market value. We had a large increase last year, and we need another large increase this year to remain at market value. Some people say, well,
 Why do you care if we're at market value? Well, number one, it's required by state law, but probably even more importantly is the school districts, we get audited by the Comptroller's Office of the State of Texas every two years. If we're not at at least 95% of market value, the school districts can get penalized on any state aid that they receive.
 So it's very important for us to be at 100 as close to 100% as we can get so that the school districts can be assured of receiving the maximum amount of state aid to which they're entitled. David brought up some good points that I would like to remind the board on. We are mandated by state law to be at market value as of January 1.
 We need to be within 95% to be what they call confidence level. If appraisal district is not at that point, then a study is done and we're put in a grace period, which then again, we have to meet mark it the following year. We have to meet it every year.
 If we do not bring it back up, then the state starts penalizing school districts by changing their funding formulas. So it's very, very important to the school districts and taxing entities that we be at market value. Okay. Another thing I'd like to remind everybody is when we talk about protesting and filing a protest and we're talking about the deadlines and what to bring in, let me remind everybody that,
 single-family homesteaded properties, it is your homestead, it is your primary residence, cannot go up more than 10% in the number in which the tax rate is applied to.
 The market value of that property can go up as high as the market is, but the property owner is only going to pay 10% higher than what they paid the year before, and that was set by state legislation. That is only on homesteaded property. So we try to remind everybody, if that's your home, then you can homestead that. File your homestead. Don't pay somebody to file it for you. If you can't come to the office, give us a call. We'll work with you. Our forms are online, and we can do that for you.
 When we're talking about the market, as everybody knows, supply and demand, there is a nice, strong, healthy demand for homes. There's a very low supply of homes here. We're less than a month's worth. I think at one point this past year, we were less than a day's worth of supply of homes here in El Paso County.
 So, with that demand being very healthy and very high and supply being low, why is supply low? Well, there's not a lot of materials, so trying to build a home. Workforce, trying to have the workforce to build the homes. So, there's a lot of factors that we've had to look into. So, let's look at the deadline or the protest. We want to tell everybody there's many ways in which you can file a protest.
 When we sent the notices, there is information, there is a protest there, a notice of protest that you can fill out and mail in. You can bring it in and we'll help you fill it out. We're not going to tell you what value it should be because you have your own ideas. But you can bring it in, we'll help you fill it out.
 You can now do a digital notice of protest. You have a QR code on your notice and in the instructions. You can scan that with your phone or your handheld device, and then it will pop up and some of the little areas will be filled in with the information, and then you just fill in the other boxes, hit send, and it's digitally filed.
 There's also called an e-file. There is instructions in your notice of value that tells you how to file an e-file. The only thing that's required by state law is a formal hearing with the appraisal review board. Again, those are citizenry made up and appointed by, made up of the county. The only restriction is no delinquent taxes and you had to be here for two years. Oh, and you can't be related to anybody on the appraisal district.
 So the judge, local administrative judge, appoints those folks. That is your formal hearing. Informally, you can come in once you get your appointment letter, any time to talk to an appraiser up until your formal date. An e-file is considered your informal hearing.
 You do not come in to see an appraiser. It was set up for people to be able to go on the e-file, look at the evidence, we'll give them an offer. If you don't like the offer, then just don't sign, but be sure and be there for your formal hearing. So there are some multiple ways in which you can file a protest and which you can come in.
 There's also other remedies. Once you come in and you file your protest, you disagree with the appraiser, you go to the appraisal review board, you disagree with appraisal review board, you can then also have arbitration or you can go to district court and both of those cost.
 And arbitrators are appointed by the comptroller's office to look at the evidence and come up with what they feel like is the correct value. If you go through arbitration, that is what you end up with. We don't want anybody to have to do that. We don't want anybody to have to pay money. So come and talk to us. Bring us in your information. If there's something wrong with your properties, we're not going to know about it. Again, mass appraisal.
 We do go out, we look at permits, we look at sales activity. Some areas of the county will be boots on the ground and we will look at every single property. We divide the county up.
 I want you to tell you there's over 430,000 parcels, there's over 1,000 square miles, and I have the same number of staff that I've had for decades. So we use a lot of electronic means to help us to look at all the properties. There is part of the statutes and the tax code that we must look at every property at least once every three years and take a measurement of that property. So it's a lot of work to do, but again, we miss things.
 We make mistakes. I know everybody thinks we're you know, these wonderful people who never make mistake I would like to say we are but we're not and so we want people to come in and tell us now There's some new legislation that's coming up for vote on May 7th
 that I wanted to bring up to the council members so that you can remind your constituents to vote. One of them has to do with upping the amount of a homestead that is granted by a school district on a piece of property. This is your regular homestead. This isn't the over 65 or disabled. Right now, anybody who owns their home, lives in it, gets a $25,000 value reduction off of the value, and then the tax rate is applied to that.
 In this legislation, they're looking at raising it to 40,000. Okay? So the notices that people got were not showing that 40,000. They're only showing the 25.
 But if that 40,000 is passed by the voters on May 7th, then of course that will be what the bill will be based off of. There's also another constitutional election having to do with compressing tax freezes to reflect the reduction in the school district's maintenance and operation. Now that is, that's their rate, and that is for people who are over 65 and have that exemption or who are disabled and have that exemption.
 So that being said, I think we're pretty much at the end. I believe we answered all the questions that Ms. Nicole Coates sent us that we needed to address. Does council have any questions for myself or Mr. Stone? Yeah, we have a couple council members signed up. I do have a question. You talk about a 10% homestead. So your taxes did not go up more than 10% that particular year, but they'll continue to go up 10% a year until you meet –
 Do you mean the market? Correct. Oh, yeah, the market comes down? I just wanna make sure that people understand that the 10% is only for this year, and then next year could be another additional 10% if you don't reach the appraised value or the value that you have set on their home. Correct. We set a market value and then we set an appraised value. Market value is whatever the market is. And if it continues to go up 15, 16%, you will go up 10% every year. If that market value stables,
 or starts to come down, then your assessed value, the value that they apply the tax rate to, will meet that market. So one year, you may only have a 5% increase because you're getting closer to that market. And then at some point, you'll be equal with it. I just wanted to make sure that people knew that just because you get 10% this year, it doesn't mean you're not going to get an extra. Correct. Thank you, Mayor. And also, you said you didn't set the taxes.
 Correct. Can you explain that a little bit? The appraisal district does not set the tax rates. The different taxing entities set the tax rate. The schools, the cities, the county community college hospitals, your special services district. And how they set that rate is
 what they do, not what we do, but it is based on what expenses the city has or what expenses the county has. What services does the community need that the schools or the cities or counties need to meet? And so that's what they look at during that assessment time period when the cities and the counties and the other districts are looking at what expenses do they have
 and what revenue are they going to need to meet those expenses. The tax rate is set based on as the values go up, the tax rate should come down to generate the same amount of revenue as the year before, and then you apply the new construction. Well, as you notice on the numbers that David Stone was talking about, we had a very small amount of new construction this year, which is rarely rare. We are hoping to see more.
 more uptick in the permits so I do not envy the taxing entities this year on when they get into the rate hearings appraisal district has nothing to do with that do you have I don't know we sitting shares that quite often the percentage of the dollar that split between all taxing and any no sir we do not have that okay since we don't have anything to do with the tax rates we don't we don't keep that information thank you with that mayor Pro Tem
 followed by Representative Salcido, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for all the hard work you do on behalf of our community. Are you able to bring up the slide that shows the different market areas by any chance? I'm not controlling it, somebody else is. Oh, there we go. So how are these, oh, that's the, how are these market areas decided? They're decided by school districts.
 Basically they came from the MLS divisions of El Paso at the time we originally created them. The multiple listing service had divided the city up into these areas and we just used the same boundaries that they were using. And for outside of the city limits we basically go by school district. When was that map originally?
 In the 80s. 2008 or something like that. 2008 or the 80s or something? Yes. How would that be updated or are you guys looking at updating that? The map, since we look at neighborhoods more than market areas, we'll look at each neighborhood.
 So it really doesn't affect. It's a way of us being able to tell you what's going on in a certain part of town. But that's not how we appraise. We do appraise by the neighborhoods and everywhere throughout the county. So but it is a way for us to be able to give you some idea. Has it ever been updated before? No, not since we've had it.
 Okay, because I'm just looking at it. It seems like some of them kind of bunch groups and parts of our city together that are not really a lot. Again, it doesn't have anything to do with
 It doesn't have anything to do with the way we appraise because we appraise every part of the county Uh-huh every year and we look at sales in every part of the county and every part of the district. So It's not how we appraise but it is a way for us to be able to give people They wanted to get a data of what we saw in different parts of the city And that was the only way we could do that. Can you go to the next slide by any chance? So this is
 This is the 21 values. So D actually has a lower valuation, but it still went up overall? No, what that's showing is that the praised values in the EF region were at 79% of what the sales were.
 So if we compare every property that sold, the appraised value divided by the sales price, it's 79%. The median, what these numbers show is the median of all the sales in that area. So the median...
 What we call appraisal ratio was 79%. So that says that for every dollar that the property sold for, we were only appraising it at 79%. So like D, for example, actually has a lower, the lowest appraisal ratio.
 Yeah, that was the lowest ratio. This is based on numbers after all of the hearings. So when we go by the January 1 numbers, the numbers in January 1 of 2021 were based on after the hearings before we started making adjustments in 2022, we needed to look at where we ended up at the end of the year.
 after the protests, after the bills had gone out, after more exemptions had been applied to see where we are, to where we needed to be to be closer to that 95% of market value, or 100% of market value for this year, 2022. And then, maybe you can help the public because we have all heard about don't raise my taxes, property valuations are through the roof, and we tried to tell folks that the city of El Paso
 Number one is only 26% of your overall tax dollar. And then number two, the city is not on the CAD board or does not control the Central Players District Board. So just for edification purposes, can you just list who currently sits on the Passive Central Players District Board?
 Appraisal district boards of directors are made up of appointees by the taxing entities within their County So our board of directors has ten nine people on the board of directors they're made up of two representatives from the city two representatives from El Paso ISD a representative from the county representative from the Upper Valley Entities two representatives from the lower valley entities and a representative from a sled ISD. Do you know who those people are? I
 Sure. Okay. Let me see. You caught me off base here. Sorry. Commissioner David Stout is on our board for the county. For this city we have Ms. Jackie York and Mr. Tanny Berg. For El Paso ISD we have Mr. Freddy Kaleo Avalos and who's the new one? Oh, and Dr. Acevedo.
 For the Upper Valley, we just have a new one, Miss Cynthia Ramirez. For the Lower Valley, we have Walter Miller and Ed Minna. Okay, yeah, I think it's, again, we're entering into our budget season and obviously other entities are as well. So even though there's this separation, it's still what the work that y'all are doing directly impacts
 our residents, our constituents as well. So I think it's important to get this information here as well. So I do appreciate y'all coming here today, answering these questions and what you do for our community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Hey, where did, you made a comment earlier and then just kind of so we understand, you said that Texas is a non-disclosure state.
 So you're not disclosing any sales price, but you're using comparative sales price to get to the 100%. Where are you getting that information? Okay. Texas is a nondisclosure state, which means the Board of Realtors does not give us sales information. The property owners do not give us sales information. We do send out questionnaires and hope that we get responses from buyers and sellers. So where do we get that? From multiple sources.
 We talk to property owners when they have a sale or when they purchase a property to get their information. Most of that information comes in at the time of protests because they will give us their sales contract or they will give us an appraisal that will have comparable sales in there. We do a lot of research through deeds and promissory notes.
 We have different publications that we go to, Redfin is one, CoStar, there's quite a few different publications that we go to to look at sales. Now just because we get the sales, we have to verify those sales. We have to find out are they market transactions, were they sold between family members, and we all know selling between family members can either give you a really low value or a really high value depending on how that family member thinks about you.
 So we have to review those, we have to look at foreclosures. So there's a lot of data that we have to go through. So there's multiple sources, there's not just one source. What percentage of homes do you get that you set your value based on how many
 People disclose that information to you what percentage of the total number of homes that are Attached I couldn't tell you that because it's all part of a process It's not only sales, but it's the cost we look at the cost to build the home and the amenities of that home When it's businesses, we look more at the income because we don't hardly ever no no my question is what percentage of homes and sales price do you get based on a
 appraised number of homes. So if you have 400,000 homes you appraise, how many, I know Mr. Stone already has the answer, he's trying to say it. Go ahead, I'll stop. We have about 6,000 sales and there are about 33,000 detransactions during the year, so we're probably getting maybe like 20%. That's a lot less than 20%.
 We normally get anywhere from 5% to 10% when we send out questionnaires and we get the sales information. Yeah, I was going to say, if you're getting 33 and 6,000, it's 39,000, and you got 400,000 homes. Well, it's 6,000 out of the 33,000. Okay, so it's a very small percentage. I mean, so what percentage is that, Mr. Stone? You're catching us off guard.
 Less than 5%. Yes. When we do get information from folks, it's volunteers that come in and bring it in. When we send out questionnaires, for a while there we were getting about a 1 to 5% response. About 2.4%? 18%. 18%? Okay. Yeah.
 18% of the 33, not of the 400,000 homes. Correct. Correct. So out of the 400,000 homes you value. Oh, it'd be. Well, there's actually only about 230,000 homes. So what percentage? 230 includes all properties, not just residential. Sure. Includes commercial, agricultural, business, personal property, and undeveloped land. Yeah, we get about two and a half. That's what I said, 2.4, so I was close. And I only have 10 fingers, so I came close. Yeah.
 Good. So sales return is very minimal in getting sales information because Texas is a nondisclosure. And in the tax code, a property owner cannot call us and ask for a listing of all of our sales. The only time we're allowed by tax code to give out that information is once a property owner has filed a protest.
 then we're only allowed to give them the sales that were utilized in putting together the tables where we valued their properties from. And sometimes it's hard to find
 Your area because of the amount you received I've seen that okay So that's when we look at similarities and maybe have to use other sales from other areas and then make adjustments And all of this is done under the standard appraisal practices Using cost market and income approaches to value just like a fee appraiser would do But again, the fee appraiser has more access to data than mass appraisers. Thank you for that information Yes, sir
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you so much for the presentation, and thank you for the hard work you all do for our community. So I have a couple of questions. If you can just, for the public's benefit, explain what the mass appraisal process is. Again, mass appraisal is appraising properties in a universe. So instead of looking at an individual property,
 property, we're looking at a grouping of properties. We take data from whatever data we have, whether it's from an individual sale or multiple sales, or from the cost, what it costs to build a new subdivision. What did it cost that developer to build that house? Then we come up with what we call statistical models.
 So we've taken all of that data. I always kind of refer to it as putting it into one of those bingo balls and putting all that data in there and mixing all that data up. And then when the data comes out we're able to take that data and apply it on an average basis say a price per square foot to the home. So if we're looking at a neighborhood say Logan Heights.
 We're looking at all the data from Logan Heights. We're trying to determine what the homes are selling. They're based on the information that we have. Now, say Logan Heights did not have any data, we would go to a very similar neighborhood, use that data, and then see, do we need to adjust it for a location? We would not take information from parts of Chaparral Park, say, where you've got homes that are 300,000, and apply it to an area that had homes at 150,000.
 So that's something that we have to look at. Okay, and as you say Absolutely, but as you say you group them are you grouping them? Like if you don't have sufficient homes in an area, are you grouping them based on your map? No, no that map was just something that we used to be able to Show the council the differences within the city limits
 of what was changing. No, we do not use that map. When we're grouping them, we're grouping them by the category of the house. Is this a house that's around 1,500 to 1,800 square feet neighborhood? Excuse me.
 Is it central heating or does it have evaporative cooling? What are the amenities to the house? Does it have pool? Does it have a garage? Does it have a carport? And so we classify those properties and then we look at them to make sure the improvements are the same no matter where. When you build a house, it's basically the same cost to build. What changes it is where that property is located. And that's where we make our adjustments. Where is that land located? Okay.
 But a 1,500 square foot house is going to be basically built the same cost in one subdivision as another. One side of town, east side versus west side. What changes it is the location of the amenities. Are you near hospitals? Are you near schools? And that's what we have to look at. But basically we look at categorizing a home, a house, single family residence based on what it's made up of.
 Okay. Does that make sense? Yeah, absolutely. And then I just have one last question and it's more of a percentage question. Again, how many disclose from all the homes? You mentioned that some don't disclose. What's the percentage that does disclose the amount? Less than 1%. When we send out questionnaires to buyers and sellers.
 We'll get about 1 to 2% response back. It's very low. And the funny thing is many times we'll get one from a buyer and a seller and it will be totally different numbers because the seller considers certain amounts not part of the sale where a buyer will consider everything they paid as part of the sale. So sometimes there's some differences there. And so there, what's the determination if you, which one do you choose the?
 Buyers or the sellers? Well, we have to be equal in uniform, so we'll look at what we're using with everybody else. OK.
 Thank you for answering all my questions. I'm looking forward to having you in my community meeting. We are excited. We've already been in Representative Rivera's community meeting. We have you and Representative Hernandez coming up. We're very excited about it. No, thank you. Representative Molinar at his breakfast meeting. The community has a lot of concerns and we know that you will walk them through the process and that's exactly what needs to happen so we appreciate all your hard work. Thank you. Yes, thank you. And we are open, have been open this entire time.
 We did only close for a couple of weeks when COVID hit. We're there to help the public. The public does not have to pay somebody to do that. We are there to help them. Whether it's filing for exemptions, trying to find a map, or not understanding the protest process, we'll be happy to walk them through it. I have Representative Nevada followed by Representative Molinar. You talked about, you said, if we don't know whether you have XYZ inside your home, so
 so that could give you less value on your home. But once that is updated, then the value will go back up.
 It could. Now, right now we're finding that a lot of homes that are in disarray are selling just as much as homes that have everything. So we'd have to look at the market, but on an average market, yes, if something was wrong we would be able to discount it. Say you took out permit to do a lot of work and you hadn't done the work yet, you're having to totally replace your plumbing or your electrical, then we would be able, based on the information the property owner brings in, the estimates and the pictures. Pictures say a thousand words.
 That is such a good expression because we need to see that. But then the following year, we've got to take into consideration you've had a permit for a year, it's been done. If it hasn't, you'll need to notify us again in trial protest. Yes, sir. Thank you for that. Representative Rivera. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you for the presentation again.
 You brought up multiple listing and I didn't catch the other one. But I didn't know what it was for and I don't recall you mentioning it the day we were at the community meeting. What is that for? Multiple listing service. When you're a realtor and you become a member of the board of realtors, you normally become a member of the multiple listing organization there. And realtors then have access to all of the listings and all of the sales that are going on within the county. Appraisal district does not have access to that.
 We have been trying to get access to that but we've not been allowed to have access to that We've offered to pay to be members But we're still in negotiations with them. We're still trying to get that information, but realtors will have that information appraisal districts do not
 The state comptroller's office will be able to get that information. It's amazing how somebody will tell the state something that they won't tell the county. And yet the state is the one that does the property value study that Mr. Stone talked about where they do a racial study.
 and they do a stratification of values within counties to see if we meet that 95% confidence level. And they'll have sales information that was given to them that was not given to appraisal districts. So multiple listing service is part of the Board of Realtors that realtors and fee appraisers can sign up and pay for and have access to. Okay. Thank you. And the other question I was going to ask, but it had already been asked, is regarding the formula for the homestead, but you already answered that again. Sure.
 Now is there a difference between square footage between the city and the county? No. And if so, they're all the same? Yes. What is the cost? Well you mean you're talking about square footage of a home? Yeah, right.
 Square footage of a home is different with each home. Even a tract home may be a little bit different. We measure from the outside. We don't go inside. If it is a new improvement that we're working on and we knock on the door and nobody's there and it's new, then we will possibly look in the windows. If it is a new improvement, we can't tell that somebody's living in there.
 The reason being is there's a lot of lofts that we don't want to put a two-story as a total two-story when it's not. But square footages are different. You've got houses in the county that have 4,000 or 5,000 square feet, the same as with certain areas of the city. And you have properties in the county that have 800 square feet. So it's all different. And so we all look at it. We don't classify a house that has 800 square feet the same as we classify a house that has 4,000 square feet.
 It's all the different characteristics of that piece of property that we look at. Okay. I hope that answered your question. Yes, I sure did. Thank you. Because I thought there might have been a difference between the city and the county in square footage. No, thank you. We treat everybody the same in the County of El Paso. Everybody.
 And that's the way it works for the legislative? Yes. Right. Yes, we have to be equal there. Again, we divide everybody depending on what their characteristics are, but everyone is given the same opportunity. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Mr. Gonzalez, you have that number? Okay. Thank you. Representative Molinar? Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Kilgore, Mr. Stone, thank you very much for coming out here. I know you're very busy during this year or this season, this time right now. I'd like to thank you for coming out here but also mentioning that the special election that is being held on Saturday, May 7th. So not to confuse voters, during the month of May there will be two separate
 elections, the special election on Saturday, May 7th, and of course the primary runoff election on Tuesday, May 24th. And so what you're talking about is the two constitutional amendments, Proposition 1 and Proposition 2, and they both will be tax savings to the homeowners, correct? Correct, Representative. All right. But I would encourage everyone to come out and exercise your right to vote.
 Do your research ask questions? But please if you can go out there and vote and of course early voting for right now for the May 7th election is Ongoing so please I encourage you to vote You're only doing your disservice to yourself if you don't vote, you know The 25,000 increase to 40,000 helps you as the homeowner. Thank you. Correct. I
 And if I may say, Council Members and Mayor, is I've been in this business for a long time. I've been in it over 40 years. And most of the chief appraisers that I deal with in the state of Texas have had just as much experience, if not a little bit more. And this is the first time we've ever seen a market like this. We had COVID.
 COVID hit and then we started seeing homes selling overnight. We started seeing huge market changes in the home values. Even when we had our increases in values back in 2006, 2007, 2008 was not like this. Even when we lost values based on the foreclosures with the Ritz was not like this.
 This is something very unusual for communities and for appraisal districts. So that being said, throughout the state we're going to be watching this. We're going to be watching legislation to see what they do.
 And you'll be seeing reappraisals to follow the market, whether up, down, or static. We're going to follow it because if the market takes a drastic turn or even a slight turn, we want to make sure the citizens get that decrease immediately and not wait. So when people ask us, well, you only have to reappraise every three years,
 Well, yes, within every three years we have to look at every single property. They give us a three-year time period. But every year we have to be at market value. And with market doing what it is, unprecedented, unheard of, we will be following it very closely. Not only to help the taxpayers, property owners, but the taxing entities. Thank you, Representative Saucedo.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just actually have another question. When you mention in the protestor, their properties, how long is that like that for? The process, well, they have to file their protest timely, which is May 16th or 30 days from the date on their notice, depending on whichever is the later date. Once we receive that, then we will send them an appointment letter as to when their time is for their formal hearing.
 Say they filed on May 16th and they got a letter saying they're scheduled for June 4th.
 Any time between that, they can come in and see an appraiser informally, one on one. We can sit down and talk, show everybody our information. Or they can just show up May 4th for their formal, I mean, June 4th for their formal hearing. We will be having hearings. 95% of all the protests filed are supposed to be heard by July 25th, so that we can turn an appraisal role over to the taxing entities as a tax roll, and they can start using that. Now, we'll be sending monthly updates.
 to all of the financial folks and all of the taxing entities so they'll see what's happening every month. So the protest time could go months.
 But there is a deadline for us to try and get 95% of that done by July 25th. And so if the taxpayer, they prevail and they lower their amount, do they, if they want to protest again, can they the next year or how does that work? They can protest every year if they want to. Even if their value doesn't go up, the following year and they say, you know, just as a matter of principle or I want to see what's going on, yes, they can protest every year by May
 May 15th is a normal date, but since it's on a Sunday, it's May 16th. Yes, you can protest every year. And a lot of people will. We tell everybody, look at your notice. We have a great website with a lot of information on there, epcad.org. Go to the property search. Check your property. Things happen. Glitches happen. Check your property. That's our responsibility as property owners to make sure everything is correct.
 And I promise the last question just because it's great. I know this is going to be the last question. So what is the average appraised value for the city and the county? We don't have those numbers right now. We're presently calculating them to go out on Friday. Okay. Thank you. Your mayor and your city manager and your financials will get that information and they'll be able to see what the average home value is in the city limits.
 then of course we'll have it for the county your tax assessor collector miss pacillas will get it for all of the taxing entities in El Paso so thank you so much for answering all the questions and all your hard work thank you and I figure you'll have more when we come visit you I hope so thank you we're still not done
 Yeah, we're not done yet. I did get the dollar breakout from Mr. Gonzalez, and thank you for that. The school district is 43%, city's 29%, the county UMC is 23%, and EPCC is 5%, the roundup of dollar. So that's the breakout. And with that, I have Representative Hernandez. Hernandez, then Rodriguez. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mr.
 Ms. Kilgore for being here today. I was just curious about the the number of lawsuits because I know there was a concern when the bill first passed at the state regarding how you know folks can recoup those taxes after you know the the tax rate has been set. So I think we're like two years or maybe a year and a half into that to those new proposed changes.
 And so I'm just curious if that's impacted your ability to provide those preliminary figures that you see like a huge variance from from what you all predicted and then what you all had to redact and property values. And what are the challenges moving forward in this upcoming tax year with with those lawsuits.
 Well, basically right now we have about $3.5 billion of value under lawsuit.
 And you all have a role of, what, $49 billion, so it's a small percentage that is under lawsuit. Property owners are allowed to file. They go before the Appraisal Review Board, have a hearing. If they disagree or even if the tax agent or the attorney wants to earn some more money, they can file a lawsuit. We've got about just under 1,400 lawsuits filed.
 Accounts and years is about 2,000 if you add up multiple years of these lawsuits. It is something that we work on constantly, yearly, but it is a small percentage. So it did not come into effect, Representative Hernandez, with the valuation process.
 Okay, great. Great. And then you may have mentioned this, and I just want to reconfirm, there were large taxing property owners that you all come with to an agreement, you know, before you go into lawsuits and settlements. Is that still something that you adopted this year? And have you seen any challenges with getting any of those businesses to commit to a number to that value to their respective business?
 No, ma'am. We've been very lucky. The new owners of the refinery have worked with us every year, and Amazon is working with us to come up with numbers that we can agree on so that we can what we call finalize them and sign off on them so there won't be any lawsuits. So we have been very lucky. So you predict that that will be the same case for this year? Yes, ma'am. That will be. Okay.
 Well, that in itself is definitely something worth commending you and your team on, because, you know, these changes do have drastic impacts to tax and entities. But overall, I just wanted to thank you for your commitment to our community, to the work that you're doing and implementing the state's tax code. And I know that's not
 an easy job, so I just wanted to thank you for your public service and your team's public service. And thank you for being here. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez, and then I think we're done, and again, and I echo everyone's thoughts. Thank you for being here and taking both your time. Thank you, Mayor. Representative Rodriguez.
 Yes, thank you again for being here. I know you all are here on an annual basis, so I appreciate you being here once again. I only have a quick question I should say. Mayor, if you could, or Mr. Gonzalez, forward me that same information of the tax breakdown, please. Yes, ma'am. Yeah, that is all. Thank you. I think she was referencing the reports that we get for the budgeting process. Yes. We'll forward all of those documents. Yes, thank you.
 Senate thank you again, and I know you Your business isn't just about to begin. Thank you for having us. We always want to come and educate the public and educating the public works through City Council members and County Commissioners and so we appreciate you having us and I know your business season It's only 12 months out of the year. So that's not too bad That's about right Thank you. Take care
 Yes, Mayor, it is now noon, so we may move to call to the public.
 Thank you. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attack against a person or group's character or integrity, which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic...
 that's been brought forward be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have six members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Wally Sheck. She will be followed by Renee Corral, Paula Wright, Ron Como, Efrain Salcedo, and Jose Gaston Barriga. Ms. Sheck and Ms. Sheck's topic will be Right or Wrong, Save America. Oh ma'am, I haven't started the timer yet.
 Good afternoon, Mishek. I will now start the timer. Good day. God bless you, everyone. I hope you miss me as much as I did. Yes. Because I couldn't come. I had my car sticker not delivered in February when my thing run out.
 I called them up and they said they were overwhelmed with the work and it's on the way. And I said, what am I going to do if I drive the car and I get a ticket?
 He said, well, just tell them we're working on it and hope you don't get a ticket. And I could not drive to the bus station because I didn't want to take a chance to get a fine. But the reason I'm coming today, this is my last time I mention the cross. I have contacted the governor's office for two years.
 I never got an answer to my registered letter. I never got an answer to the phone calls when I called the secretary what's going on. But if the Texas governor does not accept the replica cross, there can be a monument
 for world peace, not as a memory from 9-11, then please get it as a national monument for world peace up at the mountain. Don't be surprised when I tell you that it can be done and have the cross as a memory for all our soldiers that lost in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 because of 9-11-1. And this is a 9-11-1 cross. This is the fifth cross. I paid over $10,000. I spent a whole year of my salary, of the income tax, of the army, and my social security on this project. So this is not a... I don't want to say it.
 I have been denied since 2006 because it's gross, okay? And please work as happy civilians. You don't have to do it at the cost of the city. I already have a widow.
 a friend who pays for the transportation to get across to Austin mr. mayor I try to get a hold of you I try to get a hold of you of you in phone I never got it please contact me thank you thank you the next speaker is Rene Corral followed by Paula Wright Ron Como Efrain Salcedo
 I never fix so if I don't want to hear nothing I use my life thank you miss thank you miss check mr. Corral topic is increase in loose dogs and El Paso and animal services concerns good afternoon mr. Corral you have three minutes good afternoon sir good afternoon thank you
 So I'm here today to please plead with our city council members and our mayor to look at the amount of loose dogs that have risen in our city. The amount of loose dogs is getting out of control. And it poses a grave safety threat to our community, to our children, and to the traffic by...
 increases in dog bites, dog attacks have been seen in the news, have been reported. The El Paso animal shelter has been ineffective for about two to three years, and a lot of it was due to COVID, but it's still being effective. They're always at full capacity. We need more animal control officers, qualified animal control officers, to look at the situation.
 Backyard breeding is also on the rise. We need animal control officers to enforce current laws. We need more free and low-cost spay and neuter programs.
 This is the city of El Paso, and it's looking bad when you see these dogs on the street. And again, this causes huge safety concerns for children. Just last week, there was a report on the news of a man that was severely mauled by loose dogs that are on the street. My ask is this.
 Please, please don't put this in the back burner. Look at what's happening with the increase in the amount of loose dogs. Take a look at the animal shelter. It's always at full capacity. And what's worse is that more and more of the responsibility is being placed on the public. When a good Samaritan finds a loose dog on the street, they call 3-1-1.
 And then what happens is that the city of the El Paso Animal Shelter puts the responsibility on the dog, on the person that found the dog, to keep the dog, to go to a cumbersome website, fill out all the information. And I know that the public has a responsibility, but the city does also.
 And we just cannot rely just on the public to keep these dogs for an extended amount of time. Sometimes these people have dogs of their own and they cannot keep them. So the only other alternative is to let that dog loose back out on the street where, again, it causes grave danger to the public, to our children, and to traffic. So please, my ask is this. Look into this because it is getting out of control. It is already out of control.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your time. The next speaker is Paula Wright followed by Ron Como, Efrain Saucedo and Jose Barriga. Ms. Wright's topic is animal services. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Hi. Good afternoon, everybody. Good afternoon. I am also here because of 311 and animal services.
 Currently the same people come and talk to you folks on a regular basis and I felt the need that I need to start showing up to. Since I've moved here in 2019 I've done TNR I've picked up stray dogs I've picked up lost dogs kittens cats everything else. So people like me need to get more involved and voice what's going on.
 There are many of us with concerns and I hope people start showing up more, more and more people. I've personally had more than I can count telephone conversations with both 311 and animal services where they were unwilling to help. They threw it back on me. They said to look for the owners, post on lost and found sites, contact rescues and they would give me a list of the rescues which I already had.
 And to take into my own home. And worst of all, I was told, put the dogs back on the streets. And in one case, it was two puppies. And where I live, they can't find their way back home. And the chances are they were probably dumped anyway. I can't take a ton of animals into my home because I have them myself. I can't risk bringing parvo and distemper into my home for my own animals. So, yeah.
 It was very tough for quite a long time trying to get help from both 311 and animal services. The whole situation became very alarming to me when I was walking my own dogs and was coming across loose and strays all the time. I have two examples here. This is my niece who was mauled by a stray dog loose on the streets. It was horrendous. This is my mother's dog, my mother who's 84, does TNR, a stray dog.
 got her dog, $5,000 to put her back together. So I watch where I walk my dogs because I cannot have stray dogs coming up to me and getting me or my dogs.
 We need to work as a community with animal services to get everything under control because right now it's horrendous Dogs are everywhere cats are everywhere puppies are everywhere Shelters are overwhelmed and I realize that the rescues are overwhelmed us fosters are overwhelmed and we're going broke Trying to take care of all these animals. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your time. The next speaker is Ron Como and
 He will be followed by Efrain Saucedo, Jose Barriga. Mr. Como's topic is animal services. Good afternoon, Mr. Como, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am, good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, City Council. Good afternoon, sir. I gave this to the young lady over here to give you all a copy of it. This was the PETA version of what we just, I had told you what happened a year ago about rescues becoming overwhelmed. I hope you read it. I'm back.
 Trying to get some kind of a conversation open between all of us and hopefully put on the agenda We need to do something about our facility. Our facility is inadequate it's inadequate because of all the stray dogs stray cats and the lack of Control by the animal services for the last two years you cannot leave unaltered unvaccinated strays on the street and not expect to have more and
 Everybody in rescue has mamas and puppies and we're not even into the season yet. Our shelter is over full. The shelter's too small. It was built a long time ago. We need to put this on the agenda to discuss getting a newer facility. It needs to be larger. We need to figure out what we're gonna do as far as getting more vets involved.
 but you're not going to get it in that facility. If you just graduated from school as a vet, would you want to work at El Paso Animal Services? I mean, I'd love to help, and I couldn't. The place is inadequate, and I can't say that and emphasize it enough, and it's our fault. We allowed unaltered, unvaccinated strays to run the streets of El Paso.
 Please put this on the agenda. Let's discuss the options. Let's do something about the problem I believe we have a direct a new director who is willing to do the job But we need to give him the tools to succeed that needs to happen with all of us working together We can't sit back and ignore the problem anymore for two years we have I have the shelter to lie about whether they were taking dogs in and
 If you guys look at Nathan Winograd, PETA of all people, New Jersey Animal Observer, they're major people on no-kill. They have condemned El Paso. They have condemned the Austin Pets Alive. We need to ban Paula Powell. We need to ban Ramon Herrera. We need to ban Austin Pets Alive, Best Friends, and Maddie's Fund. They're a danger to our community, to our strays. It's time.
 Votes, it's time. Let's get together. Let's go forward and fix this problem, please. The next speaker is Efrain Saucedo. He will be followed by Jose Barriga. Good afternoon. I hope you had a wonderful weekend. The first thing that I want to tell you, you probably don't understand me. I'm going to tell you why. Because one time I was at a beach, one of my troopers,
 He had flashbacks. He was asking for his medicines, and I was passing by. He was throwing a lot of elbows. So he elbowed me, knocked out my four upper tooth. And the security guards, since they know me, I'm a little popular over there. So they slammed me in the ground. When he woke up, he asked me, did I hit you, sir? I said, no, you didn't hit me.
 He told me, by you bleeding, by you not hearing me, about my lip, that's the reason I'm bleeding. I said, no, I hear you. I said, well, okay, you hear me, but it wasn't your intention to hear me, because I suffered a lot more than you did when I came from Vietnam. So the guards asked me, Mr. Roussel, do you want us to take him to jail? I said, no, no, no, let him go, let him go.
 go and take the doctor to jail. Don't take him. I'm like that. And the person like that. That's the reason. I'm telling you, they are working on fixing my teeth because the general doesn't have time for me because I'm real busy to fix my teeth. Now, I've been hearing a lot of problems. I don't have no dogs. I don't have no dogs.
 I knew some people had five dogs, and I asked him, why do you have all those dogs? They didn't say nothing. I mean, I'm here to clean El Paso, Texas, the capital of the world, and it's gonna be the cleanest city in the world. It's gonna be on me, and you guys politicians help me, and that's okay, and I'm gonna need you. But if you help me, you are very welcome. Now, Miss Kilmore,
 I've been knowing her for more than 30 years. That's a lie. That's a lie. When you protest, they help you. They don't help you. She just told me that Perez... Thank you, Mr. Salcedo. You've reached the three minutes. That Perez quit, and now he's going to be allowed there. I'll see you next time because I didn't talk about my... We'll see you in two weeks. You have a good day. Are we going to fix El Paso, the capital of the world? The next speaker is Mr. Barriga.
 Mr. Barriga's topic is photographing moments during the Mighty Mujer Triathlon. Good afternoon, Mr. Barriga. You have three minutes. I haven't had coffee yet, and everybody's coffee. OK, I'm sorry. I'm pretty serious about this. OK, good afternoon. My name is Jose Barriga. There are times that I actually get really motivated. I go to the city, and I take photos. And that's how I cope with everything.
 that I went through through my service. When I was going through the, I was going through the taking photos, I don't think that walking with this, the way that I look may seem suspicious. I think I've been dealing like this, Mr. Molinar has seen me since, like I would say like four years ago when I was at, yes, at the police station. But when I was in North Luna, Federal,
 Yeah, somebody took a photo of me. I take photos, nothing wrong with that. But then I start seeing faces, really strong faces. I didn't pay attention, kept taking the photos and move on. Then I go west and then I see a guy with a cowboy hat and almost naked.
 I mean, and I can guarantee you that was a police officer. But it's up to you for you to investigate that. And I had a sign. The only thing that I got concerned is because you got a 12-year-old girl that was participating. That's a shame. Kept going. And Alabama Federal, there was nothing but volunteers. And I can guarantee you they were officers because they were white. It seemed like they work at night. They didn't, you know, they were not military because they didn't have sun, you know, they were white.
 I'll give you a hint. The car, the only car that I saw right there was Charlie 18048. It was a police officer there. I took some photos, and then I moved on. I went south. Then everything started going south. Everything started going really, really, really bad. I felt like I was in Afghanistan. And I got a camera. I got a camera, and everything went through. And the police...
 You know, I can't explain what I was going through. And I take photos, and the way that it is, it was a white car coming through. It was a motorcycle with two persons. And I'm like, okay, hold on a second. This is surreal. This is people with bicycles, and then there's vehicles coming through.
 Didn't do anything, kept going. Then it's the guy that say, Tim Vera. And then this guy start moving forward when I'm going down. And then probably like when I'm going down, he's standing like this. And then it's a police officer just going down. I mean, I'm going to start wearing a vest. I'm sorry. You know, it's like I fear the way that they start acting. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Biden. Thank you.
 Thank you. Mayor, that concludes call to the public this afternoon. Thank you, Ms. Pratt. The next item on the agenda is item number 23, and this is discussion in action to direct the city manager to develop a fiscal year 2023 budget that includes a decrease in the overall property tax rate to minimize the financial impact on taxpayers and continue to execute the city's COVID-19 economic recovery plan. Perfect. This item was placed by Mr. Pratt.
 Representatives Salcido, Hernandez and Rivera. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. I wanna thank the Representative Rivera and Representative Hernandez for co-sponsoring this very important item for our community. I place this item on the agenda in order to direct the city manager
 to prepare a budget for the upcoming fiscal year that is based on a decrease in the overall tax rate to reduce the financial impact on taxpayers and continue to execute our COVID-19 economic recovery plan. While the city has nothing to do with the process of conducting those appraisals, we understand the impact that increasing property values can have on the next year's tax bill.
 And we want to do what we can to help those bills be more affordable for the citizens of El Paso. For the last two fiscal years, the city council has passed a flat tax rate with no increase. Last year, the city council unanimously approved an expansion of an exemption for the seniors and the disabled community, which provide additional tax savings and much needed tax relief to our 52,000 seniors and disabled homesteads.
 For this upcoming fiscal year, we want to look at going even further and lower the tax rate. I believe my colleagues' input and suggestions we can accomplish this. So today's just the start of this process, but I hope that I can have the support of the rest of my colleagues to accomplish this goal as we move through the budget season and eventually adopt a tax rate in August. Is that a motion? Thank you, Mayor. Making a motion? Motion to approve. Second.
 Representative Rivera followed by representative Vanilla Thank You mayor and I'd like to thank the representatives of CEDAW for placing this item on the agenda very well said and very well put I decided to co-sponsor this this item because I've also heard many concerns from my community my constituents and I've been paying attention to the concerns of those homeowners over the last two weeks or last week or about two
 Two, about increasing their property appraisals and believe that we as a council should provide them with some property tax relief as we continue to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. While the property appraisal is not determined by the mayor and council, we have the ability to provide property tax relief with our upcoming city budget. For the last two years, we as a council have voted not to increase the tax rate and have
 continue to have success in our everyday business. So we also were voted on a couple of exemptions expansions which were made early last year I believe by Representative Hernandez as well.
 I thank Representative Salcido again and look forward to working with you on hopefully getting the taxes and more relief for our senior citizens. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Inello followed by Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. You know, I absolutely support this item. I've said publicly many times with the program.
 the presentation that we just had and understanding I mean I think it was a seven billion dollar increases in property value it is needed I am a little concerned that it's a little premature since we don't actually have the numbers as we heard from the CAD we don't know what the protests are going to be we don't have the final numbers so I'll support this but just under the direction that city manager that you give us a comparison budget as well so we understand
 kind of all aspects of what that's looking at. And that's also looking at, you know, multiple reduction numbers too, because I know that with this item is, there is not a numerical amount of reduction that should be there. So I would like to see multiple reductions as well as full, just so we have a complete comparison and understanding. And I know that you already sent an email, but I'm kind of letting us know what that final presentation
 presentation looks like on Friday when the CAD has it and I know that your staff is really good at keeping us up to date with protests and as those numbers change so again I'm gonna support this but I do think we need the full information and we need a full comparison with that with those reductions when you present them to us yes ma'am and we've got a system already that we put in place that miss Cody will be sending that to council henceforth and again that one was very preliminary so
 that would really kind of confuse the issues, but we will send those in the future as soon as we get them through Ms. Cody. She's our managing director over finance and purchasing. Thank you for that. And also I think when Ms. Kilgore was talking, the final appraised value of the homes will be on July 25th, so we will have, the protests will go on even after that, but the value that the city will have to work with will be on July 25th. Representative Hernandez?
 Thank you for your leadership on this, Representative Salcido. There's a lot of reasons why we can expect that there can be a reduction in the tax rate. Some examples are the large number of vacancies we have, so we should be able to achieve several operational savings, not only for the tax rate but for some other efforts.
 We've seen great economic development agreements, a lot of really promising sales tax revenues. And so all of this is really attributed to the strategic plan and the leadership of Mr. Gonzalez and Mr. Cortina's in helping the city become more sustainable and see a lot of more stimulation with economic development. I was really excited at our last
 where we talked about some new budget amendments.
 and some new ideas such as the post-debt issuance policy. We have now looking at consideration of amending the the the budget which is our our budget where we where we have savings where we can redirect some of that to our pension funds so that we can account for some of those accruals that we need to address
 So there's a lot of a lot of ways that we can spend down some of the funds but most importantly I'm going to be a huge advocate to making sure that we reserve some of those funds to the to our rainy day fund which is our overall reserves with our general fund. So there's a lot of momentum with a lot of the discussions we've had with policies and I'm really excited to see that come to fruition but
 Keeping that in mind we do have these high valuations that we need to address not only on the residential side but on the commercial side.
 So although it could be considered premature we are very much in the budget process so we need to set that tone set that stage today for our city manager and for our CFO to know that there is a strong desire from this body to achieve some savings and give those back to not only our general fund but to our taxpayers who are definitely going to feel a lot of pressure points. So I just have one question for Mr. Cortines if he's available or Mrs. Cody.
 When for one just to kind of put in perspective we're looking at our tax rate a save one savings of a penny. What does that account for in terms of dollar value. So if we were to reduce it by one penny just as an example what would the overall savings be to the average homeowner. DIRECTOR MACKAY WELCH- Nicole Cody Nicole Cody managing director of budget and purchasing.
 Hi, Representative Hernandez. So I think you asked a kind of a two-part question. So the first part of the question was, what would be the savings or what is one penny equal? So based on the FY 2022, since we don't have the certified values yet, it's about $3.6 million. And so you asked what would be the savings of reducing that 3.6 for a homeowner. And so that I would have to get back to you actually. Thank you for that.
 I think Mr. Gonzalez might have a off the cuff kind of response to that, because I've asked you this question before, Tommy, Mr. Gonzalez. Is it about...
 Go ahead. Okay. So if you just look at like a $100,000 home, it would be $36 for the whole year if you just do that. The reason Ms. Cody couldn't answer is because the average home today I think is 147 or 150, something like that. So she'd have to do some mental gymnastics. I would too to answer that question off the top of our head. But yeah, if you use like a $100,000 house, it would be $36 for the whole year.
 Okay. So that can kind of give you, for members of council, a little bit perspective when we're looking at just the city's portion of the tax rate. But, you know, any savings certainly is going to help El Paso taxpayers, specifically residential persons with disabilities and our most vulnerable senior citizens.
 So again, I just wanted to thank Representative Salcedo for your leadership on this. I think that we have a lot of work to do this budget season. I appreciate the work, Mr. Gonzalez, that your team has brought forward with some of these policies that are going to be considered for adoption. And I hope council moves forward with this item along with the other budget policies. Thank you. Thank you for sending this in. If $36 is one penny per hundred.
 and average home is 150, then it'd be $54. So that's just the quick math there. And also we have, Representative Mayor Pro Tem, but one question I wanted to ask, that when you asked for Mr. Gonzales, I just wanna make sure we clarify for him, that roll back the rate, are you looking to roll back the rate to last year's taxes so it didn't go up, or somewhere in between there, or all of the above?
 I'm directing to look at options. Okay, that's what I'm saying, or all of the above. Thank you. And with that, Mayor Potem. Thank you, Mayor. And again, thank you, Representative Salcido for putting this item up and your leadership on this. I think it's something that we're all hearing about and we're all seeing happen in firsthand with our community and these concerns relating to property valuations and how it corresponds with our tax rate as well.
 JUST TO SORT OF ECHO I THINK WHAT REPRESENTATIVE SALCEDO JUST MENTIONED AS WELL AS REPRESENTATIVE ANNELLO, I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO PROVIDE THE COUNCIL WITH DIFFERENT OPTIONS WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THIS YEAR'S BUDGET. PERHAPS LOOKING AT A NO NEW REVENUE RATE IN ADDITION TO SORT OF WHAT THE LOWER REVENUE RATE IS.
 PRICE COULD BE LOWER TAX RATE COULD BE COMPARED TO LAST YEAR AND OTHERS. I THINK IT'S JUST IMPORTANT THAT THE COUNCILS IS INFORMED AND ENGAGED AS POSSIBLE KNOWING WHAT THESE WHAT THE POSSIBILITIES ARE OF LOWERING THE TAX RATE AND WHAT THE IMPACT WOULD BE ON OUR SERVICES AND OUR PROGRAMS.
 our overall budget and departments as well. So I think the more information we have in a way where we can understand what that is going to look like, how that's going to impact different departments,
 services I think is really important as well as giving those options of what those different rates are to that as well I think that we have done an incredible job of increasing our reserves as well again I think city manager when you first started we were at how many days of operation expenses nine days nine days and where are we looking at currently right now
 THE ITEM THAT WENT TO FOAC WOULD TAKE US TO 82 DAYS. 82 DAYS. THE GOAL STANDARD IS 90 DAYS. AND REALLY FOR LIKE AAA BOND RATED CITIES, THEY'RE AT 120, 130 DAYS. BUT THE GOAL STANDARD IS 90 DAYS. AND WHY IS THAT SO IMPORTANT?
 It lowers your interest rate and the bond sales and a lot of folks are concerned about the debt And so it lowers your interest rate your basis points several basis points and by doing so you can save millions in the course of a 20 or 30 year bond Package that you have to pay over a 20 year period or even longer. So you say that's where you save the money. I
 Can you even look at refinancing if necessary? We've done lots of refinancing that we brought back to council. And I think when you have that opportunity, when we've had that opportunity, we've done that multiple times. As a matter of fact, we've saved over $20 million by doing that with the ballpark itself and
 And so we have, that's just one example. But yeah, when you have a lower interest rate, you do have the ability to look at refinancing. And so that is another option, you're exactly right. I mean, I think the council's very well versed on not only the budgeting process, but also the bonds, because you're asking very good questions.
 So you are very familiar with it. So lowering the interest rate is a huge benefit to an organization the size of El Paso, and you want to be able to do that. And quite frankly, having nine days, I said this several times publicly, I was shocked that the bond rating hadn't been reduced, that it hadn't been downgraded. I was absolutely shocked.
 The last city that I had the privilege to manage and lead had 129 days when I left it. And so that's one of the priorities that we've had as an organization because it gives you the ability as a council to make those decisions to transform the community like it has been transformed with the decisions that you've made. So it just places you in the driver's seat when you do have additional debt to be able to be able to look at people in the eye and say, you're saving money.
 when you're giving them what they need and what they've asked for as a community.
 Yeah, and I think that that's I think that's a really important important point to look at here is I think we we need to Look and be aggressive at lowering the tax rate But also making sure to that we're also increasing those funds those reserve operational funds that we can increase our Improve our bond rating as well, which helps overall with our debt and with that impact on ray pairs as well I just would like to say to that, you know looking at
 in terms of where some of those funding funding opportunities are from as well we've talked about it before looking at other sort of sources as well you know we have a lot of needs in this community and i think with this upcoming budget session being as aggressive and creative as possible i think is going to be important as well
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Yes, sir. Those are great questions that the Mayor Pro Tem just asked you, sir. And just for public's knowledge, we're not cutting back on any services and any
 Anything at all, right? No, I think that the the way I read so they can know the item Yes, so we ever at the item that y'all post it and it got co-sponsored It said that not to impact services and also understood what y'all said about coming up with various options We'll do that when we've done that
 I believe every year and council has options to consider different things on their agenda relative to the budget so we'll do that again this year. This is clear. We understand the assignment and we'll come back with options. Thank you so much for that. I just want to make sure that the public knew and understood that. Yes, sir. And that they also understand that this council and your staff as well and the mayor, we're all listening to you.
 We're all doing the best we can to continue
 in order to continue our path to move forward. Absolutely, and council's made some very aggressive steps at the previous council meeting by increasing the pay for the lowest level employees and being able to be more aggressive there for the hiring to get those services back up to an acceptable percentage. I know we want them at 100%. We showed you where of all the quality of life departments, there's five or six that are 100%. We still lack about four, I believe, that are like in the 50 to 60% range.
 And so we need to be more agile and more aggressive. We've listened to the council like you've talked about. And again, it's all part of the overall strategy. And it's not only having to do on the one side on compensation for our workforce, but also looking at the strategy for economic development like a lot of you have said. So it's all a big masterful puzzle that you all get the privilege of making these
 tough decisions on but it's really changed our community and it look in our community is getting better and better every day and it's because of these kinds of decisions I think that as part of the overall economic recovery plan this makes sense and we'll work on it and see what we can bring back to council to all of you to consider thank you so much again thank you to your staff as well miss Cody and mr. Corvinas and thank you representative
 You know, and I think you've been very well aware and done a great job of making sure that public safety is our number one priority in our community and making sure that all the equipment and everything is, you know, the best equipment possible out there. If anyone ever dials 911, we want to make sure we get there. Absolutely.
 huge priority since we've gotten here and it's been a huge priority for this council and power councils and i know we'll continue to do that so yes we won't and not you know when we talk about services those are our main services and i think that covered uh money that we received from the federal government and and the um federal money that we have received for
 from Bring back America. I think that funding has really been so we can make sure we can have a budget that's Acceptable for our community and that our community does not have you know The burden of all these expenses moving forward as an excellent point mayor Because that does help shore up a lot of expenses that we've had throughout this last two plus years Yes, sir, and thank you for that. Yes, sir representative
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to thank the council and all the good comments that I'm hearing that we all want to provide this tax relief for the taxpayers and I think this is just an important first step. I really do appreciate, Mayor, for those comments and providing some options and looking forward for us to continue to work on options as we're continuing this budget process and assuring that we approve things before and make sure that it impacts the taxpayer in a better way.
 favorable way so thank you for those suggestions mayor I appreciate it and thank you to this council and the supporting and looking forward to working with everybody on this and thank you to Tommy and all his staff and all the work we're going to start doing so thank you. Thank you so we'll build back El Paso. We have a motion and a second? Yes mayor we also have public comment on this item. We have Sandra Villegas followed by Gabriela Wu.
 Good afternoon. You'll have three minutes. Good afternoon, everyone. Like they said, my name is Sandra Villegas and I am speaking on behalf of the El Paso Apartment Association. I am here to speak in favor of the reduction in property tax rate. We do understand, you know, especially with the presentation from CAD earlier, that the city kept—that initially the tax rate was raised
 to kind of make up for the appraisal values not being where they should be. Now that the appraisal values have gone up, we do believe that the reduction in property tax rate should go down to help relieve some of the extra costs that are going to be showing up really in the end at the renters' monthly rents and what they have to pay to stay in
 and their apartments. We do support lowering the tax rates for all El Pasoans, but we do wanna make sure that you don't forget about the over 200 people living in the rental units in the city. This is roughly about a third of the population. The speakers that we saw, especially with CAD, did address homeowners,
 And the increase in the homestead exemption, we obviously, you know, we own homes as well. So we support all of that. But we want to make sure that people in rental communities are considered as well. The average valuation, as you saw in the CAD presentation, is about 41% for increased 41% for an apartment community. The state laws that protect homeowners from higher taxes due to these sharp increase in
 don't do the same thing for property rental communities, for property even rental homes. And so we want to make sure that this is something that
 is looked on because renters many times in a lot of communities are the most vulnerable and so we want to make sure that this is something that's looked at. This is particularly true for junior military members who do not buy homes but rent instead. Last year the Department of Defense added a real enlistment rate as one of the BRAC meters. And so if you go on and look simple Facebook search you can see a lot of the military spouses
 Disapproval, discontent with community apartment living. We want to make sure that the affordability that they have when they are told that you have to go to Fort Bliss, that they are confident that they're gonna have somewhere of value, of quality to live in, and so,
 really that's that's what we wanted to kind of bring forward to everyone make sure that we don't forget about the renters and the the major part of our population that is um going to be affected if we don't provide the property tax rate relief thank you thank you for your time and i think you see this item will will be all across the board yes and we appreciate the support from most of you all we're we're happy to see that and we hope that it you know continues thank you the next speaker is gabriella wolf good afternoon ma'am you have three minutes
 Hello, good afternoon. Well, it's my first time coming here in front of you. Well, welcome. I'm kind of nervous, but I'm just going to go to the point. Okay, yeah, we have some properties as well, and we belong to the Apartment Association, but we have individual homes, and our tenants are asking why the rent have to go up, and we just break it even.
 So every single time is not making it. So when the people from the El Paso Central Appraisal District say, it's a say because there's a lot of people coming and a lot of people is buying houses. That is why the property taxes went up. But this is just taking advantage of it.
 Why a lot of people coming from another city, from another state is coming and buying properties here, but what is going to happen the next year? Are you going to lower the taxes? So as you know, we all know, these five entities, there is high in the high tax rate. One of them, yes, independent school district, all of them.
 So we have a lot of problems. They didn't want to have class. They didn't have classes on 2020 or 21, even though they increase our taxes big time. And now they increase it 20% again? I mean, it's killing us. Actually, it's killing us. And, uh.
 Yes, they want to increase the homestead to 25,000 to 45,000, but it doesn't help at all. Why? Because they already increased the property. And according to the percentage, if they increase the property, it's going to go up in the tax rate. No, it's going to decrease it.
 So my point, I would like the city of El Paso and also the El Paso County, if possible, to reduce, to stop the over-budgeting.
 As Mayor Lesser say, we have the BBA Build Back America funds. We can use those to reduce or pay what we have right now. Why are we going to put more staff on the debt that we already have against to reduce that? So it doesn't help us to the residents at all. And...
 I think I guess as I tell you I'm very nervous I just trying to go to the point but next time I bring all the all the um a better presentation to you and uh maybe people with common sense and with all properties we know about it okay thank you so much thank you
 And I'm just going to go over this one more time, and I think it's important to show that the city of El Paso gets $0.29 for every dollar. The school district gets $0.43 for every dollar. Community college gets $0.05 for every dollar, and the county and UMC get $0.23 for every dollar. And thank you again for providing that for us, Mr. Gonzalez.
 And with that, Ms. Prine, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein to approve item number 23. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Representative Lizara? Aye. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 24, and this is a presentation and update from the El Paso Children's Hospital.
 And thank you for being here and thank you all for your patience. I know that you all have a lot of things to do, but I know it's very important for you all to discuss. And I'm very proud of the 10-year existence of the hospital that's meant a lot to our community. So I thank you for wanting to share that with us. And again, I thank you for being here and your patience. Thank you so much, Mayor Leaser. We appreciate it. Thank you. Former county judge, welcome.
 Thank you, Ruben. Good afternoon, everybody. It's good to see you all. My name is Cindy Stout. I'm president and CEO for El Paso Children's Hospital. I have been in my position now for just over four and a half years, and my purpose today is to share with you all what is transitioning in terms of children's health care here in the region. I know that's important to you all, because you all look at it from the perspective of what are we doing to make sure that we have a healthy generation that's coming up next, right?
 So I want to share with you all some of the components that we have been working on as a hospital and what it's doing to change the landscape of healthcare here within the community. I do want to share with you all, I am an El Pasoan, I grew up here, my father was in the military, and so it's very important to me, whose children have also grown up here, to make sure that we have world class healthcare for children and that our children do not have to leave El Paso for care.
 The mission of El Paso Children's Hospital is to provide compassionate, coordinated, family-centered care. Really what we continue to focus on is ensuring excellent patient outcomes and that we have access for our physicians to pediatric research and education.
 Our hospital really continues to grow, and I'm going to share that with you in just a moment. But the vision that we have is really to enhance the lives of children in our area, making sure that they are healthy and that they are well, that they continue to grow up here within the region and are able to serve our community just as you do and just as I do.
 As you all will recall, the hospital had an interesting beginning. February 2012 is when the hospital first opened its doors, but that was after 25 years of advocacy from community pediatricians to build a specialty children's hospital. A children's specialty hospital is extremely different than having an adult hospital that has a pediatric wing.
 We are one of seven not-for-profit children's hospitals in the state of Texas. I actually have the privilege of being chairman right now for the Children's Hospital Association of Texas, and it affords us a good opportunity to talk about what we're doing here within our region. We are separately licensed. We are not-for-profit. And so that presents in itself different challenges that we have to continue to overcome as a hospital.
 Some of the milestones that you'll see here, we have taken care of over 150,000 unique pediatric patients. You'll see in these numbers here the types of visits and procedures that have been taken care of here at the hospital, as well as the outpatient visits.
 It is important for us to mention that we do partner with University Medical Center of El Paso and we do have a large collaboration with Texas Tech University physicians as we are a pipeline for graduate medical education right here in the region at Inception before our hospital open we had about 600 children on average that would leave El Paso for care they would go to Phoenix to San Antonio to Dallas to Austin and to Houston and
 We're too big a community to allow that to happen. Our children deserve the highest level of care. I am proud to share with you that since the hospital is open, we've been able to decrease the number of children who would leave our community for care by almost 85% now. That is what a true children's specialty hospital does. You will see that these are some of the key programs that are maturing throughout the hospital and I'll bring you up to speed on a couple of those shortly.
 We also have multiple subspecialists here at the hospital that are able to take care of these patients that require complex level of care. And so really what we're doing is we're closing the gap so that no child should have to leave El Paso for care.
 El Paso Children's Hospital is the only private not-for-profit children's hospital within this region. We have about 122 beds. We are not a governmental entity and I think sometimes the general public doesn't quite understand that. I think that there's this conception that we may have access to the taxpayers dollars. We don't. We are set up as a not-for-profit hospital.
 So what does that mean? That means that we have to operate the hospital from a strong financial position in order to grow programs. We also have an El Paso Children's Hospital Foundation that helps us to be able to provide some of this great technology for our physicians to do what they do best.
 We are governed by Texas law for nonprofit corporations, and we are the safety net, though, of the community. And so we do have contracts with University Medical Center where we do provide indigent care to the children, the pediatric population of this region.
 These are some of the accreditations that we have at the hospital. I think the one thing I want you to take away from here is that we are highly focused on quality of care, and we take that very seriously as stated in our mission statement. Our team now consists of over 350 credentialed providers. These are specialists taking care of children solely. We have over 700 employees now and over 350 registered nurses.
 Really what has happened is that over the last several years as our hospitals continue to grow is that we have a need for additional capacity. And so we're going through the growing pains that as the hospital continues to mature, we need additional space. For instance, we need more inpatient beds, we need a larger emergency department, and we have many more services that are coming on board in which we need that capacity.
 So we're actively working with our board of directors as well as with UMC to make sure that we have access to some of those services. These are emergency services. What's very different that I wanna call out here for you all is that we are partners with the Level 1 Trauma Center. So when the children come through the door of University Medical Center as the only Level 1 trauma program in the region, after they are stabilized there, they come over to receive care at El Paso Children's Hospital.
 So many of those children end up in our pediatric intensive care unit. Right now we have 10 private rooms and we have a three bay fast track that is not meeting right now the needs of really what we need to do. So we do have a plan in place to where we would like to continue to grow that out.
 Next, this will paint the picture a little bit about general pediatrics and what we have at the hospital. We do have on-site pediatric hospitalist coverage. That's from a contractual relationship that we have Texas Tech, and we're really proud of that because I think what it does is that there's a physician there on-site to take care of the patients, and that's a game changer. You want to make sure that the children and the nurses and the rest of the staff have access to a physician readily, that they're available for us.
 We're really proud of all of the different support that we've received from the community. In particular, there's a phenomenal family resource center that was sponsored by the Junior League of El Paso, and that really helps us to set up for these children when they're here at our hospital for long periods of time. They have access to computers, to books, and other types of things in order for them to continue their education.
 Our Southwest University pediatric blood and cancer center, this provides inpatient and outpatient services. So we have an infusion center that's located within the hospital as well as inpatient beds.
 The one thing that I want you to take away from this is that we are affiliates with COG, Children's Oncology Group. We are the only one within the region. This allows our children to have access to clinical trials that you would see, such as at St. Jude's and MD Anderson.
 That allows us to keep our children right here at home If we did not have these types of programs and this affiliation Our children would be leaving El Paso for care and think about that burden that comes upon the family members Who are having to move outside to get a level of care for their children? Quality of life is really important for us. So there are a number of partners that we that we have relationships with within the community as you can see on that slide and
 The Woody and Gail Hunt Family Pediatric Intensive Care Unit, we do have on-site 24-7 pediatric intensivist coverage. In fact, we have grown so much that we have two groups that are now on-site 24-7 at the hospital.
 We have 22 beds in this particular unit, and this is the unit when COVID-19 started that we housed our children. And we had to do a lot of training with the team members, with our physicians, but I'll tell you the outcomes that we've had in taking care of these patients have been phenomenal.
 We also have up there Among the Stars Wall of Heroes. This allows us to honor our children who have been pediatric organ donors. As you know, we're connected with the trauma program, and oftentimes we will have children that are severely ill, whether it's through car accidents or other types of catastrophic events that –
 maybe a child does not survive. And so the families make that very difficult decision to donate their organs. And we're very appreciative because it gives other people opportunities for further life.
 The Laura and Pat Gordon Level 4 Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, we have on-site 24-7, our neonatologists, our respiratory therapists, and our nurses. This is the highest level that a hospital can achieve in Texas. So we take care of the smallest of babies that come to us. It is not unlike us to have children that are born at even 22, 23 weeks gestation out of a normal 40-week gestational cycle.
 We oftentimes will have the smallest of babies that are even smaller than the length of my hand. And so our teams take care of these children, and we've had some phenomenal outcomes, and I'm very proud of what the teams do.
 Our critical care transport team transports patients as far out as a 350 mile radius. We use ground transport, we use air transport. The thing that's very different is that this transport team is on site at the hospital. So we're able to dispatch them within a moment's notice to go out to the rural areas or other areas that may need a higher level of care.
 And so we have a highly trained team and oftentimes we may have a physician or nurse practitioner that even goes out with the teams depending upon the severity and the case mix with the patient.
 We are truly a hospital just for kids. I have to tell you all that I grew up in the adult healthcare arena, and I worked at a hospital that had a pediatric unit. I thought I truly understood what pediatrics meant, but until you step into the doors and you truly see a specialized children's hospital,
 You don't understand the difference. And it's been really interesting because it has been this cultural shift for people to understand what this brings. You think about like a Texas Children's Hospital, the value that that brings to that particular region within Houston. Well, El Paso Children's Hospital is doing that same thing as we continue to grow.
 We also have technology that is exclusively for kids. Kids come in, they're in different phases of their developmental growth, and so we have to be able to get accurate
 measures, start IVs, and do other types of treatment measures that are required for these children. So we have technology that is exclusively for them. One of the things I'm very proud of is that in the level four NICU, we have NIC view cameras. That allows the parents the opportunity to see their babies
 24-7. So if they have to leave to go home, they're able to log on to their phones or their computer and they can see the children. This has been very instrumental because being a military city, we know that oftentimes one of the spouses may be deployed out. And this affords them the opportunity to see the baby as well.
 We have MRI goggles that are specially made for children so that they stay still so that we can get the right slices for the imaging. We have what is called Image Gently Alliance. That affords us an opportunity to make sure that we have processes in place to where children get the smallest dosage of radiation possible. Again, a protection for them. And lastly, I want to call your all's attention to the biofire. We have had two biofires at our hospital for a significant period of time.
 Initially, when the COVID pandemic started, we were the only hospital in the region that had bio fire access. We were able to run the COVID-19 tests. Consequently, since then, because there was such a high demand, other hospitals have received those types of equipment. However, that really gave us a good jump start in taking care of the children.
 Our outpatient services really continue to grow. I'm not going to cover through a lot of that. I want to touch base, though, on the cardiac MRI. We are the only ones, the only hospital in the region, adults or children, that have a physician that is specialty trained to read cardiac MRIs. So consequently, adults come to us and children come to us, specifically for cardiac MRIs. So I'm really proud of the imaging services team.
 Now, I tell people we're doing the fun things now because we are much more level set related to our operations and doing well from a financial perspective. Now it's time for us to continue to grow our services. These next clinics that I'm going to cover with you all are specialty clinics that have not been seen here in the region before and are really allowing to bring multiple specialists together so that they can come up with a treatment plan for children.
 The cranial and facial clinic is the only one of its kind within this region. We are approved by the American Cleft Palate and Cranial Facial Association. We also have here locally one of nine fellowships internationally here at El Paso Children's Hospital.
 And that's telling you that we've got this number of specialists that are here that are now starting to impart their knowledge. And those individuals are going back out into other areas of, quite frankly, the world that are learning to implement these types of programs. Dr. David Yates is our medical director and then Dr. David Jimenez. Interesting enough.
 Dr. David Jimenez came to us. He was the physician that developed over 25 years ago the endoscopic craniosynostosis procedure. I'm gonna share with you what that's like. This last year we held our first cleft symposium in which we had over 60 doctors that came from all over the United States to learn what our team is doing here locally. So again, I wanna share with you all that that level of care that we're providing is at a very high level at this point.
 I do want to share with you all before I turn to the next slides that there are some slides that may be a little bit graphic, but I think it's important for you all to understand the complexity of patients. On this particular slide, this is something that Dr. Jimenez does for us. So when a baby's born, most of you all who have had children, you know that you've got the sutures. When you go to your pediatrician's office, they're looking for those soft spots, right, on the top of their heads. That's to make sure that the sutures or the bones do not fuse together.
 Many times it can happen where there is fusion of those bones. Well, Dr. Jimenez created the procedure, like I mentioned, over 25 years ago, and he's able to create a couple of very, very small incisions, go in and open up those sutures. That takes place ultimately up to about one year of life, just shy of that.
 Now, on the opposite side, you get a patient that comes through, and they're over one year old, and they come through, and they have to have a full what we call a cranial vault, a full opening of the brain in order to correct the bones that have fused together. That's where Dr. Yates and Dr. Jimenez work together. Now what we're seeing is we have children that are coming from all over the world to El Paso Children's Hospital for this level of care.
 Arbrachial plexus clinic is now the only multi-specialty program of its kind in the Southwest. Babies can be born with nerve injuries within their shoulder area, or later on in life, a child may have an issue related to trauma to where their nerves are limiting the ability to move their arms. So this group of physicians in conjunction with Texas Tech
 is working very closely together and have been able to service many children within our region. If you look on the left side, baby A before, you can see where her arm is in a downward position. That's the highest level that the child could move her arm. After the surgery, the patient is still casted and you can see that it's actually up, but it affords that baby to have a full quality of life and is able to move her arm completely.
 Our scoliosis clinic is one in which we're very proud of as well. We're getting into more complex surgeries related to the spine. We're very proud of Dr. John Heidemann being with us, trained over at Texas Children's Hospital, has relocated back to El Paso.
 And then our spina bifida clinic is one in which this group of physicians, Dr. Lateef, Dr. Jimenez, Dr. Heideman are working closely together as what you'll see here is that when a baby is born, oftentimes there are portions of the,
 spine that may not have necessarily closed over. So if you look at baby A before, you'll see that that's essentially what the baby had and that's part of the sac within the spinal column that is protruding. The team was able to take care of that. We're losing a quorum. Thank you, Mayor Poteau. Yes, ma'am. And then you can see baby B, the before and the after. Again, these are levels of services that we have not had within the community before.
 I want to share with you all on the CARES Clinic. This is our child abuse protection team.
 It is a very sensitive issue when we have children that come through that may have neglect or abuse issues. We have a team that is highly trained. Last year the state made the decision to remove all of the state grant funding for this particular program. We felt that it was so important for this community to have it that we've taken that on and have been able to sustain that through the hospital.
 I want to tell you a little bit though about how important this is. This last year alone our CARES clinic saw a 30% increase in patient volume from the prior year.
 We've seen a lot more cases related to the barriers, the things that families have to go through related to COVID-19. And so consequently, we are here and ready to serve. This last year alone, in 2020, we served 432 patients. And now we're up to 588 in fiscal year 21.
 Our outpatient rehab services and empower program is really important. We opened this just recently. It is on Lee Trevino, just south of the freeway. This is a program that affords children the opportunity to have access to PT, OT, and speech therapy, in addition to outpatient diabetes education through the Zachary Bowling Center.
 However, the last component, the Empower program, is really important. We've worked very closely, and we have received a very generous grant from the Paso Del Norte Health Foundation to start to address obesity within children and children who are at risk for diabetes within the community. And so the Empower program does specifically that.
 We have educational affiliations, in other words, students rotate through our hospital from many organizations or many academic centers. These are not all of them, just some of them. We do have contracted services. I want you to understand that Texas Tech is a very strong partner for us. About 80% of our medical staff is contracted through the services that we have in existence with Texas Tech.
 We are also a site where we have residents that are rotating through. We have about 44 residents on average that are rotating through El Paso Children's Hospital at any one given time. So we do support that and we do provide funding for residents.
 El Paso Strong. We all know back a few years ago the city was faced with a large challenge related to the August 3rd event. The two children that required the high level of care came to El Paso Children's Hospital and the team really stepped up and did what they needed to do. Again, that connection to the trauma center and us taking care of those children was absolutely necessary during that time.
 Our children's vaccinations, we were the first to step up and to start vaccinating our 5 to 11-year-old population. We're really proud of that. We've also learned a lot through the vaccination process, and we're very thankful that the city, so many other organizations have stepped up to vaccinate the full general population.
 To date, you can see that for adults alone at our children's hospital, we've given over 4,000 dosages. And our staff is 100% vaccinated because we feel that it's important to provide that protection for the teams.
 We are very appreciative being a not-for-profit organization. We do rely a lot on donations and community love over the last several years has been phenomenal. Everything to individuals bringing food to other types of assistance, we appreciate it from the public immensely. We do have our Paso Children's Hospital Foundation. This is our main source for capital.
 I do want to make sure that everybody understands every penny that's donated stays right here in El Paso. The other component is no dollars donated are used towards operations. We run operations on our own through the hospital. The money that comes through the foundation is used to provide big pieces of equipment and other items that our physicians that are very specialized require.
 For example, in neurosurgery alone, upwards of $3 million was required in order for us to implement that here within the community. But we felt it was important enough for us to make that full commitment.
 And then lastly, as the mayor said, we are at our 10 years of wonder. We're very proud that the hospital is now going in the right direction. We're looking at many growth opportunities to close the gap. The 15% of what we see most children leaving El Paso for care focuses on complex cardiac and complex neurosciences. So we're working very closely to try to close that gap.
 And then lastly, I want to share with you all some of these children that may be from families that come from your particular areas. On the left side is Andrea. You can see her standing in front of the missions. Andrea was a patient that was starting to lose her eyesight. Her family did not know what was going on. They'd been to see different physicians.
 We were very fortunate that we had our cranial facial team here on site. When they came to us, they were able to help her and now she's on the road to recovery and she's doing what she wants to do. She wants to be a mariachi singer just like her mom. Up on the top you can see Freddy. He was a track runner at El Paso High School and Freddy one day was hot summer night. His friends had a gun.
 ended up accidentally shooting him and he consequently went into the level one trauma center and came over to us and with with was with With us gives me almost two months in our pediatric intensive care unit with the help of all of the physicians and all the staff members He was healthy and able to return to doing what he does best. It'll pass so high
 Just below him is our beautiful little Ben. Ben was born at our level four NICU, just over a pound, and he's doing phenomenally well and a very handsome young boy at this point.
 And then lastly, over on the right side, you all may recognize Kayla Gomez. She is one of our up and coming stars in the boxing program within the community. Kayla trusts us to help her with her seizures. And so having a specialty hospital is allowing us to keep our kids right here at home. So I thank you all for the opportunity to share with you all what direction we're going on and some of the programs that are in place because I know that's important for the general public to be aware of as well.
 Thank you, and thank you for your presentation and, of course, hard work. And, you know, it's always been one of my charities that I really enjoy giving back to.
 I know you mentioned NICU with the 50 cameras which is one of our donations. My wife and I donated last year to make sure that you went over it for not only local doctors could look at their patients but also the military families could see their kids. So we're very honored to have been able to donate and buy those 50 cameras that gave us that opportunity for our community.
 The hospital will always continue to be one of our, you know, choice of charities because of what it gives back to the community. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Leaser. We couldn't do what we do without support of individuals such as yourself. So thank you very much. Thank you. Representative Nello.
 Thank you so much, Ms. Stout. I'm really impressed how quickly you went through 40 slides. It was very impressive. I tried to keep the timing up just a little. I was trying to follow, and then she just went two more slides ahead of me. You know, it's just kind of a double-edged sword, right? It's not great to hear that the 10 emergency beds that you'll have
 are becoming not enough or that you've had a 30 increase in your cares program but it's really amazing to know that y'all are there for the people in this community when they need it i really want to thank you for this presentation it was a lot of information it's a lot of information that people don't know about the children's hospital or our medical center until they need those services and i know everybody here knows that i've had an experience with children's i think that's something that i
 I always try to talk about that I don't ever hear the people they're talking about is the level of professional and personal care that we got from the doctors that you mentioned, right? Taking extra time out of their day, you know, to be with families, to make them understand what is going on is invaluable.
 And you couldn't even write a slide about it. I hear it from people all the time that come through your hospital. And so I want to thank you for everything you do. And that comes from leadership, right? That comes from you. That comes from your executive team allowing doctors and the nurses there to have the space to do that. So thank you for everything and thank you for the presentation. Thank you for sharing that. I think it's important for our team to hear those things. So I'll take that back. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Thank you, Mayor. This presentation was very informative.
 informative, but it was also very touching. I'm very appreciative of the fact that we have that level of service and care here in El Paso. God forbid I have four children that I would ever have to use you all, but you know,
 Again, God forbid I do. I'm glad that we have that level of expertise here in El Paso And so I just want to thank you for your presentation, but more importantly, I want to thank you for everything that you're doing in our community You know, I know in the past I've heard of family members that had to take their children to a
 Lubbock, San Antonio, Phoenix, you know, and it's great to hear that travel is not necessary anymore. So I want to commend you and I want to thank you and I hope to see you all continue to grow, not because we have sick children, but because we want to be able to provide that level of care here in El Paso. So thank you so much for everything that you're doing. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Appreciate that.
 Thank you. And with that, again, we want to thank you. And I'll share a little quick story that I had a daughter that was born at 2 pounds 7 ounces 40 years ago, and it was very tough, and the doctors had to spend a lot of time in the room and try to save her to make sure she was okay. So to have – and I can't have any more little ones – but to have that type of care here locally, and then my daughter had one that was in a coma for –
 for over a week and they didn't think she'd survive. And they were looking at options of transport to the Children's Hospital in Philadelphia. And, you know, thank God both of them are fine. Thank God both of them have great, healthy lives. But to have that available, like Representative Rodriguez just said, is so important. And to know that it's there, because I can tell you, we didn't know it was available. We didn't have it available until 40 years ago. So to have that, it's really important. So thank you again.
 Thank you so much. I appreciate the opportunity to be here. Ms. Pryor, I think we've got a city council meeting to do. Yes, sir. We turn to page 17 to item number 46. And this is discussion and action on a resolution adopting a districting plan which establishes new council representative district boundaries based on the 2020 U.S. Census data to become effective immediately and dissolving the districting commission. Bye, Mr. Veal. I know you're waving at us.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Karina Bresgala with Economic and International Development. Today is hopefully the last time I will be in front of you regarding the 2020 census and resulting redistricting effort.
 As a reminder for everyone, this started last April with the establishment of the Districting Commission. We received our census results in August and then proceeded to have several commission meetings, public meetings across the city, a very robust public outreach and...
 Outreach through social media websites Traditional media to get everyone involved came before you at the beginning of this month have had several meetings to review and edit the maps and last night or yesterday afternoon City Council did make a final map selection and
 The anticipated action today would be to adopt a districting plan, establishing the new district boundaries for the council representative districts based on the 2020 census data. And this resolution will also dissolve the districting commission as they've completed their duties per city charter. The selected district plan from today's meeting will be attached as an exhibit to the resolution. A certified copy of that, along with the background data, will be sent to the county elections office, and they handle all of our filing with the state.
 These boundaries will be those used in the November 8th election. I'll open it for you all. Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and take I think there's three public comments and then we'll continue with this. So Ms. Prider if you can take public comment. Yes, Mayor. The first speaker on item 46 is Joe Pickett followed by Sylvia Carrion. Good afternoon, sir. You'll have three minutes. Good afternoon. I'm glad you held out.
 I'm not here to talk for or against a map. I'm here about the process. I wasn't planning on speaking today at all, but the comments that were made by some of the city council members about the information that I provided to a media outlet who invited me to come on their show and they expressed that they wanted somebody from the city. City refused the offer, but I went instead.
 Anyway, the interviewer asked me to be there because of my past experience in the state legislature serving on redistricting, how contentious, how difficult it can be. It's not a simple process. I've also been invited to be a witness in federal court in San Antonio before a panel of federal judges under oath to talk about the process that we used in Texas.
 But when I heard the statements that El Paso was no worse off or behind anyone else is not correct. San Antonio was mentioned. Well, San Antonio indeed has not adopted a map, and they're not going to do one probably until June. But that sounds like they're behind El Paso, but El Paso.
 is holding an election this November. San Antonio doesn't hold theirs until May of 2023. So they will have adopted one 10 months in advance of their election, as will Dallas will adopt one 10 months before. Fort Worth gets some extra bounty points. They adopted theirs last month, so they will have a whole year before their elections. El Paso, if you adopt this plan today, will be 12 days out from the required date
 residency of six months and almost all the cities in Texas have a six month requirement. Fort Worth likes to do theirs in days It's 180 days. Now the other three cities Austin, Houston, El Paso do have their elections in November Houston is scheduled to have a new plan in place this September and again that sounds very late But Houston is not having it this November 8. They're having it November 7th of 2023 again a full year of
 Before their election not the 12 days out from the residency requirement that El Paso is looking at So if you narrow it down and take a bite out of that apple to apple to use Austin Austin is like El Paso and that they're staggered districts Austin is like El Paso and that it's in November and also like Austin Thousands of El Pasoans woke up this morning Had coffee or breakfast in a particular district and will have dinner or go to bed in a completely new district Austin's map is also under
 review it's being challenged in court. Austin adopted their map October of last year over a year and two months. So if you take the six big cities, El Paso is completely dead last in presenting maps to the public and allowing people the opportunity to run for office. Doesn't affect me. I have no comment on the map that you're going to adopt. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Mr. Pickett.
 The next speaker is Sylvia Carrion. Good afternoon, Ms. Carrion. You'll have three minutes. Good afternoon. I got educated. Good afternoon, Ms. Carrion. Did you get educated? Sylvia Carrion with the Mission Valley Civic Association. When we started these hearings with commissioners, with Ms. Braxalia, Karina running the show, yeah, it was scheduled for July of 2022. And we started complaining about how come it's so late.
 So but I want to let you know that I'm pleased with the map the way it came out. If this is the one you're going to to vote on.
 When we started back in October, I had a meeting in November, and I invited all of the neighborhood associations in the Mission Valley. There's 12 neighborhood associations and two civic associations, which is one of mine. I invited Mr. Valdez from the League of Women Voters to give us a presentation on what the concept of is on redistricting and what it all entangles. He gave us a big education. The League of Women Voters
 has educated me personally and other people on what the rules and regulations and the law is about redistricting. Even if you don't like what's going to finish, it is the law. When I had a meeting with Mr. Valdez and did the presentation with him, we got a census of the feeling of all the people in the meeting and I asked him,
 Do we want to get through with one district at least one or two instead of the three that we had and everybody the majority said yes we want our district of our own. And that's when I move forward and come to every meeting insisting and talking to all the commissioners who were on the on the floor asking them to please consider the Mission Valley under one district as much as possible.
 We might have maybe the three districts, but the majority of the district that we're interested in will be one, and with Mr. Rivera representing us, and I'm a happy camper there, because we've got precincts. And of course, Ms. Hernandez, I work with her all the time. I go to her meetings, and so that we're doing very, very well.
 I thank you all and I hope you do pass this thing. I don't want to have to come back, please, but I will if you all don't finish up this show today. But I do thank you. God bless you all. And if you pass it today, I'm going to have a beer on you guys. I want to graduate this afternoon at 6 o'clock for the Citizens Police Academy. Thank you. Bye. Thank you for your participation.
 The next letter was received by Veronica N. Carrillo to be read into the record and it reads, Dear Mayor and City Council Representatives, please accept my public comment below to be read into the record during today's City Council meeting to be held on April 26, 2022. I am submitting this via email because a normal way of submitting public comment does not seem to allow for attachments.
 The attached graphics show valuable information that I would like to share with you ahead of today's vote for a new city district map. I mentioned during a city redistricting meeting I would like to reiterate that recent CDC and U.S. Census Bureau data shows the rates of asthma, heart disease and poverty are highest in central El Paso. The data also shows that the highest percent of people with disabilities
 live in the same area. This data shows there are different communities of interest in central El Paso and west El Paso. The proposed map 7B proposes that some central neighborhoods such as Sunset Heights and El Paso Heights will be included in the same district as west El Paso. But central neighborhoods could effectively address the health and income disparities in their community if they had their own district.
 Creating a map that responds to community needs in Central does not mean creating a central district at the expense of other areas. While the constraints are complex, international boundaries, state boundaries, mountains, military base, there must be a compromise. I ask for altruism in your effort to create an equitable map. This means identifying need and basing decisions on where there is need.
 Think this data highlights the need for a central district the formats are attached and links to the data are available below for your review Thank you, Veronica and Carrillo and I did forward those the link to Council the next letter was received by Craig Peters and it reads I
 Dear Mr. Mayor Leiser and City Council members, my name is Craig Peters and as a resident of Central El Paso, I do support the redistricting map 7B that was revised during Monday City Council work session on April 25, 2022. Comparing previous maps to 7B revised, I do think it is the most logical and fair map that helps keep neighborhoods safe.
 historic districts and neighborhood associations intact as much as possible. The map helps preserve and keep together the historic character fabric common interests and issues that each neighborhood and or district deals with. Furthermore keeping outside interests from impacting districts
 voice, vote and funding. I would like to thank all who served with the redistricting process, listening to residents' concerns, time in taking everyone's comments into consideration. Sincerely, Craig Peters. That concludes public comment, Mayor. Move to approve. Thank you, Ms. Bryan. Motion and a second to approve. We do have a comment from Representative Hernandez followed by Representative Lizarga followed by Representative Rodriguez. Representative Hernandez.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Thank you Mayor. So I just wanted to first start off by thanking again the districting commissioners for all of their hard work over the past six months as well as to Mrs. Carrillo who I pointed to that position in District 3 also a member of the Women League of Voters
 And then to thank Karina for all of your hard work. I have seen you over the past six months in your dedication to El Paso. I really want to thank you and for all your help with the data folks as well. It's really...
 invaluable the work that you did in this process. Thank you for that. So although it's not the map is not what I had hoped for I really was hoping for a fair process. I also believe in the democratic process so I will support whatever the majority of counsel agrees to. So just as a reminder to to folks who are curious about the next steps.
 As mentioned in the past our office has a plan of action to to reach out to you to meet with you to host you at future community meetings and so I look forward to adopting some of the new residents in our district. It's going to be one of the largest districts as proposed in this map.
 But also I hope to have a commitment from my colleagues to to have an easy transition from one district to another so we can work on some of those projects that have you know a lot of these community projects that we don't have a lot of fundamental knowledge of. We rely on the other representatives to help us transition those needs and concerns of the residents. So I know City Council will do what's in the best interest of residents I just wanted to
 Again thank everybody for for their process in this and for their commitment and fair maps. But I won't be supporting the map here today. As I stated in the past I just didn't agree with with the way council members pick and chose precincts without agreeing to to hear the concerns of the public over the past six months. But again majority will will rule in this case. But thank you all for your service to the city.
 Thank you representative Hernandez. Representative Lizarra. Thank you Mayor. Thank you. Thank you representative Hernandez for your comments and I want to thank all my colleagues for all their comments as well during this process. And of course Karina thank you to you and all your staff for your very very hard work
 throughout this six-month process. I also want to thank my redistricting commissioner, Cynthia Renteria, once again, and to all the people that have worked so tirelessly on this process. I just have a question, a quick question, Karina. I'm wondering if you could pull up the map for me real quickly. Absolutely. Could you just see, I'm curious about Precinct 60,
 What would happen if we moved it to District 2? Would we be over the deviation? Yeah. As currently proposed, Precinct 6060 is in District 2. Oh, it is in District 2? Yes, ma'am. Oh, okay. All right. Okay. Thank you, Karina. So then just to be clear, then the deviation would be 9.86, which is the current deviation of this map. Okay. So Precinct 60 on this map is in District 2, correct? Yes.
 To be clear. Thank you, Karina. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, ma'am. And with that, we have Representative Rodriguez. Thank you, Karina. So, I mean, this process has been long.
 very long six months and I think it's time you know I'm very proud of this council that we were able to really take into consideration the maps that were proposed by by the commissioners we took into consideration comments that were made by the public and we I think we were able to kind of mesh everything together as best as we could and came up with this map so with that said um
 Are you all prepared to in any way, shape, fashion to announce to all the precincts who their new district representative will be?
 I can discuss I would defer to it, but we can discuss it with our communications office I mean this would presumably go out and some sort of news blast and we'll keep the maps up online so that folks can pull Up their address, you know You can type it in it's searchable and look at your precinct and then we can work with the county elections office to make sure That that's all publicized. Okay, so These maps become effective immediately upon council approval
 OK. It'll take us probably a couple hours to file the paperwork and get everything filed state comptroller etc. but yes these go into effect today. OK. That is all. Thank you.
 And the good thing about this is if someone does not realize that their district has changed and they go to vote in the old district, you can do that now. You can vote anywhere during Election Day. So any district in the election polling area, you're allowed to go vote in. So that will not allow or hurt anybody from going to vote if they're not aware that they've been changed. Correct. Thank you. And with that, we have Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 It's certainly not an easy process. I want to thank Karina and city staff for your hard work. I want to thank the commissioners as well as my appointee, Chris Villa, as well. This is a question more for city management more than anything else. I do think that with these maps being in place,
 think it's really important to go above and beyond in terms of outreach to the community not just through social media but also traditional media whether that's newspaper but also I think it'd be really important similar to what we did with our vaccine rollout and others to make sure that we do
 info mailer that can be sent to different districts doesn't need to be a Large flyer five by seven something that has is bilingual Points easily to a phone number or a splash page or a website that people can look up their address to find out what district They're in I think it's really important to to follow up with something like that and
 That people can get in the mail so they know that hey your district might have changed Here's a here's a place where you can look it up and see your City Council representative will be in the future So I don't know if there's if we need to make a motion on that or bring up a separate item city attorney on that to make to ensure that everything is aligned with it legally and she has concurred that it is so I
 Those suggestions you're making, I believe we can do all those things. Okay. I mean, I wouldn't say it needs to be registered voters or anything like that. I just think all residents, period. Our community is what the city attorney advised. Yes. And she can speak for herself, but I think that's what I recall the conversation was about. Because our marketing director, Laura Cruz Acosta, had talked about getting the information out no different than a bond election and things of that nature. Our strategic communications director, I think you...
 Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. Yes, sir Well, thank you again. Thank you, sir. And with that we have represent Molinar followed by represent Salcido and then representative Anello and then represent the saga. Thank you. Thank you very much mayor and I
 It's been a long process and to the commission and commissioners a heartfelt thank you to all your work, your long hours, your hours of researching, the meetings, the community meetings, the driving back and forth, the possible sleepless nights and things like that and to you Karina we owe you a debt of gratitude to the other person that was behind that when the thing is you're calling him Marino or something. Mariano. Okay well him.
 and everyone else on the IT staff, you did a good job, great job. We appreciate everything you've done for us. We're grateful. To my commissioner from District 4, Gilbert Esparza, we thank you very much. To Colonel Burns, both representatives from the mayor's appointee, but also both from District 4, and thank you very much, appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Representative.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to thank the community, the committee for all their hard work and especially my appointee which is my predecessor, Dr. No. I made it a point not to contact them whatsoever as this process happened. I wanted to ensure that it was a fair process as it exceeded its time.
 But I did, understanding the whole dynamic of the process, I wish that that one part where the city council members could have drawn their own map in the sense just to submit and hear and be able to place the voices of our community as we were having meetings. We might have missed some people like we learned at our public meeting, there's a lot of people that showed up, had different concerns, had different suggestions, and it was just, you
 a lot of information trying to balance and so it was quite, you know, it was a challenge. So there's one thing I could say, I just wish we had more time and I know we don't and I know I don't wanna hinder, you know, anybody to be able to move somewhere and so that I think that it's where we're at right now and so I wouldn't want to delay the process which I think would be the best and I know probably everybody doesn't feel this way but just wanted to share those thoughts, thank you.
 Thank you Representative Salcedo Representative Zarga Representative Anello followed by Representative Zarga and then followed by Representative Rivera Thank you Mayor yeah I want to thank the council as well for really taking these maps seriously I know that I came out with a lot of issues in protecting the northeast you know I re-went over the
 the chair's report last night and it does talk a lot about how the committee was aware that we were going to make changes that this would not be a final iteration that they were giving to us and so something that I do want to say is I there's been a lot of talk about how you know we completely disregarded the committee I don't think that's true at all I think they did the hardest part of the job and that's starting at that right and and really if
 how long it took us in two days. Imagine if we were starting from scratch. It would have really been a disaster. So I want to thank everybody on the commission, my appointee as well, who's the chair, Karina, you, and Mariano for really sitting with us for a great time. But I have
 simple question that I know the answer to but I'm getting the question a lot so I just want to say it on the record when do these maps take effect if they're proved right today when will the new districts take effect so as I stated earlier the new districts take effect immediately
 So as soon as this is done, again, there's a process of filing paperwork and that kind of thing. But as soon as the motion is made at City Council, these are the new council district boundaries. Okay, great. Well, thank you so much. I really appreciate everyone's work on this. Also, Russell, I know he's been quietly kind of hovering over us and pacing back and forth some days. So thank you for everything. I think it will take effect, if I'm not mistaken, as soon as Ms. Cadeon has her first beer. Yes. I knew that.
 All right um Representative LaSarga. Thank you Mayor Leeser. Karina I do have one more question. Could you tell me what would happen if precinct 68 went into district 2? What would the deviation be? So precinct 62? 68. No 68. I clicked on the right one. Okay precinct 68 has a population of
 No, not 60. 1,661. If I moved that out, that would take our deviation over 10%. I can get an exact count if you give me a few minutes, but that would require additional changes elsewhere in the map. Okay, all right, thank you, Karina. Of course. You wanna wait for that or you wanna move to the next, Karina? Did you want us to make that edit? No, it would take us up 10%, correct, Karina? Correct.
 Okay, no we can move on. Okay representative Rivera followed by representative Hernandez. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor thank you again all the colleagues who said it and thank you so much Ms. Carina and your staff as well as the committee that was selected by each of us to comprise this or or come up with the maps themselves I personally want to thank my appointee Danny Anchondo
 had a busy schedule and took on the task himself and understood that at the end it could be tweaked, altered or accepted or denied. I too want to echo what Representative Manello said. There was no disrespect for our committee at all or the members that we had appointed. I think we listened to the constituents at hand, the many neighborhood associations talk on the street,
 And I think that this again, this body made that tough cuts and tough choice and we came out ahead. Thank you so much. Thank you, Representative Rivera. Representative Hernandez? Hi, Karina. I forgot to ask earlier, could you for the public's knowledge advise on the like if the map that's adopted, if the public has a concern, what is their recourse?
 Absolutely. So two options. Number one, anytime you have any issue, I guess, with any decision made by city council, it would be to file a lawsuit against the city for the maps. And then if the particular concern with the map is a violation of the Voting Rights Act, it would be to file a complaint with the Department of Justice. Thank you. No other questions. Thank you. And that's all the questions. I do want to thank you for your hard work, and I know you worked a lot of times on it.
 your you know additional time away from the city and your staff so that was really important mr gonzalez for providing the proper staffing to be able to do this i think that's really important and of course always uh colonel weston here you're always there for us and helping us whatever we need so thank you for that and you know all the commissioners and i know it it took a lot of time there's no doubt that it took a lot of time and we want to thank you
 for your hard work, your consideration, and really for accepting, because this is probably one of the hardest, longest lasting boards that you're not allowed to participate in anything else that's part of the city when you become part of the redistricting commission. So all the commissioners, I want to thank you all for your time. I know,
 that every one of you all devoted and dedicated and did a lot of research to make sure that you came up with what you felt was the proper map, the proper redistricting. And as you can see, in the five months, there was a lot of discussion there and what should go, where it should go, no different than what happened here. I do wanna thank them for their maps. I think their maps were very well thought of and very well planned.
 And I think, again, that was with a lot of your guidance, Karina, and thank you for that. And again, I wanna thank the public. I think we had a lot of public input and we had a lot of,
 people from the public that went to the meetings and also came to City Council and spend their time with us to give us their opinion and how they felt about this So this shows the importance of what redistricting and for the long term as we all know This process will not be changed again for another ten years. So for ten years This is what the city and our constituents will see us the districts So again, I want to thank everyone
 And with that, I have Representative Salcedo. Thank you, Mayor. I forgot to say thank you so much, Karina, because you did a lot of the work. I know I said thank you to a lot of people, but I just want to say thank you again. And I do have to still ask, if we needed more time, would we be on time with the deadlines?
 So I think I'll cover this but Carla can correct me if I'm wrong but we're trying to get the map approved. There's not another regular council meeting before the residency deadline goes into place on May 8th. It's best practice to have a map adopted before then. So I would recommend adopting a map today to stay on track without running afoul of any of the various elections requirements, Texas elections code, et cetera.
 I suppose there would have to be a larger discussion if we wanted to continue editing and take more time on the process. But today should be the day, unfortunately. Thank you for answering my question. Representative Sarga? Karina, thank you. Oh, sorry. Mayor, thank you. Karina, I have one more question. Please. Can you just – sorry. Can you hear me, Karina? Yes. Yes.
 DIRECTOR HARRIS Okay sorry. Can you tell me what the map would look like if we move 68 precinct 68 and 41 into District 2 and then precinct 74 into District 8. DIRECTOR HARRIS Really quick Representative Masada this is a conversation that we had yesterday.
 like looking at 42 also you know something that I said yesterday is we had the five points Business Association contact this council three times asking for 41 to be in district 2 so five points would be together we're not doing that because it's not possible and so now looking at like 42 and 62 you know it's just 68 sorry I'm just saying it's a lot
 I wasn't able to be at the meeting yesterday. That's okay. So those the precinct 68 and 41 have about an equal population to precinct 74. So I don't think it would affect the deviation too much. If you'd like to we can run that. Yeah. Could you run that? I'm just concerned about the people off of Alabama on McAlligan. Correct.
 74 is. You know we're sort of. Yeah. I know. Sort of. Quiadres under Pershing in here. So we're going to split up a neighborhood. Yeah I mean this is. Mayor I believe Representative Lizarra has a floor. Yes. Thank you. Yes Representative Anello if you don't mind. Thank you for your patience. Okay give me one second. I don't know if Mariano was on call for today so give me one moment to see if we can get
 thank you we're saying they've done this while we're waiting can we see the baby oh her screen is frozen there you go yes you can hold on where's the big guy show us a big guy there you go there you go ham say yay very handsome
 He's crying. I'm not sure which one of us he was looking at. He's camera shy. That's the baby's first council meeting, huh? Yes. That's what I'm saying. Camera. I'm not quite sure which one he was looking at, but he started. There he is. There he is. He's already boxed. He's looking at it. He's even got the pose. He's going to be the next mayor. In the future. In the future. He looks just like his dad. Mm-hmm.
 Yeah he does. He doesn't he doesn't like the camera though. The camera. Sorry the precincts are not as cute as the baby. I just needed to double check. Okay 68 and 41. Okay I'm running the numbers. And then 74 to District 8. So kind of an even swap there. Can you just zoom in on the the Weiler Tramway area just so we can see those few blocks of homes? Is that possible?
 Or so that I can see. Precinct is why we're... Yeah, this precinct. Because they're just isolated from the rest of the district, right by the mountain? Right, yeah. And Precinct 68 has about 1,600 people. If I end up representing them, I'd be happy to, yes. That's fine. But I just want to give them every opportunity to be able to be connected with the neighbors in the same district.
 Council please no side conversations. Yeah I'm waiting for Mariano to come back with the counts but I think that might not affect the overall deviation because it does not change our highest and our largest and our smallest district. But I don't know Mariano I know you're on. Do you want do you want to share your screen when you get a chance. OK. Let me bring up the spreadsheet. 81 88. OK still 90.86. Correct.
 Okay. I'd like to make a motion to make this change. Second. What was the deviation? It's the same deviation. It does not make District 2 or District 8 either the largest or the smallest. It didn't change anything. So deviation is exactly the same. And that would be kind of the new alignment between District 2 and District 8. It's fairly similar to what it looks like currently. Yeah, I think it just makes for a better map. I don't know.
 Makes it more cohesive Alabama McElkin can McElkin area That doesn't chop off the ends of all those blocks east of Alabama. So you are you still calculating? No No
 Yeah, I mean, again, first of all, I'm pretty sure I live in precinct 74. The conversation that we had had before and I would be very sad to lose the precinct that you just put in, but it was using a natural dividers Alabama. What we've done by taking 74 out is completely so we've done.
 I started off by saying that the five points neighborhood and business association has addressed the council and the commission about trying to re-night all of five points and we've just divided it more. So 74 is the southeast portion of five points. We've just completely removed that neighborhood from the rest of their neighbors. And so talking about communities of interest.
 Again, I'm pretty sure that I live in 74 as well. You're in 76, 73. Yeah, it's right there. But I mean, again, like these are my neighbors, right? We're dealing right now with like a Trowbridge project that runs through this neighborhood. And so talking about communities of interest, I just, I really hope this doesn't pass and all of the work that we've done yesterday. And we had this specific conversation over and over about that precinct and decided as a council that that wasn't the best decision.
 We'll take a vote after that. We have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Representative Lizada, seconded by Representative Salcido to move precincts 41 and 68 to District 2 and precinct 74 to District 8. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? No. Representative Lizada? Aye.
 the voting session and the motion fails 6 to 2 representatives Salcido Lizardaga voting aye the remainder of council voting nay the motion does fail all right miss Pryor we do have a motion and a second to adopt a map can we take that yes mayor there is a motion made by representative Anello seconded by representative Rodriguez and this is to adopt the map 7b as revised on April 25th 2022
 to establish the new council representative district boundaries and dissolving the districting commission on that motion call for the vote representative hernandez no representative lizardo aye in the voting session
 And the motion passes 5-2-3 with representatives Anelo Molinar Rodriguez Rivera Lizaga voting aye representative Shortsvine Hernandez Salcido voting nay. The motion does pass. Thank you and again thank you for all the hard work. And with that. We now return to page number nine item number 25
 Good afternoon members of council. I'm sorry, did you want to go to item 25? No, I think we would like to take a, what time is it? Right now it's currently 2.07. 20 minute recess. 20 minute? 23 minute recess. So. To come back at 2.30. Okay. There's a motion and a second to recess the city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? All right, we'll return it. The motion carries and the meeting will recombine at 2.30 p.m.
 to reconvene the city council meeting, all in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 2.35 p.m. We're on page number nine, item number 25. This is a presentation, update, and discussion on the city's intersection safety improvement program.
 Good afternoon members of Council, San Rodrigo City Engineer. Just a brief introduction on this program. You know, one of the strategies on the strategic plan on 2.4 is to improve motor safety traffic management solutions. So what you'll hear today in this particular action is one that was funded through $2 million on the fiscal year's 22 budget that includes this intersection improvement as well as you'll hear later in recommendation for the award to bring in this strategy under Division 0 on item 46.
 This is all being done in conjunction with other initiatives such as the street design manual that you'll be considering under item 38. And we're also working on the complete streets that's making a way through city planning commissions as well. With that I'm going to turn over the presentation to Richard for a brief introduction. Richard.
 Thank you, Sam. This is Richard Bristol from Streets and Maintenance. This is our intersection safety improvement program. This is a new initiative that we started in the present fiscal year, and it's a new approach that we're using to analyze traffic safety inside our intersections.
 And what we were able to do was partner up through an existing agreement between the city and UTEP. We were able to partner up with the UTEP Engineering School, and we were able to have them do a lot of data plotting of all the accidents that have taken place within our intersections over the last five years.
 Now, what we're going to do, we're going to share with you our process that we followed, where we get the information from, and we have two data sets that we're going to share with you, along with some improvements for two of the locations that we've identified in the presentation. Now, one of the data sets will quantify the worst accidents in the city just based on volume. The second one will assign, it'll use the text dot.
 model to pretty much show us the cost impact of accidents in the intersections over this
 Period of five years of data accident plotting within our intersection So we're going to give you the worst intersections by quantity and the worst ones by the cost estimate Utilizing the text formulas and then we're going to discuss some improvements and with that because dr. Chu is on a short schedule I'm going to hand this over to Hannah Williams Allen who will begin the presentation and had it to him. I think you're on mute Hannah. I
 I was sounding really good too. We'll try this again. Good afternoon. Hannah Williams-Allen with Streets and Maintenance. As previously mentioned by Mr. Bristol, this is a joint update presentation on the Intersection Safety Improvement Program and this is an effort between the City of El Paso and UTEP. And this item aligns with all of the strategic plan goals and just a brief recap. This
 program started from the evolution of the quarterly fatality analysis cross-functional team um back in 2021 city council did approve funding provision zero and from those efforts the infrastructure safety improvement program was born with the champion of representative anello
 the current investment in traffic safety is as shown on the slide for the interest of time and to keep dr chu i'm gonna kind of breeze through these but please feel free to to ask questions at the end and the important thing about this is to state that we did receive funding via the highway safety improvement program from texas in 2020 for the litrovino median enhancements from treywood to montwood
 For our Vision Zero umbrella, we do have the five E's, engineering, education, evaluation, enforcement, and equity. And these are just a few of the current initiatives that align with our Vision Zero. The project scope was already briefed by Mr. Bristol, and so I will not go into detail on this.
 And so now I will introduce the program team. We do have our departmental management as well as CID's assistants. We did have a GIS analyst, Mr. William Aguirre, the bicycle program coordinator, Alfredo Austin, Mr. Sergio Reyes, traffic engineer, Mr. Jianxing Yang, the city traffic engineer, as well as myself.
 And now I will hand the presentation over to Dr. Chiu so that he can go into the specifics of the efforts.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council Representative. My name is Kelvin Chiu. I'm a professor in the Department of Civil Engineering at UTEP. My expertise is in transportation. In UTEP, our team consists of three students of mine. From the left to the right on the photograph is Diego Mendoza. Diego is here with me.
 And then we have Larissa Hernandez and Araf Alvigi. And Larissa is a master student. Diego and Araf, they are undergraduate senior students. They're graduating next semester. Next paragraph, please. Next slide, please.
 So we are tasked by the city engineering team to perform the following tasks. First, we review the existing tools and practices, and then we collect data and process the data. And having the data processed, we continue with the analysis of the accident or crashes. And after that, we...
 identify the top 20 high-risk intersection and also work with the city engineering partners to develop improvement plan to improve the safety. So let me spend some time to go over each of this. When we review the existing practices, we learn that TxDOT has a highway safety improvement program in that there are many useful information which we have collected and used in a later part of the project.
 So in the data collection and processing task, we have received a lot of data from the city engineering team. And that includes the list of city and tech stock maintain routes, the safety calculation methods, crash data over the years, almost five years.
 and also the city has maintained collision diagram, engineering improvement drawing at different intersections over the years, signal timing plan and so on and so forth. So based on the data collected, initially we found that there were 95,000 accidents or crashes in the city from January of 2016 to October 2021.
 So we need to filter out the data. So we went ahead to filter out the accidents outside the city limits on TxDOT highways, not at the intersections, and we ended up with 35,000 crashes that we can analyze to develop our model.
 We need to clean up the root names to make them consistent so that we can every crashes and every intersections were accounted for. So we spent a bit of time on that. So after we sorted out the root names, we counted the number of crashes and developed a frequency table and from that we identified the top 20 intersections.
 So I will have next few slides to explain the following parts. Can I have the next slide please?
 Okay, so the most intuitive way to rank the intersection is by just counting the number of crashes or accidents. So this slide shows the initial tables that we have come up with by just counting the number of collisions. You can see the rank from on the table, you can see the rank from the highest number of crashes total 140 to the number 20 locations with 54 crashes and the different columns are
 list the number of fatal crashes, seriously injured, or crashes with minor injury, and many of them are unknown outcome. And we also list the district names. Some of the intersections have two district names because they are at the boundary between two city districts. So on the left is a Google map that shows the locations of all these intersections, and it's superimposed in the district in the different colors.
 And as you can notice, most of the intersections that happen between Aiten and Montana in the east side. But this is not the standard way of listing or ranking the intersection by accidents. In our transportation or traffic engineering industry, the standard way is to use the cost impact of all the crashes, intersection by intersection.
 So the way we do the calls is TxDOT has a standard cost of calculating the impact of crashes or accidents at intersections. Of course, we all know that a fatal crash has more economic impact than crashes with minor injury.
 So, the TechStock actually used a value of 3.7 million for every fatal crash or crashes that result in seriously injured outcome, and half a million for crashes with minor injury or possible injury. So, before we used the TechStock value, we actually compared with another set of data crash,
 crash value from the National Safety Council. And we decided to use the tax stock value because we feel that it is closer to what the drivers or the victims experience in Texas.
 And it's more natural if we use TxDoc recommended values, if we have to work with TxDoc to obtain safety improvement funds for our project. So we went ahead to use the cost, we ran the intersections, and we obtained the following slide.
 So this slide lists the new top 20 intersections ranked by the total cost impact. You can see from the second last column on the right, the worst intersection has cost impact of almost 20 million, down to the number 20, about $30 million over four years and ten months. So now the different color means different thing. Let me explain.
 when we look at the top 20 intersection we also found that the city has already had improvement plans in place for the number one number six and number 11. so uh and then we select the top 10 out of these three intersections and we ended up with the 10 intersection in the green color and those red colors before for this phase of the project we focus more on the 10 intersections highlighted in green
 and the red colors will be considered in the next phase. Next slide please. So this is to compare the two different ways of ranking the intersections. This is to show the rank by the cost and compare with the blue color, which is the rank by just the number of total collisions. Of course, the ranks are different, but pretty much the top intersection,
 about most of them are in the top 20 with a few minor differences. Next slide, please. So after RENC identified the top 20 intersections, we went ahead to develop the improvement plan for the top 10 intersections. The way we developed the improvement process is we work with the city to analyze the collision pattern of collision. We call it collision diagram analysis. I'll explain later on in the next slide.
 And we also look at the city drawings, the signal timing plan. We also make a virtual site visit through Google. And more importantly, we actually went down to the field to look at the traffic, to identify the problem with our own eyes. Next slide, please.
 So in the crash diagram analysis, we went back to the database maintained by TaxDoc. This is the database of all the police reports of all the accidents in the city. So for every accident at a particular intersection, we look at if every crash, the police narrative and the recorded contributing factors and the pattern of the crashes. We draw the arrow indicated in the diagram.
 bottom of the slides here. So, for every crash, we draw the arrows and we count the number of arrows to try to identify a common pattern. From there, we can identify the likely causes or contributing factors. As you can see,
 The most common types of crashes are rear-end, left-turn and right-anger. The rear-end contributing factors are speeding, drivers inattention and tailgating. For the left-turn, mostly contributed by drivers fail to deal right-of-way, means when they make a left turn, speeding or not paying attention.
 and the right angle crashes are caused by disregard traffic signal means running red line, speeding and driving in a tension. Now, all these factors are common.
 to the driver's behavior and the way to make improvement is to make a city-wide program on driver's education to try to alter the behavior to educate them on the recent consequences of causing a crash or involved in the crash however in engineering design we can also do things to improve the safety of the intersection by drawing the driver's attention to the intersection ahead
 So, next slide, please. So, I'll hand it back over to Hannah, who will explain the solutions, countermeasures. Thank you, Dr. Chiu.
 So this slide is just an example of some sample countermeasure, countermeasures that the department will be implementing. So we refer to this as our sample countermeasure toolkit. And these are different implementations that will be used in addition to the Federal Highways Administration proven safety countermeasures. In Tier 1, we have improvements like tree trimming, installing signs, refreshing pavement markings, and installing backplates.
 we are looking into the possibility of installing rumble strips as you approach intersections due to the increased number of driver and attention um being the cause of these accidents we're also looking into standardizing the crosswalks replacing extend replacing and extending cross arms as well as realigning and adding signal heads it's important to note that these tier one
 Improvements are planned to be implemented citywide as needed and as we see fit, especially based off of our current service requests that we receive. For Tier 2, we do have the implementation of speed feedback signs as well as flashing warning signs and even restricting turning movements.
 And for Tier 3, we have the lane reduction or road diets, curb extensions, as you can see the picture from the El Paso de las Luces project, roundabouts, which we all know have been installed all throughout the city, as well as complete streets, which is currently being worked on. The policy is currently being worked on.
 And so at this time, we are going to present two intersections in which we have joint proposed improvements. This first intersection is ranked number five and it is in District 8 and it is Campbell and Montana.
 The existing conditions, you have Campbell running northbound one way and Montana runs two-way east and westbound. The contributing factors for the collisions to the left include speeding and attention as well as disregarding the traffic signal and the collision summary from 2016 to October 2021 showed that 81% of those collisions were right ankle collisions.
 So for our proposed improvements, we are going to first look at Campbell Street northbound. As you can see on the left, there are two signal heads and we have our proposal on the right. And so our first recommendation is to replace the mass arm with the longer arm, which will allow us to install an additional signal head. And we will also add back plates which make the signal heads more visible.
 as well as adding in lane assignment signs. And so these improvements are proposed at all approaches at this intersection, and these all fall under tier one. A tier two improvement for this intersection is on Montana eastbound. As you can see existing, there is not a speed limit sign. And so proposed is to install a speed feedback sign, and this falls under tier two.
 And the last set of improvements for this intersection is some tier one improvements, which include repainting all pavement markings at the intersection, as well as a tier three improvement, which is to install curb extensions. And so at this time, I will hand it over to Mr. Sergio Reyes to review the next intersection. Thank you, Hannah. Thank you, Hannah.
 uh good good afternoon mayor and council for the record my name is sergio reyes traffic engineer for the streets and maintenance department this uh analyzing this intersection is the uh location at red and wrestler there are existing conditions as you could see the the
 The collision diagram shows the record for six-year record of collisions and the quantities per year. And as you can see, according to the collision summary, 81% of all the 118 collisions happen, half of them happen for rear-end collisions and also left-turn right-angle collisions.
 The contributing factors for this were basically speeding and driver inattention. This intersection is ranked number three in our list for 20 intersections and is located on District 1. Next, please. Thank you.
 So the improvements, the proposed improvements for this intersection, we have the Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3. The Tier 1 improvements has to do with refreshing or rehabilitation of payment markings, like driving lanes and crosswalks. Also the installation of race payment markers, which are an enhancement to the payment markings, especially at nighttime.
 The other improvement is the back plates, which basically offer a great deal of safety, especially at nighttime, and the glare for the sun. Another important improvement is the installation of flashing yellow electron arrows and signs. These measures will suggest drivers to slow down and stay alert when making a left turn and yield to the oncoming traffic.
 Another improvement is the installation of islands. These ones would be at rate. They would not be raised. And they are made out of striping and raised payment margins. That was Tier 2. Now, a few years ago, in the year 2019, through the resurfacing program,
 we had a project to make enhancements on the bicycle lanes at this intersection. So we installed a green infrastructure, which is a pavement marking and a thermoplastic material that enhances and is retro-reflective to drivers and they are alerted that there is bicycle traffic in the area. Next slide.
 Thank you. This is an improvement for Tier 3, which is a more robust improvement, which requires removal and installation and modifications to the geometric improvements to the street.
 This is an improvement that basically is increasing the number of feet from an existing 230 feet storage for the electrons, and we would increase it to 345 feet. This requires the modification to remove all of the curve and install the new pavement markings.
 And this improvement basically will help improve safety, especially for the rear end positions. And now I'll pass it. Before we pass off, just wanna make mention that that is actually in District 8 at this point. Thank you, sir. Yes, thank you. Thank you, sir. And I'll pass it to Hannah. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Reyes, and thank you, Representative Schwartzbein, for reminding us that the boundaries have changed. So that's something that the team will have to go back and revise for,
 today's meeting. It's been 30 minutes, it's been 30 minutes, but you know, it's never too early to start. Well, we appreciate the reminder, we do. And just to kind of wrap up the slide, I mean the presentation, this slide is just to kind of further explain the next steps. So we do have a milestone,
 forthcoming next month, which is the final report. And in that final report, there will be countermeasures. That's, you know, tiers one through three for all of those 10 intersections. And we will have the conceptual renderings, preliminary cost estimates, as well as a finalized benefit cost analysis. And we also have the opportunity to continue a future partnership with UTEP to,
 work with the students there so that way they can get some applicable experience with how we utilize traffic engineering in a day-to-day life.
 And subject to any questions that will conclude our presentation. Also, Hannah, if I could just add two more points. One, the money that was put in our budget for this program, as well as for the Vision Zero, there is a little bit of that money left over, which we will be using for immediate funding.
 procurement and actions and corrective actions that we're taking on the top 10 intersections we're trying to get as much as we can done with the money that's allotted but we're also going to utilize the opportunity to also search for federal and state granting opportunities with this information as well something i wanted to add and if i may mayor pro tem i would like to
 recognize Hannah. She's got a new last name and that's because she got married and unfortunately her last day is today and she's moving with her husband to Houston. We're taking her to lunch tomorrow and I was giving her a hard time about it. You know we you know getting married obviously is getting her to move to Houston. We're very happy for her but we're going to miss her
 And she's going to miss this organization, and we're going to say a proper goodbye to her tomorrow. But she has been an amazing team player and has been a great presenter on a very tedious, very technically oriented program.
 presentation that she always has to give, but she always does it extremely well. And I know she's worked probably with every one of y'all's offices and again, has done a tremendous job and again, with her communication skills. So Hannah, we really appreciate your exceptional work for us and we're gonna miss you. Thank you, sir, I really appreciate that. It's been an honor to work and to serve here in the city of El Paso, my hometown, and thank you for all of the opportunities that I have been afforded.
 Yay, yay, yay. Congratulations. Real life clapping emoji. We like clapping. Thank you, thank you. You're not taking her to Chico's, are you? We left it up to her. She hasn't sent us the request to what restaurant she wants to go to, but I'm sure she's very familiar with the great places to eat here in El Paso. We'll find out today where she wants to go. Best of luck, Hannah. Best of luck. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good luck Hannah you will be missed. Thank you for all your hard work especially with me. You know what I'm talking about. Thank you. Thank you. We will. You will be missed. We have Representative Vanello. Thank you. Thank you Hannah. I think thank you for staying on to see this through. I really appreciate it. You've done great work and I want to thank Dr. Chu and the team at UTEP for.
 kind of collaborating with us and all of the really valuable data that they shared and they were able to come up with. So I know Hannah we had a briefing last week and some of the stuff I'm going to reiterate but I also just want to re clarify some things from either you or Richard. So you said that you all have the funding for the top 10 streets that were identified in slide 13 correct.
 We have funding in our budget that was set up to pay for the Vision Zero Award and for this contract, as well as some of the improvements. So we do not have all the funding for all the improvements. What we'll know is how much they cost when our staff, Sergio, and the UTEP group are done completing the deliverable on the 17th, which will have our cost estimates for all of the improvements.
 And that's why I wanted to reiterate that we're going to utilize the money that we've been allocated for this project
 to purchase these items, these safety features that would be part of the tier one, tier two and tier three system. But we're also at the same time gonna be pursuing granting opportunities as well through either the MPO or the federal, state and local government, whichever one we can find to also help us supplement our effort to improve these intersections. Okay, that makes so much sense because I was this weekend, like I don't know how Richard is gonna make, like use $2 million to fix all these streets.
 I was like, I know you can make a dollar stretch, but that seemed crazy to me. But I do wanna kind of focus on, I know we talked about the projects one and six that are on Asterix. And if you could remind me a little bit on what you told me on my briefing about those projects. And I think they're the La Quinta Place and Montana at Piedras.
 Those projects are already an active improvement that will improve the intersection. So we're going to stay out of the way until they are completed, at which time we will come back and make any modification that we believe we need to make. Right now, we need to stay away so they can complete the project. Okay.
 Okay, perfect. So there are improvements underway at these. Okay, thank you. I appreciate that clarification. And so I guess I just want to say to city manager and to council, you know, I proposed this last year because we were having a lot of accidents in the same location. None of those locations have come up on this top 20 list, and that's not surprising. What was surprising, I think, was one of the, I can't find the slide right now, but one of the
 projects that Hannah mentioned was Red and Wrestler and actually how many accidents that there were. I think there were 137 and I was
 I would have never imagined that one intersection was having that many. So it was 118. And so just because the streets that I put up didn't make it on this list, I think that this study in general has shown us a large need in our community that we hadn't even talked about yet. But with that said, I also know that the streets that I put up are still having those issues. So while there are 20, we have in front of us 20 streets that are concerned, we know that there are many more.
 And when you're having multiple accidents, whether it's 118 or 20, it should be a concern of ours. And so I'm really interested in hearing, moving forward with these top 10, seeing what Richard and the team
 bring back to us, but I'm also really interested in continuing this conversation past those top 10 streets. I know we only put $2 million in the budget from last year, but I think this is a conversation we need to be having annually when we're looking at our budget. Because again, I would have never imagined that there were, I mean, I've driven that intersection, I know that it was gonna be problematic, but 118 accidents on one intersection. I mean, even number,
 Well, number 18 is also Red Road. Apparently there's just like a lot of issues on Red Road. But even there just being 43 accidents is a problem. You know, and the ones that I mentioned, Trowbridge, where I know of five this year, just those five are a problem. And so I think until, you know, Vision Zero is called Vision Zero for a reason, right? Until we are able to get to a place where we've really addressed
 intersections all of the intersections that have multiple accidents i don't think that we've completed this project or done our job but i'm really grateful to everyone who have put in the time to get us to the starting point and to even help me as a council member understand the need across our city with this because like i said i put this item up and i've come out of it with an entirely different understanding of what the issues in our city are
 And I just want to reiterate that I'm eager to continue to address these throughout the years till we get to a point that our city is safer. So thank you all so much. DIRECTOR HERSEY- If I can add Representative Nello yesterday we had a meeting with the federal DOT representative that came to town and one of his questions to us was what are you guys what's the city doing towards traffic safety and fatalities for pedestrian bicyclists and motorists. And we talked about the presentations that were presented today.
 The DOT through to the bill that was approved that was the infrastructure bill that was approved are going to be releasing $1 billion grant opportunities over the next five years to target specific programs like this. So the data the background that we're doing with this effort along with Vision Zero is really going to set up set us up nicely to pursue those funding categories.
 Those of you that are part of the MPO you know that Eduardo Cabo and his efforts at the state level are looking to implement and really carry this message that we're pursuing here today from a regional level as well. Well we anticipate state funding coming through the MPO as well and being able to pursue funds through that avenue as well to really push this list down as you stated to continue down the list until we get to zero. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay. Thank you so much Sam. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem. DIRECTOR PRO TEM.
 Great presentation. You know, these kind of projects are really the sort of meat and potatoes of what we need to be focusing on, which is keeping our community safe and roads. One of the things that two thoughts that I have right now, one relates to,
 the overall streets and we're focusing on these intersections and making sure that they're safe. But also, I would think that some of these streets also, just in terms of their overall, the overall condition of the streets, they're probably also looking at the need to be resurfaced or other sort of work on them. And so I'm just wondering, as we move forward this process that we're also looking at
 They're also looking at a way to comprehensively fix and update these streets, whether it's the resurfacing or whatever have you as well. I think it's important to focus on the safety of the intersections. It's clear that there's a need as well, but I also think too in terms of what residents are looking for, they wanna see their streets fixed, period, especially our heavily traveled arterials as well. So I don't know if we can talk about that.
 The second comment that I have, first of all, I like seeing the different tiers, the tier one, two, and three, in terms of what options are there based upon best practices in municipalities. One thing that we hear about from time and again from residents is a perceived fading of the lanes that it's hard to see in different intersections where the lanes go out.
 that they get repainted and six months later they're covered in dust or they just fade away or whatever, which seems to be a minor thing compared to sort of the expansive approach that y'all are taking, which I think is absolutely necessary and long overdue. But I'm wondering if you can also talk about
 Maybe on a larger level, what is it that we're doing with our striping? And why is it that some people think that it's possibly fading or not? And the process for maintenance of our street restriping as well on our heavily used arterials. Mayor Pro Tem, before they answer, let me just give a general sweeping statement real quick about just a reminder to council that
 Sam Rodriguez has presented to you in the past that we needed approximately 44 million dollars a year in order to maintain the streets that we have and that the number has been woefully inadequate over decades and
 and now the council has pay as you go dollar set aside. You have a fee that we put in place that goes to residential streets. And so we've got all these different avenues of approach, so to speak, that attack this problem, but it's still very low. It's like a $10 million, $12 million number as opposed to the $44 million number
 Now we're getting better at that. We've added more dollars. And then there's also been some bond packages that you have approved where we have more street projects. And then we also have the twenty nine, the twenty twenty two bond package to be considered by the public, which that number is growing and growing every day. But things like what was presented today, Vision Zero, whether it's MPO funding, whether it's pay as you go dollars, whether it's fees that are in place or whether it's bond elections or whether it's just adding more dollars to the budget,
 Those are all the different ways that you can do that, but it just costs more money. And we have caught up a lot with a lot of things that weren't done, but as you can see, as you know, as you've heard, as you've stated, we do need to do more. And yes, Mayor Pro Tem,
 the the funding for all of these things to be done in a way that should be done at a higher level we're not quite there yet but we're making progress and we've gotten better at it but i'll let staff respond but i did just want to remind council kind of the the the big budget discussion we've had in the past about the total cost of maintaining the streets and what that is and it's significant and that's not even getting into reconstructing streets which is a lot more expensive
 I'll tackle the first question. I'll pass it over Richard on the striping but with regards to the streets that are in the program they're actively funded you know this data is going to really support us addressing these intersections in the same way that we go through to upgrade all the ADA ramps when we go through through resurfacing we make sure all the sidewalks are
 updated to ADA standards. You know, we're going to use this data to cross-reference and if we're targeting or if we're addressing one of these intersections that we know needs improvements, it really makes sense that we're there in addressing the intersections as part of those projects as we move forward, especially when we do reconstruction and resurfacing. That's got to be key for that. And we'll make sure that we incorporate that into it, not just that we do any other code requirements. Richard, on the striping? Yeah.
 Representative Schwarzbein, you are correct. One of the things that happens with these thermoplastic markings is they tend to get brake dust on them, they'll get asphalt dust on them, and they can get dirty and they get hard to see after a while. And that is a problem that we have. Sometimes after it rains, they show up a lot better. But that's not our excuse. I just want to let you know, even if we've just striped something within a matter of months, it's possible to see that just because of how dirty they can get.
 But you already have taken an action to help us substantially in the direction of striping. And that's that within the last budget, there was an allocation for us to purchase a thermoplastic striping unit. And what we did was we got creative. Our group, Andre Rico and his team over in traffic infrastructure, were able to come up with an opportunity to purchase not one but two thermoplastic trailers with the money that was allocated to us.
 to us and with those two thermoplastic trailers, we now have two additional tools to utilize for lane lines and markings citywide. Now we don't have full crews for all of them, but let me tell you what will work to our advantage. Primarily we're using our thermoplastic strapping machine, which is a very complex piece of equipment
 And it breaks a lot. It falls in disrepair far too often, and we spend a lot of money on it. So we had to find a smarter way of getting this task done. When Andre found the trailered units, we realized we're giving up all the problems that we had with the chassis.
 and the drive trains. So we purchased those, and we're in the process of getting them tagged and titled so we can get them out on the street. But we're anticipating that will significantly improve our ability to cover more areas throughout the city. Now, we're still using the primary thermoplastic striping machine because it is our best tool. But when that is down, we've had times in the past where it broke down, and we lost it for a month during striping season.
 The last thing we can do during striping season is lose the ability to stripe. So now we have two additional units that we'll be putting on the street in addition to that unit. So that has put us in an opportunity to very much limit our downtime due to equipment issues. And it's also put us in an opportunity to work more than one striping program, more than one striping team at the same time.
 So these are tools that you've given us in our budget already that are helping us. And the only thing I would add to that, we also have a third option we utilize, which is contracts like Sam mentioned. In our resurfacing contracts and in our reconstruction contracts,
 We do contract this work out as well. Sometimes when we fall behind and we need a little help catching up, we, like we are doing it right now, we will contract with one of the local firms and have them help us catch up. On the west side, on West Wind and Red Road, a lot of stripping was done over the weekend by a contractor that we utilize for this purpose.
 So those are basically the three primary tools we have is our equipment, our employees, the equipment that you've helped us acquire in the last year as opposed to using third-party contracts. And do we have an idea, roughly speaking, how – what the sort of –
 cycle is forgetting a street like Red Road, for example. You're absolutely right. I was there. I saw it. It got restriped over the weekend. Mazel Tov. Congratulations to everyone who helped to hand to making that restriping happen. But when would be the next time, roughly speaking, that Red Road would be restriped again? Sir, the material usually will last about two years.
 If we're lucky, we'll be able to stretch it a little bit longer. But right now we're looking at very likely a two-year period, and we're hoping that the material will last a little bit longer, but we're going to be watching it closely, and if it gets faded out, we have tools to get at it faster now. So essentially we'll be watching it closely, but we're hoping to get at least two years out of the material. And so just to wrap up, again, back to that sort of second point that you
 Sam brought up we do have our list of I guess top 20 or top 10 most traveled arterials We're update we you know in our part of our our 22 budget. We've updated our PCI study as well I do think with
 what we're hearing from constituents, the feedback we got from the capital improvement survey as well, I really think we need to be looking at some of those heavily trafficked arterials into looking at a resurfacing or other improvements. I just think it would be a shame to go and do these intersection improvements and have people and residents question, well, you went and did that on Ressler and Red, but what about the area between West Wind and Ressler on Red Road as well? Why didn't y'all resurface that or fix it up
 So I just think that's something we should think about, too, is look at the intersections, also look holistically at some of our most traveled arterials, perhaps as part of our bond package for 22 if it goes through. Mayor, that's it. Thank you. Representative Moldenard?
 thank you very much mayor miss hannah congratulations on your marriage thank you very much for everything you've done for us in the city of el paso the citizens we owe you a debt of gratitude so appreciate that very much mr bristol and your team thank you very much for this presentation the partnership with the university of texas at el paso great job on that uh we will go to slide 1616 i know on tier three you mentioned roundabouts i can tell you um
 There are a few roundabouts in District 4, and the feedback that I've always gotten that, I'm not saying they don't work, but the citizens just do not feel comfortable driving in them, operating them, there's still some negative feedback on that. The other thing I would like to add is that in any type of traffic management, there's three E's. E is in Edward. Of course, right now we're talking about engineering, the other two being education,
 And the third one being enforcement. So I don't see anything about necessarily education and I don't see anything about enforcement. I think taking all three of them in components together, the results and the reduction of fatalities would be a lot better.
 the education component for the citizens. And yes, I know we probably all took a driver's ed course back in the day, but I know AARP does certain work for senior drivers and everything else like that. But we do need an education component on this, I do believe. And I would...
 You know entertain a motion to have some type of an education component added to this I don't know if anyone would like to second that represent Mona I think that's a great point and one in which I think that we shortened this presentation to just division zero concept but we've made
 different presentations on marketing, compliance, education programs that we have, as well as just an onslaught of all the different programs we have to attack safety. We can bring that back so we can be more comprehensive, perhaps. Go ahead, go ahead, Sam.
 Yeah if I can add Representative Molinar this is specific to the intersection safety improvement. Item 46 you will be considering Division 0 program that's going to be really the umbrella of all these programs to include programs like NTMP the quarterly fatality analysis a lot of the traffic division that PD has with the education videos that they have
 All that's going to fall under the Vision Zero and the strategy that will include the safety programs will come out of that contract that you'll be considering there today as well. So again, this is specific to intersection safety improvements. Do not disagree with you. The education piece is very key and that's something that will come through with the public partnerships that are going to be built through the Vision Zero initiative under the contract that you'll be considering under item 46. And we'll be happy to bring back a full comprehensive.
 presentation later as well on all the programs as the state manager state as well as so desired as as y'all saw sam was very um ready to talk about that slide and talk about those things because i think that's a great point from mr muller not to bring up the other thing i would talk about is that eight years ago we didn't have a
 Traffic division for the police department. It wouldn't stood back up because of the numbers now We have that back up to the enforcement to your point, sir So that could be added also to this slide into the more comprehensive report that we come back and present Okay, and thank you both city manager and mr. Rodriguez appreciate that withdraw that Motion right now and we look forward to something more comprehensive in the future. But thank you. I appreciate that very much. Thank you Hernandez
 Thank you Mayor. Just wanted to bid Mrs. Williams farewell and thank you for her public service.
 And for the person who will take over her role, I just wanted to welcome whoever that person is, but also to show my support not only to Vision Zero, but to the efforts with other stakeholders like the Complete Streets Coalition, something that I know members of council feel very strongly about.
 But I'm very proud of the work that and the partnership that you all have with UTEP and other stakeholders and so we can't do more for traffic improvements. We this is really the fundamentals of a lot of the concerns of our community. We don't talk about it enough but know that it is very important to to City Council to see that we have safe streets.
 that we are vying for and trying to ensure that no pedestrian or persons are killed in vehicular traffic accidents. So this work is going to save lives, and so I thank you for your service again, Mrs. Williams, and we look forward to working with your successor. Thank you, Representative. I appreciate that. It's been an honor. And that's it, Ms. Pryor. That brings us to item number 26 on the agenda, and this is a presentation on community health.
 So this you might be on mute Mario. No he's right here. He's coming up. Well there he is. You're on mute Mario. Very good sir. Good afternoon mayor and council. Good afternoon chief. He is one that shows how skinny he's gotten. You can't tell when we can't tell how skinny you've gotten. I think you've gotten muscular mayor. Both of you thank you. So today's presentation is on community health and the transformation we've seen since the onset of COVID-19.
 I want to start off by recapping a presentation that Ms. Angela Mora presented in August of 2021. And that was focusing on how we have continued to deliver those exceptional services, whether it be our immunizations, our pediatric dental, our TB or WIC, or even our HI prevention and services. And how COVID-19 changed our approach and how we're no longer just focused on an individual illness, but we're focused on the overall well-being of our community. And that focuses on a collaboration and partnership.
 So something I'm trying to convey or that we're planning on conveying in this presentation is the alignment of public health with OEM and the fire department. The value it added to the community and how the alignment coupled with the CFT that was created early on is what allowed us to focus on the response and now the long-term recovery from the pandemic.
 As you've probably seen in recent studies being published about public health around the nation, pretty much around the globe, there's four main areas that was highlighted during this pandemic for most public health departments. And that was staffing, funding, political influence, and information technology. And so what we did with early on in that alignment, what we did with the support that we gave as an organization is what we didn't fall victim to those same four items.
 This slide right here, this is showing us how our demographics was one of the main reasons the virus had such an impact on our community. When we look at this slide, we can see that spike we saw in the late fall of 2020 and how it coupled with high hospitalizations and numerous fatalities. It was that spike that we saw that had us focus on our successful vaccination campaign and how we did that rollout. And it was everything we did from that early year 2020, our influenza campaign.
 How we use that as our platform to test our new system that we upgraded for registration for vaccines. That would allow us to try it before the vaccines were even available. So it was a lot, had its own difficulties, but it was a lot more seamless for us that we'd had an opportunity to try it already. Here, this is a, the next couple of slides are going to show how our vaccination efforts affected the spread of the virus.
 And so while we did still see a spike, you know, with the Omicron virus, it was our herd immunity and the fact that we were able to get so many people vaccinated that kept this spike from over inundating our hospitals and causing large fatalities. This slide right here speaks again to our success we've had within our coordinated push for vaccines and how we were one of the first to reach herd immunity.
 Looking at this slide and how I discussed a little bit earlier on how vaccinations possibly affected our hospitalization rates. Here's where you can see how our vaccinations were able to keep those hospitalizations down. So these are some of the results we have for our community. So.
 Whether it was our EP Strong website, we got our Future Ready Award from the Center of Digital Government, or the Rockefeller Foundation and CDC recognized one of the best in the nation for vaccine rollout. It was that commitment that the alignment and that CFT team provided the organization. As I talked about that alignment, and I've brought it up several times, but it really is key in how that and the creation of that CFT allowed us to be successful in what we did.
 Our regional leadership on threats risks and hazards. And so we we took advantage of what we had set up way before the pandemic our communities of excellence partners and all the partners that we do work with within the city or the Office of Emergency Management. And so we set up I mean at the onset they were they were very frequent to weekly to monthly meetings we still continue to meet to make sure that we're all addressing it in the same directions. That includes our school districts hospitals other government entities work very closely with the county throughout this pandemic.
 and the response and our NGOs. We continue to, as we did from the onset, is use data to drive our decision making. And that was critical into a lot of the success we saw. And again, those community partnerships and our community excellence partners really was what made it successful. Looking at the results for the community on another slide here, we see that we did get best practice on integrated and synchronized response between health, fire, and emergency management.
 That was recognized early on in the pandemic. I think it was the summer of 2020. We were called to present to the vice president and several people from HHS. And it was, they were wanting to know how we were doing it. How were we able to get the data? How were we able to start setting up our dashboard and get things moving so quickly? And it was that integration that we did.
 We also received a lot of recognition for our mega site COVID testings. While it had its fair share of problems, we used our toolbox that we have here within the city and we used Lean Six Sigma and all the resources we have. So it wasn't just public health, fire department, it was all 6,000 plus employees working towards a common goal.
 Some of the strategic the next few slides are going to cover our strategic opportunities and these are these are opportunities that we started working on during the pandemic we've really taken advantage of them and it's also what we want to focus on going forward for public health.
 Our mobile integrated health programs, so that's our MIH teams, we were, you all supported and we staffed six mobile integrated health teams. They're housed within the fire department. It's paramedics and EMTs. They're assigned to units and they are the ones who were out in the forefront. So they were the ones that are going out and doing, they conduct home testing, home vaccinations.
 They're focusing on our high-risk populations going into the centers for the elderly, our assisted living facilities, and facilities like that. They're a critical first link to emergency care, from emergent care to social services. So when we look at that MIH team and how we set it up, it's a three-tier system. And so tier one was focusing on health screenings, education, and vaccinations. So that's what we've been doing.
 Tier 2 is what we're going to start to look at. We've already been running all the data and we're starting to kick off into this area but it's looking at our 9 1 1 high frequency caller reductions. And so what that is is we have a lot of people in our community who lack of having health care. They're using the 9 1 1 system as their basic day to day needs. So these are individuals who called 9 1 1 more than four times a month.
 And so there's thousands of them. This is where the MIH team is going to go and help them connect them to the social services or mental health services, anything they might need to assist that effort. And tier three is to reduce that 30 day high risk hospitalization readmission. So there's a strong push from the federal level throughout the hospital system that
 insurances are not wanting to pay if somebody's readmitted into a hospital within 30 days from something they got released from. And so what that is is they want to make sure that patients are receiving the quality care that they get, that they said they were getting, and that they're not returning. So that we're following up with aftercare, making sure they have their medications, that they get their rehab in, so that they're not put right back into the system again for lack of service.
 Investment in infrastructure. As we've talked about before, we've invested heavily in the Department of Public Health from our new laboratory, which has allowed us to expand our services. Diabetes and hepatitis C testing is now done in-house, and we're also able to integrate our diabetes testing into a clinical setting. So that new facility on railroad has both the laboratory and hospital.
 clinic and with the ARPA presentation coming up in the next couple of weeks that's part of the proposed phase one for DPH relocation as well so looking at
 Those care clinics we bought through CARES funding. Those were bought originally and they were COVID-19 response clinics. What we're trying, what we're doing at this point is we're transitioning them into community clinics. And so that being said, it's not specific to COVID. You can go for testing. You can still go for vaccinations for COVID. But now we want to offer all of our vaccinations there. We want to expand our services to make it more user friendly for our community.
 And we also want to, with that proposal coming up, we also want to talk about the presence of, leaving a presence, having a clinic remain in the MCA area so we don't take any services from those who already have it at the El Paso Drive location. Community needs assessment and community health improvement plan. So I'm talking about what we're changing for the future, but we really need to stop and go back and do a refresh. We know that there's been other
 community needs assessments performed, but we want to capture what it looks like post pandemic. So that's actually going to be kicked off here in the next couple of months. We'll be meeting with certain with numerous stakeholders from all over the community to make sure that we're capturing what our community needs in public health.
 Community partnerships, we've talked a lot about this. I talked about our communities of excellence, but it's how we go forward and how we continue to provide the services to our community. We wanna make sure that we maintain that strong connection with Emergent Healthcare Network, the Paso del Norte Health Foundation, all the universities and school districts and hospitals alike. Our health data sharing, that was one of the main areas that I talked about that was proven across the nation, across the globe, where they didn't have the strength in their,
 information technology systems. So what we did early on is we put our data teams together from city IT to fire IT and we were able to set up that dashboard and so all that data's created, we utilize multiple systems to make sure we can put out in real time. When we look at the data exchange and data management,
 That's huge. The public health information exchange in our community is one of the best in the nations. When we had COVID hit us, not all the hospitals were signed up onto that program. And so gathering data to report out on a daily, weekly basis was very difficult and time consuming. You'd have to call the hospitals. Most communities are still operating like that today.
 We were lucky to get all of our hospital systems on board, our Department of Public Health, all of our vaccination sites and clinics, and so that's what allowed us to track those daily numbers and to make sure we had up-to-date information for not only you but our community at large. Looking at our mental health initiatives, we want to focus on 911 communications and public health as well. So our plan is to embed mental health professionals into 911 center,
 We're also looking at moving the suicide crisis line, the 988 number, into the center as well. And what this is going to do is this is going to allow us to better serve the community by having those subject matter experts in the call center to handle the calls from the onset. This way we can determine what are the best resources to send, whether it's PD's CIT team, whether it's one of the MIH teams, or whether it's Emergence Healthcare or even a 911 ambulance that responds.
 ET3 program, that's a huge program. It includes mental health component for Medicaid Part B patients to be transported to EHN facilities. What does that mean? Historically, most cities in Texas and the country can only transport patients on emergency basis to an ER system.
 We've signed up into the ET3 program. We're one of the ones piloting out the program. And so what that allows us to do is it partners with like EHN. And so now when we have those patients that need emergent care, but it's not of a medical nature, it's more of the mental health nature, we can transport them directly there. Where previously we had to transport them to a hospital, they did their mandatory stay there before they can get transferred to the proper facility.
 facility. This is cutting out the time lag and making sure our community can get the services they need in a more timely fashion. This slide is on our financial stability and staffing investment. When we look at this, I want to highlight that we brought in 71 additional positions to public health. This is since the onset of the pandemic. This is through Gantt funding, other positions we funded, but these are 71 new positions, not including the 323 we brought in through CARES.
 for our COVID response. So this doesn't include our COVID operators. That's the investment in the program. That's 17.7 million in new grant funding. That's since the onset of COVID-19. That's additional dollars on top of their budget. These are dollars that we're gonna invest into the community. And so once we get that needs assessment completed and we start going forward from there, we'll be able to invest in the proper directions. Those four new buildings, those were brought with CARES fundings. I talked about it earlier, how we're gonna be transitioning those COVID clinics into community all purpose clinics.
 And the ARPA funding is what we talked about also as well. That's going to be coming back so we can complete the move for public health department. So to wrap it up, what we saw, no, sorry. We saw what COVID did to our community. And we know that it was caused by our demographics. And so we want to change how we are doing it. We want to make a positive change.
 our health by focusing on the health and well-being of our community. We want to have that more sustainable healthy community. We want to increase accessibility to vaccinations and preventive services. We want to make sure we keep that integrated approach to disease and injury prevention. All that while being response ready and resilient for any disaster or emergency that comes our way. That concludes my presentation if you have any questions. Thank you Chief. No I think
 it's very evident to see that all these things that we do is to protect our community and protect our citizens and you know even when covet back in 2020 first started that there was some things that were happening
 that needed to change and how we were able to adapt and how we were able to work with UMC and the county and continue to get best practice within ourselves and even look somewhere else and recognized by the Rockefeller Foundation for the great work that was done, but this presentation really shows how we were able to adapt to,
 Probably some of the worst situations that you could have ever imagined to be the worst city in the nation To be where we're at today where we saw this morning the chambers was full I don't I didn't see the fire department here making sure we were within compliance, but I
 It had a lot to do with the great work you all have done that we had the capabilities of doing that and honoring these young cheerleaders, the basketball team and all other organizations that were here because of this presentation. This really capped.
 what we've been doing, but one of the things I do want to tell people, we should not let our guard down at any time. To make sure we understand our surroundings, continue to sanitize your hands, wear your mask when you feel necessary. They will continue to see these type of numbers and these type of results. So with that, I want to thank you, your staff, and the great leadership. Mr. Gonzales, again, I know I thank you every week, but I think it's important that we do because this has been very important and we have taken
 the health of our community first and it shows. So thank you. Anyone else? Representative Donnello? Hi Chief, thank you so much.
 Sorry, I was like writing a note and I didn't want to stop so I didn't forget it my thought I'm really excited to see that the mental health and the 9-1-1 I was gonna submit it again this year as a budget request, but looks like I don't have to so I really appreciate you I know that that didn't have anything to do with me I know there's a lot of partners that are working on that that process and so I just I appreciate it I appreciate the work and the collaboration y'all are doing You know a lot of these things they
 they take trusting other people to come into the system that you have and that you know so well. And even that is just, it's a big win, right? It's really hard to trust people to allow them and redo an entire system that you do. So thank you for that. I am excited to hear that you guys have an ARPA presentation coming up. I wanna thank you for giving this presentation. I know you and I had a conversation about ARPA funding and kind of understanding where the health department is. So I'm glad that this is kind of a first step
 that and I know I'll have a lot more questions once we get there this gave me a lot of information one question I do have is I don't know if you have off of the top of your presentation head notes whatever what the total expenditures for the health department including and not including COVID relief or relief is the right correct word
 I do not. That's okay. If you'll get this to me, roll them into questions with the other presentation. I want to appreciate you for being willing to give a presentation on both this and ARPA. This is a lot of information for me to have already gone over but to know there are going to be follow-up information, I'll have a lot of questions ready for you. So thank you so much, Chief. I appreciate it. Thank you.
 Just to add to what the chief talked about, I wanted to reiterate how the reason why that partnership works so well that you mentioned, we did a lot of work in 2018. We brought all the agencies together on the communities of excellence initiative. However, it's one thing to bring folks together. It's another thing to kind of act.
 out a lot of those those partnerships and what I mean by that is we ended up giving two million dollars of cares funding to UMC directly and that nobody asked us I think I think you were you were either here or on the tail end of that I think you may have been on the tail end of that but if you remember we also had a follow-up meeting with them on some additional requests that they had but that two million we gave
 came without them even requesting it. And I know that was something that Mario and Robert Cortines and I and the Colonel here, Kerry, we all kind of talked through that and we also consulted with the city attorney and that was just a very, I think, the right thing to do because it was a community need and it was something that really kind of
 demonstrated the type of partnership that we had with Jacobson, Throne and UMC and the type of work that was done. So that's a personification of kind of what he presented to you today and it was a community initiative. It wasn't just us, but we did bring all the partners together and we did also fund and the council was aware of that. So those are the kinds of things that we're able to get done in order to achieve these kind of results. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez, you're on mute. There you go, back on mute.
 Sorry it's I have a strong delay. Mr. Chief D'Agostino thank you for that presentation. I may have missed it but regarding the community needs assessment which is something I'm I've advocated for I'm very happy that it's moving forward. Is there a is there a timeline as to when that assessment will be completed. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- So we're looking at kicking it off here really soon. I anticipate it being completed by fall.
 Of this year, and so we've got a rather quick turnaround time, but we're just wanting to make sure that there's a lot of people there's over 40 stakeholders involved, we want to make sure it fits everyone's calendar so we can get the full support and input from everybody. And you're engaging with the third party. Yes, yes. Thank you for that recap it's it's almost um.
 Like it almost feels like it was just yesterday, but I'm very proud of the response from the city of El Paso and under your leadership, Chief Degastino, and thank you for your service to our community. Thank you. And with that, thank you, Chief, and thank you for being here. Thank you. That brings us to item number 29 on the agenda, and this is the introduction of an ordinance. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve
 Item 29 on that motion call for the vote Representative Hernandez. Yes. Thank you and in the voting session the motion passes unanimously Representatives shorts wine and Lisa Duggan not present. I think you should keep call to the public and it knew we've already taken Time there for a minute the next item is number 30 and
 and this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022-0007 r collection services for delinquent fines and fees municipal court to delgado acosta spencer linebarger and perez second it's a motion in a second i'm sorry good afternoon this is norma jimenez with purchasing and strategy sourcing department and we would like to delete this item
 Item 30 staff is asking to delete. Motion to delete. There's a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Anello to delete the item. On that motion call for the vote.
 If you're in teams, will you please make sure your microphone is on mute so to reduce any background noise, please? Representative Hernandez Representative Hernandez this is to delete Representative Hernandez, I'm not sure if you can hear us. This is a vote on item 30 to delete. I
 I can hear you now. I'm sorry if you were if you were speaking earlier I did not hear you but the answer is yes. Thank you. In the voting session the motion passes unanimously. Representative Lizada not present. The next item is number 31 and this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022-0337 fire station 19 building renovations to Dantix General Contractors Inc.
 Second. There's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Molinar to approve item 31 on that motion call for the vote. Representative Hernandez. Yes. Thank you and the voting session the motion passes unanimously. Representative Lizada are not present. The next item is number 32.
 This is discussion in action on the award of task order number 4 V dash 1 Leo Cancel Larry pull improvements for solicitation 2021 dash 0 8 1 1 job order contracting and facilities construction to the lease company LLC So motion made by mayor Pro Tem shorts mine seconded by representative an Ella to approve on that motion call for the vote Voting session is open Representative an Ella. Thank you Representative Hernandez. Yes
 Thank you and the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Lizada not present. The next item is number 33. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022 dash 0 3 9 1 street resurfacing 2022 to Z tech construction. Move to approve.
 There's a motion made by representative Anello seconded by representative Rivera to approve item 33 on that motion call for the vote. Mayor I have a question. Go ahead. I just have a quick clarification on this. It wasn't super clear in the backup. I thought I knew the answer but I just want clarification. This is for the entire 2022 resurfacing plan.
 Richard Bristol Streets and Maintenance. This is an award to supplement what is not presently funded for the 2022 because we're already working on an active contract. Presently that that you've done a change order to so this will get us. The remainder of the streets that we need to get done in the present assignment, the present fiscal year. And the change orders for the 8,000,007.9.
 No you approved a change order at City Council a couple weeks ago with 3.3 million that's the other contract that we've been working on this year for the other part of the streets that were part of the 22 street list that we're working on. Okay that's what I got confused about. So this will complete that list. Okay that's where I got confused because I knew we had taken that action. Thank you Richard. Yes Mayor. With that we have a motion and a second. Yes Mayor the voting session is open. Representative Hernandez. Yes. Thank you in the voting session the motion passes unanimously.
 Representative Lizárraga not present. The next item is number 34, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas Municipal Drainage Utility System Revenue Refunding Bonds Series 2022A. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. Arturo Durán, CFO for El Paso Water. I believe we have already briefed all the City Council representatives.
 on this item so this is for the drainage utility and we're asking for your approval for authorizing us for the ordinance to do a twenty five point three three million dollars not to exceed that amount for our Line of credit that we have with Bank of America that the City Council approved back in June 2018 It's for a five-year contract
 So with this it's strictly for CIP projects. This line of credit that we have to repay is for CIP projects only. And with this I'll turn it over to Maria Urbina from Hilltop Securities. Chair Pro Tem. Hold on one second. Mayor Pro Tem. Oh I was just going to make a motion to approve. Is there a second? Second. Second. That's all. Motion and a second.
 Do we have public comment? Yes, Mayor, we do. Okay, let's just take public comment. The first speaker is Ms. Sharon Bonert. She will be followed by Richard Bonert. And IT will need the ELMO, please. Yes, please. Okay. This is new to me. Okay. Are we ready? Time? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Yesterday I watched the presentation by Mr. Ballou.
 What piqued my interest was the proposed sale of stormwater revenue bonds and the interrelated northeast land transfer. Now to make a good decision about selling bonds and incurring more debt, council needs to have the whole story. Why approve?
 Why approve $25 million in additional stormwater debt from bond sales while there is concurrent $14 million of unnecessary spending of the stormwater utility in the Northeast land deal? Substituting borrowed dollars for revenue dollars is inconscionable.
 It is unnecessary spending because Covenant K, which you all were familiar with, is simply does not apply. There was no third party as determined by our city attorney. It is unnecessary spending goes if this unnecessary spending goes unchecked, it's the citizens of El Paso who will pay the price.
 Think about the recent damage from flooding which occurred last August. Think about how much it cost to repair. Think about the expensive infrastructure that needed to be built to prevent future flooding. Bottom line, our needs for stormwater infrastructure and flood protection are greater than the income and borrowing capacity of the stormwater utility for years to come.
 There simply is no room to waste any funding. Hence, if the PSB wants Council's approval to sell more revenue bonds today, the PSB should agree to stop the unnecessary spending of $14 million to get Council's approval. Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker. The next speaker is Richard Bonart. I don't see him here. Telephone. He's by phone? Okay.
 Yes. He's in the internet. Good afternoon Dr. Bonnard if you press star 6 you can unmute your telephone. Richard Bonnard star 6 please to unmute your telephone. I'm not sure if he's in the queue. Mr. Bonnard if you're in the queue star 6 please to unmute your telephone. I don't believe he's in the queue Mayor. I don't see him coming forward. Thank you. And with that we have a motion and a second. Can we take the vote please? Yes Mayor.
 There was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item number 34. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session, the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Rodriguez voting nay, Representative Lizárraga not present. The motion passes. Thank you. The next item is number 35.
 I'm sorry 35 and 36 were postponed for two weeks that brings us to item Number 37 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance granting special permit to allow for a crematorium at 1755 Saragossa Road There's a motion made by representative Rodriguez seconded by representative Molina to approve on that motion call for the vote representative Hernandez no in the voting session. I
 And the motion passes with five affirmative votes. Representatives Anelo and Hernandez voting nay. Representative Lizada not present and the remainder of council voting aye. The motion passes. The next item is number 38 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance amending various sections of Title 19 to adopt the El Paso Street Design Manual to update references to the design standards for construction to the street design manual.
 There's a motion made by Representative Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine seconded by Representative Anello to approve item 38 on that motion call for the vote. Representative Hernandez. Yes.
 Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Lizardo not present. The next item is number 39. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending the 2025 proposed thoroughfare system as incorporated into Plan El Paso. So motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Anelo to approve.
 Item 39 on that motion call for the vote. I just have a point of clarification miss prime for staff. Does this Does this go in your button, please? Sure. I
 I pressed my button. It's not working again. There you go. Can you see it? There you go. Now we see it. Perfect. Now that I've pressed the button, thank you, Mayor. Thank you. I just have a question for staff, and by staff I mean Joaquin Rodriguez. Does this delete all the roads that would have been proposed within the 1,100 acres of the Lost Dog Tourist Well area? Yes, Representative Horton. Those...
 Those thoroughfares are deleted from this amendment to the major thoroughfare plan. So this action here today would delete those proposed extensions. Thank you again, Mr. Rodriguez, and all the work that you do for our city. Thank you, Representative Forspahn. I appreciate that. Thank you for that. We have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. There is a motion and a second to approve item 39. The voting session is open. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Yes.
 Thank you and the voting session the motion passes unanimously. Representative Lizada not present. The next item is number 40 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance amending ordinance 0 1 1 4 6 9 merging the membership of the foster grandparent program advisory council and the retired and senior volunteer program advisory council into the AmeriCorps seniors advisory council.
 And approve second. There's a motion made by representative Molina seconded by representative Salcido to approve item 40 on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Hernandez. Yes. Thank you and the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Lizada not present. The next item is number 41.
 This is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign a professional services agreement For the project known as feasibility study for the multi-purpose performing arts and entertainment center to M Arthur Gensler and associates Inc moved or approved second Thank you, Sam, are you on the call? Yes Okay, so I have a question about the architect Gensler and
 I was looking at them and on their website, I mean, it doesn't even let me go to their website, says there's an error. I'm trying to see what kind of work they've done in the past in regards to historical preservation and incorporating existing buildings, and I couldn't find anything.
 Certainly, Daniela, you can augment my response if you don't mind. But the team that has submitted includes local architects that have local knowledge of our architecture, as well as Gensler is a worldwide company that have done, as part of their SOQ, their statements of qualifications that they submitted,
 included experience on historic rehabilitation and incorporation in entertainment districts around the world and made them the most qualified that were representing presented to you as a recommendation. Anything else that you can think of Daniela that could highlight the experience?
 You know Sam that is accurate representative. We could provide additional precedent studies if you would like but they do have ample experience and exactly what Sam said development of historic preservation and the creation of entertainment districts incorporating historic architecture. Okay. But do you have any precedents that I could look up like right now off the top of your head.
 Give me a minute and I'll tell you. Okay, thank you. Representative, this is Jerry DiMero. You can access the Gensler website just by typing in Gensler, not M. Arthur. M. Arthur is their official name. Thank you. Representative, so one of their projects is in Nashville, Tennessee. They did the 5th and Broadway Historic Entertainment District. That was an entire redevelopment of a historic district into an entertainment destination district.
 Okay. That was included in their SOQ. So I got into their website and now I can't see that project. We'd be happy to share the SOQ with you, a representative. I can send it over. Can we share it on the Microsoft Teams screen, that example of the Nashville district? Certainly. Daniela, do you want me to pull it up? Sure, Jerry, if you have it available. Go ahead. Can y'all see it, Jerry? I think I found it.
 Yes, I just noticed that, so I'll get out. Let me blow it up a little bit so you can see the text a little bit better. So you can see that this was a recently completed project in 2021. It's mixed use. It's a public and private partnership. It's also for music and entertainment, and it did revitalize, you can see, an area that's considered part of the historic district in Nashville, Tennessee.
 Okay. And so sorry, I'm just barely looking at the website also. Is there anything else that they've done in terms of multipurpose centers? Yes. Daniela, there are other projects in the FAQ that indicate multipurpose centers. No, there's yes. And I could walk you through maybe a few of them, but they did have, I think, the most comprehensive collection of
 work that has been completed that includes not just entertainment, but sports venues, mixed use, and really taking a look or I should say great consideration for the urban context and community building or placemaking in all of their projects, which is one of the reasons they were the highest scored out of the offers that submitted an SOQ. And so I'm going through them, you know, fairly quickly so you can, you know,
 get an idea of the different kinds of renovation projects, as well as, as Sam mentioned earlier, they do have local architects on their team that are going to focus specifically on the feasibility of adaptive reuse of the potentially historic structures within the site.
 And so they're going to be looking very closely at just what the best way of incorporating those structures into the project will be to again give a very successful project that tells a very unique and local story about El Paso's culture. And the firm that's working on our project, where are they at?
 Benzler, this particular office is Dallas. The local firm that's looking at the historic preservation component is Countryman & Co.
 $14 million to get . Countrymen and their from El Paso? Is that what you're saying? Yeah. Yes, ma'am. They are local. Yes, exactly. They have actually done pretty extensive adaptive reuse specifically downtown, and they're very knowledgeable about not just our local culture, but the architectural history and heritage, and also the kind of sense of- That was the hot mic, I think.
 Excuse me. Yes, though. So the the local architects do have I think a very vast knowledge of again our architectural and historic heritage as it applies to downtown and Careful meeting the urban context. I think that's mr. Bonner. Okay, so Daniela Have has the office from Gensler from Dallas already been to El Paso or not yet? Oh
 so actually that office has worked on other projects in el paso so they are very familiar with our city they're very familiar with our unique not only weather conditions but the geographical uniqueness of our downtown uptown area and how that is connected to the border and so we feel very confident that they bring a lot of knowledge and experience to the table not just from a project standpoint but also from
 their extensive experience in previous projects here in El Paso. Okay and are any of those projects city projects or are they all private?
 This would be the first contract that we would have with Gensler as an architect, but they have, I do remember seeing their name actually on the West Hart Tower. Of course, this is a very big architecture firm, and they have different business units that address different types of projects, such as office space. They have obviously the commercial side, and then they have the folks that work on entertainment and these type of facilities that are being contracted today.
 We can certainly do the presentation, Representative, if you'd like to see how we address the scope based on the direction that we received on November 8th. Yes, that would help. Thank you. Certainly. If IT can bring up the presentation. Bring it up, Sam. I have it ready. I'll bring it right up. Great. Okay, so let me walk you through kind of the timeline for the RFQ. And if at any point anyone has any questions, please feel free to stop me.
 So the request for the RFQ came as a result of the November 9th Council Directive, in which Council directed staff to hire consultants or a consulting team, such as architects, urban designers, or engineers, to include a
 as part of a larger feasibility study, economic impact analysis, programming operations, project concept, partnership opportunities, public-private partnership specifications, as well as a financial model, including capital costs and operating costs. And all of these as part of the feasibility study were to also look at incorporating the preservation of historic buildings and how to preserve historic character as well as the recommendations for safeguarding damaged buildings.
 Following the November 9th Council Directive, the RFQ was officially issued on January 14th, and it covered not just the items listed, but specifically for the site that you see on the right side. On February 8th, once the solicitation closed, we received 10 submittals. All offers did have, as part of their team, local professionals.
 The highest scored consultant is the Gensler team. So they are the lead, but their team is also comprised of several other consultants, including CSL Legends, Countrymen & Co., Walter P. Moore, Mijares Mora, Ryder Levitt Bucknell Limited. In the next few slides, I'm going to walk you through a very detailed scope of work that they are proposing for the project. To begin, this is an overview of the process and approach for the project.
 You'll see that they're taking the three major components, which is the market and economic assessment, the site and program, urban design master plan, as well as the architectural, structural, and historic assessment as three concurrent activities that will be developed over the duration of the project spread out among five work sessions and four major phases, including pre-design, schematic design, design development, and final design.
 The following slides will go through each of these deliverables. The first one being the market and economic assessment, which is the larger umbrella of all the deliverables. And it really speaks to the identified deliverables in the Council directive that are the economic impact analysis, the financial model and public-private partnership specifications. This is where the team is going to look at confirming the project goals and objectives. They're going to look at previous pertinent studies.
 as well as provide the city with detailed case studies of other recently built arenas that have similar project goals. This will help us look at operation models, project costs, and really best practices and lessons learned.
 In addition to this, they're going to give us an assessment of the local market conditions, both for short-term and long-term market potential. They're going to conduct interviews with promoters for various events, including sporting events, concerts, trade shows, family shows, etc. This is going to help the team then bring forward recommendations for what some of that program could look like
 Part of that will include what seating capacity and what that could be configured to look like, the kind of supporting programming that needs to go in such as the merchandise, concessions, restrooms, but also outside of the immediate footprint which might be hospitality areas, storage and parking. Along with the recommendations they're going to develop detailed financial projections and they're going to give us estimates on what the fiscal impacts of these recommendations can be.
 They're going to develop various funding models for the city to consider, and all of this will be wrapped up into a summary report that will contain all of their research, analysis, projections, and recommendations. All of this will tie into a regional market that the project could fit into.
 And all of that to say that they're going to really bring all of those components into the reimagining of a one-use facility into a multi-use site development that looks at incorporating not only the existing environment, but also the use of indoor and outdoor spaces. So they could really showcase and celebrate El Paso's culture, local conditions, and sense of place.
 Looking more closely at the five work sessions that I mentioned earlier, this is where the Gensler team is going to work very closely with the city to look at the economic findings, the analysis of not only the potential program, but where along the site they can be placed, what the venue requirements will look like, what the district development can look like, which will be crucial to developing an economic and branding strategy. They're going to look at the feasibility of the buildings and how they tie into the open space options.
 community engagement is going to be a very large part of the work sessions and some key logistics that include traffic and transit plan as well as infrastructure framework. The next item in the scope is going to be zoning, building code and accessibility compliance. This is to directly address the programming operations, safeguarding damaged buildings and really overall code compliance and coordination not just with city departments but also local utilities.
 Then we have historic preservation and adaptive reuse that is going to directly address the incorporation of the buildings within the site and potential adaptive reuse and trying to preserve the historic character. And this is where the team is really going to leverage their cultural and historical knowledge to help the project develop
 a brand and a sense of identity for the project. They're going to work collaboratively to really find feasible solutions, again, for the adaptive reuse of the existing buildings. There's the cost estimate components that will address the capital costs and operating costs as well as partnership opportunities. And there will be three cost estimates that will be delivered at three major milestones. These are schematic design phase, design development, and the final design phase.
 And last, but very importantly, is the community engagement strategy. The team is proposing a combination of both hybrid meetings and a really robust online presence so that in a series of four phases, there will be stakeholder interviews and steering committee work sessions that will take place in a hybrid environment
 but there will be ongoing community member surveys and sessions and presentations to the community so that we're always not only getting their feedback but validating some of the proposed recommendations from the team. And last, I'll review very quickly the project schedule and the cost.
 This is the proposed schedule. And so if approved and the team would commence in May, that means that within seven and a half months, then the project would come to completion. With the first phase being
 being wrapped up in mid-June. The schematic design phase which follows would be wrapped up in mid-August, followed by the design development, which would be completed in early December. And the final design phase, which would include the formal final presentation, cost estimates, and all the final document submissions would be in mid-January of 2023.
 You see the cost of services have been broken down into large deliverables or main deliverable areas. And so for all of the services, we're looking at $755,661 with additional expenses of $43,000 for a total cost of $798,661.
 And so with that, the staff recommendation is that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services by and between the city of El Paso and Gensler and Associates for the project known as the feasibility study for the multi-purpose performing arts and entertainment center for an amount not to exceed $790,661. Thank you for that. Representative Rodriguez, are you...
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Just looking at the last slide here Danielle the expenses of forty three thousand what is that for. JOLYNN BERGEVILLE JR.: So those expenses cover the travel as well as the community engagement portion that's going to include those hybrid meetings and the kind of materials that they're going to bring forward for that as well. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay and the hybrid meetings they're going to be online and in person right or just. JOLYNN BERGEVILLE JR.: Correct. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay okay. All right that is all. Thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Representative Anello followed by Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks. Thanks, Daniela. So I'm familiar with Gensler. I think it's great that they want to do a project in El Paso. However, I'm not going to support this. My big concern is the words adaptive reuse. I wish that we had looked at an architectural company that has a conservation architect, which I know there are very few in this country.
 But I think that that would have been more beneficial to I think what myself and some other representatives have talked about in historic preservation I also just I don't support building an arena and so I don't See spending money to understand how many seats it needs or how you could adaptively reuse buildings that I think should be Preserved and protected so I will not be supporting this today. Thank you. Thank you I
 Followed by Representative Molinar. Thank you. Thank you, Sam and Daniela and the rest of the team there. This is an exciting day. Really quick, so the funding source for this would be coming from the 2012 Quality of Life Bond projects?
 that is correct i'm here pro tem the funding will be our project uh funding as this will go to drive on potentially the full development of the project so i i can speak for the 70 72 percent of el paso has approved this project back in 2012 that i'm very excited to see us spending money
 from this bond project for this project, not on lawyers, but on a design firm, and architects that are willing to get this project done. We get a sense of what it costs in today's dollars, and we can move forward with the design that hopefully can be beneficial to multiple sides and perspectives of this project. I think when we talk about historic preservation and adaptive reuse, we can look at projects like the Union Depot or train station, which is a great example of adaptive reuse,
 Ms. Quesada, you're our chief architect for our city? Yes, she is, she is our chief city architect. Okay, so she's our chief architect. Would you consider the Union Depot building to be an example of adaptive reuse?
 Absolutely, sir. Not only does it currently serve its original purpose, but it also houses the Texas Tech School of Architecture, which was not a function that was originally meant for the design of the building, but it fits there beautifully. And it's also an example of a project that's also historic preservation as well, keeping the Burnham Design train station intact, correct?
 Correct. Great. So I'm looking forward to supporting this project, to coming up with a great contemporary design that can incorporate a space for meeting, that can complement our convention center campus, that can hopefully incorporate some of the existing structures there, paying attention to the history and culture and identity of our community and of downtown as well.
 And it seems that Gensler is exactly the kind of firm that we had envisioned back in 2015 and probably since 2012 when this was first brought up to voters and approved. Gensler is a firm that's existed since 1965 in over 50 locations in one, two, three, four different continents.
 With over 5500 employees, I'm sure that with their expertise that they have numerous examples, many of which you haven't shown, that can do the kind of project here, incorporating a multi-purpose center space, incorporating historic preservation and adaptive reuse with existing structures.
 into something that can really elevate all the success that we're seeing in progress and momentum we're seeing in our downtown and our community. Again, in 2015, when this project was being discussed and looking at a possible design firm for the multi-purpose center way back when, we had five less hotels in our downtown than we do today.
 The Camino Real Hotel was a shell of itself. The Plaza Hotel was completely in cobwebs and closed for decades. Myer Courtyard was, I think, a closed down drive-through bank.
 The Aloft Hotel, the Bassett Tower, which is again one of Henry Trost's Art Deco jewels, was shuttered as well. And so we're seeing a very different downtown that this project is going to incorporate with a lot of momentum, both from the public and private sector. And it seemed that this is really the appropriate time to continue to work with those negotiations with some folks that are in the opposition and also to continue to move forward.
 with this project with a great firm For a great future on our community as well. And so I'm very excited about this I'm very excited to be spending
 the money from the 2012 bonds on the kind of project that we originally had voted for, not for an army of lawyers, but for an army of engineers, designers, that can go and create something and not try to bring it down. And so I'm really excited about supporting this. This is a great day. We'll be able to find these costs in 2022. We'll be able to figure out what it would cost so we can go aggressively after those public and private partnerships and get this project done and continue the momentum in El Paso.
 Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem with that Ms. Pines can we take a vote? He took his name off. Okay. Yes sir there is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item number 41 on that motion call for the vote. Voting session is open. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session the motion passes with five affirmative votes. Representatives Anelo Molinar voting nay.
 Representative Lizada are not present. The remainder of council voting aye. The motion passes. That brings us to item number 43 and this is discussion in action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a consulting services agreement between the city of El Paso and the Better Business Bureau of El Paso. Motion approved. Second. Motion made by Representative Anello. Seconded by Representative Salcido to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Hernandez.
 Yes. Thank you. In the voting session the motion passes unanimously. Representative Lizárraga not present. The next item is number 44 and this is discussion in action on the approval of an Eastman agreement between the El Paso Electric Company and the City of El Paso to provide electrical services to the addition of the Westside Library located at 125 Belvedere Street. There's a motion made by Representative Añelo seconded by Representative Rivera to approve.
 Item 44 on that motion call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session the motion passes unanimously. Representative Lizaga not present. The final item is number 45. This is discussion in action that the city manager or designee be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services between the City of El Paso and Alta Planning and Design Inc.
 A project known as Vision Zero Action Plan Consulting Service. Motion to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item number 45. On that motion call for the vote. Voting session is open. Representative Salcido. Thank you. Representative Hernandez. Yes. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the end of the agenda.
 Second there's the motion and a second to adjourn all in favor. Aye anyone opposed And the City Council meeting for Tuesday, August 26 2022 is adjourned at 429 p.m I think probably the members of the board would want to collect more information before they could do that. I think that is very reasonable Yes, thank you For coming today
 christy if i could before we uh go into executive session uh in the executive session we have an item uh to discuss and uh terry sharpens just had bought us from the city in the airport or here and what i would suggest is we go ahead into executive session discuss it and then invite them back in to talk about the item okay thank you
 So is there a motion to adjourn from regular session to move into executive session? So moved. Second. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The motion carries. We are adjourned from regular session, and the time is 10.23 a.m.
 The Public Service Board will retire into executive session, present to section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code section 551.071 through 551.076. Item A, the Board will deliberate regarding the purchase of the real property legally described as follows, 75 feet on Canal Street.
 and 170 feet beginning 424.4 feet southeast of the southwest corner of Block Z, Santa Fe addition, in addition to the city of El Paso, El Paso County, Texas. Item B, the board will deliberate regarding whether well 506A, located on El Paso International Airport property,
 can be declared inexpedient to the water, wastewater and stormwater system and thereafter be sold and transferred to the City of El Paso. Item C, consultation with legal counsel regarding utility bonds. Is there a motion to return to regular session?