Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, April 23, 2024. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding in council chambers along with Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, Representative Acevedo, Representative Hernandez, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Fierro, and Representative Rivera. Representative Salcido has requested to be excused today.
 Thank you very much and thank you all for for being here and you know We have a lot of little blessings in life and having these kids do the pleasure today was a great blessing for us as a council and as a community and I say this every time we have young people here but it's true that the future of our city and our country is the youth and
 And I had the opportunity to meet all these young men and women, and our future looks really bright. It really does. I had one little boy come up to me and say, so how old do you have to be to be mayor? And I said, well, you have to be at least 18, and you have to be registered to vote. He goes, well, I'm nine, so you don't have anything to worry about. So, you know, and these are the blessings and the smiles.
 that really make everything worth it, what we do today, what we do every day. And, you know, as Chaplain was talking about, you know, go to school, grow up, play, and have the opportunity to retire in a great community is what it's all about. And, you know, I've gotten most of them done. I grew up, I went to school, I played a lot, and I'm looking forward to being here the rest of my life. So thank you all, and I want everyone to really kind of,
 Take a moment of silence and just think about all the joys of life, the little joys that really bring a smile to you and to our community. And I'm going to look around, and I hope everyone's smiling when I look around. So thank you. Thank you again for everyone being here, and may God bless El Paso, and may God bless America. Thank you. Thank you, sir. That brings us to the mayor's proclamation. The first proclamation is National Infant Immunization Week. Who's got that one?
 The National Infant Immunization Week Proclamation. Thank you, Mayor. Whereas immunizations are an effective public health tool to increase life expectancy, quality of life for families, and whereas in 1994 the Vaccine for Children's Program was created to protect children fostering on those living in underserved areas. Communities improving accessibility
 equity in vaccine administration. Whereas the city of Paso
 Public health activities promotes provides life-saving vaccinations to infants, children, and community members who otherwise would not be able to afford them, thus ensuring a healthy community. Whereas the Department of Public Health Immunization Program manages the Texas Vaccine for Children's Program, establishing community partnerships, recruiting engaging health providers to administer vaccinations to vulnerable underserved infants and children.
 Whereas the Department of Public Health, along with 97 healthcare providers receiving vaccines through the Texas Vaccines for Children program, have successfully protected infants and children in our community through vaccinating.
 placing El Paso, Texas as a leader in the vaccination rates in the state. And whereas every year in April, the Department of Public Health, along with the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, observed the National Infant Immunization Week to emphasize, promote awareness of the importance of vaccinating infants, children to protect them from diseases and other complications.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that April 22nd through April 29th, 2024 shall be known as National Infant Immunization Week. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning. Hi, good morning. Thank you, Mayor and City Council for this proclamation at all of our four immunization
 health, we aim to stop vaccine preventable diseases. National Infant Immunization Week really puts the spotlight on having our youngest residents be up to date on their vaccines. So thank you. Thank you. And I see Dr. Okoranza in the background. He always comes in and looks very proud of every one of y'all and the work and the city does and every one of y'all. So Dr. Okoranza, always a pleasure to see you. Thank you all.
 The next proclamation is Dia de los Niños, Dia de los Libros. I'll start. Go ahead, sir. I was enjoying the parade. Good job, guys. Whereas Dia de los Niños, Dia de los Libros emphasizes the importance of celebrating the rich diversity of cultures and languages in our community...
 promoting multicultural literature and encouraging children to embrace their own cultural heritage, while also fostering an appreciation for the cultures of others. And whereas this day serves as a reminder of the critical role that literacy plays in children's lives, and by providing access to books and educational resources,
 Dia de los Niños, Dia de los Libros helps children develop essential literacy skills, sparking their imagination, expanding their knowledge, and empowering them to succeed academically and beyond.
 And whereas Dia de los Niños, Día de los Libros encourages a lifelong love for reading and learning by providing fun and educational programming and activities sparking curiosity, creativity and empathy. And whereas the celebration of Dia de los Niños, Día de los Libros in El Paso has been held since 1997.
 and has donated hundreds of thousands of books to children of El Paso and the surrounding communities. Now therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that April 27th, 2024 shall be known as Dia de los Niños, Dia de los Libros Day. Signed by the Honorable Mayor, Oscar Leeser.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Thank you so much for the proclamation. I am honored to be standing here in front of you behind all of my staff here. I want to give great kudos to the library staff and our Parks and Recreation that work very hard to put this program together. It has grown. I think we're growing it back to how we first started back in...
 and 28 years that this has been going on. So I am really pleased and proud of the staff that work to make this happen for the community. Thank you for your support, and I also want to give a big shout-out to all of our sponsors that make all of this happen. Thank you. Thank you. Now, there's going to be a parade. We will be starting with a walking parade at... Tell me again. At the Coliseum? At the Coliseum at...
 10 a.m. and walking to Washington Park to start the activities by 11. This Saturday? Saturday. You're all invited April 27th, Saturday, the parade at 10 and the activities at 11 at Washington Park. Thank you. I hope to see everyone there. Thank you. One of the things that I did learn when we kicked off Dia de los Niños, Dia de los Libros, that...
 The 28 years that you all have given out free books over three hundred thousand books and that's very impressive that you know Talk about literacy and you talk about giving back to the community parks and Recreation's has given back to
 to the children to help them and continue to help them over 300,000 books. And that's really something that you all should be very proud of, and our community and our city should be proud that we'll continue to do that and continue to give out all these books. We got books again this year? We do, sir. We have 15,000 books that will be given away. 50,000 books? 15,000.
 Well, that's great, and I know you have some great sponsors that made it possible that all this you're doing is not on the taxpayers. You have some great sponsors, and when we kicked it off, I got the opportunity to meet them all, and thank you again for the sponsors that help you all be able to do this and not put it on the back of the taxpayers, but also continue to grow the community.
 I know that some of the sponsors was Kane's Chicken, the Great Khalil Foundation, Teachers Federal Credit Union. That is Telemundo, El Paso Children's Hospital. I can read all of them from the back of somebody's shirt. I don't remember them, here we go. The Great Khalil Foundation, Telemundo, El Paso Children's, Raiz.
 Canes, EXA, FM 98.3 Radio, Children's, the El Paso Public Library Friends, the Sun Metro, MD Kids, and El Paso Colleagues. Thank you. And I know you all thought that she was reading the back of his shirt, but he had them tattooed to his back. That's how community is. Thank you all, and I appreciate everything you do. And we do have a little token of our appreciation for the council. Can we approach to provide that?
 Thank you. If you did bring us shirts, I would like a small one. Thank you. For the grandkids. I was just going to say that literacy is so critical. Growing up, there was not a lot of money laying around my house, but I got to travel the world through books. I got to pretend I was a cowboy and an astronaut, and it was all through books.
 and it really is a lifelong skill that never changes. So congratulations on everything you guys do. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. And if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers, council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once the ceremonial items have been completed. The next proclamation is El Paso Fashion Month. For the record, Representative Canales joined the meeting at 920.
 Good morning, I'm honored to read this proclamation on behalf of representative Isabel Salcido. The proclamation reads, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas the city of El Paso prides itself on its mosaic of diversity, creativity and cultural heritage. And whereas a proud El Paso and fashion show consultant and producer, Brady Weitsch, launched El Paso Fashion Month to highlight the importance of fashion, style and beauty as significant facets of our society, embodying
 essential avenues for self-expression and creativity, warranting acknowledgement and reverence on par with other industries. Whereas entrepreneurs such as brother and sister Duell and designers of Imperial Legacy Clothing, Marcus and Faith Smith serve as advocates and mental health professionals alongside
 Luminaries like Emanuela Nam of Nanka Clothing, Nieda Carrasco, owner of Nieda Boutiques, and Charles Smith of Gentleman Boutique by GON are infusing the industry with deeper meaning. And whereas these industries contribute significantly to our economy, employing a diverse array of talents ranging from designers and seamstresses to beauty artisans, stylists, models, and locally owned boutiques,
 El Paso's fashion industry entrepreneurs desire to witness a return of a robust textile manufacturing industry in hopes of establishing a purpose of actualizing an El Paso fashion district. And whereas by designating April as El Paso Fashion Month,
 We aim to shine a spotlight on the invaluable contributions of all El Pasoans who aim to excel and are excelling in the industry. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that April 2024 shall be known as El Paso Fashion Month, signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Congratulations.
 Good morning, Mayor Leeson, Representative Salcedo, and every esteemed member of City Council. My name is Brandi Weitsch. I was born and raised in this city. I'm proud to call it my home. I am a consultant and fashion show producer and the founder of Fly Events Promotion. We mentor young men and women. On behalf of the entire El Paso fashion, style, and beauty community, I extend a heartfelt thanks for proclaiming April as the city's official fashion month.
 The recognition underscores a pivotal role fashion plays in our cultural landscape. Acknowledging entrepreneurs like Marcus and Faith Smith, Emmanuel Nam, and Charles Smith, of all whom we'll share a few words with you, is not just celebrating talent, it's recognizing fashion and its potential in our city to contribute to economic development and aspiration for El Paso to be a fashion hub. We observe El Paso Fashion Month,
 with the hopes of uniting and supporting local talents and businesses, encouraging an environment ripe for growth and innovation, our beloved El Paso. The outfit that I'm wearing today is from Nanka Clothing by Ella. One thing that does unite us, we all wear clothes, whether it's for work, for our personal time, but it allows us to express ourselves, to show our personality, and to also...
 to connect with others. It's a way of expressing and growing. And I hope and I'm very thankful for you guys recognizing us and supporting us. And a few words from Ella. Good morning, everyone. I am Ella Andonga Tsemanuela. I am from Cameroon, but I'm also a proud citizen of this country. I hold a plethora of degrees, including a doctoral certificate in industrial and organizational psychology.
 However, today I stand before you as a small business owner and a fashion designer in the city of El Paso. Nanka Clothing is a member of El Paso, the Black El Paso Voice, and the El Paso Chamber of Commerce. Ever so often, we begin these great journeys embedded with skill and the potential for success, but we ultimately fail.
 not from a lack of trying or working hard, harder, hardest even, but because oftentimes we want to be handed the keys to someone else's home. We seek answers to someone else's questions. We want interpretations to someone else's dreams. However, I believe that in order to fulfill the skills that we possess, we need an opportunity.
 an opportunity to build our own homes, an opportunity to interpret our own dreams, and an opportunity to answer the questions that we have. I wholeheartedly do believe that this proclamation will propel the fashion industry in the city of El Paso to greatness. The kind of greatness that exposes the debt of fashion beyond just putting on a piece of fabric on our bodies. Fashion that exemplifies our psychology. How do I feel when I wear this dress?
 What perceptions do you have of me when you see me in a dress like this? Fashion that describes our culture. What significance or history, if any, is there behind the dress I'm wearing today? What stereotypes do exist because of the clothing we put on? Finally, fashion as it relates to our economy. The skills that would evolve in the manufacturing and employment in the world of fashion. How are clothing and...
 boutiques represented and sustained in our city. How do small businesses and brands like mine step in and let our voices be heard? As a small and minority business owner, the biggest challenge I continue to face is the lack of opportunity. So I really do believe that this proclamation will allow Nanka Clothing to come forward and prove to every one of you that we can breach that gap that exists through the lens of fashion,
 That builds walls that cause us to live as strangers in our own home. We want to live comfortably and still accept the uniqueness of each one of us and remain the same. So thank you so very much to the mayor and the city council. Thank you, Brandy Weich, for giving me an opportunity against all odds. Thank you, Monica Tucker, for words that I still am trying to find to express how grateful I am. Hashtag too many things.
 Thank you especially to my family for allowing me to dream on for a day like this. Thank you. Thank you and congratulations. Good morning, sir. Good morning. I'm going to be very brief. To our city officials, representatives in your respective places, I count it a distinct honor to speak in front of you today.
 My name is Charles W. Smith, Jr. And as a citizen being raised and born in El Paso, Texas, I am honored and privileged to be a part of a hard-working community of ambitious individuals that continue to strive for excellence. As a business owner of Gentleman Boutique by GON, as well as an active motivational speaker with the message entitled Reboot My Way of Thinking, I find it imperative to bridge the gap between the fashion and inspirational sector.
 In my line of work, you will observe that they both go hand in hand. For every garment purchased, initiated conversations are enlightened. Advice is given, trust is established, and the evolution of confidence is constructed, and the momentum is ignited. To be able to shine the light on fashion is more than clothes,
 yet is an outward expression from an inward reflection of value or self-worth. It is essential to comprehend that clothes do not make people. It is the people in which bring the clothes to life. Then for the moment, we stand in as such as this on today, Tuesday, April 23rd, 2024. We'll continue to exemplify it to El Paso and in addition to the world.
 that our Sun City is not only strong, nevertheless, we have been clothed with perseverance and determination, and to conclude, we have endured resilience through pressure and fire only for a beautiful, exceptional, and esteemed diamond to be birthed. In the words of Ralph Lauren, I don't design clothes, I design dreams. Thank you for your time.
 We're Faith and Marcus Smith of Legacy Clothing. Good morning. Good morning. We want to thank the mayor and the city council for this honor. We've been on our fashion journey for about 13 years now, and the whole purpose has always been to empower the youth to understand that even though you're in El Paso, Texas, you can still shine just as bright anywhere. We just encourage them. We use our mental health platform to encourage them to speak out loud and show their feelings.
 Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Pern. The final proclamation this morning is economic development week. I got you. Good morning. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas the week of May 6th through May 10th, 2024 has been designated as international economic development week in El Paso to increase awareness of local initiatives to create jobs, advance career development opportunities, and increase the quality of life.
 Whereas economic developers champion the economic prosperity enhance the standard of living within their communities through the creation retention and expansion of employment opportunities fostering growth enriching wealth and cultivating a diversified stable tax base and whereas the city of El Paso has supported incentives that will generate over 870 million
 dollars in new capital investments for fiscal year 2024, including the creation and retention of hundreds of jobs. This includes the recent announcements by Eaton Corporation of a 70 million investment and the $800 million first phase of Meta. Whereas the establishment of the business one-stop shop,
 BOSS program, in conjunction with securing 22 entrepreneurial support organization partners to collaborate with BOSS, and the successful acquisition of funding through the CARES Act, has facilitated the distribution of CARES and ARPA funding to support and benefit the small business community. And whereas recognizing that recent economic development initiatives have yielded tangible results, including expansions and announcements from notable companies such as Project Arriba,
 and New Mexico Edificios LLC, along with exciting forthcoming announcements that include significant capital investments, major expansion and downtown redevelopment. And whereas the city of El Paso acknowledges the significance of these invaluable programs and initiatives, understanding that regional partnerships play a crucial role in enhancing both the quality of life and the overall living environment for the citizens of El Paso.
 Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that May 6th through May 10th, 2024 shall be known as Economic Development Week. Signed, the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leisher, City of El Paso. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Karina Bresgala. I've only been the interim director of the Economic Development Department for a few months, but I am just incredibly impressed every day with the work that our staff does. It's an exciting time for El Paso. I'm very thrilled to be in this position and to have everybody here with us so that you can see some of the faces of the folks who work on these deals with us.
 I'd also like to recognize our entrepreneurial support organizations. We have a few folks here. Those ESOs really help us do the work that we do out in the community, support our businesses, support our local economy. And as a reminder, so Economic Development Week, May 6th. The next week is Small Business Week, so keep an eye out for those events. Please buy, support local businesses. And that's it. Thank you all so, so much. Thank you very much.
 One of the things that's important to think about, when four years ago, we had this thing called COVID, and we had to work our way to put COVID behind us and to bring companies to El Paso and to help companies that had closed their doors
 Open their doors through build back America through a lot of things that we needed to do and As you heard represent Mullin are reading the things that have come to El Paso the things that we'll be able to announce Later on today and probably within another 30 days. We have another really good announcement or somewhere in the vicinity is You know
 we broke those barriers. We put COVID behind us even though we still need to be aware of our surroundings and continue to be careful. We have really grown like we wouldn't even anticipated on doing.
 I'm very proud of you, your department, and all the people in the city, Colonel Weston, your department. You all have done an incredible job of not making excuses but making things happen. And it's easy to make excuses.
 But I think we realized it was easier to make things happen and to help people and to bring companies to El Paso and create a lot of jobs. I know that people talk about that it's El Paso's time. El Paso's here. It's not El Paso's time. It's already here. And it's important that we see that because of the great work you all have done. We can talk nonsense or we can do what we do, and you guys did it.
 And I'm very, very, very proud and very excited that we'll have something coming up very soon, sooner than most people think. But I could ramble on and on because we meet on a weekly basis and talk about the great possibilities. And like I said, you guys have not made excuses but made things happen. It's not El Paso's time. El Paso is here, and El Paso has arrived because of you all. Thank you. Ms. Prine? Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor would you like to continue with item 26 please item 26 thank you sir we will move to item 26 item 26 is discussion in action to approve a resolution that declares the fourth Saturday of April as celebrate trails day and urges all residents to participate in this observance by exploring and supporting our local trails this item was submitted by representative Hernandez
 Hi, good morning. If our representatives from the Rails to Trails group can come up forward, I'll read the resolution into the record. Thank you, Mayor. Whereas the Rails to Trails Conservancy, a nonprofit organization dedicated to advocating for and creating a nationwide network of trails, has established a yearly Celebrate Trails Day held on the fourth Saturday of April as a day of national recognition for the value of trails in our communities.
 And whereas this observance aligns with the City of El Paso's strategic goal of enhancing El Paso's quality of life through recreational, cultural, and educational environments, and whereas trails provide safe, equitable, and accessible recreational opportunities for residents of all ages and abilities, contributing to the physical and mental well-being of our community, and whereas the Paso del Norte Trail offers a blend of connectivity, historical significance, and environmental conservatism,
 conservation, which enhances the quality of life for our residents and visitors alike. And RAS Celebrate Trails Day encourages individuals and families to explore,
 and enjoy the network of trails available in our community, fostering a greater appreciation for these valuable facilities, environmental stewardship, and sustainable transportation. And whereas the collaboration between local governments, nonprofit organizations, businesses, and community members is essential in the maintenance, expansions, and promotion of our trail system.
 Now therefore be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso, it recognizes the importance of trails and promoting health, fitness, conservation efforts, as well as in fostering community ties and economic development within our city, and declares the fourth Saturday of April as Celebrate Trails Day and urges all residents to participate in this observance by exploring and supporting our local trails. And I will make a motion to approve.
 We do have a motion and a second, but we'd love to hear from you first. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. My name is Siberti Trevino, and I'm the Friends of the Trail Coordinator for the Paso Norte Trail. Celebrate Trails Day is a nationwide initiative sponsored by Rails to Trails Conservancy, and it celebrates America's trails and trail systems and encourages people across the country to get outside and enjoy their local trails.
 El Paso has much to celebrate this year. The Health Foundation is proud to have partnered with the city and other stakeholders on the Paso del Norte Trail, a vision for an over 70-mile countywide trail over the past five years. During this time, together we have expanded Playa Drain Trail from three miles to eight miles, connecting Escalante Park to Capistrano Park. And this is just the beginning.
 As of this year, the combined efforts of the city, county, TxDOT, the MPO, City of Socorro, and the Health Foundation have secured over $50 million in funding for the design and construction of almost 30 miles of trail. These efforts will provide safe and comfortable facilities for residents to walk and bike for transportation and recreational purposes. We invite you all and the El Paso community to celebrate Trail Day this Saturday, April 27th,
 On the Playa Dream show this event will kick off at 8 30 a.m At the intersection of mimosa and vocational drive We will plant 25 trees to enhance the shade canopy ensuring more a more enjoyable experience for all tree users Thank you mayor and City Council for your continued support of the Paso Norte chill. Thank you. Thank you There's a motion made by representative at non the seconded by alternate mayor pro tem only not to approve item 26 on that motion call for the vote
 and the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. We'll do consent agenda that way we can break. Yes sir. We'll now move to page number three to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Temp.
 Page 3, item 2, request to excuse absent council members. And that's to excuse Representative Salcido. Page 5, item 9, delete per airport. Page 9, item 27, revise per Representative Kennedy. And that revision is to add a co-sponsor, and that would be Representative Canales. Page 10, item 30, delete per Mayor Leaser.
 Page 18, item 52, revise per capital improvement department. And that revision is to strike out the words to execute the approved capital improvement plan in FY 2024 and replace with in support of the 2012 quality of life projects.
 Thank you, and I just do want to emphasize one last time that item 30 is being deleted so we can come back and work with City manager and some City Council members I've already talked to a few to bring it back and add some teeth because the importance of Privacy and the importance of being able to have an executive session and not share with the elite few I
 very important if that's what we want to do then we need to share with all the taxpayers and all the citizens so we are going to bring it back pretty soon as I know the city attorney has already been doing some work on it so thank you all for that and mayor we also have public comment on item 11 from Robert Campion who's that Robert Campion I don't see I don't see him coming forward sir no ma'am
 So there is a motion made by Mayor Potem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Can we have a motion to recess? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess. A city council meeting all in favor? All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the city council meeting is in recess at 943 a.m. in order to take photos with this morning's honorees.
 Council, we're going to go ahead and start with a National Infant Immunization Week, followed by Dia de los Niños, Dia de los Libros, then El Paso Fashion Month, and the Economic Development Week, and last but not least, the Celebrate Trails Day. And we will be taking the photographs out in the lobby area. Thank you. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye.
 The meeting is back in session at 10.09 a.m. We are on page number nine, item number 27, and this is discussion in action to direct the city attorney to draft an ordinance amendment to the sound amplification permit to include the downtown district. This item was submitted by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy and Representative Canales. Want to start, Representative Canales? Yeah, I know.
 Okay, let's start. We'll go the 28 Yes, sir Item 28 is discussion in action to approve a resolution that declares the expenditure of district 7 discretionary funds To purchase to radar based traffic data collectors to be utilized by the El Paso Police Department Serves the municipal purpose of increasing public safety operation efficiency and this item is representative Absolutely better. Thank you mayor
 Yes, this expenditure here is, you know, how we've been dealing with a lot of fatalities and, you know, dark areas and speeders and the like. This will be equipment that will be used for the, from the police department. We can have Chief Pacillas, Chief Pacillas, he's talking. Well, you know what, while he finishes up there, I guess we'll get to show you all the equipment upon receiving it, so.
 we don't unless you have a picture right now do you have a picture of the of the item okay well i guess we can show when you come back uh when you receive it actually but i was telling this is a can you let them know the equipment that we're getting you
 Good morning mayor council morning record the the radar box So when we're getting traffic complaints whether they're coming in through council or the mayor's office on speeders those types of Complaints what we have to do is we have to send out a traffic unit or a motor officer out there to determine the
 the magnitude of the traffic issue particular speeding with this piece of equipment that representative Rivera is purchasing through his discretionary funds allows us to put this device up on different fixed objects utility poles for example and we're able to read the traffic going through to see if there is truly a
 a speeding issue. We just download the information and we're able to say, yeah, we do need to put traffic people out there to handle the problem. These don't look like regular speeding? No, sir. They look like they're pelican cases that you can attach to fixed objects. Thank you, sir. Representative Ferrell? Chief, are they movable? So if Representative Rivera has an issue on...
 Pen Pelicano can he move it to George's or can you all move it? Is it? So we get once we we've secured the data in one location now We can move it to another location as they pop up so then he can lend it to us next You all got to work that out Thank you. Thank you. And with that I make a motion to approve There's a motion a second
 Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 28. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez, thank you. Thank you. And the voting session. Thank you, Chief. And that motion passes unanimously. Thank you, Chief. 27, sir.
 Item 27 now, please. Thank you. Item 27 is discussion in action to direct the city attorney to draft an ordinance amendment to the sound amplification permit to include the downtown district. And this item was submitted by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy and Representative Canales. Mayor Pro Tem? Yeah, this is an item, there is some issues with late night weekend sound in particular downtown, amplified sound, I should say.
 And what this says is if you're, right now it's just taking off the carve out. It's not adding anything to the ordinance. It's not adding anything to it. It just takes out the carve out for downtown. So, I mean, if you're in Kern Place, you have to get a permit. If you're on the east side, you have to get a permit. And this will, we're asking the city attorney to change the ordinance that takes out the carve out for downtown so that the,
 THE ORDINANCE WILL ACTUALLY BE CONSISTENT THROUGHOUT THE CITY OF EL PASO. AND WITH THAT, I'LL MAKE THE MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND. REPRESENTATIVE CANALES. THANK YOU, MAYOR. YEAH, WHEN THE SOUND AMPLIFICATION PERMIT WAS FIRST PASSED IN 2022, THE DOWNTOWN MANAGEMENT DISTRICT HAD ASKED FOR ESSENTIALLY TO BE CARVED OUT OF THE BOUNDARY, WELL, TO CARVE, BE CARVED OUT OF THE REQUIREMENT.
 that businesses within their boundary receive a, sorry, I'm not being very eloquent today. The downtown management district asked for their boundaries to be carved out from the requirement to get an amplified sound permit.
 I think that was an okay experiment to do at the time. We didn't want to have any negative impact on the businesses downtown, but I think we've seen several instances where there have been conflicts between neighboring businesses. In particular, a lot of disruption to hotels. Multiple hotels downtown have submitted complaints about noise and amplified sound that's disrupting their guests.
 And I think at this point it makes sense to reverse that carve out that was made in 2022.
 and see if that helps us address the problem. So it's, again, a small change, but I think it will be a significant one. I urge my colleagues to support it today. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Rivera? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. I just had one question, and it's just the fact that that's the only amendment you're making to it? You're just adding it on to the downtown area? Unify the city. Oh, yeah. The correct is that we're removing the carve-out. That's it. That's it. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I know that I had conversations with some of the downtown investors, and it really created a
 problem for the Nate you know three four five in the morning where people they actually they brought a stack of complaints that people actually checked out and left the hotel and left the downtown area we have a huge investment in our downtown we have a huge investment everywhere and we committed to invest not only in downtown but through the whole city but this is really impacting the uh the downtown area and the investments that the hotel owners made and
 I think that it's important that we listen to the people that invested in our community to make sure that their investment didn't go, you know, goes bad because we weren't willing to really do the right thing. So I thank you, Representative Kennedy. I know you co-signed Representative Canales on this for listening to the downtown.
 people that people that have invested in our community and With that again, thank you for bringing that up. We're broken. We have a motion in a second Yes, sir The motion was made by mayor pro Tim Kennedy seconded by alternate mayor pro Tim only not to approve item 27 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously Mayor I have a question before we move forward. Is there a deadline that you all want us to come back? I
 I'm asking because there's a concurrent project with a sound amplification company, and I believe they're making the same recommendation as others. Do you want this to come forward beforehand or as soon as possible? By Thursday at noon. Okay.
 Yeah, I was, I mean, I realize there's some other parts, but I don't want to slow this part down for that part. So if we could bring this, is 30 days enough? Yes. Okay. We'll have to introduce it. It'll be 30 days. It'll be introduced and then the public hearing. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you.
 Ms. Pryor. Moving on to item 29, this is discussion in action to authorize the expenditure of District 4 discretionary funds to supplement the cost of playground equipment, option number one, for the sole installation and use at Arlington Park, located at 10360 Pasadena Circle, located in District 4, serves a municipal purpose of fostering community pride, improving the visual impression of the community, creating innovative recreational programs, and aligning and implementing key investment strategies
 sustaining and enhancing park system operations and outdoor offerings. And this item was submitted by Mayor Procter-Molinac. Representative Molinac. Good morning, thank you very much, Mayor.
 This park has been I'm not gonna say neglected but things have changed in this park for quite some time We've heard it a lot very loud and clear from The community in that area in Arlington Park that it needs an upgrade currently, there's five swings to park benches and that's it and so when people go there to and
 Visit the park, you know, there's not very much activity. There's not too many things to do So we did collaborate with the parks and record a recreation department. Mr Caballero and his staff to come up with some brainstorm some ideas and we were presented with four different options We did meet with the community again and get their input. And so we did decide on option one together and
 And so we use of discretionary funds. I would ask for my colleagues on the day is to support this item Thank you motion to approve We have a motion in a second It's a motion made by alternate mayor pro tem only now seconded by representative Fierro to approve item 29 On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously that brings us to item number 31 and
 On the agenda and item 31 is a management update on enhanced library card. Good morning again mayor council No, mama. Tina's director of libraries A presentation here we can bring it up please of the enhanced and update of the enhanced library card. Thank you so much IT So we ask what is an enhanced library card? The enhanced library card is a library card with a picture on it. It will have all of this um
 Personal information on it, it will be available for adults 18 and over. It will have some high security features, geosho lines, a hologram and holographic lamination on the cart.
 Thanks to the county, we will be able to have it. One second. Can we, Ms. Pryor, and I apologize for interrupting. We did have a group that's coming that wants to be part of public comment and speak, but they're not here because they know we're breaking at 1030, so they're coming after 1030. And I apologize, but if we could table this until after our 1030 break and go to the next item, I would appreciate it.
 And I apologize for interrupting you. I'll be back. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Yes, Mayor. So at this time, item 31 will be tabled, and we'll move ahead to item 32. Well, I think we better skip 32 also, because that's going to take more than 10 minutes. Okay. Unless Mr. Stone has gotten energized. So we'll go to the next one after that. Okay. That'll be the first reading of ordinances. These are items 34 to 37. Second.
 There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro, and this is to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 34 to 37. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. We'll take item 38.
 Is item 38 is discussion in action on the award of task order number one for solicitation 2022 Dash zero six seven eight fire station 15 FS 15 renovation to Keystone contractors and engineers. Good morning, ma'am. Good morning mayor Hernandez capital improvement department
 This is for the renovation at Fire Station 15. This is located within District 1. The construction budget is estimated at $1,451,588. This project will be paid out of the 2019 Public Safety Bond and it's to renovate our fire station to enhance worker health and safety.
 This is the location of Fire Station 15, located out on Shorty Lane. And as you can see from the existing conditions, we have deteriorating millwork, damaged flooring, the pavement is deteriorating,
 So the scope of work is the replacement of flooring, doors, frames, windows, really updating the fire station. This is home for our firefighters that keep us safe. And also the new addition of office, a decontamination room, which is very important to keep the decon away from their living space and also restrooms. So this will be awarded to the key.
 Keystone Contractors construction will start in May with an estimated completion date in February of next year. And so the recommendation is to award the contract to Keystone Contractors. Motion approved, second. Thank you. There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 38. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously.
 We'll take 39. Item 39 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2023-0278R, Prisoner Transport Security to Universal Protection Service, LP, DBA Allied Universal Security Services for a three-year term. Motion approved. There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 39. On that motion, call for the vote.
 In the voting session and that motion passes unanimously We'll do the next one. It'll be the last one Yes, sir Item number 40 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending title 15 public services section 15 point zero eight point one twenty special privilege licenses and permits to add new uses for the sidewalk cafe and parking parklet programs and Adopt the right-of-way cafe design guidelines. Good morning, ma'am. I
 It's a motion and a second. Yes, sir. Motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Piero to approve item number 40. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. Mayor, sorry, I requested a speaker. Go ahead, sir. I know you're trying to watch the time. I would like to see the presentation on this item. You what? I know you're trying to watch the time. I would like to see the presentation on this item. Go ahead, sir. We're fine.
 Okay, good morning mayor and council Daniela Casada for capital improvement Thank you for wanting to see the presentation I'm gonna have the lead PM that did the bulk of the work for this project give you the presentation I think most of you have already met her from the briefings. So I'm gonna hand it off to miss Stephanie barrios. Oh, yeah, that I
 thank you daniela good morning mayor and council um nice to see you all so again my name is stephanie barrizurrieta i'm with the capital improvements department and today i'm here to present the right-of-way cafe program which is a significant step forward in our city's commitment to community safety and vibrant public spaces so initially conceived as the sun city safe program which came as a response to the covet 19 pandemic and the safety guidelines that were set by the cdc
 The Right Away Cafe program is a permanent initiative designed to enhance pedestrian experience expand sitting and dining options promote economic growth and job creation increase social interaction and community engagement engagement sorry and prioritize safety and accessibility.
 So the right away cafe program consists of two permits, which is the sidewalk cafe and the parking park permit. And I'll expand further on those in the following sites. But first,
 We did do some process enhancements, so we made information a lot more accessible by making sure that it's accessible online. And then we also created the design manual, which is a handbook that we created with all the standards for safety that the Sidewalk Cafe and Parklet Parklet would need to be put in a safe manner.
 And then we also streamlined the process by standardizing the development agreement, simplifying the application procedure, making sure that the permit is two years long, and then we also gave applicants a three-month advance notice for permit renewal. So moving on to the sidewalk café. The sidewalk café, as its name suggests, it's a café that sits on our public sidewalks.
 and it still allows for pedestrian access in a safe and accessible manner, while also allowing businesses to use our sidewalks for their outdoor seating.
 And with street maintenance, we created some parking park, oh sorry, some traffic control permits to make sure that when the sidewalk phase are set up and when they're in existence, they're in a safe manner and, you know, for both pedestrians and our drivers. And that's another example. Thank you.
 Then we have the parking parklet program or permit. Sorry So the parking parklet is a sidewalk extension that sits on our on On street meter parking and as you can see in the image here it seats on our meter parking You know extending our sidewalk while creating seating options for our
 the businesses. So we did do some design requirements that will make sure that those are implemented in a very safe manner. So we did limit the parking parklets to be set up on streets with a limit of no more than 35 miles per hour.
 We also made sure that they are going to be at least 20 feet from any intersection or crosswalk. They must be 10 feet from any driveway and at least 15 feet from fire hydrants and water connections for our fire department. Parklets may also not be located in any textile right of way or any along any yellow or red painted curves, which are curves that are designated for our again, our fire department. And then, um.
 bus stops, loading zones, and designated bike lanes must also remain free. And then again with street maintenance, we created the traffic control plans to make sure that when they're set up and while they're in existence, they're in a safe manner.
 Here's another example. So we are proposing again changes to Title 15. So more specifically chapter 15.08 to add the parklets and then to reference the design guidelines for the right of way cafe program and to revise the language to name the sidewalk cafe and the parking parklet. And then we're establishing a permit duration of two years and stipulate a three month notice period for permit renewal.
 And then we'll also implement a fee for the parking parklet and maintain the existing fee for the sidewalk cafe. So there is an application fee of $371 per permit. That is for both types of permit. For the sidewalk cafe, there is a $159 fee.
 annual fee per site, which if you add it up, it comes out to 530. And then for parking parklets, we are gonna implement a fee of $2,000 per meter space. And that's an annual fee. And that is to make sure that we are not losing revenue on our meter spaces, but also that we're being fair to the applicant. And the total cost for the parking parklet comes out to 2,371.
 And that is all. I'll take any questions now. So you have to pay the $2,000 yearly. Do you pay your permit? Do you renew your permit every year? You renew your permit after two years, but the $2,000 fee is yearly. Okay, good. And thank you for that.
 I was just gonna add, the parking parklets, because I know Representative Hernandez mentioned something along the lines of what's citywide and what is more limited. The sidewalk cafes, again, are citywide. The parking parklets are limited to our parking metered spaces, which currently are only in the uptown, downtown area, and even of that boundary of the uptown, downtown area, only about 10% of that is dedicated to metered parking.
 I just want everyone to understand the scale of what we might see happen. I talked to our city manager, and I did bring up the concern that
 that we do talk about availability and parking and make sure that we have parking. So we are gonna monitor the parking to make sure that it doesn't create an issue for people coming to downtown and being able to find parking. And I know that Colonel Weston just turned on his microphone to kind of expand on that because him and I had that conversation because it's important to make sure that we do monitor and make sure that we don't take the parking away from big events that we have.
 So yes, sir mayor and as Daniela said it's limited you look at the eligible Spaces for that. I think it's what temp you said 10% We are only allowing it in parallel parking meters or parking spaces so any diagonal angled or
 perpendicular spaces are still going to remain free they also need to be right in front of the business that it's applying so if there's no restaurant and you know in that in front of that space there's not going to be a parking park lid so yes it's about 10% of our
 And limit the three spaces. Of eligible. So it's rather limited, but we'll continue to monitor it as people take advantage of the permits for it. And just for additional reference and context, currently only 63 businesses are eligible to take advantage of the parking park lit permit. Great. Thank you for that. With that, we do have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item number 40.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Thank you for that presentation, good job. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, do we have a motion to go into executive session? Second. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551, Subchapter D.
 To discuss executive session item one, discussion on potential economic development opportunities in Northeast El Paso, Texas, HQ number 23-1857 under 551.072, deliberation regarding real property and 551.087, deliberation regarding economic development negotiations, it is 1036 a.m. Do we have a motion? Motion to reconvene. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye.
 Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 10.58 a.m. Mayor Pro Tem EX1. Motion made, seconded and carried to approve a term sheet for a performance-based incentive with Notes Live Inc. for the development of a 12,500 seat amphitheater venue to be located at the northeast corner of Cohen Avenue and US Highway 54 in El Paso, Texas
 The incentive package includes a combination of rebates via tax increment reinvestment zone number 11 on real and business personal property, sales and use, and mixed beverage taxes, an eight-year development note backed by the Texas Economic Development Fund, and the conveyance of city-owned land.
 The purpose project will result in the construction of a state-of-the-art destination entertainment venue, a catalyst for the Cohen Entertainment District in line with the adopted master plan, and securing of an operator contract for a minimum of 40 national touring events per year and a minimum investment of $80 million. Second.
 We have motion second. I know you have a presentation. So we'll do your presentation first. Thank you. Sounds great. Thank you all Good morning mayor and council Karina Brescala economic and international development for the record Today's action marks a massive step towards delivering on the vision of the Cohen entertainment district master plan Which is sat bake in the Cohen location, which is sat vacant since the demolition of the stadium in 2019. I
 So reminder here is the site. So the city owns approximately 50 acres. A portion of this will be taken down by Notes Live to put the amphitheater on the site. And this does lie within TURS number 11. Okay.
 There was an extensive public outreach effort in 2017 and 2018 to look at redevelopment options for the Cohen Entertainment District. This master plan stated several goals. Again, via public, there was commitment over time to really look at.
 a entertainment and retail destination that has family-oriented activities and a central outdoor venue. Goals were to revitalize the Cohen Stadium site, provide a catalyst for development in Northeast El Paso, and really create a regional destination project.
 The master plan and design standards were adopted on August 29th, 2018 by city council. The master plan development included, again, a central venue outdoor space and master plan commercial development with restaurants, family-oriented entertainment activities, retail, hotels, office, and recreational uses.
 You'll hear a substantial bit about our partner in just a few moments, but I'd like to give some highlights. So Notes Live Incorporated is one of the fastest growing entertainment and hospitality companies in the United States. They have venues and projects underway in Colorado, Georgia, Texas, and Tennessee. So that's Colorado Springs, Gainesville, Georgia. A recent announcement in the past few weeks in McKinney and Murfreesboro, Tennessee. El Paso is selected as an expansion market due to our expansion.
 great capture of the Mexican market, but also just where we are situated in the region. And the jewel of the Notes Live inventory is the sunset amphitheater model. So we would be looking at the sunset amphitheater in El Paso. So 12,500 seats, a state-of-the-art outdoor amphitheater that includes luxury entertainment offerings, restaurants, other hospitality access.
 It would host 40 premier national touring acts or concerts per year via contract. They have operators at their other venues via Live Nation or AEG. We do not have an operator identified for this site just yet, but they work with the best of the best. Here's a review of the key deal points, although the term sheet will be public for everyone to look at. So it does include conveyance of approximately 15 acres of city-owned property.
 There will be a development note, an eight-year term at 0% interest, and that is underwritten by the Texas Economic Development Fund. That is the money we get from El Paso Electric as part of the IIF merger acquisition. A waiver of permit fees, a rebate on construction materials sales tax on those construction materials, a rebate of the city's portion of property taxes on both real and business personal property.
 A rebate on sales and use tax and mixed beverage sales taxes. Those rebates are on a decelerating schedule. They are all out of tax increment reinvestment zone number 11. So there is not a single part of this incentive package that is coming out of the general fund.
 The estimated incentive value is $30.6 million. Of that, we recover the full incentive value within 17 years of the project being active. This is a 28.8, so almost 29% return on investment for the city.
 This is a quick review of the project impact. So during construction, that investment of $80 million, total construction impact at 184 million, jobs supported via the construction period, so those are temporary, and then average annual impact at full operation. We are looking at $261 million annually. For the lifetime of the project, $5 billion to the city's economy.
 As a preview for everyone, so there's several items that will need to come forward. The term sheet is just one of the steps that we need to take to eventually effectuate a full Chapter 380 agreement, a contract of sale to convey the land. We will be looking at a parking management agreement to allow for the use of the parking spaces at Cohen. And then immediately after this, we will start going into pre-construction and pre-development work. Okay.
 The part that I have not mentioned is that this venue will be open in March 2026. So two years from today we will be at a concert. It's an incredibly short timeline so we are eager to start working on and continuing to work on the infrastructure planning out there and start working with our folks, our community partners at our higher education institutions for alignment on programming but also working through improvements with utilities, tech start, et cetera.
 Because this is within a tax increment reinvestment zone, the project will also necessitate an update to the TERS 11 project and financing plan. That is another item that council will see in front of them in a few weeks. And then ensuring cohesive development. While we continue to have interest at Cohen and we will work with those developers, we want to make sure that we have compatible timing and uses and that everything on site supports the master plan document and the design standards adopted six years ago.
 here's the timeline of events so today we are adopting the term sheet we will anticipate introduction of several items at the end of May with hearing and approvals happening in June the construction period will start as soon as we're able to and then the venue will be open again March 2026 and with that I leave it open for any questions or comments at this venture well first of all thank you and congratulations to your team and of course the city manager
 and everybody involved in it. It's truly an incredible project for our community.
 a lot of it couldn't happen without the state representatives when for the last two legislations we've asked them to please give us the opportunity to convey the land to a project like this and our own senator senator blanco was the author of the bill that made it possible for us so this is really exciting that we probably wouldn't have been able to do something like this without
 our state representatives and our own senator really authoring that bill. So I'm excited to see this. I see all the numbers you've given and I look at everything and as I said, everything inclusive, $5.4 billion is gonna be the impact to our community over the next 20 years. That's a number that we've been trying to, we don't see, we haven't seen it. And they have the private public sector
 That's the important part. It's private public sector and they chose to continue to develop
 Northeast that's really incredible and I know you mentioned it a minute ago that in 2018 the council took action that to re-imaging of the Cohen Stadium and come with a plan and this is part of that plan So seven years later or six years later. We've come to reality of The vision that we had and so I congratulate y'all but you know to have a private event
 public partnership like this is hard to find. And I wanna thank the company for choosing El Paso and having the trust to invest in our community. And one thing I can tell you, you won't be sorry. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Molinard, followed by Mayor Potem. Thank you very much, Mayor. Good morning, my name is Joe Molinard. I'm the city representative for District 4, where this entertainment venue will be established.
 It is a great day for Northeast El Paso, but even a better day for the City of El Paso and all of its citizens. And we welcome Notes Live to our city. Bienvenidos. It's an honor and pleasure to be here. Ms. Karina Brescala, to you and all your team, the City Manager, Colonel Weston, thank you very much for everything that you've done for us. This is going to be an exciting day for El Paso.
 Once construction starts, you're gonna see a first class entertainment venue that is gonna be second to none. Bring your families, start making those appointments now, start buying those tickets now, and look forward to a great time, thank you. Thank you, and congratulations to you and all of Northeast, and like you said, congratulations to the city of El Paso. Mayor Pro Tem. Okay, much of a shock, I'll try to keep it short. I've got a little bit of time in this industry,
 And if I've learned anything through the years that I was in the industry, the decades, it was if you start with the right partners and you have the right deal, the odds are way to the top that this is going to be a monster. Okay? We have the right partners. Not only Notes Live, but when they have operating, we've got the right people building it, we have the right people that are going to run it, and the deal is right.
 And if you've got those things, then it's time to just get out of their way, let them do what they do, and start buying tickets and having fun. And so I want to thank the Economic Development Department and Colonel Weston for everything that you guys did to make this happen, because this was not easy, but it was done. And I am excited about where this will help the city of El Paso continue to move forward on the entertainment range.
 I mean, this amphitheater is an entirely separate genre of touring acts. And they are things that we have not been able to tap into that we now can. And that's why having the right people involved will snare those people and will throw the net out as they come down the freeway. And so I'm just coming from the industry. I'm just so excited about this. I cannot tell you. This is an amazing job.
 and congratulations to everybody. And I want to thank Notes Live for having faith in the city of El Paso and the knowledge to understand that we are a hot market.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. And I think you're correct when we talk about you can only envision as community and city leaders that we could have a project like this that would become a game changer for our community. So this is really a game changer for the city of El Paso. And that's so exciting to be able to be part of it and be in office when something like this happens. Representative Fiora?
 Thank you Mayor. First and foremost the Mayor Pro Tem and Mayor are absolutely correct. This is a great time to be in El Paso. This is a great opportunity for our community and I believe Mayor this question is directed to Ms. Neiman. Is it too late to move it to District 6? Motion to delete Art Fierro's motion. Yeah. So is there a motion? There's a motion to second. Yeah.
 And with that, Ms. Prime, we do have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made and read into the record by Mayor Potem Kennedy, seconded by alternate Mayor Potem Molinar on EX1. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes 6-2-1. Representative Hernandez voting nay. The remainder of council voting aye. The motion carries. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye.
 And the City Council meeting is in recess at 11 a.m. Mayor, for how long? For 30 minutes. Can we get a motion to return? Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the City Council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 12.16 p.m. Ms. Prine, before we return, we'll go to a call to the public. I'd be remiss if I didn't.
 give credit to the house when this bill was passed that we talked about and Senator Blanca was the author of the bill in the senate representative or dash was the author of the bill when it went to the house and representative or dash was a council member and knew the importance of what this would do for the city and she authored that bill and moved it forward and we do want to thank her and uh
 We didn't mean to leave her out because she was so important in getting that done for us. So I'd be remiss again if I didn't thank her, as like I said, she was part of our council that understood the importance of this. So Representative Doss, thank you for that.
 Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Mayor. That's duly noted. That brings us to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business Nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda However council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda this afternoon We have six members of the public that signed up to speak that the first person is miss Wally Sheck. I
 Ms. Wally Sheck's topic is My Vote is My Honor. Today is my 95th birthday, and I wish to celebrate with Council and City Hall. Ms. Sheck. I need a hug before you get started. God bless you all, every one of you, and I reached my goal. I need a hug before you start. I haven't seen you in so long. No, I love you. What happened in El Paso? McFarland? McFarland, yes. The major? Yeah, the general. Yes, correct. And this is the book.
 me and i want you to have it great it takes a whole day to read it take me a week but that's all right yeah and this hold on this is my gift you had a birthday and inside is the car that you sold me 21 years ago and we're gonna have to make this legal
 This is for the security that takes me all the time to the bus. I reached my goal in five years today. And I truly can say for seven years I'm in El Paso. I have sacrificed reaching my books. My gift is forever.
 fundraiser who is legal doing it to have him published himself and make the profit. I don't want to take one penny because this is for our World War II soldiers that
 just sacrificed their life for people like me to come. I'm a war bride, and I came in 1948. And there's not very many people that can say they saw Hitler in person, and I saw Hitler in person, the brown devil. And I don't want to keep up.
 I just want to say today you can get in touch with Mr. and Mrs. Felton and make the arrangement and everybody can make the money on it for a purpose, but not for diamonds or fur coats or Lincolns, okay?
 So God bless every one of you, and I will write you letters, and then, Mayor, you can read it, because it's difficult for me to go on the bus, okay? Yes, ma'am. God bless every one of them, and please pray for America. God bless you. What you have on the desk, I sent one to the Supreme Court and to the Speaker of the House.
 And I made connections, okay? God bless every one of them. And may, please, God, save America. Nice to see you again. Thank you, Ms. Sheck, and happy birthday. The next speaker is Elizabeth Crawford. Ms. Crawford's topic is Psalm 90, a psalm of Moses. Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford. You have three minutes. Ms. Crawford, good afternoon. You have three minutes. You're back on mute, Ms. Crawford. Star six to unmute your telephone.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I apologize. Can you hear me now? Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
 In light of Passover, in light of having recently honored the death of Christ this past month, in light of the situation in the Middle East, I would like to read Psalm 90, a prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations before the mountains were brought forth, forever from the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God.
 You turn men to destruction and say, return, you children of men. For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday, when it is past and as a watch in the night. You carry them away as with a flood. They are as asleep. In the morning, they are like grass which grows up. In the morning, it flourishes and grows up. In the evening, it is cut down and withers. For we are consumed by your anger and by your wrath. We are terrified. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your countenance.
 for all our days are passed away in your wrath we spend our years as a tale that is told the days of our lives are 70 years and if by reason of strength they are 80 years yet their strength is only labor and sorrow for we for it is soon cut off and we fly away who knows the power of our so even according to your fear so is your wrath so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom
 return oh lord how long and let it repent be concerning thy servants oh satisfy us early with your mercy that we may rejoice and be glad all our days make us glad according to the days you have afflicted us the years we have seen evil
 Let your work appear to your servants and your glory to their children. And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us. And establish thou the work of our hands upon us. Yes, the work of our hands. Establish thou it. Psalm 90, a psalm of Moses, the man of God. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como. And Mr. Como's topic is policy and procedures and animal services. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am.
 last wait before you start your two minutes can you stop it because I heard that you're really really good singer and today's miss checks birthday and I'd like to sing her happy birthday all right ready one two three happy birthday Ron you did great you did great
 How could hear you? You can or can't? Are you being like my wife? What? Okay. Good afternoon. You know, last city council meeting, there was a person up here that was told to stop speaking, and it was a violation of policy and procedures. I find that pretty interesting because if we actually followed policy and procedures for animal services, the HOSS program would not have been put in and would still not be in.
 I find it very amazing. We pick and choose what we want to follow and what we don't want to follow. Kind of like the ASAC, we're on Robert's rolls. Well, kind of. What is it? We either are or we aren't. Let's step up. Let's follow policy and procedures. It needs to be done. So we had an instance, which I text you guys the information, some of you,
 about a dog that two dogs that killed a cat in ladies backyard and the dog ended up at El Paso animal services and from what she said was euthanized within 24 to 48 hours I find that also interesting because we have all these strays running the streets attacking people with their dogs and killing them and attacking them and The shelter does nothing Nothing. Are we picking and choosing on that too? I?
 Animal cruelty I sent some of you guys some pictures that showed violations of title 7 After several text messages back and forth with me and the director and the owner of the property and the director I finally got tired and sent it to Oscar and finally got taken care of 15 dogs were abandoned in a property the property was a disaster because of what the customer the person did we are sitting here we are having nothing but complaints about the shelter from the community and
 Do we allow this to continue or do we get somebody in place that has customer service skills, along with shelter experience, knowledge of a shelter, how to run it, can actually handle a real transport? The other thing I'd like to say is I brought to the attention that people wanted to come back to work for animal services, good people, and they had some inquiries about the problems.
 The message I got back from the person I talked to is they talked to them all, and they had nothing but positive things to say about the shelter. So I'm wondering when those people are going to come back to work because it's been months, and actually they're applying for other jobs somewhere else in the animal industry. So it's not the animal industry. It's El Paso Animal Services. We are getting ready to have two facilities. Thank you, Mr. Cuomo. We need to get employees. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is April Martinez.
 April Martinez's topic is public parks renovation and reservation. Good afternoon. You have three minutes Hi everyone, I'm back. I've been the last time I was here was in November so the reason why I come again is because I'm definitely a person about scope and sequence being a teacher and part of District 7 and
 I love education, I love investing in our future, and I am a person who uses the parks frequently, right? I play softball, co-ed, I've been playing for the last two years, I have lots of family and friends that are involved, and I wanna give kudos to whoever did update one of the parks. They did update Pueblo Viejo. I have a question for all of you. Would you use this toilet? Would you really?
 With your beautiful hair, your beautiful suits, your nice cars, your nice homes. This looks like a jail cell, right? Over here we have vandalism everywhere. We have the same cone from the pictures that I sent you guys or that I gave Mayor Leaser in November. And...
 Just think that there can be a better way to solve this issue Especially when we have our youth using these areas where we have our elderly people using these areas my abuelita doesn't even want to go see me play because The toilets are very important for old people, right? And with that being said being part of district 7 I think that we should really use money or use grants that are coming into El Paso and
 to revitalize these parks. Not only just pull everything out of the route, but use what is there already, right? Being part of District 7, I live in the area where it's like Socorro. So we're getting like the Amazon factory, we're getting more people on this side. I live in the middle. I see these parks that are being neglected, but yet we're building these new cheap homes, these new cheap apartments, and we really need to
 Make sure that the people who are in power right that are doing the the research or doing the right things Because then we're having these really cheap buildings being built and over the long run. It's not gonna be good for our economy, right? another park that I would like to highlight is also the Rio Bosque and
 So, if you know, like I live right there by the Rio Bosque, we have a, it's over two miles long. The TxDOT is trying to build a highway through there. I don't know about you, but if you've ever stood next to a freeway, you know that that's not a beautiful sound to be next to, right? And then also here's a lot of native habitat that we're missing and also Feather Lake is
 It's part of that District 2 and it's been closed for the last five years. So please consider revitalizing our parks in District 7. Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Albert Rivera. Mr. Rivera's topic is the noise and police response at a bar called Hush Hush. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Hello. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. This past Sunday was probably one of the worst Sundays I've ever had living in my house in San Francisco Heights.
 Now the barhouse house is putting up a mobile DJ on the porch next to my house, which is ridiculous. From 5 to 11 on Sunday, they played music. You wouldn't believe how loud it was. And I wish I had a 911 tape that took place when this happened. Eventually, me and the bar manager got into it verbally downstairs. This is getting out of control.
 They don't have an extended sound permit to put up a DJ on that place. And they're telling everybody they did. During the process of this going on, two young police officers showed up and didn't even know what the heck they were doing. And that's not their fault. They didn't even have a sound meter that I requested from 911 to bring to do the job to test the sound decimals of the place. So they couldn't even do their job. And I'm getting tired of the police officers showing up
 and it's not their fault, but asking each other what to do and not knowing what to do and showing up without the meters that they need to do their job. There has to be some restriction on this bar that doesn't have a roof again and put in a DJ on the porch next to my house. I have legal counsel, and it's going to help me resolve the sound problem, but it's not going to end it.
 City Council City Hall City law city permit authorized this problem and put it in my Neighborhood in an abnormal setting you all need to fix it and buy the property back and rezone it It can be a commercial property But not a bar on three feet from that bar and before that bar was there the Blackbird container was there and I haven't slept in my bedroom since 2018
 My thermometer is about to bust. I'm putting this problem and making my family the beneficiary of this issue because I don't believe I'm going to make it. You have the authority to end this problem. You created it. You end it. It's on you if something goes worse, on every one of you. I've been coming here over a year bitching about this problem, and I'm not going to live with this piece of property that I own
 Until I died listening to that crappy music put it in your neighborhood Get it out of mine and the people that live in San Francisco Heights. Thank you, mister. Please. Thank you And the final speaker is Patricia Osmond miss Osmond's topic is ethics violations and impropriety Good afternoon. Miss Osmond. You'll have three minutes. I
 Council, I hope you're enjoying your reprieve from this swamp hag being in front of you. Hello? Yes, ma'am. We can hear you. Okay. In regards to comments when I last spoke,
 Need I remind that the freedom of speech and freedom of the press are instilled in our constitution specifically to speak out against government. When citizens speak regarding city government, tax paid in and tax paid individuals, it is not a personal attack, it is accountability. Mayor Leeser, you use brain drain often, but refuse to see city policies in favor of real estate developers
 that are pushing our children out of our city with overtaxed and now soon to be renter over homeowner, new home built, which are across the U.S. contributing to homelessness, not home ownership. This killing systematically the American dream due to ever rising rents that now exceed what many mortgages
 would have been for those same homeowners. The once promised American dream is being killed by our city council. When you allow real estate developers like the Fosters to get all that property in the Northeast to specifically build a development that is going to be a majority rented homes, not home owned.
 That across the United States has been contributing to homelessness. And now you are bringing that to our door in our city.
 You said our city is here, El Paso is back, El Paso is here. That is not what you are doing. That is not what we are seeing with the policies out of the city council. Now, I am very glad that that amphitheater is going to be in Willinar's district, but it makes me question why it is the MPC, almost an exact replica, was even put forth in front of city council. Were we going to have two amphitheaters?
 They were going to compete against each other. There's a drastic issue that is going on within city government and leaving it to the future, to our children and grandchildren, so that they don't have part of El Paso. It's exactly what your policies are doing. And I hope you all can understand that because some of you, like me, will be dead while they suffer in the loss of
 the community they were born in you've reached three minutes Thank You ma'am mayor that concludes call to the public this afternoon we'll need to do the personal district as they they have a personals to go do that one so yes sir that'll be item number 32 we're on page 10 item 32 is presentation and discussion by the El Paso central appraisal districts executive director and chief appraiser
 Dinah Kilgore on the city of El Paso's 2024 preliminary values and protest period. I know you've been here all day And I thank you for it. Thank you so much mayor and council members David stone assistant chief. I always bring him along He's a really good guy to have So we're gonna go over real quickly. I know y'all are tired and you've still got a long ways to go Our presentation do you have that up? Okay? Okay. Thank you
 Let's see if I got this right. Okay, so y'all know what mass appraisal is. Again, notices are out in the mail. We do mass appraisal. We look at properties as a whole. We look at what's going on in the economy and in the sales. And El Paso is still very strong right now. When we appraised as of January 1, the number of homes in inventory was about 2.9 months worth. You want to have about six months worth.
 Right now it's probably about three months' worth of inventory, so we are seeing some increases in construction, but we did not see that much as of January 1. So we looked at everything on a mass basis, and most of the increases are based on the market.
 We saw very little new construction going on. I think just a little over 1% of new construction here in the city of El Paso. That includes commercial, multifamily, so there was not a lot. The market, because of that, is still very strong.
 disadvantages of mass appraisal again we do not know the individual characteristics that's why it's very very important and what we're going to stress more at this time is please follow your protest if you have an issue with your property because we don't know the specifics
 We know the neighborhood, we know the grouping of the homes, we know the characteristics of the home, but we don't know the individual instances, so we really encourage people to file a protest. Your deadlines, please follow the calendar. May 15th is the deadline for most people, or 30 days from the date of your notice, whichever is the later. And what we always tell people is file your protest because you don't know –
 May take some time to research it, but go ahead and file your protest. This is a really good slide and it kind of shows what the city is pre-preliminary. Your preliminary roll will be going out at the end of April and you can see the overall new construction is just a little over 1%. So it is the market that is driving the values right now. I'm going to let David go over some of the particulars on that market.
 Thank you all. David Stone, Deputy Chief Appraiser. As we can see from this chart, overall over last year, we went, the city went from about $48.8 billion to $56.6 billion in taxable value. On residential property, we went from almost $30 billion to $33.3 billion.
 and on commercial property we went from 9.2 billion to 11.5 billion. But as Diana mentioned, that third column that you can barely see, that's the new construction. We're not seeing a lot of new construction in the county. Most of this appreciation is coming from appreciation of existing properties. Percentage-wise, we're looking at almost a 16% overall.
 1.1% of that is new construction. Residential, we're seeing an 11.8%. Less than 1% of that is new construction. Commercial, we're seeing a 25.46%. About 1.5% of that is new construction. Other categories, we're looking at multi-family. These include apartment complexes. We're going from 2.7 billion to 4.2 billion.
 29 million of that was new construction. In business personal property, we're going from 3.1 billion to 3.3 billion. This area has some room to grow because the rendition deadline was April 15th, but there's a mandatory 30-day extension if requested by the property owners, which many do. So we don't have finalized business personal property numbers yet.
 And all other property, we went from 3.7 billion to 4 billion.
 overall multifamily is going up 52% this year 1% is new construction business personal property is going up 6.3% so far and only 0.15% is that is new property and every other category is going up 7.2% and about 3.4% of that is new construction
 Okay, every year we hear why are you guys raising the values? You're only supposed to reappraise every three years. Unfortunately, we're also required to keep properties at market value, especially in years where the Comptroller's Office does a property value study, which this year is one of them. What this slide is showing is in the various areas of El Paso County.
 We're comparing what the 2023 appraised values were to what the sales were for 2023. So in the first column, we're looking at the west side. We were only at 88% of market value. In the northeast, we were at 94% of market value. In the central area, we were only at 76% of market value.
 On the east side, we were at 94% of market value. Out in the county, outside the city limits on the east side, we were at 87% of market value. And in Horizon City, we were at 95% of market value. So we are still...
 We were still below market value even though we've been reappraising basically for the last three years. We're reappraising again this year and this is the reason why because we're still too low from what the market is showing us on sales on properties. Now a couple of comments on that one is these numbers are after we have our hearings.
 property owners do come in and file protest commercial properties file their protest so we run these numbers afterwards to see where we ended up because that's where we begin going into the next year what David showed you on the multi-families it corresponds with the low number of new homes for sale you see an increase in apartment rentals you see the rents going up and you see apartments being occupied
 This is our overall level of appraisal when the comptroller comes in and does their study. As you can see in 18, we were at 97%, we were at 26% in 2020, and in 2022 we were at 98%. On the level of appraisal, it's kind of hard to read but we threw this in here, the state comptroller does a top 10 appraisal districts and the bottom 10 appraisal districts.
 Overall, in our level of appraisal here in El Paso County, we were number eight. We were the only metro in the top 10. In single family homes, we were number two. The only other metro was Bexar, which is San Antonio. And in the commercial category, real estate, we were number two again in the top 10, with Dallas being number eight and Williamson being number 10. So we are trying to maintain that level of appraisal. I know people do get real upset
 to see their home values go up, but the market is still very strong and this shows it. On our maps review, that's our methods and procedures review that the comptroller does, you can see we have multiple years that we came in at 100%, which meant that the appraisal district is meeting the tax code and is following the tax code and the rules set by the comptroller's office.
 So again, let's go under the protest. I know I kind of broached it a little bit at the beginning of this. Remember May 15th are 30 days. Property owners, remind them, you guys as city council members, you talk to your different groups, you have your breakfast meetings or your evening meetings, remind them to file by the deadline
 If they don't have time to do the research, that's okay. Just file by the deadline. If they decide that after they do their research that their value's okay, they don't have to show up. There's no penalty for not showing up. But if they don't file by the deadline, there are very limited ways that they can be heard.
 bring in hard copies of their evidence. Pictures, pictures say a thousand words. You saw a couple of those being presented today under public comment. We want photographs, estimates, what's going on with our property. If a property owner comes in and says, I just don't like my taxes,
 I understand that, but unfortunately that's not something that we can address. They need to bring, just like in any kind of a trial, bring us evidence to show what their value, they feel their value should be and it defends that value. We will take some digital evidence, it has to go through our department, our mapping department so that we can make sure it's clean before we upload it. We do not take videos.
 So if somebody comes in with a video, we do not take that kind of information. We don't have the capability to keep that kind of data. You can file on a paper that was sent to you, a protest was sent in with your notice. We have it digitally. You can go into our website and you can now file and it automatically will send you a appointment hearing. You can have an appointment with informal, with an appraiser, one-on-one, and we can talk, we can visit.
 Then if we don't agree, you can go before the appraisal review board, or you can go straight to the appraisal review board if you don't want to have an informal, but you have that option. With an informal, we can be a lot more relaxed. We can show the evidence. With a formal, it is an open meeting, so anybody can come in and listen. The formal appraisal review board members are currently being appointed by the local administrative judge
 For this year, that will change going into next year.
 After your protest, if you go before formal, there are a couple of other things that you can do. If you disagree with what the appraisal review board did, you can file for arbitration or for lawsuit. Tips for filing a protest, make sure you're looking, if you're looking at your neighbors, that you're equal. Sometimes they have exemptions that you don't because they're veterans or they're over 65. Make sure you have your exemptions. If you're entitled to your exemptions, make sure you have those.
 Also, check the appraisal district's evidence. If you request it, we'll send it to you. We'll give you the evidence, whatever you need. If you just bought a home or you had a finance, bring that information in. And again, get comparable market analysis. A lot of realtors will work with you and give you some information.
 Bring your evidence, let's look at it. Please though don't bring hundreds of pictures. We don't have the room to store those. You can usually tell a story in 10 to 20 photographs. Don't bring your phone and expect us to take it. We will not touch your phone. We've had issues with that in the past. Everybody's very, their phone is their phone, don't touch it if something goes wrong. So please put it on a thumb drive or some way that we can transfer it into the system.
 Now, I'm going to turn it over to David, but we're both here. We're sharing, okay? We're both here to talk about some of the new legislation. We wanted to bring up some of the new legislation. You all do have an item on there regarding the child daycare. So there's a couple of things we wanted to go over with you.
 Okay, we just want to highlight some important legislative changes that were enacted last year First one is everybody knows by now that the school districts raised their homestead exemption from forty thousand to a hundred thousand and
 and you might say, well, why do we care? We're not a school district, but where this is gonna have an impact is on your share of our budget. Our budget is allocated amongst all the taxing entities according to their levy. So when the school districts had that exemption, they lost a lot of levy, and that changed the percentages of,
 what the various entities are going to have to contribute to our budget. If this is kind of hard, it's small, but if you look, El Paso ISD used to be 16.57% of our budget. Now they're only 13% of our budget. The city went from 25.25% of our budget to 26.31% of our budget.
 So when the legislature gave this big exemption to the taxpayers on behalf of the school districts, it kinda shifted the financing around on how the appraisal district is being financed. This will also impact
 As we'll get into later on allocations for appointment to our board of director is also going to be based on levy now and this is going to give the city more of a say in the appointment of our board of directors than the school districts would have had if they hadn't had their exemption increase.
 Speaking of which, the legislature totally redid how our board of directors is gonna be appointed. We currently have nine members that are appointed by the tax and entities according to an agreement that was made back when the appraisal district was formed and they're basically assigned by entities or geographic area in the county. That's all out the window now. It's gonna be strictly based on tax levy from now on.
 In addition to that, the state created three elected board of director positions that are voted on in a countywide election. The election was supposed to take place in this May election date, but we only actually had three people sign up to run, so there was no election necessary, and those people automatically are taking office.
 In addition, the county tax assessor is being appointed to our board of directors to represent the county. And we're gonna have five remaining positions that are gonna be appointed by all taxing entities. But you guys have to vote on that based on your levy. You're gonna get a certain number of votes allocated to each taxing entity based on the levy that they collect. And you have to actually vote,
 on people but it used to be like the city had automatically two board of directors positions that they would appoint and they didn't have to do anything else but you're not going to be able to do that anymore we're going to have to actually have nominations and voting based on the levy so it's very important you all will be getting more information starting in july about how this process
 is going to happen according to state law. And I just want to emphasize that it's not business as usual anymore and y'all are not going to have two guaranteed positions on our board of directors anymore. So be aware that this is a change and y'all are going to have to treat it differently. Also, as Dinah mentioned, the ARB members used to be appointed by the administrative judge
 That's no longer going to be the case the legislators giving it back to the board of directors Especially because we have elected board of directors now so from now on the board of directors will appoint all ARB members and the officers of the ARB
 The next change is pretty big. This is what the legislature is calling a circuit breaker. I don't know if you all are familiar with on homesteads, there's a 10% cap on value increases on homesteaded property, and that's been around for a long time.
 Well, this year the legislature decided to start a pilot program with the appraisal district that's going to last three years and they're going to cap all real property regardless of whether it's a homestead or not. So we're talking vacant land, we're talking commercial property, we're talking apartment complexes, we're talking rental houses.
 all real property is going to have a 20% cap. Now, the only catch is that the owner had to own it on January 1st of the prior year and January 1st on the current year. So then your property cannot increase by more than 20% over what it was last year, unless you have new construction on your property and that will get added to it.
 Like I said, this is a three-year pilot program. It's gonna expire at the end of 2026. So I guess the legislature will decide whether they wanna continue it or not.
 The homestead property still has a 10% cap, so it's more advantageous for homeowners, but now all other property, real property owners are going to get the benefit of a cap. Now this cap does not apply to business personal property, only to real property, and the property has to be $5 million or less in value to be able to get the cap.
 and that's this year's value, the 2024 value. I put a little example on here. If my 2023 value was 250,000 and then the appraisal district raised me to 500,000 in 2024, the cap would kick in at 20% of 250,000, which would be 50,000. So my property value would only be 300,000 in 24 instead of 500,000.
 Now, that doesn't mean it stays like that forever. That means in 2025, it's going to go up another 20%, and it's going to keep going up 20% every year until my market value is equal to my appraised value.
 But this is brand new for this year. That $5 million max is going to be set by the comptroller's office. So for this year, legislation said that anything under $5 million will be part of that circuit breaker.
 The controller will set, based on CPI, the max amount for the next year and the following year. So for right now, just for this year, it's any real estate property that's a non-homestead that's under $5 million. The next new piece of legislation, which I guess is appropriate since you all are considering it today, is the childcare facility.
 exemption that's new for this year it's only available to municipalities and counties it does not apply to school districts or any special districts the it's it's kind of a little bit strict the owner or operator has to participate in the Texas Workforce Commission's Texas Rising Star program
 and at least 20% of the number of children enrolled must receive subsidized childcare services through the program administered by the Texas Workforce Commission. It only applies to the real property, it does not apply to the business personal property, and it does not apply to properties that have a homestead exemption. So if you're running childcare out of your home, you're not eligible for this exemption.
 It can be claimed if the owner of the childcare facility owns the real property, they would apply for the exemption, but it will also apply to properties that are leased by a childcare facility. So if they're like in a strip center and they have a slot in the strip center, then the owner of the strip center can apply for the exemption that will apply just to the part where the childcare facility is located,
 But then the owner of the property has to lower the rent for the childcare facility to make up for the exemption that the owner is gonna get on the property. And they've gotta sign a affidavit of how they lowered the rent for the childcare facility.
 The percentage that you can grant for the exemption has a minimum of 50% all the way up to 100%. So it's totally at the discretion of the council on what percentage they want to use for the
 Currently, just to let you all know, the property owners do have the right, I mentioned it in the protest, that after they go before the appraisal review board, if they feel like they still can be adjusted in the value, they can file a lawsuit or arbitration. That is normally held by lawyers and tax property agents.
 that have multiple clients, they will file lawsuits because it is just another way of them earning their income and another way for them to try to get an adjustment.
 We cannot take them all to trial. As you can see, we have 1,700, a little over 1,700 accounts right now that range from 2008 to 2023 that are under lawsuit. I can't take 1,700 to trial, so we try to negotiate the best that we can to get those taken care of. A lot of those that you see from the 2008 to the 2023 is every year they will add on the new year.
 to continue going forward. You don't see 2024 yet because we're just getting started with the notices and we haven't had 2024 hearings yet. But we are scheduled to start our hearings on May 2nd.
 So people can start coming in and having informal and formal hearings. We will certify the role by July 25th and get it back to the taxing entities. We will also be sending the preliminary role at the end of this month, but we'll be sending monthly updates.
 So commissioners, council members, if you would like to know what the status is, your office will know, Mr. Cortinas, and of course the mayor's office will have those numbers. We'll do monthly updates the end of May and then again the end of June so you can see what the process is. And that's kind of it. We're here for questions. I have one question for you. You started out the conversation by saying that people need –
 be able to protest their value. And they have to do it by May 15th. If history shows what percentage of the people that do file the protest are successful. Do you have those numbers? We can tell you that. I'll also tell you that from the entire appraisal role, 63% of the appraisal role that we sent over last year was residential properties.
 The majority of protests are split between residential and commercial. So just the residential, not the commercial. I'd like to know what percentage of the residential. We had 14,333 that just talked to the appraiser. 89.7% of those got some kind of reduction.
 89% That's good news, yes We don't know the specifics are you having foundation problems, you know old appliances and
 What kind of trouble are you having? That's where we get a lot of our information to go forward into the next year
 So, a majority of our protest informally that gets settled are residential. Commercial will go to the appraisal review board and not really have informals. But residential property owners, single family homeowners, we really do want them to come in because an appraiser can take more time. It's limited in the formal hearing.
 And if I could just make a point, because when I say those percentages it sounds really bad, like oh you guys really screwed up, but what I want everybody to know is for one thing only 10% of the properties protest. So 90% of people are okay with their appraisals.
 And usually if you file a protest because you really think something's wrong, and if something is wrong, obviously we all want to fix it. We don't want to have wrong valuations out there. So even though those percentages sound high, remember it's only 10% of the total number of properties. And, you know, usually if you protest it's because you think something's wrong, and if something's wrong, we're happy to fix it if you point it out to us.
 And that's why I asked that question. And also, I think last year when we talked about this, the way you figure property value and the value of properties that are disclosed to you is less than 3%. Correct. So based on less than 3%, you're determining the value. So that's why it's important for people to do that. So I thank you all for, I know Representative Adonis has a question, but I do personally thank you for...
 given our citizens an option and Coming out publicly and talking about it. Thank you for that representative on this. Thank you mayor Thank you all for the presentation very informative a lot of changes this year makes me makes me nervous
 I want to ask about how you determine the percentage of the levy for the operations of CAD. I saw there's an increase for the city and the county, but there's pretty much like a decrease across the board. Is this the formula that we create or is this state statutory?
 We just take the total amount of levy by all taxing entities in the county, compare each individual entity to that total, and that's the percentage that you have. Understood. So it's based on the taxable values. It's actually based on the levy. On the levy. Okay. All right. And that's the same way the votes are going to go for the board, the board of directors. Understood. Okay. Okay.
 And then there was you mentioned I didn't hear what your confidence levels had to be for the appraised values to sales. What's the golden standard? We have to be between 95 and 105 percent to be in confidence when the state does our evaluations. So you can see in when they do their property value study in 2022, we were at 98 percent.
 Yeah, but 2023 doesn't look like you had those 95 or higher except for Verizon. Well, 2023 will be a maps review. Okay. Our property value study will be 2024, the next one. Okay, so they'll determine based on a year prior. And then going to the conversation about the child care deal, there's going to be a lot of questions related to, like, implementation. So with the assumption that city council –
 WANTS TO PROVIDE THAT EXEMPTION FOR CHILD CARE FACILITIES.
 When, if council would approve it, the next council meeting, when does it actually become into effect? Is it immediately? And then when do you, like what guidance will you give to child care facilities? Okay. Well, the deadline for filing for this year, for 2024, it goes into effect for 2024, is the last day of April. Okay. But the statute does allow the chief appraiser to extend it for 30 days for additional information. Okay.
 So we've already visited with Mr. Cortinas and staff here, and we're going to extend that application period till the end of May, May 30th. OK, so that if you don't if you're discussing it, it doesn't get passed to maybe May 7th or they will have until the end of May to file that application. And it will be for twenty twenty four.
 If you pass it this year. Got it. So they can apply by the end of May 31st, but when does the – May 30th. Excuse me, May 31st, but you're saying that it wouldn't go into effect until January of 25? No, it'll go into effect this year. It'll go into effect on their tax bill this year. Okay, so then is it prorated? No. No, because it's –
 for their daycares on at $100,000, then their tax bill will come out at $50,000 for this year, for 2024. Okay, so it's not going to prorate. It's just accounting for the entire year. Correct, yes, ma'am. These are the questions I get, so I'm sorry for – they're kind of like –
 It's really confusing though. So do you have the application ready or is this the application you have to create? No, the state comptroller put together the application. We just received it a couple of weeks ago. So we do now have the application. And in the application it actually refers to the section of the tax code that this is
 that this is part of, where this is stated. So if a property owner wants to get the application and go to the code to read it, and that's where it states the restrictions and what they must comply with to be able to qualify.
 Understood. Okay. And as soon as it is passed, then you will make that available online on your documents? Yes, we've already have it ready. We've already had folks coming in asking us to fill out the application, but nobody had passed it. I believe the county just passed 100% May 25th, no, March 25th. So we'll be accepting it for the county. For the county. Understood. Okay. And then if a home daycare...
 elects not to keep their homestead exemption are they still allowed to benefit? It probably wouldn't benefit them because the child care exemption would only apply to the city portion of taxes and the county portion of taxes.
 but school district taxes are a large percentage of things. So you're giving up your $100,000 exemption for your homestead exemption for the school for 100% for the city and the county, but I don't know if it's gonna be economically worth it. Yeah, no, I agree with you, but then there are folks. They could, but again, they're gonna be, right. Plus, they'll be giving up the local option. Some of the folks have local option on homesteads.
 So, they'll give up not just the school homestead but any of the other entities that have a local option homestead amount. And they have to meet that workforce requirements and if they lose that requirement then they have to re, they lose it then they'd have to reapply for the homestead but it wouldn't be good to the next year. And if they're over 65 they'd lose their, their freeze.
 If somebody were to come in and ask us for that, I would strongly advise them to really research it before they decide to do that because I don't think it would be beneficial. In the event there's multiple homes and one home does not have an exemption either way, I'm just trying to understand is there a prohibition for homes, home day cares? Well, there is some language in the law about people not residing.
 at the child care facility. Oh, okay. So it's not specifically that it can't be like a single family residence, but it has to be a single family residence that nobody lives at. Understood. Okay. Yeah.
 well thanks again for all that you're doing for the community um i know this is a tough time of the year but this is very valuable i'm happy to share with our constituents well yeah everybody says it's a tough time i'll be honest with you this is a great time for us because this is when we get a lot of information from the citizenry so we take it as a very positive time of year thank you thank you thank you again i appreciate uh your presentation take care thank you thank you
 Number 43, please. Yes, sir I don't 43 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending title 9 health and safety chapter 9.8 5 emergency and transfer ambulance services to add factors considered for public convenience and necessity and to move section 9.85 point 1 4 0 and be replaced with suspension revocation appeal giving due process after suspension or revocation Come on up chief
 Good afternoon Do you have any questions regarding the amendments for? Title 9 actually, I'd like to make a motion to approve to motion in the second. Yes, sir. We do have public comment on this item We have Robert Campion. He will be followed by Rachel Herrick Singh and Good morning Elite medical transport
 My apologies for missing my previous comment window earlier as I was pondering the value of a helicopter in Westside traffic this morning. So I just wanted to come out and support the contract with Air Methods. I also want to support this agenda item. I've been working with the fire department. They've done a wonderful job soliciting input from everyone that will be affected by this.
 HAVE BEEN GREAT PARTNERS IN THIS PROCESS AND ALL THROUGHOUT. JUST WANTED TO LET COUNCIL KNOW IT HAD THE FULL SUPPORT OF ELITE MEDICAL TRANSPORT. THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE. THANK YOU. THE NEXT SPEAKER IS RACHEL HARAXING FOLLOWED BY TONY BAYARD. GOOD AFTERNOON. GOOD AFTERNOON, MAYOR AND COUNCIL. MY NAME IS RACHEL HARAXING. I'M PRESIDENT OF LIFE AMBULANCE. WE DEFINITELY SUPPORT THIS CHANGE. WE BELIEVE IT'S GREAT FOR THE COMMUNITY.
 Number one, it allows new applicants to be accountable. And number two, it allows us, the current franchise holders, to also be accountable. So we're grateful for the change, and we look forward to it being enforced. So thank you for your time. And I know I said good morning to you, so thank you for waiting. And the next speaker is Tony Baird.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. Tony Baird, Dominion Ambulance Director of Operations. Just going back about six months ago, we were asked to submit recommendations for making changes to these ordinances, which we did to Chief DeVatis from the Fire Department, which we reviewed. The last couple of months, we had multiple meetings to discuss these changes. Just to let you know, Dominion Ambulance is supporting these changes and asking for your approval. Thank you very much for being here.
 and thank you all for being here and uh chief i know we talked about this a little bit yesterday this is um something that's well needed in our community and it's really going to help for an emergency for air transportation that's something that we've been lacking in the fire department for quite a long time and the city our size needs something like this so thank you for the vision and i know that you all were a big part of it as we we talked for the last six months of how we could improve our service to our community so thank you for that
 With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy to approve item 43. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Now, if I'm not mistaken, we skipped 33. Okay.
 because of time elements, we'll go to that one first. Actually 31, sir. 31? 31 is next. Okay, we'll go back in the order again. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Item 31 is a management update on enhanced library cart. Thank you for your patience on that. Absolutely, thank you for having me. Norma Martinez, Director of Libraries. Thank you so much, IT. This is an update of the enhanced library cart. The enhanced library cart will have a picture on it and
 personal information. It will be available for adults 18 and over. It will be valid for five years. It will have some really neat security features, the GEOGE lines, the hologram and holographic lamination. It will provide access to services. Our public safety community will benefit from it by having people have a secondary ID.
 It will enhance the participation in the library, and I really want to highlight that we are the sixth city in Texas to offer this option. It will be available in four different libraries, this pilot program, plus we will also have a pop-up that will be moving throughout the county in El Paso.
 This is a sample of the identity documents that we will be accepting. We will be using a three-point system to allow our users easy access to the card. As well as a residency verification, this is also a sample with the documents that we will be utilizing for that.
 And the residency and identity as well as the frequently asked questions will all be in our library webpage Which is recently being revamped right now. So we look forward to bringing that up in our next meeting
 We want our users to have a very positive impact when they come and get their library card. You know, from filling out the application to the waiting time, which is very little minimal, to getting their library card, their enhanced library card, right away. So they will be able to use the card that same day. Our next steps is that we are hiring the staff. We should have our equipment by the end of April, which is next week.
 We will be training staff and doing a soft launch in the middle of May. And our marketing team is working on the promotion of the card to make exposure to our community. And we hopefully to launch it in the end of May, which is right after Memorial Day. And on May 7th, we will need council's action on these three items to amend the ordinance 16143.
 to add the term fees and library card fees to the ordinance we will need a resolution to be amended for schedule c and we will need the resolution for the mayor to be authorized to sign the agreement between the city and the count and the county and that concludes my presentations do you have any questions uh there is no question i know we have uh public comment thank you yes mayor we do have public comment we have
 Eight people that signed up to speak on this item. We have Alan Lizárraga, followed by Margarita Arvizu, Susana Herrera, Olivia Marin Rivas, Fernando Garcia. Good afternoon, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, good afternoon, Mayor, City Council. My name's Alan Lizárraga, here with the Board of Network for Human Rights. Just again, thank you all for taking action to provide our community the opportunity to have access to an identification.
 Our community members are really excited about this program. We're really really looking for it and we hope to continue to be Of service to you all to our reach to our community to make sure that we get this ID To the most vulnerable residents in our in our city So again, just to thank you again to thank everyone involved in the creation of these IDs. We really do have a
 the opportunity to show the rest of Texas what leadership looks like, and I'm just proud to be speaking in favor of the ADs. Thank you. The next speaker is Margarita Arvizo, followed by Susana Herrera, Olivia Marin Rivas, Fernando Garcia, Irma Cruz. Good afternoon, you have three minutes. Buenas tardes, mi nombre es Susana Herrera y soy de la comunidad de aquí del Paso.
 Esta tarde quiero agradecer por el apoyo que nos han brindado todos los representantes por estos IDs, estas identificaciones, y gracias al equipo que está trabajando. Es un pequeño paso y pues esperamos hacer mejores cosas aquí en nuestra comunidad. Gracias. Gracias. Mr. Herrera, I would also like to thank Council for this new enhanced card. The next speaker is Olivia Marin-Rivas. Fernando Garcia.
 I want to start this good afternoon, Major. Good afternoon. Council members. First, again, I want to express our gratitude for the support to this program. It's been a long road to actually get to this point.
 And we want to reassure you that this is a major step for our community. And I think we are ready, the Border Network for Human Rights, it is putting some funds into what is going to be called the Community Outreach and Education Campaign to actually try to get everybody in El Paso to get this ID. Thank you.
 Again, I want to thank you for your patience, for your support, and come with the border network on this. Gracias. Thank you. The next speaker is Irma Cruz, followed by Dulce Carlos and Samantha Singleton. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Irma Cruz, and I am the coordinator of the Abuse Documentation for the Border Network for Human Rights.
 and
 recabar casi más de 13,000 firmas y este aquí estamos después de un intento fallido aquí estamos ya este casi listos para tener esa identificación este quiero agradecer a todos los que al gobierno de del paso de la ciudad del paso también al gobierno de del condado y a todos los que están envueltos en esta decisión
 I want to thank the city for this community identification. I need to fulfill a fight we have had for almost 10 years. We believe that this identification will bring many benefits to many El Paso residents who contribute to the city's economy every day and who for years have struggled to carry out different processes. We want to thank the city government
 and the county government and everyone involved in this task of making a community ID a reality. This will continue to make the El Paso community an inclusive community. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next speaker is Dulce Carlos. Good afternoon. My name is Dulce Carlos, coordinator of the Human Rights Frontier.
 In the name of all my colleagues who were behind each activity and who worked constantly to encourage the community in the request for an identification, but especially in the name of those more than 13,000 people who signed this request, as my colleague Irma mentioned. We thank you.
 porque esa identificación ahora es una realidad y significa mucho para la clase trabajadora que desea tener una identidad y desea tener también de alguna manera actividad financiera como residentes de esta ciudad. Muchas gracias. A usted. Thank you, Ms. Carlos is also in favor of the card and appreciates the work that has been done on this. The final speaker is Samantha Singleton. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, good afternoon, Mayor and Council. My name is Samantha Singleton and I am the Policy Director at the Border Network for Human Rights. It's truly an honor to be a part of this moment standing in solidarity with those who have worked tirelessly to make this program a reality. Launching this program as soon as possible will undoubtedly foster a profound sense of togetherness within the El Paso community.
 By coming together to launch this initiative, we are sending a powerful message of unity and inclusivity. We are reaffirming our commitment to supporting every member of our community, regardless of background or circumstance. This program represents a tangible manifestation of our shared values and aspirations for a more equitable and compassionate society.
 As we move forward with this endeavor, let us continue to work hand in hand, guided by our collective vision of a community where everyone feels valued, respected, and included. Together, we can create a future where the bonds of solidarity are unbreakable and the spirit of togetherness is our greatest strength.
 Thank you for you all being dedicated for your passion and your unwavering commitment to building a brighter tomorrow for everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you very much. Before we go any further, Ms. Mack, can you come up? Do we have one more? One more, sir. Okay, and then Ms. Mack. Margarita, please come up. Come on up.
 Good afternoon, everyone. Our community is thankful for the support. Your name, please. For the support. What's your name? My name is Margarita Viso. Thank you. Thank you, I'm sorry, okay. Good afternoon, everyone. Our community is thankful for the support to receive of this, on this new community ID. And we are excited that we are going to be able to put it in use. Thank you, you all.
 in spanish Ms. Mack, I know I've met with you numerous times and you've done a lot of work on this and and I do want to thank you for
 You know, you started from up here, and then went to here, and here, and how long you been working on it? Well, we spent about, last February, I got assigned to the project.
 Yeah, so kind of give us a little bit of background in working with banks and everything and what you've done, because I know that I met with you and it was very interesting. And I was very impressed with a lot of the work you did that I would like for you to share with the community and everyone else some of the things you did. Okay.
 Okay. I was assigned in February when the community came together along with the county to have a discussion about how we could move forward with having some type of community ID. I worked closely with community members to really understand what the requirements were. They were really helpfully helping us to understand what the challenges were in the community in terms of not having an ID and what that meant for people.
 We began to look at two different models that we thought would be successful. We utilized a model, the municipal ID model that we found in many places, but we're concerned that that might be challenged here in Texas, and really wanted to make sure that whatever we put in place would be substantial and would be able to serve the needs of people for a really long time.
 And so we were able to bring this program forward and the county has been a wonderful partner with us. They will be paying $75 for each card. They will also be paying for anybody who wants a card in the county, and that's been something we've been talking about for many years.
 And so this has really been a passion project. I had a lot of people working on this with us And this is the work we sign up for these are the types of things that bring us joy in terms of public service to know That we have such a far reach and the ability with resources that we really already have in place and I think council so much for the approval of this in the money upfront last year and
 To make sure that we could get this done and so it's really been wonderful to work with everybody and we will continue to do So through the pilot There's a motion to approve this was just a presentation No action. No action, sir. If there was an action he would make it I guess represented on this
 I for either Norma or Dion wanted again to extend my thanks to BNHR and all of the advocates and wonderful folks who have been fighting for this and I want to say over 15 years at a quincean, you know, yes, I news and so part of the success of the IDs will be who accepts it and that was a conversation we had and I wanted to share a little bit about our
 what the city will do utilizing our website so that we can highlight which banks, which credit unions, which organizations will accept it, including school districts and other municipalities. So we are going to do a really robust marketing campaign around this, and when the website launches, there will be a place on the website that lists all of the entities that will be taking this ID at launch.
 We know that we will find people throughout the community who begin to take the ID and so we will have those listed on our website as we move forward. One of the other things that we thought about was maybe having some type of decal or something that somebody could have on their website that really identified that they were one of the businesses that accept this card.
 And again, it's a pilot, so if you have ideas, if there's anything that you think that we're missing, we will be more than happy to capture that and make sure that we continue to improve the projects as we move along. And I know at RAIZ, Credit Union had confirmed that they will accept the ID for purposes of banking. This ID does not replace your required Texas driver's license or ID.
 But it is another tool so that folks who don't have access to IDs now will not only have membership to this community, but can provide critical services to their families to include picking up their children from school, because now IDs are required. So really excited about this. Thank you for all your hard work. Thank you for listening to our advocates. And it's really nice to see the implementation and all of the hard work come to fruition. It's a great job, everyone involved.
 Thank you very much and Mr. Garcia I know you've been in front of us I don't know how many times and we got it done I can remember back in 13, 14, 15 and now we are in 24 and we got it done so thank you for for working with our team and getting it done Thank you and with that Mr. Prine I have another speaker Oh Representative Acevedo Yeah so the
 reminding me of this starting almost 10 years ago when I remember it as well, because I was working on this almost 10 years ago and this is insane that it took this long and I'm just really excited that this is finally coming to fruition. And one of the things that I was talking to Norma about is
 The website is great and I'm happy that all the places that will accept it will be on the website. But I think the number one thing that I see as a huge benefit as soon as you get this card is that people could open a bank account at Raiz.
 So I was telling Norma that when they get this card, can they just get a brochure or something with Rae saying like, go open an account if you don't have a bank account here or something like that. Because I think that's one of the most important things around this card and then the website could supplement the rest. But really just trying to get the word out to everybody that this is possible with this card. Thank you, sir. Now with that, Ms. Pryor. Yes, sir, that brings us to item number 33.
 Item 33 is a public hearing to discuss and review a proposed ordinance amending land use assumptions capital improvements plan and impact fees and this public hearing is open at 1 35 p.m. I
 Good afternoon, Russell Ablin, Assistant City Attorney. The good news is that we're getting towards the end of this process. So under Chapter 395 of the Texas Local Government Code, if you have impact fees like we do in the city of El Paso since 2009, you're required to reevaluate those every five years. And so that's the process we're going through now.
 So it really started in January with SEAC, the Capital Improvement Advisory Committee,
 They reviewed the proposed updates to the land use assumptions, capital improvement plan, and impact fees, and made comments that were provided to you. Then it was presented to you all, just a general update as required by the code on those things. And then last, at March 12th, we had a meeting where you all reviewed the land use assumptions and capital improvement plan.
 and then set the hearing for today. And what today is, is it's the hearing on the proposed amendments to update those things, the land use assumptions, capital improvement plans, and impact fees. So you really have three options today.
 You can amend the land use assumptions, CIP, and impact fees, and then that will move on to the first reading of the ordinance, and then the second reading of the ordinance on May 7th. You can amend the LUAs, the CIP, and not the impact fees, and again, that will continue the process.
 That was the option selected in 2014. Or you can choose not to update those, the LUA CIP and impact fees. So also by statute under 395, you have 30 days to either approve or deny or deny the amendments to the land use assumptions capital improvement plan.
 and impact fees. So that's the schedule and the decision that needs to be made today. El Paso Water is going to have a presentation following me. Are there any questions? Representative Fierro followed by Representative Nunes. Thank you, Mayor. So isn't there a fifth option? I mean, couldn't we vote on not having impact
 So I think you could. Right now we do have impact fees, so you have to go through this process. Then I think you would have to bring that back separately to –
 to edit our code or amend our code to take the impact fee statute out of our code but that is definitely an option you can do at a later time but once the process has started on amending it every five years you have to either decide to choose to amend it or not to amend it okay so we could choose not well actually could we choose to
 amended at a lower rate than the existing rate? Yes. Okay. So that could be our fifth option? Yes. And that motion could be made when?
 As soon as you all like I'd recommend You know, I know we have a lot of public comment listening to El Paso waters presentation taking public comment And then any motions could be made Then just for the for the public I as soon as the presentations are done. I'd like to lower to the lowest rate thousand dollars
 that's going to be my question you make a motion at any time and it can get second but we won't take action until the end then i'd like to make a motion to uh make the fee a thousand dollars okay motion second but we do have a presentation and we still have public comment so uh mr duron
 Thank you for being here. Now when is your last day at the water? El Paso water? Not sure yet, Mike. When? Not sure yet. In May, right? No. Well, we're still debating the date. Well, they have a hard time letting him go. He's talked about retiring. He's done a great job. So thank you. So good afternoon, everyone. Arturo Duran, CFO for El Paso water. Thank you.
 And thank you for having us here. And we're almost to the end of the process. So the agenda today is going to be the community outreach that we receive, impact fee areas, just to summarize the areas that we have, and the city council impact fee options that we have available for you to decide, and the new steps and impact fee schedule that we have.
 So first of all, at the request of city council, we did have three community meetings. One on the west side at the Duncan Hoskins Recreational Center. And on the east side, the Bees Recreational Center. And then the northeast, we have the Northeast Regional Command Center.
 So out of those we did have participation from our residents and also from our representatives from the development and real estate section. It was 28 residents in total and we pretty much gave the information to the options that we're presenting to city council and we presented before
 And those ones that provided comments and writing to us, all of them were in favor of impact fees, is how much of the fee to be approved. Five of them were provided the information that they were in favor of 100% of the fee, one to collect $5 million, and three of them were just to adjust it to an inflationary rate.
 And there were some comments provided. I would say out of all the residents, with except the representatives from the development community, they were all in favor of impact fees. It was just by how much it was, that was the one that they didn't have a consensus.
 The impact fee service areas, just to go over on the west side, is located north of Borderland Road and north of Northern Pass.
 and between the Texas and New Mexico state line, and to the Franklin Mountain State Park. On the northeast, that's the largest area. We have located north of Loma Real Drive and Angora Loop to the New Mexico-Texas state line between Fort Bliss and the Franklin Mountain State Park. And on the east side is pretty much located east of Joe Battle and Zaragoza Road to John Hayes Street and Century Drive.
 And just to make sure everyone understands, like if the new meter installation is not done in one of these areas, there's no assessment for impact fees. It has to be within those areas. Council, please no side conversations. Thank you. So the options that we provided is, if 100% of the fee is calculated, what the fees are gonna be.
 Just to remind everyone, this is for water and wastewater only. So the total calculated fee is based by area. On the northeast, the calculated fee for 2024 was $5,684. On the west side, $3,257. And on the east side, $17,981. Of the current fee that has not been updated since 2009, the fees vary between $1469 and $1617.
 So currently the utility collects about $2 million on impact fee annually.
 And this is just a portion of the amount that we spend on CIP projects for these areas. Through the end of February, we spent over $165 million out of which only $19 million was collected and used for these areas. So it's a minimum amount that we receive from impact fees currently.
 But if 100% of the fee that is calculated is approved, then it would have a material effect on the revenues. So 17.6 is estimated based on if those projections that were used to calculate the fee come through.
 So it would have some effect on the amount of debt that we have to issue to fund those projects. So currently over 85% is funded through rate payers. Like everyone through their rates is funding for infrastructure that is needed within this impact fee areas. So city council also requested, well what if we phase in over the next five years those fees?
 So what you see over here is over the next five years, starting on the current year, 2024, collecting 60% of the calculated fee. So in 25 would be 70, 26 would be 80, 28 would be 90, and in 2028, it would be 100% of the calculated fee.
 So you see here the effect that it would have on 2024, the calculated fee based on phasing for the first year would be $4,890 on the east side, northeast $2,312, and on the west side $1,912. So every year it would increase the fee up to reaching 100%. So this is based on 100% phasing.
 The next one is the option two would be 75% of the calculator fee. Back in 2009, City Council approved 75% of the calculator fee.
 So we did the same analysis on this one, and pretty much if city council was to approve it, the calculated fee based on 75%, on the northeast, $42.63, west side, $24.43, and on the east side, $13,486. Keep in mind, this is for...
 a three quarter inch meter installation. 93% of our customers have a three quarter inch meter, including residential and commercial. So the revenue that we would collect on this one, of course, would be less, 13 million to 200,000. And we did the same analysis on the phase in over the next five years. 60%, 70, 80, 90% and 100% over the next five years.
 So the fee would vary and those are the calculated fees. We also did the analysis on what if the total revenue for impact fees was just to come up with $5 million. So that's pretty much 150% of the current fee that we have since right now we're collecting 2 million.
 And the calculated fee based on 150% of the current fee would be $3,673 to $4,000, depending on the area. And we also did the phase in for five years of this fee. So the first year, we just took it to 56%. And then the additional years would be a proportion to get you to $5 million.
 Now, the last option was an inflationary adjustment based on an index for construction, and this is 56 percent. So out of the current fee, we took 56 percent in addition to the fee, 156 percent of the current fee. You see the total calculated amount, 2,292 for the northeast and up to 25, 22 on the
 So, of course, this would have the least effect on the revenue that we collect from our customers. It would be an additional $1 million. Keep in mind the budget for the utility for CIP projects is huge.
 In the current year, our CIP for projects, water and wastewater, is over $550 million. So impact fees is a small portion that we collect. We do need to make investments in these areas.
 over the next five to 10 years is over a billion dollars that we need to, in order for us to provide services to just the impact fee areas. Is who's gonna pay for that investment from the utility. So the next steps, as I mentioned, we had those three community meetings that city council requested. And the next step is on May 7th that we have it as the second reading for city council to adapt the impact fees.
 And with that, I concluded my presentation, so I'll be glad to answer any questions that you may have. Yeah, now the impact fees are only for El Paso city limits, or more or less.
 like outskirts, the county and stuff like that don't have impact fees? It's within our city limits and our service area. So there are some areas on the west side and on the east side, mostly on the east side, that are outside the city limits. But how about like Corish and Socorro, Santa Lucia, do they have impact fees? No, not to my knowledge. I didn't think so. Or Anthony or anywhere, any competing areas within the home builders, okay, okay.
 Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. You mentioned about over a billion dollars of investment just for these new growth areas?
 And if it's not paid for by impact fees, what is the, how are we paying for that investment? We would have to issue debt mainly to do that improvements on the infrastructure for this area. So all the rate payers of the El Paso water would pay for those improvements. Got it.
 So the alternative here is who pays for the development, either the home developer community incorporates that into their business model as a cost of doing business, or we shift that to all of the rate payers in El Paso, which has disproportionately been shifted already over the years since it hasn't been increased since 2019.
 I'm concerned that we even have different options because
 There has been so many times that council has just decided not to take action, adopt a smaller portion of what's being proposed. And in this, I mean, the current motion on the table is only $1,000, which is significantly less than the current rates, which could mean that our revenues are half that amount, which El Paso Water would have more or less about a million dollars or less.
 to go towards the critical investment so that we can provide clean and safe water to the fringes of our city. I do want to put that into perspective for the public and then I'd like to make another motion. If we were to only accept $1,000 for the Northeast,
 That would only account for 17.59% of the actual need, meaning that 82.41% would be shifted back to the rate payer. In the west side, if you only adopted $1,000, which is less than the current rate, it would account for 30.7%.
 OF THE RATES THAT'S BEING PROPOSED WITH A GAP OF 69% THAT WOULD BE SHIFTED BACK TO THE EL PASO RATE PAIR. AND THE EAST SIDE BECAUSE OF THE GROWTH AND BECAUSE OF THE NEED OF THE NEW PLANT WHICH WILL COST ALMOST $700 MILLION, THE
 That would account for 5.7% with a variance of 94.3%. Now the El Paso water rate payer would have to cover that difference. The state law allows for El Paso water to collect how much of what's been expended by El Paso water.
 So as I mentioned, since the inception of the program in 2009, we have spent $165 million in just this impact areas. And out of that, we have collected only $19 million. So $165 million spent. Yes.
 And collected 17.5? Well, as of the end of February, it was 19 million. 19 million, right. So like 12% that we actually collected from impact fees for the amount that we spent on capital improvements programs. But the state statute only allows El Paso water to recoup up to 50%.
 Yes. Correct. So there's two options on the calculation. You can go with an option for 50% of the calculated and that's what we- And that's what you use in your models. And then there's another option for based on revenue, but it's the impact fee would be even more. So what we presented to city council was just the option with 50% of the calculator fee. And to put that into LAMR terms, that means-
 If El Paso Water spent $100 million to put wastewater and water in the fringes of the city, the rate payer is already paying $50 million of that, 50% of that. And then the other 50% could be collected by impact fees by way of passing that on to the consumer and purchasing that price. So theoretically, the El Paso rate payer for over 15 years has almost subsidized almost 100%
 of the total cost of development, water development at the fringes of the city. That is unacceptable. I consider that to be a severe injustice. This is one of the most pressing issues of my tenure and I'm so disappointed to hear members of council year over year advocate
 to pay more money from the ratepayers pocket versus development paying for its own development. It's not even equitable. It's not even 10 percent. It's not 5 percent. It's not 50 percent. We are paying 100 percent of all of the development at the fringes of the city, and it's
 It's unacceptable. Every other city across this country that has implemented impact fees, other municipalities could implement impact fees. It doesn't preclude them to. And the city of El Paso has to lead by example. I just I'm just so floored by that.
 The options that you're proposing, which is option one, it's 100%, which is the Northeast 5,684, West side 3,257 and East side 17,281. That's 100% option one? Yes. Okay, I make a motion to amend the impact fee schedule
 so that we can achieve 100% of what's being recommended by El Paso Water, so that we can build the necessary infrastructure for the homes that the developers are building. It is a cost of doing business, not even a single portion of that is being...
 paid for by the developers. However, it is being subsidized by the rate payer and in very disproportionate amounts. And the lowest income and most vulnerable members of our community are even further impacted disproportionately. And I find that unacceptable. So that's my motion. And I'm open to having a conversation about phasing that in because I won't let perfect be the enemy of good here, but we cannot reduce the current rate. Absolutely not.
 Thank you reps have done this now. Let me ask you a question When we talk about the increase what's being paid by all the ratepayers, which is what? 200,000 roughly how many rate how many people get water bill? So 220,000 what is the amount of per water bill that it would cost somebody I
 So the current bill for waterways water and including stone water is about $80 a month for our typical residential customer.
 So right now these fees don't have any impact. What we're collecting doesn't have any impact on the amount that we're charging our customers. So it's not impacting the rate payer? Well, the revenue that we're collecting is so minimum that it doesn't have any impact on what we're charging our customers because most of those expenses— Okay, now I get what you're saying. So let's say—
 Representative Nunez said we want to collect 100%. What would be the difference of savings per rate payer? It would take time. So it all depends on future years and the budget that we have. But based on the current financial plan that we have on five years,
 You won't see any change on the residential bill until three years from now. That would be on 27-28. Based on the bills at that point, the calculated bills at that year, because we're going to have rate increases regardless of impact fees or not.
 So based on that, there would be $1 difference. So let's say if the calculated rate, the calculated bill for a customer is $106, it would be $105. So it would be $1 difference per repair. $1 difference based on that scenario. So let's say there is no impact fees all around.
 around us. So the builders, and we say it's passed on to the builders, the builders pass it on to the homeowner, and the homeowner ends up paying for it. So they end up building outside the city limits, and now we don't have rooftops, and now we don't have the taxes being paid. I know you wouldn't know the answer, and I don't either, but it'd be pretty impactful.
 For all the taxpayers because now our growth has shrunk and now they're building outside the city limits And I know that they they have planned about 10,000 rooftops in Horatian City within the next six seven eight years and they have no impact fees and I am I can tell you that I would believe that the increase in taxes because we I
 They wouldn't I mean they couldn't build homes. They would build them somewhere else. They have options and that's what really worries me that Because I've talked to some of the builders and they said that before they would pay it they would build outside within the city limits and But you and I both couldn't figure out what that impact would be unfortunately, but I think it'd be it'd be pretty large and
 Then another thing that bothers me is that if the price of the homes end up going up because we're charging additional Impact fee and they're rolling it. They're passing it on to whoever's buying it the people that Can least afford it would not qualify to buy a home they wouldn't be able to come up with a down payment because now the down payments greater and also the payment would take him out of the debt to income and
 So, we would end up hurting the people that we're trying to help, which is the people that are trying to become first-time buyers and trying to buy a home. And that's the thing that I really worry about, that we're trying to help, and in return, we end up hurting the people we're helping. And I know that, you know, that for a fact would raise the price of homes because they're going to pass it on to the buyer.
 Then you have a percentage of down payment that's required. And now, based on the rates, which are high, but we're talking about today, a lot of people wouldn't qualify for a home. Plus, they wouldn't have the additional down payment. Representative, and I know that you and I could have this conversation, but we really don't have answers. Thank you. Representative Canales. I forgot you already spoke, so I've got to move around. Followed by Representative Acevedo.
 Thank you, Mayor. I won't be very brief because I think this is very important. He's got ten minutes. Yep. In considering the issue of impact feeds in El Paso, I think it's really important that we recognize the gravity of the decision that we're making today and hopefully as well when a final decision is made in May.
 and the really far-reaching implications that these decisions have in the city's future and the way that we grow. So the current landscape of impact fees, it really underscores a pressing reality for us, which is that the existing framework by which the city grows is not sustainable and it's inequitable. It means that people who live in the core of the city
 have been subsidizing nearly all of the cost of infrastructure servicing new development for the last 15 years plus. So it brings up the fundamental question, who should be paying for the cost of servicing the new development at the geographic edges of the city? And I think for too long that burden has fallen disproportionately on El Paso's households and rate payers.
 while the folks benefiting from the new development have reaped those benefits without shouldering their fair share of the costs. So I want to begin with a little bit of a discussion of the history of the issue, because this isn't a new discussion, and the history of it is important. So throughout history, El Paso has grappled with the issue of impact fees and what their role would be in the growth and development of the city.
 In the early days of El Paso's development, impact fees were a pretty novel concept nationwide, and there was very limited precedent to guide the decisions of policymakers who were making the decisions back then. So the city experienced pretty rapid growth, particularly during the mid-20th century when there was a lot of expansion, and it saw the growth of Fort Bliss, brought a lot of new people into El Paso.
 and that's when it became very apparent that there was a need for more and better infrastructure to support the new development particularly as the city grew to the east at that time in fact much of our infrastructure today still dates from the mid 20th century as it reaches and and in many cases exceeds its useful life and needs replacement and El Paso Water has been doing a great job of hurrying through that that replacement schedule
 but we still have a lot of old infrastructure servicing much of our city. It wasn't until the later part of the last century that impact fees really began to gain traction as a potential method for a more systematic and equitable way to fund those infrastructure needs in the new growth areas. The first serious considerations of impact fees go back to the 80s and the 90s,
 But it wasn't until the mid-2000s when the conversation really picked up, and then again the late 2000s when impact fees were finally adopted 20 years ago, essentially today. The adoption of impact fees was, of course, very charged, very fraught, and it's remained so for the last 20 years. And I think that's very evident in the fact that impact fees have been updated once.
 since their adoption 20 years ago. That was 15 years ago. When they were adjusted 15 years ago, 100% of the fee was not adopted. They adopted 75% of the fee, and it hasn't been adjusted since. So essentially we're operating now with 75% of the calculated fee from 15 years ago. That's clearly not enough funding for the infrastructure needs in the growth areas of the city, which back then were mostly just...
 in the Far East and somewhat in the Northwest, and now also includes the Far Northeast, as we see a lot of growth there. There are still a lot of challenges with providing infrastructure, water and wastewater infrastructure, to support that growth that gets further and further out. It's more and more expensive every single mile that the city grows,
 I shouldn't use mile. Every single half mile, quarter mile that the city grows becomes more and more and more expensive to service those areas. The geographic area gets larger and larger and the amount of funding that El Paso Water is able to contribute goes less and less far because you have so much more infrastructure that you have to maintain including a lot of the older infrastructure in the core of the city.
 The proposal to reassess and potentially I'll say hopefully increase impact fees, it doesn't come out of some arbitrary intent to hurt the development community. It's nothing like that at all. It's just a pragmatic response to the realities that we need to fund water infrastructure and wastewater infrastructure in our city.
 and a recognition of the need to have a more equitable system to do so. I think failing to adjust impact fees and certainly lowering the existing impact fees, this will just perpetuate a cycle of subsidization of this growth by everyone else who lives in the city who doesn't truly benefit from the growth. Existing ratepayers right now are left to foot the bill
 you know, by my calculation, about 88% of, they provide about 88% of subsidy to all of the new growth. I think people need to understand every dollar not collected through impact fees translates to higher utility rates and service fees on people's water bills across the entire city. This, it's a hidden cost to people. I think a lot of people don't know what impact fees are. They don't understand that they're subsidizing the growth.
 but despite it being a hidden cost to them it is an economic burden to them that they don't know about and i really think this undermines the the principles of fiscal responsibility uh for us for the water utility and and also you know equitable distribution of of the responsibility for the the infrastructure needs of our city i think it's really important to dispel some of the notions
 impact fees stifle growth or deter investment. On the contrary, I think they're a really important tool for promoting responsible development and ensuring that the growth that we see occurs in a way that's financially sustainable and that it's aligned with the interests of the entire community of the city.
 saying that developers would simply move outside the city limits, I think completely ignores and frankly insults what the city of El Paso has to offer.
 People want to live within the city limits for a reason. They want service from the El Paso Police Department. They want the excellent service that's provided by the fire department. They want to be able to access the city's community centers, and recreation centers, and libraries, and parks, and all of the excellent facilities that we have. Not all of those are available to people who live outside of the city limits. They certainly won't get responses from the police or fire department.
 People want those things, and those are drivers of business decisions that developers and home builders make when they choose where to locate their investments. So I want to also make it clear that the proposed adjustments, and you went through a whole good presentation on this, are not plucked from thin air, right? There's a whole analysis that happens with projections for the future land use, where the growth is going to happen,
 and then projections for what infrastructure needs are there in order to service that projected growth. This is a really meticulous calculation that happens. Would it be fair to say a whole year of work has gone into this, maybe more, to these proposals? So to me, adopting anything less than the full cost of the new service that will be needed to service those areas really undermines the integrity of
 impact fees in general of the infrastructure needs of our water and wastewater systems. And as I said, it really perpetuates a cycle of the people of El Paso having to subsidize greater and greater amounts of the infrastructure needs. And I personally don't find that fair.
 Again, today I hope we can advance proposal for 100% of the calculated impact fee to the next meeting when I think we can have a discussion about whether or not we look at some sort of compromised phased model or...
 It would be my preference to adopt 100% of the impact fee. Again, this has nothing to do with the development community being punished for something or anything like that. This is just out of fairness. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. And I think you brought up a good point. As we've seen, a lot of these cities around the city of El Paso's growth go down.
 double digits some of them as high as 30% of growth in their community around El Paso we were at 4% in the last census and all those people that live outside the communities you were talking they get to use all those great services that we have we get to pay for and enjoy at no cost to them so so thank you
 So one one thing that kind of came to mind when you're presenting and I think the mayor asked this question But I had been asking since we started talking about this if El Paso County had impact fees And then I finally got the answer a few weeks ago and yet horizon doesn't have them or anything but I think the
 more clear answer that I was looking for was the map is not not necessarily created around the city of El Paso but more just the entire County and then there's certain pockets of El Paso County that does have impact fees so really the answer was yes the county has some impact fees and so that was just something that I really wanted to clarify because it was just really frustrating that
 that there were people that were saying that El Paso County does have impact fees and then I would ask and then there would be mixed answers on it, right? So I just wanted to put that on the record just for complete clarification. I think I wanna go back to something that you were saying on 2027, 2028 that there would be a dollar more for people and is that based on
 Just a regular rate increase or is that kind of saying? We're gonna do a rate increase and this is what's gonna pay for all the necessary Infrastructure that we need on the west side the northeast and the east side So the utility does an annual budget and that's what it gets approved on an annual basis A five-year financial plan
 in which we take into account the O&M budget, debt service, and the CIP. In the next five years, we see a lot of need for CIP on the water and wastewater, which affects the debt that we have to issue.
 So this is just saying if the growth occurs based on the assumptions that were presented for the impact fee areas and based on the five-year financial plan,
 is the rates that would be charged, let's say three years from now, and if we had 100% of the fee collected, it would have a $1 effect on the bill for the customer, the typical bill.
 And keep in mind this is based on if everything, the five-year financial plan stays, every year it changes, but we have to make some assumptions to give you that, what would be the change to or effect to the rate payer? And that's the assumptions that we had, that the growth would happen as the impact fee population calculations were done,
 that the CIP for the utility was spent exactly like it was on the five-year financial plan. So there's assumptions that you're taking. But in order to do a calculation, we had to get those assumptions. So it would be $1 three years from now. So let's say instead of $106, the typical customer would pay $1 less, $105.
 If impact fees pass at 100%? Yes. Okay. And, of course, if it's less than that, the amount would be minimum, maybe 50 cents, maybe no effect at all, because most of those projects are funded through debt, so we have to issue more debt. So the way I see it is the less...
 impact fee revenue that we get, the more debt the utility has to incur in order for us to finance and pay for those projects that are in these areas. Okay. And so if impact fees were to go away,
 What would it look like for the ratepayer in three years? You haven't done those calculation? Minimum, minimum effect. Like I said, the calculated fee, let's say three years from now would be $105. That's what the customer would pay. It's minimum because we don't, we have such large CIPs in the next five years.
 that the impact fee that we're collecting or that we would collect based on this one is still minimal to that. I think it has a bigger effect. Let's say if your CIP was smaller,
 So collecting $17 million a year, then it would have a bigger effect on rate increases. But the assumption is based on our five year financial plan with a high CIPs that we have projected, there would be minimum effect on the rates. And so would this also be affecting stormwater? Because that's such a big thing in my district and I know that,
 We just said to go instead of the 20-year plan, do a 10-year plan. So how, what kind of effects does that have on? Not at all. So impact fees that the city approved was only for water and wastewater services. There's no impact fees for storm water. But you're issuing more debt
 to get those things done, right? And we just have a study that was done in partnership with the federal government that said the mountain is not the issue for any of the stormwater that is in pretty much central El Paso, right? And so it's the streets that are the issue. So would you have to issue more debt or get to a cap of debt? And so would it affect fixing those issues in stormwater if you weren't to do the impact fees?
 So let's say for stormwater is totally different, no impact fee, so it's just pretty much the same. No, I get that they're different, but you're still going to have to do more money in other areas, right? So if you're issuing more debt for the outskirts of town, there's less debt to...
 get other projects done? Is there any effect on that? That's what I'm trying to ask. So there's two separate, the capacity, yeah. The stormwater utility is separate from the water and wastewater utility. There's two separate municipality utilities that we have that the El Paso Water manages. So their budget is completely separate from water and sewer and stormwater.
 So but to answer your question is most of those projects have to be done through the issuance of debt in order for us to Finance stormwater projects. So it's two separate utilities that the El Paso water managers Okay, and then the probably the last thing that I was thinking on all of this something that's been really present on my mind is is that we are
 We're seeing a lot of the development happening on those three areas that you identified. And I think a lot of it is probably happening because I mean that's where the city's growing and that's where the growth is happening, right? But at the same time I'm also thinking about another issue that comes to mind and that's in field development where I think my area would really benefit on and I really want to tackle that issue because that's been a
 Kind of a nightmare in terms of I think there's a lot of people that may not want the fixer-uppers right that are gonna be proliferating my district and it's it's a great district historic and and not everybody wants to deal with old pipes or anything like that So they're going to this new development. And so I understand that point, but how can we? tackle infill development in a better way and I feel like that's a phase two off of whatever is decided on impact fees and
 how we can get to that to make it a lot easier to bring more new stuff into Central El Paso, the Northeast, South Central, stuff like that where we are not necessarily able to grow anymore, but we could definitely do a lot of infill development. All I can tell you is it does in some way promote infill development because it gives, I think it's from the home buyer is they have different options.
 They can, like you mentioned, most home buyers, they want the newest houses. So they wanna go into these areas, new areas of the city. But they also have the option if affordability is an issue for home buyers to go into the core of the city.
 It's options that the homeowners have. That's the difference between the two. There are options for homeowners, but it's up to them to choose. But we could probably work on something to make it better, no? In terms of infill development, promoting infill development, that could be like a second phase to this work that you've been compiling for the past year on impact fees where I see infill development being such a big deal that we need to tackle.
 Yes. Thank you, sir. Representative Molinat followed by Representative Ferro. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Nguyen, welcome. Thank you. You mentioned earlier that if you eliminate the impact fees, there would be approximately $1 increase for the residential customer. And I'm not talking about the commercial.
 So this is based, like I mentioned, three years from now, if we were to collect 100% of the impact fee as option one, the additional revenue that we will collect from that would mean less debt that we would have to issue. Three years from now, based on the scenario from our five-year financial plan,
 the customer instead of paying let's say 106 dollars would pay 105 dollars one dollar difference and this is based on just option one 100 okay and you mentioned there are no impact fees on storm water correct that's correct okay but every residential customer they do pay a monthly fee what is that fee
 for storm water management about six dollars six dollars so you might not call it an impact fee but it is a charge everyone's paying for that correct that's correct within the city limits all right so i'm going to talk about district 4 i'm going to talk about northeast el paso okay so even if we increased the impact fees if we increase it whatever i don't like them though little tiny ones
 We have a hot mic. Please make sure you're on mute. Okay. So even if we increased it, let's just say another 25%, so the developer, the builder, they're going to pay for that. They're going to pass that amount to whoever the homeowner is going to be. I doubt very seriously that the home builder, the developer, is going to say, hey, this is how much we paid an impact fee. So when they close on that house, the cost of that house has increased.
 When they go to mortgage that house, that cost will be applied over, let's just say, a period of 15, maybe even 30 years. So whatever that amount that they paid, that that builder paid, that homeowner is going to be paying, I don't even know, I'm not a realtor, but they're going to be paying 10, 12, multiple times. It's just like when you buy any house. You buy a $150,000 house after a 30-year mortgage, you've paid a lot of money. $100,000.
 So, that impact fee is going to be a negative on that new home builder, excuse me, a new home buyer. How does that affect the market in El Paso that people are trying to buy a home for the first time, they're trying to buy their second home, they're trying to buy their third home, especially, let's say, I'm going to say Northeast El Paso. Would you agree with me that's going to be a negative?
 It's different options that the home buyer has. I mean, if I cannot afford $260,000 house on the new area, but I can afford an existing house in central El Paso, I have an option of where do I move? And right, and you're absolutely correct. That home builder is going to try and buy what's best for him or their family, right?
 It may not be exactly their first choice, but they're going to try and buy. We all know that. We've done that before. But having just recently taken tours of two different areas, the Jonathan Rogers Treatment Plant and the Bustamante Wastewater Plant, I can tell you, your CIP is going to grow. It's going to be huge, especially Bustamante.
 Seeing change there like you've never seen El Paso will get ready. Trust me get ready. You haven't seen anything yet. I
 It will change how you pay your water bills and how it impacts all of us, all of us, regardless of what part of town you live in. It's going to impact all of us. So get ready. I'm telling you right now, get ready. It's going to be an eye-opener experience when that day comes. Hopefully it will be phased in. I don't know. I'm not the water company. But it's going to be a different change on what's going to be happening. So thank you very much. Representative Brown.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You know, first we keep talking about developers. What we should be talking about is rate payers. What we should be talking about is first time buyers being priced out of the market, not only because they have to pay almost $17,000 in impact fees, but then down to higher interest rates.
 We should be focused on how much we're losing in tax dollars because we're charging almost $17,000 to the new homeowners in the east side who can move a few blocks over and not pay impact fees because the county, all the research I've done, the county doesn't charge impact fees.
 So that's where the new homeowners are going. And how much would those dollars, if they were in our tax base, save the rate payer? I don't think we'd be talking about a dollar increase. I think we'd be talking about saving dollars. Using the analogy of the city,
 as a whole paying for this new infrastructure impact fees, what about, what's these new homeowners who are paying $17,000 for their impact fees proposed, why are they paying for the infrastructure improvements in Central El Paso? You know, that doesn't make sense to me if we're talking about that's not fair for them, but it's not fair for them. The other thing, if we passes this at the highest rate,
 El Paso water gonna stop bringing bonds to us you know night and and so in the last nine years the way I calculated we've had an increase in our water rates
 You know, I just it doesn't make sense to me that we're talking about about these savings when we should be talking about about a dollar savings in three years Potentially when we should be talking about lowering it so we can get more homes built in the city limits increase our tax rate and lower Not a dollar but dollars Is it well, that's all I have mayor. Thank you. Thank you Thank you mayor
 If you have a few more things to say, there's been a lot of talk recently about the county doesn't charge impact fees, but who else doesn't charge impact fees? The city to any other residents anywhere else in the city outside of the specifically carved out impact fee zones. And so yes, someone could choose to relocate two blocks down the road outside of the city limit, but they could also choose to relocate a few blocks down the road, and
 Into the existing part of the city and they also won't be paying impact fees That that's a big part of the consideration of this the way we've had the conversation today makes it sound like every single new home in El Paso pays impact fees and That's not the case
 You can move anywhere else in El Paso outside of the impact fee zones. Builders can choose to build anywhere else in El Paso outside of those impact fee zones, and they won't have to pay it either. When they are choosing to build in those impact fee zones, that is creating new demand for infrastructure, and that infrastructure has to be paid for.
 So I think it's fair that the people who are living in, who are choosing, because they have a choice, choosing to move to those areas, pay for the cost of the infrastructure that will serve them. And realistically, only them. Water infrastructure isn't something that you can dig out and move with you to somewhere else, right? So that new infrastructure is impacting, it's serving only those people who are choosing to move into those new growth areas.
 I have a question for Ms. I imagine it's for Ms. Neiman is given the recent changes to our ethics ordinance is it prudent for me as a member of counsel to disclose any contributions that I've received from the development community before making a decision on impact fees. So the reason amendments require that you disclose contributions
 from a contributor who is receiving a benefit and is listed on the council agenda. So it's directly tied to whether that group or person who contributed to your campaign is receiving a benefit. I don't, this item is not listed on behalf of or no specific developer.
 is or isn't getting a direct benefit from this. You certainly can do it if you feel inclined to do so but I don't interpret the code to require on this item that you disclose contribution from developers. OK. I think in that case I'll I don't know if it's a caution I'll do it proactively voluntarily then. I want to disclose that I've received campaign contributions from Woody and Gail Hunt.
 from Doug Schwartz, Robert Foster, and Scott Schwartz, all from the development community. I think it's important that we disclose things like this when taking a vote like this, especially if we're considering a reduction in impact fees. I think there's a very real direct benefit to the development community that would be realized by a reduction in impact fees. Again,
 This is and I know it's a complicated process especially for someone in the public who doesn't get to follow this for its entire course for a whole year to understand. I want to make it clear this is a kind of second to last step that we are considering today. This public hearing is to approve the land use assumptions.
 And a potential change the impact fee but there's a final approval step Scheduled for May 7th. Is that correct? That's the next City Council meeting two weeks from today. I Really think it would be prudent to advance 100% of the impact fee which again I said last time I spoke could then be adjusted adopted a different way in two weeks, correct and
 That's correct. If we advance anything less to the council meeting in two weeks, could we then go back to something higher than what the council chooses to advance today? On that legal response to that one. Thank you Russell. Sorry to bring you back up. So at the final meeting you could decide to change to something else. Higher or lower?
 Okay, so essentially it's irrelevant what's advanced today. It could be The final decision has to be made within 30 days of today's hearing so but making a motion and And a decision one way or another is going to make it a lot easier for El Paso water to bring back The ordinance on May 7th to have those numbers that anticipate you all agree to
 Okay, I'll emphasize one more time. There's no part of this that is punitive toward the development community, the home builders, anything like that. It's 100% a question of fairness. And I know we've been talking about the impact in terms of dollar amounts on the specific bill of one customer for one month.
 And it's easy to make the numbers sound small when you reduce it to one month of one customer's bill But we're if we look at the total impact Again current impact fees average about two million dollars annually correct in revenue collected That's correct an option one the 100% calculated impact fee would collect a revenue of about seventeen point six million dollars annually, that's correct
 How many connections did you say that there were in El Paso? Was it 220,000? Well, we have over 220,000 connections for El Paso water. So the difference from the current impact fee revenue to what would be collected at 100%,
 is $15.6 million. That divided by 220,000 connections is $70.91. That's the real impact per customer. So I know it sounds small when you say it's $1 in one particular month three years from now, but we're talking about essentially $71 per customer that everyone else in El Paso will be paying in order to subsidize the cost of the growth. And that, to me, is what is not acceptable is that
 El Paso water ratepayers will be asked to pay $71 essentially toward the cost of new infrastructure. So I'll leave it with that, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Canales. I'll follow your lead and also disclose that four years ago I was a recipient of a campaign contribution from Wooding Gale Hunt as well.
 So I just wanted to put into perspective for El Pasoans about what are the arguments you're hearing today? Because there's two sides to every story.
 The argument one, stormwater fees are assessed to all tax payer, rate payers. That's true. But those rate payers receive a direct benefit as a matter of public safety to ensure that we have stormwater infrastructure. Because if we don't, then the cost to rehabilitate that infrastructure would cost property tax homeowners more money. There is no benefit to the El Paso rate payer
 to pay for the development costs. There's no benefit to them. There's no public good and return to the rate payer for subsidizing that new development. Argument number two, well, it's only gonna be savings of two to three dollars a month every month for every single El Paso rate payer. How many rate payers do you have? About 220,000. 220,000, so if you did the simple math, maybe about $700,000 that we could recoup.
 If we set aside $3 that wasn't going to pay for the development, but if El Paso Water had set aside those $3 that they would save, we could defer costs to your debt, your debt payment, you could defer cost
 for your maintenance and then reinvest money back into stormwater, reinvest money back into maintenance because I know you are getting the same complaints I am. Those ponding and basin areas that need maintenance, you can wait up to three years
 for those ponding areas to be maintained by El Paso Water according to their current schedule and according to their available funds. If that's changed recently, you can correct me, but that is what I've heard year over year that it could take up to three years to get to your ponding areas. We could reinvest those monies, but there seems to be a concerted effort not to want to.
 so if the savings are not cut from the rate payer the savings the cost could stay there it could be reinvested argument number three well we should be focusing more on first-time home buyers or homeowners in this area why why is that the only determination is the only determination that homeowners should pick up the cost because it sounds like this is a cost of doing business so is it because the ratepayers should pay
 and subsidize profits? Or should the homeowner who's purchasing a home in these fringes, in these areas in the fringes, they should be subsidizing profits? That's not good business. The two options here is homeowners will suffer or the ratepayers suffer.
 WELL, WHERE'S THE THIRD OPTION? THE HOME BUILDER SHOULD ALSO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE COST OF DOING BUSINESS. I'M NOT SAYING FOR ALL OF IT. THE STATE STATUTE SAYS WE CAN ONLY RECOUP 50%. WE'RE ALREADY PAYING OUR FAIR SHARE. WE SHOULD NOT BE SUBSIDIZING THE REST. THERE IS THIS NOTION THAT THE CITY OF EL PASO IS NOT IN SUPPORT OF IMPACT FEES. NOT ONLY DO WE HAVE AN ORDINANCE, ALL OF OUR PLANNING DOCUMENTS SAYS WE NEED ADDITIONAL IMPACT FEES. OUR E-SIDE MASTER PLAN SPECIFICALLY POINTS.
 to the fact that we need additional impact fees so that we can offset the cost of infrastructure. And not to mention our infill development policy to encourage that development to happen to the areas like Representative Acevedo's district who have thousands of homes built into early 1900s, including my district. There are thousands of homes in El Paso that could be rehabilitated, put back into the market, and that is something that we should be encouraging and not additional sprawling.
 So every argument today is flawed to benefit the special interest who are sitting here in the audience today, who have made deliberate misconception, fear-mongering tactics to make us believe that we are hurting the citizenry of El Paso. And that is absolutely false and, quite frankly, disappointing. The question was asked earlier, will there be an impact to your debt models?
 What is the capacity of El Paso Water right now to issue debt? The utility doesn't have a debt ceiling for debt. We issue debt as needed to fund our CIP projects, and we don't have a debt limit. You should have the amount of revenues. You can't issue debt.
 to the extent of the revenues that you see. So you do have models, the city of El Paso has models. Can you re-clarify and reconfirm? There's a debt service coverage that the utility targets for the water and sewer is two times. For the storm water utility is about 1.75 times. So what that means is, if you're collecting $100 million in revenues, two times of that is $200 million of revenues you can issue debt.
 That's correct. That's correct, okay. So whatever your budget is, it's two times your budget. Our revenue has to be twice the debt that we're... The payment that you're going to give, your debt service payment that you're going to give annually. That's correct. Do you have a capacity to issue a billion dollars in debt right now? It would have to be through rate increases. Okay. So you would either have to increase your revenues through increasing additional debt
 or you have to phase out the amount of debt you issue every year so that it's not too big of a blow to the ratepayers, but that payment somehow gets done either by way of impact fees, rates, or you, like what is the alternative?
 If you don't have the debt capacity to issue. As far as the debt that we're paying, it's just through our revenue for water and wastewater collections that we do from services. Just for those collections. On the stormwater is the same thing. From the stormwater fee that we collect, operating revenues pay for the debt. Okay, and those debt models come to, excuse me, those debt issuance come to city council for approval?
 And so well, yes. Yes, when we shoot that when we should bonds or any other Tool for financing it comes to City Council Do you recall the last request you made to the city of El Paso and how much debt you wanted to issue? For it was on 2023. So we did a Punish you dollars how much a hundred and fifty million dollars, okay plus it was to refund commercial paper and
 So it was over 400 million. We've done, in recent years, we've done a few material issuance of debt to finance CIP projects. What I recall is over $400 million that we just issued last year for Stonewater, for your new facility, and for capital projects that you have.
 Is that accurate? I would say in 2022, that's when we issue a large amount over the $400 million. In 2023, what we did is we had a huge CIP, but what we did, we just issued the bonds that we needed for that fiscal year. So that's what we did, $150 million just for CIP projects. Right. So my point is about this is that
 When you account too much El Paso water debt to pay for new development areas, it directly impacts the amount of debt that we can issue citywide for capital needs.
 We have open sewage that's happened in the west side of El Paso as a result of not investing in our water lines. Why can't we invest in our water lines? I wonder why can't we do that? Because we are paying for the development and the outskirts of the city. That is where the primarily amount of our focus of our current investment for El Paso water is going to the fringes of the city instead of in the interior of the city where we have deterioration of our water lines.
 Open sewage and neighborhoods in the Rio Grande going down the city we can smell it is that the El Paso water that we want to promote or is the El Paso water we want to promote an equitable one that invests in all communities and not in just certain areas of the city. I have a motion on the table and I hope that I can get a second. Thank you. Thank you.
 Representative Kennedy and then I think we how many people call to the public this point I know we had a lot signed up, but I got a feeling a lot have left. We have 14 Thank you So we heard there's let's see fear-mongering flawed fairness Here's some reality unless you're gonna do price fixing on builders they're not going to pay for the impact fee and
 Unless you're gonna say here's what you're allowed to charge for this house And you have to take some of your profit to pay for the impact fee It's not going to happen the consumer is going to if you don't think that's true you have a fundamental misunderstanding Of business models, okay, that's not gonna happen Do I think we should have a plan to try and draw people into the inner city and infill I do I?
 But trying to penalize people and hoping that they'll choose to have a home to renovate rather than take what they wanted, which was a new home, and move a couple miles to the east or the north or the west into New Mexico is a bit of a fantasy. We can't penalize people into living where we want them to live. They will choose that. They will choose if they want a home to repair and renovate and turn into a wonderful place or whether they want someplace new.
 But to say we're going to jam this fee down and we're going to force the builders to pay for it, I would say there is no legal way to force that to happen. You're not allowed to go to somebody and say you have to lose $17,000 net profit on this house because they'll just go somewhere else. They'll go to part of the, what was it, Mayor, 10,000 rooftops in Horizon City.
 And when we have stagnant population growth in El Paso and growth all the way around, the first question could be taxes. There could be some other issues. I think El Paso is a great place to live, and I would choose to live inside the city, and we all do. But to say that, you know, we have to decide what we're going to do with these fees, but we're going to make the builders pay for it because nobody else. No, the home buyer is going to pay for it.
 the home buyer with a $170,000 home on the east side will suddenly see a deposit go up 10%. How many does that disqualify? Your payments will go up 10% because your home's gone up 10%. How many does that disqualify? And so we say we're trying to help the people that are affected most, yet because of the wide base that is in El Paso water, it is easier to defray it that way. And the other question is, if we don't have any new rooftops, what happens to our tax base?
 I mean, a $170,000 home is about $1,390 to $1,400 per year into our tax base. So I'm just, I mean, I'm trying to figure out why we think we can drive people into infill by penalizing
 the outer reaches the city of El Paso instead of maybe finding incentives to make it more attractive to move into the inner city and maybe we need to look at at that as a way to do it but I just I mean I keep hearing that all these things are gonna happen and how it's not fair and that there's fear-mongering but then we're gonna say to people you're you know you're paying for everything I think it's real simple we have to sit down and say we need more rooftops be doing more of a tax base
 and we need to find a way to do that. And I don't think jamming the price on top of the home buyer is the way to do it. Thank you. Representative Molinar wants to do a – he wants to disclose something. Yes, thank you, Mayor. So in fairness, thank you very much, Representative Canales. So I did receive campaign contributions from Randy Bowling, Robert Bowling, and Roy Lopez. Thank you. Thank you. For that, we'll do call to the public. Yes, Mayor. We'll begin with Mr. Richard Dayou.
 He will be followed by Jerry Kerchicka, Jose Miguel Reyes, Kenneth Bell, Kent Harrington, Samuel Schulte, Miguel Escoto, Harry Steven White. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, Laura.
 Mayor Leeser, members of council, Richard Dayou for the record, Thunderbird Management Consulting, and I am a registered lobbyist for the city, and I am here representing several clients, but importantly, I'm also speaking to you as a private citizen, property taxpayer, and an EPWU customer.
 I understand the statutory requirement to review future land use and impact fees every five years. I offer the following factors for your consideration and your deliberation for next steps. Affordable housing has always been and continues to be a challenge in our community. The issue of affordable housing is growing across the nation as housing costs have only increased along with interest rates. Interest rates currently are at 7% or higher.
 and el paso is experiencing these same issues for the record the median price of a new home in el paso now exceeds 260 000 and the cost of resales has skyrocketed as well the proposed new rates will only further exacerbate the ability for new home buyers to qualify for a loan after attending many of these community meetings that was discussed
 It has become apparent that there is a misperception that existing ratepayers are subsidizing the new development. The reality is that once new development is complete, the new ratepayers are contributing to the costs for upgrading existing old infrastructure within the city. We talked about the number of 220,000 roughly single-family water connections in the service area. If council considers any action related to the ratepayers,
 It may be more prudent to disperse that needed cost for infrastructure improvements among all rate payers. The impact to each water meter would be minimal and would provide EPWU with the funding needed to meet its obligations. And by the way, the CAD's presentation earlier I think is somewhat timely as they underscore the cost of affordable housing now.
 EPW has done an excellent job in preserving and protecting our most precious natural resource and ensuring that we have an abundant supply for the next few centuries and beyond. But there must be an improvement in the effective utilization of our financial resources. To that end, we have not had any discussions regarding our real estate holdings, which are significant.
 Most of the communities that EPW uses for comparison purposes when discussing impact fees do not have land holdings to sell in order to cover their costs. We do, but we have not managed those resources equitably or judiciously in my view in order to maximize the financial value to the utility or to use to pay the infrastructure needed.
 noteworthy that most of the regional cities used as points of comparison are cities that have experienced tremendous population and Economic growth. Thank you. The next speaker is Jerry critique a follow by Jose Miguel Reyes Kenneth Bell Kent Harrington Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes
 good afternoon sir honorable mayor and counselors thank you for this opportunity to speak to agenda item 33. my name is jerry kurtika and i'm here representing community first organization coalition community first is a nonpartisan network of organizations and leaders whose purpose is to empower the community to bring improvements in social economic ecological and political conditions in el paso
 There are about 30 members on our steering committee representing various organizations. Some of them are here today. New development on the edges of our city mandates extension of services to affected areas, among which are sewer and water infrastructure.
 For the past few months, I have been attending the El Paso Water Citizens Academy to learn how this is done. If you haven't seen it, there's a lot of concrete, pipe, buildings, people, and equipment involved. It is very costly, and developer impact fees are one way of capturing the cost of these services from the companies that benefit from the sale of properties on the city's edge.
 These infrastructure costs are not the same as urban amenities like parks, libraries, police and fire stations that are funded out of the taxes levied on the value of property improvements. Rather, water and sewer are like streets. They have to be there first in order for construction to commence.
 For this reason, they are the legitimate expense of the developer. Otherwise, these costs are levied onto all ratepayers as a subsidy to the developer, a kind of reverse Robin Hood model where the many pay for the benefit of the few. In your agenda packet on page 777, and I know you've read all 1,200 pages of the packet,
 The proposed impact fees calculated by El Paso Water in accordance with recognized land use assumptions for new service units and capital improvements in the affected areas are there. In a worst case scenario,
 the combined $18,000 roughly impact fee proposed for the East sector, if passed entirely on to the home buyer, would increase the median price of a home there from current medium of about $255,000 per the Association of Realtors to $273,000. About a 7% increase. That's not enormous. That's something, but it's not enormous.
 This is a result of coming up against the limits of expansion in what is essentially a desert ecology. The impact in the west sector would be about 2%, and in northeast, about 3%, using that same logic. This is not going to make housing unaffordable in El Paso.
 I urge you to adopt the fee schedule, to second the motion forwarded by Representative Hernandez, and assess these fees because they're not unreasonable and they're going to save the rest of us a lot of money. El Paso Water is doing a good job for us. Support them in this, counselors. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Jose Miguel Reyes. Jose Miguel Reyes, if you're in the queue, star 6 to unmute your telephone.
 I don't see his phone number in the queue. Kenneth Bell. He will be followed by Samuel Schulte, Miguel Escoto, Harry Stephen White, April Martinez. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 Hey, my name is Kenneth Ball. I am here to speak in favor of the proposal to have the water impact fees reflect 100% of the calculated cost to the city. Impact fees are used to pay the debt of the buildings of the water hookups. And these costs should be paid by the developers who own and build the properties. We, the people, should not be subsidizing developments that we do not own or have a stake in.
 So if we don't get the profits when they sell the houses or the buildings, we should not get the bill. A policy of privatized gains and socialized losses is unreasonable, unfair, and unsustainable. So again, I support option one of the Public Service Board report. While it's not perfect, it is a start. We should ensure that the investors in these developments finance their own investments, and that is the cost of doing business. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next speaker is Samuel Schulte. He will be followed by Miguel Escoto. Good afternoon. You have three minutes My name is Sam Schulte I'm a small business owner a new father and I'm here to talk today because I'm in favor of the waste and water impact fees reflecting a hundred percent of the cost
 Now, I'm like a facts and figures, Chicago School of Economics kind of guy. And I think having market prices that really reflect the cost of development of the choices that I want to make as a future homeowner is important to me.
 I want to make sure that the home that I buy for my family is one that's going to be in an area that's going to be economically prosperous. I want to make sure that it's in a place where the city has made good long-term decisions about what to buy. I'm the person that you're saying wants to buy a house, and I don't want to buy a house that's underpriced because it's way on the edge of town and services are going to be harder to get later.
 I think that there's a clear choice in this proposal, in the idea that we should advance this. I think the basic economics that look at our city and look at how we're going to grow over time show me that if I was an investor in this company, the company being the city, which I want to do, which I want to do by starting my family here, by expanding my business here, then I want a board of directors that's thinking not two years and eight years, but 20 years in the future.
 that is going to be able to make economic decisions that benefit me over the course of my lifetime and the lifetime of my children, not in two years. I may want to buy a house in two years, but I want that house to be in a city that's economically prosperous over the next 30.
 With that in mind, I think the impact fees allow the true cost of this building to be shown. I believe in markets, and I believe in their ability to show us as taxpayers and us as city members and us as business owners what those things mean. I want to buy a house that's in infill development. And when these kinds of subsidies exist, they are removing my choice.
 In a realistic economic sense, the realistic part of the economics is that my choices are reduced by the subsidy, not increased by it. If the subsidy wasn't there, the costs of infill development would be more properly accounted for. And you're distorting that price by not having that be the place. And over time, the effect of that on the plans the city can have, the effect that that has on me as a homeowner,
 is that it'll be more expensive. So I urge the council to support the motion to make the 100% of those fees there. I would be prepared to argue with anybody about the basic economics of it and be fully ready for the facts and figures. But that's what I've got for you today. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Miguel Escoto, followed by Harry Stephen White, April Martinez, Don Drizzle. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Welcome back.
 Good to be back. But wish there were better circumstances. Yeah Miguel Escoto resident of District 2 with the organization Amanecer People's Project. We are over 120 members strong and our membership is very concerned about El Paso's air pollution problem. This is a life and death situation. We are the 13th most polluted city in the country.
 and when it comes to ozone. And ozone creates respiratory illnesses like asthma. Being a lifelong El Pasoan, I have asthma. I need to use my inhaler at least twice a day. And a big reason why we have this pollution, it's not just an accident,
 It is because of the decisions that happen in this building, a lot of them being urban sprawl. The amount of cars that are needed in the way the city is designed. So for that reason, I am in favor of option one. The cost of the development should reflect the calculated cost by the city.
 Think it's a bad idea to subsidize land development corporations that are contributing to this urban sprawl problem and the Urban sprawl, like I said doesn't happen by accident. It happens by the decisions that are made in this room one of them is this this issue of of impact fees so if land developers want to continue their urban sprawl and
 then they must pay the cost of doing that, that they must pay the cost of business. It's not fair for the average ratepayer to do that for them. Because these companies, they do have every right to do urban sprawl. They do have every right, but they don't have a guaranteed right to make a profit. If they want to do a business model, then they have to pay for what it costs to do that business model.
 And so that's why we're in favor of option one again, that the costs should reflect 100% of the calculated costs by the city. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Harry Steven White, followed by April Martinez, Don Drizzle, Jesus Reyes, Ana Fuentes, Ray Adauto,
 Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Nice to see you guys again. My name is Harry White. I'm a dad, artist, and organizer with Amanacer People's Project. I 100% agree in favor of option one. I think that these companies should have to pay. I want to answer directly to what Mr. Kennedy said when he said they're not going to pay it.
 To me, that sounds like saying they shouldn't have to make sure that buildings are built up to code. They should get the freedom to do however they want. Well, that's not the case. We want them to build buildings up to code. We don't want families to be crushed by bad buildings. We want them to pay their fair share.
 I'm from, I currently live in District 2, but I grew up in District 4. So I love the far northeast. I am very accustomed to that area. And my son's grandparents live in a trailer park in the far part of the northeast, right adjacent to where these new developments are. And the difference is sprawling. You have two-story, three to five bedroom houses in the new development next to trailer homes where people keep horses or live in impoverished conditions.
 Having those poor communities pay for these new developments that are popping up right next to them is unfair. I think the developers who are making massive amounts of money off these developments should have to pay for it in the same way that we expect them to make these developments
 up to code, all of this should be fair so that the residents don't have to bear this burden. One thing that you guys had mentioned before is that it wouldn't go, it wouldn't be an increase, but then the word debt kept on being tossed around, almost as if this was a magical amount that who knows what it amounts to. The thing is when we don't make the developers pay, it becomes debt that then the rest of us citizens have to pay.
 I think people do want to live in the city. People want to live close to supermarkets, shopping, access to fun activities. We should invest in the city that we love so much, invest in District 2, make it better, so that people want to stay in the city and not move out to the urban sprawl. Again, I am in favor for Option 1. Thank you so very much. Thank you. The next speaker is April Martinez, followed by Don Dristle, Jesus Reyes. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. You have three minutes. SPEAKER 2 Good afternoon. SPEAKER 3 Hello. Honorable counsel here we are again. So I am for parks right. And I love nature and everything and I love El Paso. I was born and raised here. I'm part of District 7 and voila.
 Monty share right so I do support parks, but I'm also in favor of being politically active Right because we need our youth to step up. We need people that look like me that look like us They're with you helping you giving you these ideas of what we're going through, right? So I am in favor of option one because we do need to make these people these developers responsible for
 for what they want to build, right? If I want to build something, I'm going to be responsible for going to Home Depot, buying those nails, buying that hammer, and placing it there, right? I'm going to be responsible for paying the taxes that come with it. So if I were to tell my neighbor, "'Hey, you're going to give me $5 "'because that's how it works,' right? "'To help me build these things,' "'I don't think they would be happy with that,' right?
 And like I told you, I'm like your typical Chicana. I live with my grandma, born and raised. Hey, I live in one of those houses that has to be renovated like in District 3 and District 2. I'm hoping our pipes do get renovated because I don't have money. I'm not married in the military to go and buy these houses that are being bought by the military in District 1, District 6, et cetera, right? So instead of...
 giving these people a free handout, where's my handout? What did you do for me? But take my money and make my grandma, who's barely making it on Social Security, pay for these things, right? A single mother having to look for two jobs just to make ends meet, just to pay for these people
 who are making millions off of me, the Fosters. Wow, only if I wish I could be married into the Foster family, right? Then I wouldn't have to worry about these issues. But unfortunately, that's not the case. That's why we entrust you all, our city council, to hear us out, to hear the community, and to make good decisions
 for the long run for the future you might not be here in 10 years right i might not be here the future is never promised but what i do know is that we can leave a positive impact bless you we can leave a positive impact on our community we can change the narrative from wiping out and redoing to using what we have and appreciating el paso for who it is and what it is
 Instead of letting people come in and take all our resources. Thank you so much. I'm in favor of option one make them pay for it Thank you. Yes. Thank you. The next speaker is Don drizzle followed by Jesus Reyes on a Fuentes and Ray Adalto Good afternoon. You have three minutes Thank you for your time today, my name is Don Driscoll I live on Elm Street in district 2 and
 I'm a member of Amanacer, I've been a union organizer for 35 years, perhaps more importantly in informing my perspective today, I'm the incoming elected precinct chair in precinct 70 in central El Paso. In that and in previous electoral work in the last year, I've knocked on about 1400 doors, talked to a lot of people. There's a perception, most of all actually with people older than me.
 that choices for the city are often made without considering the interests of ordinary working people. Because I know that's not your intent, but that's how people see it. And today we're talking about something that's like the death of a thousand cuts. I don't care if it's a dollar, two dollars, or the three dollars that was reported in the news a few weeks ago, the perception is somehow I don't really matter. It's emblematic of a problem.
 Now, I don't know who ends. What I do know is if you choose not to raise the rates or to cut them, you are actually interfering in the market. Don't have any illusions about that. You are creating an artificially low price for a house on the east side that will strain the resources of the city, resources that we can't seem to find to fix the streets and roads that drive people nuts. We're just pushing out and increasing our tax burden in the long run.
 It shouldn't be that the city or the ratepayers subsidize that. We're already going to do it. We're going to send more cops out there. We're going to send firefighters. We're going to build fire stations. We're going to provide other services. If we're concerned about growing the tax base, residentially growing it is not the best way. Perhaps we should reconsider what we're actually getting for the very substantial subsidies we passed even here today.
 to out of town corporations for short-term, not for long-term full-time jobs, not for $40 an hour jobs, but to sell popcorn and beer at concerts. Now, I don't necessarily think that was a bad thing, but not actually,
 projecting the actual cost of how we're growing our city, not balancing the cost of a house in a newly developed area with the many houses that are vacant in our neighborhoods that could be filled out. That doesn't make good sense. It is also fundamentally inequitable to the abuela living in Highland Park, who's going to pay more money on her water bill and only to string things along and to not think. We are going to be under serious ecological assault.
 That is why we have these large numbers we're talking about with the water department. Adding sprawl or subsidizing sprawl, people can still choose it. They should choose the fill cost. If I choose to commute 50 miles, I pay for the gas. The rest of us shouldn't subsidize my choice in a situation where I clearly have one. Thank you, sir. Thank you. The next speaker is Jesus Reyes. Jesus Reyes. Ana Fuentes. Ms. Fuentes, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Ana Fuentes, good afternoon. You have three minutes. Hello? Hello?
 Yes, ma'am. You have three minutes. Great. Thank you. Good afternoon, Council. My name is Ana Fuentes. I'm a constituent of District 8 and a community organizer with the Minnesota People's Project. And I'm speaking here today in support of Item 33 and ASTA, a support option 1 to adopt 100% of the fee proposed by the city. AFA fans, O'Pasolans such as myself, are paying for 88% of the cost of building out services and these new housing developments.
 we can continue to subsidize home builders and developers. Developers have created this reality where it is more affordable to move into the outskirts of the city, but it is only more affordable because the rest of El Paso, El Pasoans such as myself, are subsidizing that cost.
 developers also create the conditions that discourage first-time home buyers again first-time home buyers such as myself from buying homes within the city in areas where we actually want to live in areas where we don't have to drive 30 close minutes to see our friends and family members areas where we can walk down the street
 areas like central El Paso. Then they tell us what we want. They tell us that we want large new homes in the outskirts of the city. What the developers are arguing for is essentially a self-fulfilling prophecy.
 They create the problem and then they sell us a solution. This not only affects our water bills, but it incentivizes the emptying of our city. In my organizing in Central El Paso, I've talked to hundreds of people who are concerned about enrollment and school closures, which is a symptom of incentivizing sprawl.
 We should not give in to the developers' threats, threats that we know are empty. Again, I ask that the council prioritize the fiscal and general well-being of their constituents over the needs of the developers and adopt 100% of the fee proposed by the city. Thank you. Thank you, and the next speaker is Ray Adalto. Good afternoon, sir, you have three minutes. Thank you, Mayor and Council. Ray Adalto, El Paso Association of Builders.
 I imagine that 50 years ago when Coronado was being built, we had the same issues come forward from the folks that live in Kern, certainly from the folks that lived in Central El Paso. And by the way, I'm a District 2 resident as well, as having a property on the east side. Development happens whether you want it or not. Development happens. And to hear the...
 to hear the opposition to fairness in a business plan. We have to remember that the El Paso Water Utility is also a business. Back in 1950, the utility was smart enough to go out and buy land in order to sell, to give the El Paso residents good water, good sewage, and protection from stormwater.
 properties are still available. We haven't seen that being sold. It's not even being mentioned in this meeting as an option. Instead, we're blaming the terrible developers who've created what we call El Paso. I have a question for you guys as well, and that is if there were no more developments within the impact fee services area, would capital improvements still be required? And if so, how would you pay for them? If you claim that there's no money
 that the money would not be spent, then will you let developers out of their agreements that you have? Those are questions you need to ask. Are you gonna have a tax base here or not? One of the two. We continue to see expansion into the outer areas because it's more affordable to build. Land prices, services, still gonna use them. Now I'll be back here probably in the next few years arguing the same points again.
 I'm just surprised that we're really looking at two issues. One, is it fair? Is it fear? One of the two. And I leave you with a choice that you need to make as a business, the city's business. Make it the right choice. Mayor, those are all the speakers that signed up. We did receive two statements in favor of the item, which I have shared with council just now. I'm sorry, I didn't. So we got...
 We got two motions, so if one doesn't pass, we'll do the other one. Yes, sir, and the first motion was made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linar, and Representative Fierro, I'll ask you to please restate your motion. My motion was to bring all the impact fees to $1,000 across the board. Thank you, this is to set the impact fees across the board at $1,000, correct? Yes, sir. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion fails with representatives Acevedo, Hernandez, Rivera, Canales voting nay, representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Fierro voting aye. The motion fails. The next motion was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Canales, and this is to take option one to set them at 100% calculated impact fees. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes 4-3. Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Fierro,
 Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay. Voters nay.
 The final hearing, because we require two readings of the ordinance, will be on May 7th. Will there be additional voting at that time? Yes. Okay, so it'll be re-voted on again? Correct. So this was more of an exercise? Correct. Thank you. It was a public hearing. It was a public hearing, Mayor. That's what I'm saying, because we vote on it again. That's what I thought you had said, that's why I asked. So this is the public hearing on the amendments. You all voted on those.
 Due to the way our charter is structured and that ordinances require two readings, you have the first reading today and then a second reading. So it requires an approval now and then an approval also at the second reading. Right. And then ordinances, at the second reading and public hearing, they can be amended also. That's what I thought you had said earlier. Thank you.
 Thank you for that. Can I ask one more clarifying question just about the process here, Mayor? You already talked to us, sir, and I think it's going to be brought again. Okay, thank you. Thank you. And, Council, can I have a motion to close the public hearing? Motion. There's a motion and a second to close the public hearing. All in favor? Anyone opposed? I'll take a verbal roll call. To close the public hearing, Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy. Mayor Brasavedo.
 Hernandez yes Molina Fierro Rivera canales and that motion carries the public hearing is now closed at 321 p.m. thank you everyone for being here thank you for taking your time we appreciate that thank you again mayor that brings us to items 41 and 42 they're related what council like to consider them together
 Yes, yes, yes. Thank you, sir. Item 41 is a public hearing on an ordinance of the City Council approving amendment number 23 to the project and financing plan for tax increment reinvestment zone number 5, amending the plan to update the projected tax increment reinvestment zone revenue and establishing project cost categories. And item 42 is a public hearing of an ordinance amending ordinance number 016528 to modify requirements for membership on the board of directors of the tax reinvestment zone number
 Number five and we do have public comment on this item from Patricia Osman miss Osman star six Please to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes Good afternoon council. I just have a couple of questions in regards to this It's not very clear as to what the changes are going to be for the bond for the board of directors members and neither
 very clear as to how the tax increment zone is going to change. But I am curious and I would like to find out, is this going to affect any future arena plans? I know that there have been talks about building at the Civic Center, which is in Reinvestment Zone 5.
 So I would like to find out whether these changes on both the board of directors on both 41 and 42 or sorry yes 41 and 42 are going to affect any future arena agenda plans. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you ma'am. Would you all like to see a presentation? All right motion and second.
 There is a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve items 41 and 42. These are the ordinances for the tiers five. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to item number 44, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from A2 apartment to SD special development, and approving a detailed site development plan to allow for a business office at 2607 Montana Avenue. Move to approve motion and a second. There is a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Fierro, to approve item 44, there's no public comment. On that motion, call for the vote.
 In the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Item number 45 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from RF Ranch and Farm to C1 Commercial and imposing conditions. This is at 319 and 323 North Zaragoza Road. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 45. There is no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote.
 in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously.
 item 46 is a public hearing on an ordinance restating a special privileged license granted to the county of el paso that authorized the construction installation future maintenance use and repair 540 linear feet of all necessary desirable subsurface wires cables underground conduit manholes or other related infrastructure and this is generally along a portion of ochoa street first avenue and south florence street move to approve thank you
 There is a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 46. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Item number 47,
 Item 47 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title II, Chapter 2.92 Ethics to include a requirement for candidates to provide notice of contributions of $500 or more for notation on the City Council agenda in the same manner as members of City Council. And we do have public comment on this item, Mayor. We have Ms. Osman. Ms. Osman, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, you have three minutes.
 Council, the reason I am going to speak in regards to this matter is I know not all of you have the time to watch all of the bond meetings that occur. But the one that particularly occurred in regards to this agenda item, I want to make sure that y'all are aware.
 of comments of some of the directors because it's not always stated what the directors had stated within the media. It's just usually it was overall agreement or not. But two of the directors had very valid points in regards to not wanting this to move forward, which are
 But the reason why City Council actually has this requirement and candidates do not is because City Council actually sits on the council which makes policy. Candidates do not. It makes great sense that candidates would not be.
 Forced to meet the same requirement as city council members who are actually voting on policy versus some everyday Joe who decided to pay a fee to try to run for office. So holding them to the same standards as the people who are voting in policy and making the choices is vastly different. And I do want to say that.
 I agree with the two board of directors members who made these same comments. This is what came out of the board of directors, and I agree when I watched that meeting that candidates should not be held to the same standard as every one of you sitting on that dais. If you are already in city government...
 That is a whole different standard. We should as citizens expect you to be held to a higher standard than somebody that does not have any power to make any policy. That's it. Thank you. I hope you all have a great evening. Thank you, Mayor. That concludes public comment on this item. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 47. On that motion, call for the vote.
 Voting session is open. In the voting session, and that motion passes 5-1. Representative Hernandez abstaining, and Mayor Pro Temo Linares voting nay. The motion does carry. That brings us to item 48, and this is discussion and action on a resolution that the city manager or designee be authorized to sign the peer-to-peer car sharing company operating agreement between the City of El Paso and Turo, Inc. Second. Second.
 There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Canales to approve item 48. One second please, Representative Hernandez. Thank you. I want to, if this passes today, I want to welcome Turrell to working with the City of
 But I do have a concern with some of the terms in the agreement. Specifically, I don't think it is appropriate that they utilize short-term parking because of the limited accessibility and access to short-term parking. We could essentially create a...
 you know, just we can potentially lose parking spaces for this operation. There's no limits. There's no potential enforcements.
 I think the goal is to get there. However, I don't feel comfortable because we've just limited veterans from utilizing short-term parking, and then now we're going to allow a private company utilize parking spaces and short-term parking when the priority should be our public. I think it's a wonderful option for veterans.
 our residents and tourists to use I just fundamentally have a problem with short-term parking and so I don't know how the rest of Council feels I just don't want there to be a problem in the future where we cannot have space for the public
 Now, I was open to considering ideas like restricting those funds that we get as a result of this agreement so that potentially we can have more short-term parking or if we can find some other benefit to the public. But I don't see an exchange to the public for using public land for commerce.
 So that's just my only concern. I won't support it because it hasn't changed But I just wanted a record to reflect why thank you ma'am without miss pine. We have a motion in a second Yes, sir The motion was made by representative Fierro seconded by representative canales to approve item 48 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes 5 to 1 representative at another's voting nay and the
 Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy not present. The remainder of council voting aye. The motion does carry. That brings us to item 49. This is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the submission of an application to the office of Congressman Tony Gonzalez requesting funds from the community project funding program in an amount of $8.8 million with no match required from the city for the fire station 12 reconstruction project.
 And I believe staff wanted to take 50 and 51 together also. Is that correct, Mr. Martinez? Yes, all three. Item 50 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the submission of applications to the office of Congresswoman Veronica Escobar requesting funds from the Community Project Funding Program
 IN THE AMOUNT OF $14 MILLION TO BE DISTRIBUTED AMONG ISLETTA PORT OF ENTRY DEVELOPMENTAL STUDY PROJECT, INNOVATION FACTORY PHASE 2 PROJECT, AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY TRAINING CENTER DESIGN PROJECT, ADVANCED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT PROJECT, UNION PLAZA RENOVATION PROJECT. AND NUMBER 51 IS DISCUSSION AND ACTION ON A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE SUBMISSION OF AN APPLICATION TO THE OFFICE OF CONGRESSWOMAN VERONICA ESCOBAR REQUESTING FUNDS FROM THE COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING PROGRAM.
 $1,744,000 with a 20% match of 436,000 from the city for the Sun Metro electric vehicle charging station network project second There is a motion made by Representative Piero second it by I'm sorry motion made by representative Rivera seconded by alternate mayor protein Molina
 And this is to approve items 49, 50, and 51. On that motion, call for the vote. And the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 52, and this is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to effectuate the budget transfer for El Paso Zoo and Botanical Garden as necessary in support of the 2012 quality of life project. Second. Motion and a second.
 There is a motion made by Representative Piero, seconded by Alternate Mayor Portemolinar to approve item 52. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. End the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item 53, and this is discussion in action on the Frontera Road Traffic Study and Recommended Treatment. We do have public comment.
 Yes Mayor, we do have public comment from Susan Martinez followed by Danny Pivarni.
 Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am. Good afternoon, mayor and city council. It's good to see you all again. Thank you very much for your support for this critical endeavor of ours. And thank you to Mr. Rodriguez for doing the traffic study and keeping us all in line so that we understood the process and what we needed to do to make this success. There were three critical issues in our plan, and that was safety, safety, safety.
 safety for the infrastructure, safety for pedestrians, and safety for vehicular traffic. So thank you very much. I appreciate all of your help. Thank you very much. The next speaker is Danny Pivarnick, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Go ahead, Mr. Pivarnick. You have three minutes. Okay. Thank you for allowing me to speak with you regarding the Frontier Road Study. My name is Danny Pivarnick. I'm a native of El Paso, and I'm proud to call this city my home.
 Fonterra Road is a collector roadway consisting of two travel lanes, one in each direction that flows from east to west. The road is paved, but does not develop beyond that. It has no curbs or gutters or sidewalks. The traffic study completed in December 2023 states that Fonterra is operating at an acceptable level, but future development may cause it to fail. What the traffic study doesn't fully address is the health and safety of the residents who use this road.
 Many people walk and jog along the side of this roadway with no sidewalks or curbs. They are endangered by motor traffic. There are also two Montessori schools on Frontera. Daily congestion from these schools create many most create cause many motorists to speed through the school zones, endangering the children when they are dropped off and picked up daily. The roadway hasn't been repaved since 1982. It is pockmarked by 40 years of pothole repairs. The surface is far from smooth.
 Recently, a large sinkhole opened, causing traffic to be diverted off on Terra through residential areas along River Bend and Little Lane. Repairs on this sinkhole have been going on for over a month and still have not been completed. The proposed 250 home development in Sunland Park would potentially add another 1,000 vehicles to this daily congestion.
 The traffic study offers a solution, diverting traffic off Frontera to other roads lessens the additional wear and tear of Frontera and enhances the safety and residence of the neighborhood along it. This project initially presented November 2022, table to review costs and viability is now ready to be passed. The measures proposed by this traffic study
 Ensures the safety of the residents of the upper valley while also lessening future maintenance of the road as it would not be subject to additional heavy traffic I Strongly urge you to pass this resolution. Thank you mayor and City Council for your consideration on this matter mayor That concludes public comment on this item. Thank you Thank you very much mayor and also once again in full disclosure I did receive a campaign contribution from the Susan Martinez. Thank you
 Thank you. And Representative Landis. Joaquin, the language on the agenda item doesn't specify. So what is the actual action that's being proposed? On the last slide of the presentation, the action we're looking for today is to direct staff to identify a funding source for the improvements to Frontera Road.
 Okay, so you all haven't determined where the funds are going to come to? No, no. We know how much we're going to need, which is also on that last slide. I believe it's $325,000. It says to direct staff to identify a funding source for design and construction of recommended improvements up to $325,000. Correct. And then that's for all the options? That's for the three gates and the diagonal diverter. Okay. Is there currently a capital fund?
 No. Is this going into the recommended action to the next fiscal year to the next budget year. I'll defer to Robert on that I think we would come back with a recommendation for how to fund this at a future meeting. Correct and so we can incorporate this as part of the budget process or we can look at this when we bring back our second quarter financial report at the end of May. If there's a potential surplus there that we're projecting that may be a potential option for council to take action on.
 think in the back up all key provided a couple of different options as soon as we start obviously the less expensive it's going to be and I know that the public in the community been waiting for this project to get started so by the end of May we should bring back a recommendation no I think this is a much necessary request and for safety improvements I just want to make sure in the spirit of equity that we have a conversation about the much-needed capital improvements that we all need in our districts and so
 all the time during budget seasons I'm asking for, set aside a pot of money so that we can now determine a 2024 capital plan on how we're going to invest within different districts. And so to have these kind of piecemeal approaches to funding individual needs in a district,
 Just I just don't believe that that Methodology is best served for equity with an equity lens across the city So I am happy to support this today But we absolutely need to have a conversation about bringing back those capital needs in different districts So that we all can have funding for our districts so that just not one district will benefit But all districts citywide can benefit. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. No long. It's just been a a
 Mr. Rodriguez, I apologize. How long has this been a conversation? So the development in Sunland Park, I think, has been a conversation amongst the residents for over three years. Over three years? Specifically as a task for us as staff. It's been about a year and a half. It was prior to Mr. Schwartzbein. I know that when he was here, it started back then. So it's been a long time. Correct. And I think we'll thank you for that.
 And with that we have a motion and a second. Yes sir, there was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Rivera, and this is to direct staff to identify a funding source for design and construction of recommended improvements up to $325,000. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Council, we've reached the end of the agenda. No second, so we'll keep going.
 Is there a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting all in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Aye. And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, April 23, 2024 is adjourned at 345 p.m. Thank you, council. Thank you, council.