2021 is 3 30 p.m. due to the pandemic the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings mayor Lisa is present and presiding and we begin this meeting with roll call mayor pro Temp short line present representative an LL present Hernandez Molina present Salcido present Rodriguez yeah Rivera
 Yeah. Liz Arriga. Present. Thank you. We do have a quorum. Council, please remember to keep your cameras on at all times so we can ensure a quorum is maintained. And notify me if you need technical assistance. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor and wait to be recognized prior to unmuting your microphone. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise. Thank you, Ms. Prine. And I want to welcome everyone.
 And I'd like to start this meeting like we always do, with a moment of silence and remembering everyone in our city, our country, and our state that has lost their lives in the last year. Right? Is that correct? Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Thank you. That brings us to the Mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Southwestern Mill Distributors 100th Anniversary Recognition Day. Representative Lizarra? Yes, thank you Mayor Lizarra. It's my privilege to read this to everyone. A proclamation honoring Southwestern Mill Distributors for 100 years of service to the El Paso community.
 Whereas Southwestern Mill Distributors was founded in El Paso by Benjamin Bernard Sterling in 1920 and was primarily established as a paper company supplying customers in the El Paso area with paper products and packaging material.
 And whereas in the 1950s, Southwestern Mill entered into the market of selling fine paper and business forms and was a leading distributor of credit card forms to Chevron gas stations nationwide.
 And whereas, beginning in the 1970s, Southwestern Mill took on a changing economy to incorporate a line of corrugated products. Whereas, when the cowboy boot craze began in the 1980s and manufacturing was on the rise in El Paso,
 Southwestern Mill supplied some of the biggest manufacturers in the area, such as Tony Llama and Farah Manufacturing.
 And whereas Southwestern Mills' current vision is to actively support and service the El Paso and Southern New Mexico regions for another 100 years as a leading wholesale distributor, offering janitorial and sanitation supplies, restaurant disposables, kitchenware, washing products,
 laundry products and packaging supplies. And whereas throughout more than a century of experience, Southwestern Mill Distributors has been able to adapt as a company to support the ever-changing needs of our customers and of the El Paso community.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that Southwestern Mills distributors be recognized for 100 years of service to the El Paso community. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Sadegai. I can tell you that I hope that we're all here for the next 100 years, and I hear you read the proclamation 100 years from now. So thank you for that.
 Ms. Prine? Yes, sir. The next proclamation is Parkinson's Awareness Month. Representative Molinar?
 Thank you, Mayor. It is my honor and privilege to read this proclamation to the citizens for the City of El Paso. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas, according to the Parkinson's Foundation, approximately 52,500 Texans have Parkinson's disease who are 45 or older, and each year that number increases. There are an estimated 2,300 people living with this disease in El Paso.
 It is second only to Alzheimer's as the most common neurodegenerative.
 April is the one month of the year where advocates increase their work to raise awareness about the disease and provide more education to the community. And, whereas common awareness will serve as a necessary aspect in facilitating the recognition of Parkinson's disease signs, symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment options, as well as honor the victims and their families for valiantly fighting this disease,
 And whereas all El Pasoans are encouraged to learn about the signs, symptoms, and treatment options for Parkinson's disease, and now, therefore, it be proclaimed by Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that the month of April shall be known as Parkinson's Awareness Month. Signed, the Honorable Oscar Leisher, Mayor of the City of El Paso. Thank you, Representative Molinar.
 You have the baton, Ms. Pryor? Yes, that brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called off for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Mayor Pro Tem Shortsbine, do you have a motion? Yes, motion approved with the following revisions. Page 16, item 21, delete for purchasing and strategic sourcing. That is page 6, item 21. Yes. Thank you. Page 14, item 44, move to the forefront of the regular agenda for Representative Rivera.
 And that is all the revisions I have unless anybody else from council has any other revisions at this time. Second. Oh, there we go. There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthby. Yes. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arara? Aye.
 aye and the motion passes unanimously we now move to page 14 to item number 44 that was moved to the forefront this is discussion in action on a resolution to approve an amendment to the city's 2020 2021 46th year annual action plan for the community development block grant entitlement to delete the cdbg playa drain trail improvement from whittier drive to prado road and add
 a JP Schaber Park three wall handball court project. Do we have a presentation on this project? Yes, I believe the IT is bringing it up. Yes, there is a presentation. Mark Webber, Community and Human Development. Sarah Ortiz with our department will be providing the presentation. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Rubin. Hi, y'all. My name is Sarah Ortiz. I'm with the Department of Community and Human Development.
 And so I'm here to present to you all today, right? Our recommendation to amend our 46 year annual action plan in order to reprogram funds that were originally allocated to quiet drain trail improvements from Whittier Drive to Prada Road to a new project at JP Schauber Park, which will include the installation of a three wall handball courts. We can move on to the next slide.
 Perfect. And so just to provide you all a recap, right? So we did get city council approval for the fire drain trail project under our 46 year CDBG public facilities, small scale set aside, which set aside funding for district seven projects.
 following council approval, right? Well, first of all, let me give you just a brief description of the Playa Drain project. That consisted of installing amenities on a newly constructed portion of the Playa Drain. So just to clarify, right? Our project consisted of the installation of amenities while a different funding source was taking care of the construction of the actual Playa Drain Trail from Whittier to Prado Road.
 following council approval, right? We in coordination with CID began working on implementing this project, right? The CDBG project.
 It was then at this time that we came to find out that this portion of the playa, it intersects with TxDOT right away, which means that the design of this project would require TxDOT approval, which can sometimes be a very lengthy process, which would mean that this would significantly delay the CDBG project.
 which translates to the delay of CDBG spending, which unfortunately is not feasible as we are required by our funding entity, which has had to spend our CDBG funding in a timely manner. So following this development, we met with Representative Rivera to discuss alternative projects.
 And after some prep and research on our end and a follow-up briefing, the determination and the course of action was to propose the J.P. Schauber Park, right, which would include the installation of a three-wall handball court at J.P. Schauber Park.
 So if you see here on the right hand side, it gives you a brief description of this project that we're proposing. So this park is located in District 7 off of 8100 Independence Drive. The CDBG budget is $295,800.
 And again, scope of work is a handball court. A couple of things I want to make note of, right, is that this project or this amendment, it will have no impact on any or other ongoing CDBG public facilities projects. Everything else will remain as is. And the second note is that this has no impact on the construction of the portion of the playa that's on Whittier to Prado Road.
 That project is still ongoing. It's not stopping for this. The CDBG project consisted of only amenities. And so that's the only thing that we're going to have to look for another funding source. So that concludes the presentation. Thank you all for your time. And I will open it up for any questions or comments that Mayor or Council may have. Yes, we do have a question from Representative Nelo.
 Thank you, Mayor. Hi, Sarah. How are you? It's good to see you. Hello. I have a quick question. Did this project ever seen by the steering committee previous to the first round of approval of the Playa Drain project? Was J.P. Schauber Park seen by the steering committee? No, because this is an amendment. So they had seen the original annual action plan. This amendment we just coordinated with Representative Rivera since it was targeted funds for District 7.
 Okay, and so, stop me if I'm wrong, please, but normally through the CDBG process, a number of projects are applied for, correct? And then you just pick as many as you can fund in one large-scale project. Is that correct? Oh, right. So several applications are submitted for CDBG funding, and then obviously...
 I wouldn't say it's like we just try to pick as many projects as possible. We have an evaluation process where we decide which ones we want to score and which ones score highest so that we can try to fund as many as possible. For this project,
 We did not go through the full process because it's an amendment. So it was kind of an expedited process so that we can get these funds out to the community. I guess I'm just trying to wonder why none of the projects that had been applied for through the previous process were considered.
 I know a lot of times constituents and community members apply for projects, and so I'm just wondering why none of those projects were considered or if this was one of those projects previously considered. That's just what I'm trying to clarify. Right, and that's a good point. I would have to check to see if this project was applied by, applied under for the 46-year District 7 funding. That I do not know. Okay. So, I'm going to ask you to go ahead and answer that question.
 I think I can jump in here and Representative Nicole Farini, Chief Resilience Officer for the record. Typically what happens is if we're looking at the large-scale projects that are citywide, we'll go back into that project queue and take a look at what the next in line was. But when it's targeted funds, we typically, for an amendment, we'll just work directly with the representative, try to understand the needs of the community, and then follow up with that request to the council. And that's our public commission.
 comments during that time. And I know a lot of time has passed since those applications were originally applied for and things changed and community needs changed. I just am concerned that there is a process in place. Community members did go through the time to fill out applications, go to the steering committee. And so I was just curious on why none of those projects were considered. And I don't know, Representative Rivera, again, this is your district. I'm going to follow your lead on this.
 but just why this project was important to you maybe over any of the other projects that had been applied for. Were you asking me? Senator Rivera? Sorry. Sorry. You have a question for Ms. Ortiz? Well, if you don't mind, Ms. Anola, yes, that project was, like I said, in District 7, and so before the funding was lost, they came to my district, I asked the same thing, and I was told about the amendment. That's the reason for this.
 But, Ms. Ortiz, thank you, Mayor, but Ms. Ferrini answered the question that I was going to ask about the amendment. Thank you, sir. Okay, thank you. Ms. Prine, is there any public comment? Yes, sir, we do have four individuals that signed up to speak on this item. Can we take that at this time, please? Yes, sir, the first person is Mr. Charlie Garza. Garcia, Mr. Charlie Garcia. Yes, I'm right here, yes, ma'am. Good afternoon, sir, you have three minutes.
 Yes, thank you very much Honorable Mayor and City Council. I appreciate the time that you're giving us to hear our voice as community residents. Handball has been in El Paso for a long, long time. It's an international sport. It's a worldwide sport. El Paso has produced numerous national champions.
 that played at the downtown Y4 wall, but this one is a three wall that would involve many youth. There's a local high school, Bel Air High School, that would benefit. The kids would be able to come and play after school. It's close to them. The community would definitely benefit. It's a sport that develops self-esteem, determination, and goodwill. The community
 the three-wall players here in El Paso have lost. We had eight courts at UTEP, maybe four or five years ago, maybe longer than that, and they were knocked down to do dorms, which at that point made sense. El Paso Community College had four courts as well, and they knocked them down. So instead of adding more courts, three-wall courts, to serve the community of handball, we've actually had less.
 So getting the opportunity to have another three wall court there, I think it's going to be a big benefit. The committee of handball players have pledged to do tournaments. It will be an economic benefit. There are players from all over the country that would come to this tournament. They would use hotels, spend money at restaurants.
 It's an economic benefit to the community. And then again, we would be willing to, the players, like I've been playing for about 45 years myself, you know, I was taught this sport when I was 15 years old, and it stayed in my family for years, and I pass it on to my grandkids.
 We're willing to teach and willing to donate handballs and donate classes, training classes. We also can bring professionals to the table. We currently have three of the top ten professional handball players, and now the sport is televised by ESPN.
 where before it wasn't. And so now ESPN is covering some of the sport. We have three professionals that are willing to help us to bring kids to the park and develop self-esteem. It's a quality of life issue, I believe. And it doesn't cost much. Basically, it's a handball and a wall, a few walls and a pair of gloves and a lot of heart.
 And so I would really recommend highly that hopefully in your good hearts that you would support this project. I think it's very much needed and it will serve a lot of kids and it will serve a lot of other population as well. Thank you, sir, for your time. And the next speaker is Mr. Jonathan Chavez. Good afternoon, Mr. Chavez. You have three minutes, sir. Jonathan Chavez, if you're on the line, sir, star six will unmute your telephone.
 Jonathan Chavez. We'll move to Josh Lascano. Josh Lascano, star six, will unmute your telephone. Mr. Art Benitez. Mr. Benitez. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Thank you.
 Mayor and Council Members, appreciate the opportunity to be able to speak on behalf of the three-wall project, handball project for El Paso. I give a unique perspective because I was a resident of El Paso for over 30 years. I was born there, and I moved to Tucson about 30 years ago, where I currently reside now.
 The unique perspective is that I've been able to see what can be done with some initiative and with some energy and with some vision. Here in Tucson, we have the Handball Hall of Fame for the entire international game of handball. So it exists here. We have a number of retired players.
 professional players. We have current professional players that live here as well. And part of that unique perspective is that we developed a foundation. It's a 501c3 nonprofit foundation called the Fred Lewis Foundation. And I highly recommend that you look it up on the internet.
 as well as Clark Park. That is our three-wall facility, and we have five three-wall courts. That is probably one, arguably one of the best, or if not the best, three-wall facility in the country.
 It was a partnership of both public funding as well as private contributions. Because of the nonprofit organization, we were able to donate either through the Fred Lewis Foundation or the World Pro Handball Group, which is also a nonprofit organization. And people were willing to donate in partnership with the public funds because of the tax benefits.
 What I see happening, and I've seen it over the number of years that I've been participating in handball here in Tucson, is that we're helping underprivileged children and families. We help develop leadership, mentorship, sportsmanship, and networking amongst its members.
 The courts, I can tell you, are busy every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday when we play all five courts. This week, the Fred Lewis Foundation held a tournament in which all the courts were occupied in both doubles and singles matches. And if you go to World Pro Handball, you can see, or the USHA, which is the United States Handball Association, you can see some of the announcements for youth development.
 So I've seen some of these kids where we take them on that where they may not be doing well in school. They may have deportment issues and we teach them the game of handball. We teach them sportsmanship and so on.
 And part of our rules are that you have to make Cs for above in grade, and you cannot have any deportment issues. And we help these kids to develop the skill and support their attendance at tournaments. Thank you, Mr. Benitez. So the three-wall program. Thank you, Mr. Benitez. You've reached the three-minute limit, sir. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Is Mr. Jonathan Chavez or Mr. Josh Lascano? If you're on the line, star six to unmute your telephone. Jonathan Chavez or Josh Lascano? I don't see anyone unmuting their telephone. And with that, I go back to Representative Rivera. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor.
 As you can tell, this is my plea to my colleagues to support this item. As you can tell and you heard, this is a worthy issue not only for our community but for the youth of our community. And from what I understand, it's a large project.
 that eventually invest back into the handball courts themselves, no matter if it's the parks or private facilities, they're comprised of businessmen, business owners, all kinds of classification people. This is very important to that particular section of our community. It has, I mean, it's a fairly large park and it'll accommodate this perfectly.
 I ask my colleagues to support this item for this reason alone. And I thank staff for coming to me and standing behind me, providing working with them as well as working with the community. I thank you. And with that, Mayor, I make the motion to approve. Second. A motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 44 on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein.
 Aye. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? And the motion passes unanimously. Thank you, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. We now return to page 9. The next item will be number 24. This is an operational focus update on the conservation easements for Lost Dog and NAP
 Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. I'm Senator DeGrasse City Engineer. I'm going to go ahead and share my screen. Mayor and Council, typically we don't do a discussion on first reading of ordinances. So this item was placed on the agenda so that we can share with you and the public some of the detailed information that's included in the two ordinances that are referenced in items 29 and 30 of this agenda that you'll be considering here after this item.
 With this, I want to take this opportunity to thank members of the Frontera Board, Scott Cutler, Janay Reno-Field, and Eddie Moreno, who have been working with us on this project and this agreements, as well as members of La Paz Water, Michaela Gramling, as well as John Ballew and his staff, to include Gisela Nama, and of course, city attorneys Carla Neiman and Roberta Brito have been very instrumental in the development of these agreements, and CID staff.
 Excuse me. We start with Lisa Guijada started this process and then working with Alex and Larry Luis Pinosa to wrap that up. So typically on the conservation easement, what you'll see in the agreements is the actual agreement and the multiple exhibits associated with each one of these properties.
 There are two properties that are going to be considered, the NAP property as well as the Lost Dog property. For the public's benefit, a conservation easement is a voluntary legal agreement that permanently limits uses of land and defines how the property will be managed in order to protect the conservation values in perpetuity. The progression in the timing for these agreements, the city acquired the NAP property back in 2018 with 2012 quality of life bond open space dollars
 In addition to that, there was an additional parcel that was purchased with a 10% stormwater dual-purpose fund, as well as 72 acres that was donated by the previous property owner. In June of 2019, the City Council directed the staff work from Terra Land Alliance to prepare the conservation easement. Part of that timeline, in May of 2019, there was the election to preserve the Lost Dog property, after which, in June...
 The City Council approved and authorized the use of the 10% fund to compensate the stormwater utility, the passive water utility, the fair market value for the property. And then subsequently to that, in February of 2020,
 City Council directed staff to proceed with a conservation easement at which time we join both efforts with the NAP land to proceed to work on the finalizing the agreements to include all the exhibits. There were phase one environmental studies completed on both properties, the land management plan, baseline reports and surveys as well as coordination with the multiple entities to include the mineral rights holders. Excuse me. So what you'll see in the agreements and
 some of the general statements we're looking to preserve the conservation values of the properties and these include the public benefit as it contains recreational scenic qualities as well as a variety of wildlife subsurface water and flatline all of which have been documented in the baseline reports for each one of the two properties
 Do you want to listen to it in real time or do you want to listen to it on this? Frontera intends, obviously, to, under this agreement, to preserve the conservation values of the property as been documented in the agreements on spec out that I'll be going over all the requirements under the agreement.
 Within this, one of the items that has been defined is the natural state of both properties. And again, this has been documented in one of the exhibits. That's the baseline report. These are some of the photos of the NAP property where they documented the scenic vistas, the wildlife, as well as the plant areas within the property, as well as additional photos and documentation that's been documented, again, the baseline report for the Lost Dog property.
 What I'm going to go over in the next several slides really speaks to the common elements on both agreements. The agreements basically mirror each other in the clauses and the requirements and what's permitted. The NAPLAN has some additional language that I will cover at the end as well. Under the agreements, the city, the Grand Tour, which includes the city and El Paso Water under the agreements,
 The permitted uses are the existing uses. So we'll have, obviously the property is being used for stormwater and some of the other uses that are existing will continue to remain. The city in El Paso Bado have right of entry to the property. The recreational uses is important, obviously to engage in passive recreation, to include hiking, biking, photography, and birding.
 There's the water, the rights to the water subsurface and stormwater are also included as far as the permitted uses. The drainage, you'll see on the Lost Dock specifically that the water, the passive water has excluded certain areas. And this is to install and construct and maintain drainage structures for the access areas to their facilities to include the water tanks.
 We have existing improvements out there to include access road and maintenance roads. Those are allowed to be maintained by the city in El Paso Water, as well as fences that are existing as well. The city is also allowed to maintain habitat and manage the habitat to include control of noxious vegetation, as well as improve the habitat and environmental, obviously in coordination with the grantee from Terra Alliance, Land Alliance.
 And of course, the utility improvements may be repaired or replaced. To continue with our permitted uses, the City will be allowed to sell a transfer. It will be subject obviously to the easement that's being approved today, or will be approved in two weeks.
 The artifacts, the city has the right, but not the obligation to curate any artifacts. And we did receive a comment today by Ms. Guido that we're gonna be looking at to revise so that we can include a more inclusive language that includes cultural and historic resources. So we'll be bringing that back as part of the second reading as a modification to the artifact language. We'll be able to maintain roads that exist today, as well as access to emergency vehicles
 and for habitat restoration throughout. The City also retains, the grantor also retains the right to go restore any damage caused by natural disasters and of course this would be subject to budget appropriations not under a specific obligation. And then trash receptacles may be provided and maintained in coordination with the grantee. The grantee, this is for the Terrell land alliance, obviously they have
 under the agreement, the right to protect the conservation values. They also have a right to enter and inspect the property under the agreement. They'll be required to do that on a yearly basis and provide a report to both the City and El Paso Water. They also have the opportunity to restore the properties to previous condition if there's any damage associated with those properties that is documented. And this could be done through a third-party agreement as well.
 Under the monitoring, they'll be looking at the populations for plant and animal species, as well as resources and characteristics, and those will be documented on an annual basis. There is a service fee that will be associated with this agreement, and it will be done under a separate agreement where the NAP will cover $12,000 will be paid to Frontier Atlanta Lions, and $17,650 will be paid on the lost dog.
 These are the prohibited uses under the agreement. So there'll be no additional structures or improvements allowed. This includes roads or facilities throughout. No motorized vehicles, paving or road construction will not be allowed under the agreements. Obviously, no subdivision of the properties will be allowed as well.
 The agricultural activities are prohibited. The trash, any illegal dumping or use of the property for a dump or any unofficial trash areas will not be allowed. Commercial and industrial activities will not be allowed under both properties. Hunting and trapping, recreational construction or usage, so no barbecue grills, picnic tables, or receptacles will be allowed under the agreement. Pest and weed controls will not be allowed.
 on the properties signage. So we're talking about no display of billboards, signs, advertisements. The existing signages may be maintained and the language does allow for signs that are related to the conservation easement and information as to wayfinding signs such as trails or information about the property itself from an educational standpoint. And those will be allowed by the grantee and under the agreement. And of course,
 Any future uses, we do include language in here to allow for flexibility as long as it meets the conservation values. And both the grantee and the grantor are in agreement, those uses will be allowed and permitted. The grantee's discretionary consent, again, it's the consent for prohibited uses may be given under circumstances that will be under coordination.
 Part of the agreement includes the land management plan, which in essence mirrors the easement language, but it does allow for update to every 10 years. There will be an update to the land management plan that will be coordination with the three parties.
 The enforcement side. So the grantee is the Vantel land alliances has the right to prevent and correct or require the correction of any violations in coordination with the city of or El Paso water. There is a notification process and by a process that in essence will bring the property into compliance of easement documents as well.
 Public access. We wanted to make sure that we documented this, that the public access to these properties will continue to be made available for recreational use. Of course, the cost and upkeep of the maintenance will be the responsibility of the City and El Paso Water for the properties that hold for which each holds the deeds to those properties. The upkeep maintenance will not be the responsibility from Terra Land Alliance.
 As it is, material language is included in here as well as insurance and general liability. If the extinguishment of the easement, if the circumstances arise, language is included in here as well.
 eminent domain language as well. So if the state or federal government brings in eminent domain, so that's allowed, obviously that language is included in it, that would be beyond the power of the city. And all it says is that we'll be working closely together to address such action in the future. Part of the easement includes the waiver of the mineral rights for 30 years on both properties, a single document.
 And of course the assignment. The assignment may be, the easement may be assigned or transferred with the approval of the other parties. We have the general provisions as far as the controlling loss, severability and entire agreement successor and assigns. That's what you typically see in our agreements. And of course we have the exhibits that will be unique to each easement.
 The Chevron waiver again was provided and it's included as part of the agreements that will be executed after the formal approval of the conservation easements and will be recorded for it's a 30 year mineral rights waiver. Under the NAP properties, so these are the unique elements that are within each of the two separate items.
 The NAP property consists of 353 acres. And as I stated, it is a combination of 2012 quality of life bonds. Those are the deed will remain under the city. We have the property that was purchased with a 10% stormwater fee that will be remained under the control of the El Paso water, as well as the 72 acres that was donated by the previous property owner.
 Under the NAP, there are existing fences that are located on the property. Those will continue to remain.
 There was also an agreement to allow for a future building on the NAP property. This will be an educational type of building or building envelope that has been identified. It would be at a future action timeframe, obviously, if that ever came to be, will be reviewed and approved by all three parties if this building ever went up. But again, the opportunity for an educational type of building and set up, obviously, would
 to allow for really to maximize the educational opportunities within this open space was left open on the NAP property. And that's the language that's included in there. These are the Meats and Bounds. There are two parcels that are associated again with the 2012 that's 280 acres and 72 acres for the donation. And you have the El Paso water parcel that's included in this easement.
 The baseline report is included specific to NAP as well. Again, in this baseline report really defines what the natural state or the current state of the property is. It includes information such as the phase one environmental assessment, the ecological features, water resources, water demands and geology, soils, as well as statement resources by the professionals at UTEP.
 The solid blue areas are the property that El Paso Water excluded from the conservation easements. And these are the areas in which they currently have stormwater facilities, such as the dams that are located on this property. Under the NAP property as well, there are exceptions under the title that were not conveyed or will be exempted from the conservation easements. And these include easements to El Paso Electric Company.
 to Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company, Mineral Interest Leases and Grants exceptions. And under the Land Management Plan, again, as I stated, basically references the same language as the conservation easement with the flexibility to update every 10 years to account for anything that may be available as far as maintenance or opportunities in the future so that we can include those in there.
 Some of the same provisions are listed on the land management plan. Under the law stock property, the unique elements, we're looking at 1,001 acres of property. Specific to this property, again, this pass of water, it will retain the property under its inventory, and as such will bear all costs and responsibilities for the maintenance of the property.
 There wasn't a Phase 1 environmental study completed under this property, and the state did not waive the mineral rights under this property that they hold. In the Meant and Bounds, there are two parcels identified, and they're totaling just over 1,000 acres. The baseline report, again, contains very similar information, such as the historical information, the scenic features, and a lot of photo documentation throughout the property.
 Included in the agreement are the areas that will be excluded from the conservation easement. Again, these are portions of the property where the current El Paso water holds improvements, such as the water tank and obviously the access road to these water tanks will be excluded from the conservation easement. This is the last piece.
 Additional unique elements under this agreement for the Lost Dog include the exceptions to the easement under the title that include easement to El Paso Electric Company, the mineral interest as was referenced to the state, as well as any lease grants, exceptions, reservations related to the minerals in the land management plan that I already covered.
 So what's next? What you'll hear today will be the first reading of the ordinances that's scheduled for today. That's item number 29 and 30. There will be a second reading. It will be the public hearing on May 11th.
 And then after that action is taken by council, the integration of these properties into our strategic plan within the open space master plan, as well as working very closely with Brian and Ben, Brian Crowe and Ben Fife on equal tourism and how we can roll this into the efforts that they have going on to develop the tourism strategy over the next year to include destination of passable parks and recreation, as well as potential partnerships with the state and federal park system.
 With that, Mayor and Council, that completes my presentation. I know we have Frontierland Alliance representatives as well as the Passawater representatives available to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Great presentation. We do have Representative Schwarzbein, and then we do have four people of the public for public comment. Representative Schwarzbein?
 And we have Rep. Semmel and Orr after that, too. Sorry about that. I think first, kudos to everybody involved with it. This is a...
 two really, really great projects that I think truly celebrate and preserve one of the many things that make El Paso great, which is our desert and our big open spaces and our mountain views. And so thank you for everybody for doing that, for being involved in this process. Also in reviewing the documents, at least with the Lost Dog Conservation Easement,
 I think it's also a very positive step to see a definition of natural state tied into the baseline report, which seems to make a lot of sense. I'm very happy that everybody was able to work on that. Another question that I have or a sort of comment, it seems that with the inventory that we have of open space increasing throughout the city, you know, NAP land, Lost Dog, you know, the area around,
 the sort of northeast sort of Franklin foothills around Lazy Cow, the Roundhouse, that area, as well as the Palisades near Billy Rogers Arroyo Nature Preserve. It seems that these open space areas that we have
 are increasing with more and more users. And we've seen that clearly with COVID. So I just think that in terms of, I don't know if you can talk about it, Sam, but just some thoughts that I have is really looking at trying to work with the water utility to formalize some sort of maintenance team or some sort of folks that can be dedicated towards
 this sort of open space maintenance. I don't know if that's a couple people that can coordinate with third parties such as the mountain biking community or other 5013Cs, but it seems that with the amount of financial resources that this city has given towards preserving Lostog and towards some of the other areas, it seemed it would behoove that
 E. P. W. Would have staff or could create some sort of mechanism to make sure that when areas of disturbance are identified that there is a dedicated group of people. That can be that can be there to sort of look at maintaining these areas moving forward, or at least working with third parties as well. I don't know if that's
 been discussed at all internally or anything like that but that seems something to that should be explored further because now that we have all these areas that so many people are using what do you do to make sure that there's a plan for from the minimal maintenance that's required yeah yes mayor pro tem um we did have um i did have a meeting with john balloon in discussions with dr bornhardt as well um about the the possibility of of um
 of adding resources, as you stated. And I did bring that up to John Ballew, and I will definitely continue that conversation and bring that message back to, I don't know El Paso Water representatives on the line, but I don't see John on here today. So, but I definitely bring it up to him and I'm sure the Mayor could bring that back to you as part of the board discussions as well. So, but we have to do that. Because I really think, I truly believe that it's not just a conversation about NAPLAN or Lost Dog, but this is a larger movement
 a sort of active approach towards these open spaces that we have, right? Towards mountain biking and hiking with more people using it. And we'll continue, these areas will continue to be more and more popular. So I think it is important sooner than later to think about some sort of strategic focus to make sure that these areas
 can have the proper maintenance that they need. Again, understanding that this is not a community park. This is not the Beast of the East. This is in Mission Hills or Memorial Park. This is an area that's meant to be undisturbed, meant to be untouched, but we also need to make sure that if somebody were to build out a trail that's not supposed to be there or disturbed,
 that we're able that an entity is able to address that as well. With the water utility seem to be that the most viable candidate for that. But extremely exciting news all the way around for me and for my constituents. The saga of lost dog is probably one of the most important, if not most important projects that has been there for my office. And I'm very, very happy to see this.
 that people can hold on to and we can vote on in the very near future. Thank you again to everybody that has been involved from the public sector, from citizens, and everybody in between including this council for making this day happen. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Prokof. We have Representative Mullenauer followed by Representative DeSarga. Thank you, Mayor Prokof.
 Mayor Leaser, thank you very much for that. Mr. Rodriguez, thank you very much, and your staff, and everybody else for the city for doing a wonderful job in bringing this out to the forefront. I would be remiss if I didn't make a couple of comments. Back in May of 2016, I joined a group called SOS Save Our Sierras. We were meeting weekly every Monday at a local restaurant. But at this time, I need to recognize a few people, if that's all right. A gentleman by the name of Mark Thomas Bray.
 Christy DeBates, Marilyn Guida, Judy Ackerman, Robert Bob Guyer, Carol Robert Spence, Melissa Riley Kirkham, Sylvia Richards, Art Richards,
 Michael Cochran and Beverly Clevenger. So I personally was taking part in that group, SOS, Save Our Sierras, approximately for five years. So it's great. It's great to see that our work has not gone unnoticed and the dedication and vision that this group had and others as well. So thank you on behalf of myself and all these people. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Moulinard. Representative Sargant.
 Thank you, Mayor Leeser. Thank you, Sam, for your presentation. I just have a couple of quick questions on page 11 under the grantees' rights. You're talking about the service fee, and the service fee for the NAPLAN is $12,000 and for Lost Dog is $17,650. So what does that cover exactly? Okay.
 Representative Saagat, what that covers is the cost for the annual inspection and reports. And so that's the agreement that was negotiated with Ontario Land Alliance. And it's a one-time payment that will be covered over five years, if you will. So it's not a recurrent annual payment. It'll be paid over five years and it'll be done under, because of the amount, we didn't include that into this agreement. It'll be under a separate agreement that we execute and not pay those dollars.
 And that's what it's going to cover. It's going to cover basically the monitoring fee. That'll be the one year, once a year inspection that they do. And of course, when they go out there, we're going to be giving notice by we being the city as well as El Paso Water, and we'll be out there with Ontario Land Alliance. And then they'll be providing the city with a report as far as what they see on the conservation values or any effects there too. Thank you, Sam. And then on page 18...
 under the NAP property. Your slide talks about the cost upkeep and maintenance and it says the city to bear the cost and responsibilities for city property. Do you know how much that's going to cost the city or not yet? Not yet, Representative. So the language includes that the city will maintain the property that we hold the deed to and this will be part of the 2012
 quality of life on property that we bought with that with those funds. And so we don't know that yet. So if there's any damage to the property, whether it be through natural or third-party cost,
 that gets identified as need for repairs, those will be subject to, we would identify the estimate of that, the maintenance cost at that time. And again, they would be subject to the budget appropriation. So we wouldn't be under no obligation to fix it unless we have the budget appropriation to do so.
 The agreement also allows for Frontera to enter into agreements to go through the repairs themselves as well. So I think in collaboration with the three parties, if there's significant damage that needs to be repaired or restored, I'm sure we can figure out a way that we can work together to get that done in the future. But again, that...
 We wanted to make sure that we clarify that under the agreement from Terrell Vandal Lines is not responsible for any maintenance or upkeep of those properties. Thank you, Sam. And thank you to all your staff and to everyone who made this possible. Representative Schwartzbein, congratulations. I know that this is very dear to your heart and all of El Paso. So thank you all. Thank you, Representative Sabria. With that, Mr. Pine, we have some public comment.
 yes sir we have four members of the public that signed up to speak this afternoon the first person is mr rick bonart mr bonart will be filed by sharon bonart judy ackerman and marilyn guida mr bonart star six please to unmute your telephone good afternoon sir you have three minutes can you hear yes yes you're you're back on mute star six please good afternoon hello good afternoon sir
 This is Rick Bonnard. I don't know if you can hear me. It's a little bit awkward because the computer image does not actually sync completely with the telephone, but if you will bring up slide number two. Is that up now? Yes, it is. Okay. On slide number two, I would call your attention to, this is like last Sunday, just a random, I took this picture from my telephone.
 just it was at 10 30 in the morning um and uh as you can see those cars facing us those are not in the 25 designated parking areas that we place there and if you look at the parking spot it's like a co-joining near those buildings again that's overflow we had like a full house on sunday and i'm apparently being told that that's what it is every weekend and if you go to the next slide
 And I hope you can see the next slide, which is slide number three. Is that up? Yes, it is. Yes, sir. Okay. This is just another picture from the parking space at Lost Dog. And this is how many people were just there, like I said, just a snapshot of how much usage the facility is getting. And if you'll bring up the next picture.
 and hopefully you can see that picture of the water tanks. Yes, sir. And you know, if we're looking for ecotourism and a way to advertise and make this stuff more visible to the public so they get more usage, then if you think about placing a mural on those water tanks, what a great place, a free spot like a billboard, if you would. And then if you'll put up the final slide,
 Is that up at this time? Yes, sir. Okay, and I spoke briefly to Mayor Pro Tem and also the mayor about this. And again, I'd like to say thank you for what's occurred. I'm glad that this is finally coming to fruition. But as you can see, there's greater attendance, use and abuse of the property than we ever anticipated.
 I will bring next time satellite photos from two years ago and a satellite photo from the current time so you can see how much trail building has occurred that I think people are not totally happy with. And then as we talked about and Mayor Pro Tem hit on,
 You need an MOU with the PSB as a part of this agreement that clearly states the level of participation, the dedicated personnel and duties that are in maintaining this. I spoke with Aaron Rushing, and he's from the Arkansas Trailblazers. They maintain that really nice sense of responsibility.
 $70 million mountain bike park the Waltons built in Arkansas, as well as many other properties throughout Arkansas in conjunction with the state of Arkansas. So he had a lot of useful information for me, and I just began those conversations because I just saw what the agreements looked like two or three days ago. Thank you, Mr. Bonart. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Ms. Sharon Bonart.
 Okay, let me see what's next. I'm trying to see what's going on. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. You're on mute, ma'am. Star six, please. Hello, this is Dr.
 Good afternoon. Here I am, Dr. Bonert. Thank you very much. Mayor and Councilor, I just want to take a minute. Sharon Miles-Bonert, I wanted the opportunity to commend Council and our city staff on all the hard work they've been doing on these conservation easements. It's greatly appreciated. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Bonert. And the next speaker is Ms. Judy Ackerman. Ms. Ackerman, star six, please. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes.
 Hello? Good afternoon. Hello.
 Thanks. Thank you to the mayor and council and the staff and the public for this opportunity to make a couple comments. I'm just really thrilled and thank you immensely for permanently protecting this open space. This is a huge conservation victory done by the people of El Paso that care about maintaining our natural open space, and it's just really huge. I'm
 Thank you for being part of the process. And I have a request along the lines of what Representative Schwarzwein and the Bonarts have mentioned. It has to do with loving the space too much. As Mr. Bonart pointed out, there's much more traffic in our natural open spaces than we had anticipated. And...
 People are unaware of the damage they do when they step off the trail or create new trails. So what I'm asking is that you have a concerted effort to educate the public and to make people aware of the need to stay on the trails.
 New people come to El Paso because it's a beautiful place, like I did over 25 years ago. And when we come from a wetter place, we're unaware of how fragile the desert is. When someone steps off the trail, they leave a footprint. Someone else sees that footprint and dies.
 puts another footprint on top pretty soon. The plants are killed, they can't hold onto the soil, the soil blows away and the place is destroyed. In order to maintain the biodiversity that makes this open space so wonderful, we need a concerted effort. And I suggest that you engage the public and various non-profits
 Representative Schwarzheim mentioned, ask people to position themselves at the start of the trail, like every day. Do you know that you need to stay on the trail? I really appreciate all your work so far to designate this open space as protected and I encourage you to do what it takes to continue the protection of this space. Thank you so much. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman.
 Thank you. And the final speaker is Ms. Marilyn Guida. Ms. Guida, star six, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council, and City Manager. I'm really pleased with the progress of the conservation easements, and I hope that the Mayor, Council, and City Manager support the ordinance.
 I thank you very much for responding to my concern about changing the wording from artifacts to prehistoric and historic cultural resources. I wanted to add that archaeologists, when they are
 looking at ancient sites, what they're after really, bottom line, is information about how people use the land, human behavior. So the artifacts and the sites themselves all inform us of life in the past, historic and prehistoric past.
 I want to thank Spurs Vine and Molinar for what they had to say. And I want to second, third, fourth, add to the points that Rick Bonard and Judy Ackerman just made.
 we do need to think forward, and we've needed it for a long time before these conservation easements, about having a section of parks department or an independent department devoted to open space, natural open space preservation. An example that might be considered from,
 Archaeologists use site stewards. They're a volunteer-trained, dedicated group that coordinates with land managers and agencies
 to check the property, just go out and walk and find out what's happening and identify problem areas to report back to the people in charge of the land and find ways then to protect the land by just eyes on the ground on a regular basis. And I think Rick mentioned something like that as well. In archaeology it's called site stewards, we could call them open space stewards, but
 It requires a lot of coordination, it requires a volunteer core, but I think there are going to be a lot of volunteers out there to be involved in something like this. And so I appreciate all the work that's been done enormously. I know that it's been over a year of really pretty much full-time work by city staff and Frontera Land Alliance, and you're forging a fabulous partnership here.
 that will be a template for future protection of open space in El Paso. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ms. Guida. Thank you, Ms. Prine. Yes, sir. That concludes public comment on this item. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Rodriguez. And with that, we'll go to the next item. Yes, sir. The next items are first reading of ordinances. These are items 25 to 33. Maybe we have a motion. Motion to approve. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 25 to 33. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara.
 And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to page 12 to item number 34. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting Dominion Ambulance LLC a franchise extension and amending ordinance number 018924 to modify its franchise rates to operate a non-emergency ambulance transfer service. Move to approve.
 There is a motion and a second to approve item number 34. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthine. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arga.
 Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 35. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting Elite Medical Transport of Texas, LLC DBA Elite Medical Transport, a franchise extension and amending ordinance number 018925 to modify its franchise rates to operate a non-emergency ambulance transfer service and repealing ordinance number 019111. Motion to approve. Second. Second. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 35. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthine. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molina. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizardo.
 Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 36. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting Life Ambulance, Inc., a franchise extension and amending ordinance number 018926 to modify its franchise rates to operate a non-emergency ambulance transfer service. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 36. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shoresby. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez.
 Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizara? Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 37. This is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from R4 residential to R3 residential at 11201 Pebble Hills Boulevard. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 37. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzweil.
 Aye. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizarraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 38. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for a planned residential development overlay at 4808 Vista del Monte Street. Motion to approve. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 38. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 39. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for a professional office at 2525 Montana Avenue. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 39. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shoresby. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez.
 Yes. Ms. Zaraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 40. This is a public hearing on a Nornan's Vacating in 87 Square Foot portion of a 10-foot public utility easement at 2401 Tierra Murcia Street. Move to approve it. Move to approve it. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 40. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shorts, aye. Aye.
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 41. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title II, Chapter 2.94, Regulation of Lobbying Activities, Section 2.94.130, Disqualification from Contracting.
 Motion to approve. Second. Is there a presentation on this? Motion and a second. Is there a presentation? Mr. Pons? Yes, there is a presentation. Good afternoon, Mayor and members of Council. Can IT pull up their presentation, please? So, Mayor and member of Council, as read into the records, this is an item amending section 2.941.0, disqualification for contracting.
 Next slide, please. So this item is under Goal 6, set the standard for sound governance and fiscal management. Next slide, please. The link is to the strategic plan is subsection 6.3, implement programs to reduce organizational risk. Next slide, please. So the revision as will be.
 The other thing that the amendment provided is actually eliminating just a reference to item D within the subsection and striking through not to exceed. And so the rest of this amendment will establish a definitive period of time of three years from contracting.
 The lobbying provision, they will be suspended for three years from contracting with the City of El Paso. So this is the actual language.
 So the action that we are requesting council is to approve the revision to include all violations under section 2.94.90 and to revise the penalty from a not to exceed three years to three years. Next slide please. Here are the restricted activities for lobbying. The
 the way the ordinance was written, it only identified item D. Now by striking item D, item A, B, C, D, and E will be applicable. So instead of just having one item apply, all five restricted activities would now be applicable. That concludes the presentation. If there are any questions, I'll respond.
 thank you mr collins thank you question there's a motion in a second yes there is a motion and a second to approve item number 41 there's no public comment on that motion mayor pro tem shortsline aye representative anello hi hernandez yes olina aye salcido aye rodriguez yes rivera yes
 Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 42. This is discussion and action on a resolution to convene the districting commission as required by Article 2, Section 2.4 of this city charter. Motion to approve. Second. Ms. Sarga, do you have a question on the item? Are you okay? No, I don't. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Mayor, I was the one who texted you.
 Oh, I'm sorry. I just said representative. I've got representative Nundas, please. No, I wanted to – I looked at the backup. There was a presentation I was going to ask if staff can please give that presentation. Sure. Good afternoon, everybody. This is Karina Brascala. I'm the lead planner with the Planning and Inspections Department.
 Let me know if you all can see the presentation. You can see it? All right, perfect. So the item before you is the resolution to establish the Districting Commission, but I'll also do a quick overview of the redistricting process in general since this is the first item you all are seeing.
 So we'll start here. Article 2, Section 2.4 of the City Charter covers the apportionment of council districts and establishes the districting commission. That commission will have one appointee from each district and then one from the mayor. You will need to appoint members by September 1st of this year.
 The Districting Commission is then responsible for reviewing the districting plans. Those are the maps with the new proposed district boundaries. The Commission will make a recommendation to City Council on the new district boundaries and then you all will adopt the final district plan sometime in mid early to mid of 2022.
 So the appointment requirements that you all need to know about now, right? You'll adopt this resolution and then you'll need to do an appointee. So one qualified voter from each district, the mayor appoints at large. And then appointees cannot serve the city in any other capacity. So they can't hold any other appointed office or elected public office. So that might be something like, you know, the school board. So they can't hold another position.
 And then I just wanted to make you all aware. So for the general process, we are still waiting on the census results. So yesterday the Census Bureau held a –
 public meeting and they released the general counts for the state and that's for the federal legislative Apportionment we are still waiting on City and block group level data the current estimate is that we will be getting that by September 30th of this year In past redistricting years. We have had that information by end of March. So we are a little bit behind on that and
 staff is just basically waiting for that data and then as soon as we have it we can start doing the analysis seeing which districts we need to adjust and then we can get started with creating new boundary options for the Commission to review.
 There is an option that the state during this legislative session may give us an extension on the deadline. But as of right now, we are still working off the assumption that it needs to be ready for the November 2022 election. So this is the anticipated redistricting timeline.
 So today we're adopting the resolution to set up that commission. In the next couple of months, I'll come back probably at a work session to go over the redistricting requirements with you all. You'll then adopt review criteria. So these are federal and state mandated, but we also have the opportunity to make other considerations. This is pretty much what the Districting Commission is going to be looking at when they are making recommendations on the new district boundaries.
 And then September 1st, we'll have our commissioners all appointed. Then we'll start conducting district and commission meetings. And then end of this year, going into early next year, we'll be setting up community meetings with the assistance of community development and the PIO to make sure we're getting all that public outreach.
 while we're analyzing the maps and the numbers and going back and forth with the commission to set up the new districting plans, that is also an opportunity for the public to also submit maps. So those usually come from interest groups or neighborhood coalitions
 They can submit maps to staff. We'll review them for compliance if they meet all the criteria. The Districting Commission can also take a look at those and basically choose whether to recommend them or not to City Council. So we get the recommendation of the final plans to City Council. We usually end up with two or three options. You all will adopt that in spring of 2022.
 staff and legal will then start working on all the backup for that approved plan to submit to the Department of Justice for preclearance. That preclearance date is three months before the election. So that's August 10th, election planned for November 8th, 2022. And I will note for you guys as part of that preclearance packet, we do need to document all public outreach and communication.
 So I just ask that you include staff on any kind of communication or discussion you're having with constituents or if you would like staff to attend any of your district meetings to talk about redistricting with your constituents. We'd be happy to do that, but we do need to just document basically every interaction we have with the public, any press releases, anything like that so that we can submit it to the DOJ and show compliance.
 These are the existing guidelines for the district plans. If you all have any questions, I can go over these in more detail. But in general, we're looking to equalize the population so that all the districts, you know, we have equal representation. Kind of keep areas together, make sure that the boundaries make sense. We don't want to be splitting up neighborhoods. We can't split up voting precincts.
 And then preserve constituent relations. So as many people as possible, we are going to try and keep in their same representative district. And then classic voting rights act. So we cannot reduce the ability of minority populations to participate in elections. That's not typically a concern in El Paso just because of our demographics, but it is something we are required to comply with and we will be looking at.
 And I've mentioned this already, but staffing, I'll be managing the process. Most of that will come out of planning with the assistance of legal. We'll be handling the Districting Commission, the census analysis, the maps, and preparing that DOJ submittal, and then Community Development and PIO are going to be helping us with the public outreach and engagement. That'll be really important, especially because we have a slightly shortened timeline.
 So we're really hoping to leverage the work that community development already did during the census count process, all the connections that they have there, the work groups they set up to make sure that folks still have enough time to look at the maps and get us any feedback that we need to make sure that everybody's properly represented. I guess unless you all have any questions for me. Yes, Representative Adnundas.
 Thank you Karina for the presentation. Can you go to slide five please at the timeline? Sure. So just for point of reference for the public, Q stands for quarter three. So is that the fall timeframe or the summer timeframe?
 Are you looking at a specific date, the Q3 at the top? Q3, yes, ma'am. Yeah, I'm thinking that'll probably be summer, so before that September 1st, and then Q4 will be fall. So annual quarters, not financial.
 Okay, and then thank you for clarifying. I just wanted to understand like when we're getting ready to appoint someone so that we can set expectations about their participation. And I recall this and back when I worked as staff or other members of council, I was able to participate in the tail end of that back in 2011 and 10.
 excuse me, 2010, 2011. And what I recall is that there was like a ton of meetings. And so do you understand what the time expectation will be from the members of this redistricting commission? Yes, so the district and commission meetings are gonna be held biweekly.
 off weeks from city plan commission so and those will be starting in September and then going through about March of 2022 so you'll be looking at six months of meetings every other week okay and you this may predate you but I want to understand a little bit about
 I recall getting phone calls from representatives of the Department of Justice, DOJ, about complaints from the public about the maps. And there was a concern that what the committee had produced was, whether it was intentional or unintentional or in good faith, that it was creating a concern with...
 not only voting disenfranchised voters,
 And the other concern was that they were creating classes, right, within districts, like north of the freeway versus south of the freeway. And so I'm not sure if we have anyone on staff to talk about what those concerns were so that we can avoid them in this round.
 Yeah, I know a little bit about it, and then I think legal can probably jump in on this, but I know there is a definite concern, I think, both in the 2010 census and redistricting and then back even to 2001. It's about household income, right, is the concern there. We do look at...
 race and ethnicity and that's federally and state protected. Income is not one of the considerations that we are required to look at. I would probably wanna do a little bit more research about whether we could include that as a consideration.
 And so I would defer to legal on that, and we can do a little bit more research into it. But I think that was basically the consideration. But in 2012, when we submitted the plan and had the election, we obviously got DOJ clearance, and it did comply with all requirements.
 requirements. So I understand the concerns. I think that's the main sticking point has just been kind of income inequality and that wasn't previously a consideration and I basically would need to look into it to see whether we would be allowed to look at that this time around. Okay, and then I have two more questions. Based on the District and Commission's recommendations,
 those recommendations are going to be driven in tandem with the planning department, correct? Yes. So the planning department is going to kind of guide the district and commission. We're not going to have to have like experts GIS or in districting process. So what is the commission looking for in terms of representation across all industries and sectors?
 Right. So there's no requirement in the charter or any other like city documentation on the background of the commission members. So it's really up to the council members what they think would best represent the interests of their constituents in their district and the city at large.
 On staff side, we won't be making any recommendations to the commission on maps. We'll basically just be analyzing them, telling them whether they comply or not. And then we do have our own GIS and data analysis folks that will be running those numbers to make sure everything complies.
 Yeah, basically no requirements on backgrounds. It's up to... But they have to live in the respective district from that representative. Yes. Okay. So they need to live in the current district boundary, and then the mayoral appointee will be at large. And they have to be qualified voters, so they need to be registered, or they need to just be eligible to vote. Well, you can clarify that later. Yeah. I assume you have to be registered to be qualified. Yes. So qualified voters...
 I believe they're registered to vote, but I can clarify that for you all. Okay, and then my final question is, the city charter also allows to expand the number of city council seats from currently at 8 to 10. Do we understand...
 if we find that there is a disproportionate amount of population, let's say in District 5, because we know that District 8 and District, excuse me, District 1 and District 5 are seeing massive population growth as we go outward. Is there, is there, what is the process to, in the event that we find in the census, that we need to expand seats?
 Do you know procedurally what that would look like to add more seats if the redistricting commission recommended that? Right. So what it is is that is also in the charter as you pointed out. So if the census numbers come back and we have over a million residents within city limits, we will increase the number of districts from eight to ten. Right now, preliminary estimates, I don't think we're going to be hitting that with the 2020 numbers.
 If that was the case, I think all that would mean would be when we have the district commission set up, it would still be the nine appointees. And all we would be looking at would be 10 district boundaries instead of eight. So that might cause a couple more problems with keeping people in the same district. But it would be we would then add those two new council positions at the November election. And then...
 Does it have to be a million? I don't ever recall that being a requirement. Yes, so it's section 2.4, right, Article 2, section 2.4. At such time when the results of decennial United States Census shows the population of the city to be one million or more, the council may take action to increase the number of districts.
 Well, thank you, Karina. You've given me a lot of information and sharing that. I really appreciate the details. And those are all the questions I have. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Nunes. Senator Church, please. Yes, thank you very much. It seems that this is going to be quite an in-depth and engaged process for our legal department and many different departments, especially really over the next...
 to a year, really the next six months to a year with the amount of public engagement and the bi-weekly meetings. I didn't really realize that our appointee will be meeting every other week. So, I mean, it really seems that the city staff is really gonna have their hands full
 coming into the fall over the summer and then into into the you know really to the end of 2021 into 2022 really. Are you guys prepared with that with the services resources that we have now? Planning has handled this process
 like I said in 2000 and in 2010. We did it with staff then. It's really just a lot of kind of running the numbers once it gets set up. And then we have really good records actually from- I just wanna make sure that council doesn't necessarily, we have to be cognizant too that probably there is no bigger priority for the next six months to a year for this body and for the city than to make sure that we're focused
 on our redistricting process. One of the things that I think would be interesting in terms of coming back to council with some information was I think it would be interesting in a presentation in the future to understand historically what the districting lines might have looked like.
 You know, again, we obviously know as the city has sort of expanded from the 50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, et cetera. Obviously, the new districts were created. Boundaries were changed. But I think it would be good to sort of.
 see as sort of side by side or some sort of animation or something that would help us understand what did district one look like 30 years ago? What did district three look like 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 years ago, whatever it is. I think that would be an important, interesting tool of visualization, I think to help everybody understand a little bit more about sort of how the redistricting process sort of
 and flows and follows and affects the city. The other question that I have is relating towards our appointees. I think things are different with different local governments and everything about what kind of requirements could or couldn't be there. So you're saying the only prohibition would be anybody that's currently working as an elected official or as a city employee?
 Is that correct? So city appointee. I don't know that there's a restriction on city employees. I would need to double check, but the language is just they cannot be appointed to any other border commission, and they cannot hold elected office. Ken, again, is there any prohibition if they belong to any sort of –
 partisan parties or organizations or our former elected officials in any capacity? No restriction on former elected officials. I don't believe we consider it. Like I said, no background requirements. They can belong to partisan. As a reminder though, right, all of our districts are nonpartisan, so. I'm just trying to understand all the sort of questions there. Yeah, it seems like this is, you know,
 I can't speak for other council members. It seems like a really big honor and a duty to see this redistricting process through. And it's something that not all council members can
 I know we have to participate in because it only happens once in 10 years but it seems like it's a tremendous responsibility for this body and for staff and I know it will rise to occasion and we just have to make sure we don't get in y'all's way and we do it right and we're all cognizant and respectful about who we want to appoint in there and that we all take the time to do the research and understand just how important this redistricting process is and what it really is and what it entails as well. So very excited about this.
 Thank you, Representative Schwartzbein. Representative Rodriguez? Thank you, Mayor, and thank you Karina for your presentation. My question is really quick. So I'm kind of calculating about 12 to 18 meetings, correct? Yes. Yes, okay. And then all of the meetings do you need to meet quorum? Yes. Okay. Is there a situation where we could have like an alternate person?
 just in case something comes up. It's not set up right now. What I'll be bringing to you guys in a couple of months when we're going over the criteria for reviewing the maps, it'll also be the Districting Commission bylaws. I don't have those drafted up yet, but I will definitely make sure to look at the option for alternate, similar to the way we do some of our other boards, to make sure that we always have that representation. Good point. Thank you. Thank you. And then my final.
 Representative Rodriguez, I couldn't hear what your second question was. I'm sorry to interrupt like that. No, it's okay. My second question is if we can appoint alternates in case the person that we appoint, since it is called the 18 meetings, can't make it and they have to meet quorum. So she's just going to check to see if we can have alternates.
 And then my final question is, we're planning on in-person or virtual meetings for this? So it would be whatever the study's policy is at the time. So right now, virtual. If we went back to in-person for council and other boards and commissions, I would anticipate that these would go back, would also be in-person. Okay, perfect. That is all. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. With that, we have Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Just one quick comment, Ms. Karina.
 the engagement of the community. You know, I just want to say that it's my first process being on this side of the fence. So with the engagement of the community, is that going to be a priority that we should be focusing on our energy? Is that time that the community can engage with that as well? Is, you know, this is an important task and it only happens every census year. So is that part of it?
 Yeah, no, absolutely. So we do have to show to the Department of Justice that we've done due diligence in explaining the districting process to the community and that there's been ample opportunity for public comment. So like I said, there is an open window
 window where folks can submit their own maps to us for review so people can draw their own district boundaries. It's very preliminary stages, but we're working on some kind of online tool that might allow people to move district boundaries and kind of check compliance on their own and then submit those to us.
 And then we do also do several public meetings. Again, those might be virtual, they might be in person, but we usually look at at least one in each district, other ones with neighborhood coalitions, special interest groups, that kind of thing. So we have a working list from the previous redistricting efforts, but then also, again, like I said, all the groups that we worked with, that CI community development really did a lot of outreach and built some really good connections during the census count.
 outreach process. So we're really gonna go back to those same kind of people and make sure that they have the opportunity to look at the maps and give us feedback. Thank you, so that's taken way in. So, and I hear you right, you're saying you're gonna have one in each district? Yes, yeah, there'll be one in at least. Thank you so much, thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Betta. And Karina, thank you very much, great job. And with that, Ms. Pryor?
 Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to approve the resolution on item number 42. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 43. This is Discussion and Action on a Resolution to approve a 10th Amendment to the City's 2019-2020 45th Year Annual Action Plan for the Community Development Block Grant Coronavirus Phase 3 to create a COVID-19 Emergency Shelter Capacity Expansion Project to supplement the Transportation for Homeless Individuals and Families Project and to create a Case Management for Persons Experiencing Homelessness Project.
 Motion to approve? Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 43 on that motion. Mayor Potem, Shortsby. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizardo.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 45. This is discussion and action initiating a 2021 City of El Paso Ad Hoc Charter Advisory Committee for the purpose of a city charter amendment special election to be held Tuesday, November 2, 2021. Representative, I'm sorry, Representative Molinar, followed by Representative Asaga, then Representative Bonilla.
 Mayor and Council, thank you very much for this opportunity. I'd like to see if there's any public comment at this time. Madam Clerk? No, sir.
 There's none. Okay. Hearing none from the public, I'll go on. It's been approximately three years since May of 2018 that we had a last charter revision and election. And if we hold off another term for next year in 2022, that's going to be approximately. And then we would have to have the election in November of 2022, which would roughly be three years and six months. So to me, that's a way almost.
 long time to do a charter review, and it's just not really the right thing to do, in my opinion. The other thing, too, is last year there was going to be a charter review. However, due to COVID, that was postponed or canceled. Who would have ever thought that COVID would come and
 do what it's been doing to our lives. We're still not out of a pandemic. We still certainly have not reached herd immunity. We heard the word session last night for that. So what else could happen? I don't know. Currently the charter does need several editing needs and reviews. There's a little bit of redundancy as well.
 And I stand by my decision for a November 2nd, 2021 election. I understand there will be a state election at that time. So the value of that election for the city of El Paso would be just like a normal, regular election held in a general year. So it's not going to be in the millions of dollars that other people have stated already. I would like to say at this time that...
 Having completed a campaign of 18 months, even prior to that, and even still in office, as recently as last week, I received phone calls, I received emails, I received different things from different people, and they would like to see a return to a strong mayor form of governance. So this is a huge issue. I understand that.
 But we as elected officials represent the citizens of our respective districts. We represent the citizens of El Paso. My vote not only affects District 4, it affects the entire community of El Paso at large. So that's what I have to say at this point. Welcome to entertain any questions and comments. Thank you, Representative Misadga, followed by Representative Anello, then Representative Schwarzbaum. Thank you, Representative Molinar, and then Representative Hernandez.
 Thank you, Mayor Leeser, and thank you, Representative Molinar.
 Just as the pandemic was starting in 2020, we were set to make proposals, as Representative Molinar mentioned, for charter amendments and establish an ad hoc charter advisory committee. I had actually proposed a few things that I thought would possibly be beneficial changes. We deleted that item off an agenda at that time and decided that charter amendments were not a priority during such a period of uncertainty.
 As I understand, it can still cost upwards of $400,000 in taxpayer funds to hold an election. Right now, while El Pasoans are still facing the economic fallout of COVID-19 pandemic, I think that any funds that we would need to spend if we were to hold a special election to amend the charter, even if less than that amount, could be better used to provide key services or reduce the impact to the tax rate.
 I don't think there are any charter amendment proposals that are so pressing that they can't wait until everyone is on more stable footing financially. For that reason, I don't know that I'll be able to support this item today. Thank you, Mayor Leaser. Thank you, Ms. Tugger. Ms. Prine, if there's a statewide election, which all the election polls will be...
 part of here in El Paso, would there be an additional charge to us to put a charter amendment on there? The county would share in half of the costs with the city. If there would be state constitutional amendments in the November election, then the city and the county would share the costs of such a citywide election. Regardless of whether there's a charter election or not, correct?
 No, if it's only the state amendments, constitutional amendments, the city does not pay for that. So what would be the charge you think if there is a charter amendment? What do you think the cost will be to the taxpayers split by the county? Without the county? No, split with the county. Oh, split with the county? We're looking at about $390,000, $400,000. Okay, so it would be half of that?
 No, for a citywide election, we're looking at if the city were to be a standalone responsible to pay for it, we're looking at about $780,000. So that would be split with the county. So we're looking at about $390,000, $400,000. Great. Thank you for that information, Ms. Pryor. Yes, sir. Thank you, Representative Misale, for that information. Thank you, Ms. Pryor. Thank you, Ms. Pryor. Thank you, Ms. Pryor.
 With that, I think we had Representative Nella. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative LaSarga. I think it is important to point out that this Council is definitely committed to doing charter changes. And with the pandemic, we were worried, right? If we had known how the elections were going to turn out, we wouldn't have postponed it. So I do thank Representative Molinar for bringing up the amount of time that will lapse if we wait till 22.
 Representative Lasada made some really great points on why the council made this decision. And so I have a question. I don't know, Miss Pratt, if you can answer this. But in addition to the $390,000, we are also required to essentially advertise for the election, correct?
 Yes, we would have to do some market outreach out in the community. Marketing. Thank you. I appreciate that. And I think, Mrs. Neiman, this might be a question for you. Do we know what the average cost of that has been in the past or would be in the future? Can you all hear me? Yes, ma'am. Good. I'm sorry. I'm having Internet connections from the wind down in my house.
 I believe it's approximately, and I would defer to Laura Cruz Acosta. Okay, I'm sorry. I think that she would have the better figure for that kind of outreach. Okay, thank you. I'm sorry, Cruz, for not asking you directly. Thank you. Oh, no, I still have questions. I didn't know if you wanted to answer. I'm sorry. What was your question again?
 So my question was, I still would like to know what we expect the cost of materials and advertisement for the election would be. I believe it's going to be approximately $25,000, Representative. Okay, thank you.
 Okay. So I mean, that's a significant cost. Just so I know, I think, you know, we always have the conversation about what the cost of an election would be. But when we do initiate a charter change, there is also an additional cost. So I just wanted to be very clear about that. I also, as Representative Lasada said, this was something that the council had been interested in and is still I as a council member am still interested in looking at the charter amendments, but there are also processes in which that has to be done.
 Right there does need to be a committee appointed to look at them. Every council member and staff should be given the opportunity to put together a list of charter changes that they would like to see. After the presentation we just had about redistricting, which is extremely important and required by law,
 I am concerned that if we went ahead with the November 2021 election, we are really pushing staff to the limits to get all of that done in time and then go right into redistricting. So Mrs. Neiman, my follow-up question to my statement is, what is the minimum requirement time for a charter committee, an ad hoc charter committee, or what is the latest deadline in which we can appoint members to that committee? Okay.
 So you would have if if council chooses to call the election this November of 2021? I apologize for our 2022 election. So you have 78 days prior to the November 2022 election to call the ordinance right?
 So it depends on how much time and how extensive of review of the Charter Commission the Council is proposing. So the more items that you are proposing to the Commission, the more amount of time that you should afford the Commission to review and come back to Council. Okay. And so can you remind me, when we were looking at the 2020 election, how much time we were looking based on what staff recommendations were?
 So last year we brought the item to Council in March of 2020 and Council had built in three months for the Commission to review any proposed Charter amendments. I believe that it would have been started, it would have been all of April, May and June. Okay and so thank you, I appreciate that answer. Because if we're looking at the presentation that we were just given by Karina, right, it says
 quarter two, so the spring of 21, the final plans from that committee will be turned in. And so that would really, it might stop me if I'm wrong, but in my mind would really line up as a good way to then transition into an ad hoc committee for charter changes, then giving them three months. Because I am concerned, right? We did just have that presentation, Representative Schwartzbein pointed out, it's going to be
 a big undertaking for staff. And so I think that, you know, running these two things into each other, I don't think it's beneficial for anyone trying to come out of that. And so that's another concern I have about running this in the 21 election. And the other thing is just what we all want to do, right? I mean, I'm going to speak directly to Representative Moinard's
 comments and his concern for this charter committee. Um, you know, I hear very often that there are concerns with our form of government. I personally do not think it is appropriate for a city council member, uh, to, to bring something like that forward. I believe that should be done by citizen petition. Um, but I do recognize that you hear those concerns. I hear them all of the time as well. And so, um,
 If I was allowed to be given the opportunity to add things to a charter change, it would be to strengthen and enhance the current system of government we have, which is a council city manager format.
 Council City Manager form of government to address the concerns that I'm hearing from people. I just, I think it would be inappropriate for a Council member to bring that up and then to have the City advertise something like that. Again, any member of this community is allowed to lead a citizen petition to have an election. But so I would ask, and Mrs. Neiman, I don't know if this needs to be an amendment or an additional motion.
 But I would like to ask you to, or to direct you to work with the council and the staff to come up with a comprehensive list of charter changes to be presented for a November 2022 election. Second. I don't know if that was an amendment or an additional motion though. I would need your guidance on that. Second.
 So you are proposing a different item. So this would be the item that the council could consider. Okay. And again, I want to really emphasize my reason for doing that is I do think that every council member as well as staff should be able to propose changes that they want to see in the charter. And again, doing so to address the concerns that Representative Molinar and myself have heard from the community, but in a way to enhance the current government that we have.
 as well as allowing staff enough time to do this appropriately, especially when we just heard a presentation on how they are going to be extremely occupied with the redistricting committee. And then I know Representative Mullinar, you and I did speak about the cost that is going to be associated with this. And so that is why I am proposing this additional recommendation.
 Is that the word? So thank you very much, Mayor Lee, sir. And thank you. No, thank you, Representative Nello. And let me, I know that Representative Rivera second. Was that an amendment? I did, sir. Oh, it was you, I'm sorry. Representative Schwartzbarn. An alternate motion. Right, yes, ma'am. Thank you. So, okay, thank you for that. And with that, we have Representative Schwartzbarn. Yeah, I don't- Mayor, point of order.
 Go ahead. In times past when there was a amendment to from the original item that we would vote on the item without further discussion. Mr. Pruitt? It's the countermeasure. Mayor, we don't have any, we didn't get a motion for the item as it was posted yet. We only, on the table we only have the motion that is a separate motion that made by Representative Anello. So this would be a main motion.
 what Representative Anello just stated would be a main motion, not an amendment to the item. My item 45 is the main motion. It was never seconded, sir. There was never a motion made on that item, sir. Or there was, yeah. Could I take the floor, sir, Mayor? Yes, sir. So. You got nine and a half minutes. Thank you, so I agree. First of all, I wanna thank Representative Molinar for bringing this up. I think that,
 ways to enhance and tweak our charter as a living document. It is the constitution of the city of El Paso, Texas, essentially is an important exercise. And I wanna thank Representative Molinar for bringing this up. I do feel that the time to do this, that would be most appropriate and also most fiscally prudent as well to the taxpayers, many of which are still suffering from the effects of COVID
 not just physically but financially as well, is to have a November 2020-2022 charter election.
 First, I think too, with the conversation we just had about local redistricting really needs to be the priority of our city staff and of our council. It's something that happens once every 10 years and it's extremely important. It's also going to be one that's costly in terms of time, talent, and treasure. So I think it's really important that that is focused
 In addition to that, there could be, from that redistricting process, additional charter changes that could come from that process that we need to be aware of. So having a November 2022 election would also possibly give us time or the redistricting commission the opportunity to address some of those issues as well. The other thing too is I'm wondering if our city attorney can talk a little bit about the process
 of how items would go to the ad hoc committee and then ultimately to the ballot. From what I understand, this council would ultimately approve which items would be sent to review to the ad hoc committee, not individual council members. Is that correct? That's correct, Representative Shortsvine. Historically,
 Last year, the year before that, and I believe the year before that, when the charter was amended, the items come before the council and the council decides what items are sent to the commission for consideration. Not every item is forwarded.
 So, I mean, it would, it would, it would also take the council action. I can, as city council represents, say I want to change the, change the charter to only have to not to have yellow stop signs and no longer red. I couldn't just do that and send it to the committee. It would have to be agreed upon by this body, correct?
 Yes, sir, that's correct. Okay, I think that's important for everybody to understand the process there, right? It's not enough to say that I've heard from my constituents or get emails that we need to do X, Y, or Z. That still has to be agreed by this body, not by any individual council member, that that is something that we need to be sending to the committee.
 So then walk me through this process, Ms. Neiman or the council. So we go and agree to say five items, we all submit different items that we're interested. We hash it out during a work session, a council meeting, and then we figure out five items we want this ad hoc committee to review, to look at and to make recommendations. Is that correct? That's how it sort of go down. What happens after that?
 Correct. So, so the Council would direct the City Manager and the City Attorney to propose a list of items that Council would vet. And then after Council
 Yes, sir. Mayor Pro Tem, I lost connection and one of your very important questions that you were asking, I apologize. I'm just asking, just discussing, sir, the process of how ad hoc committees, how items go to the committee, how they get vetted, and then ultimately how they get sent to the ballot, just so that everybody has a clear understanding. Thank you, sir. Sorry. So the process works like this.
 Traditionally, the council has directed the city manager and the city attorney's office to propose a list of charter amendments. The council also adds their list of proposed charter amendments. The item is brought back to a regular council meeting of this body, and the council bets the items, and you all propose your agreed-upon list of items that you want to send to the commission to consider.
 Once council decides that this is the list of five items or three items or two items, however many items, the commission is then charged with reviewing those items. And then the commission is required to then come back with their recommendation on what items out of that list you have sent them, they recommend actually go on a ballot. So then the recommendation comes back to this body. This body considers the recommendations of the committee, and then you all determine
 which one of however many the committee recommends will actually be placed on a ballot. So the council ultimately decides which items will be sent to the ad hoc committee to review, and then the council, not any individual council members, would then go and make a decision which actual items would go to the ballot to be voted upon by the voters. Correct, and then there is also a period of time
 prior to you all finalizing the ordinance that creates the election ballot language. There's a period of time in which there is public outreach that educates the public and you all hear back on what the committee recommended and what the public feedback is on those proposed recommendations from the commission that you all also consider prior to making a final decision on which items will be placed on the ballot.
 Great. Well, I think you explained that in a really clear way. I think again, this is something new for a lot of us. You know, I think there was a city charter amendment that happened maybe my very first year back in 2015, and it was a lot to sort of even understand then.
 So I think that making sure that we take the time, especially with the redistricting process, that none of us have been ever involved with as elected officials, that is extremely important for our community. A redistricting process happens once every 10 years. I think it's really important that we take the time, give honor and respect to our citizens, both not only in the redistricting process, but a potential charter election,
 I want to thank Representative Molinar for putting this item up and again, Representative Anello for I think what is a very common sense logical and strategic approach towards making sure we have the best charter election possible by having a November 2022 charter election. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will now turn it over to
 Thank you, Mayor, and to the rest of my colleagues who made their statements. I agree with most of your statements, but to be honest – give me just a second.
 Mr. Representative Molinaud, he mentioned the strong mayor and versus the council manager form of government. And I have to tell you, I'm a little surprised that we're having that discussion only given all of the work and all of the advocacy and canvassing that took place to transition from strong mayor to council manager form of government. And I'm gonna take my 10 minutes because this is how important this issue is for me, the council manager form of government.
 And so you're aware, Representative Molinaud, I'm very passionate about this issue and I don't want to come across as being disrespectful. So I'm saying this with the most respect possible. I wrote my thesis on City Council Manager form of government. And so I have an extensive understanding of the benefits
 and the challenges that you see from strong mayor form of government. And I want to share some of those things with you. Aside from the cost concern in the middle of pandemic, that's kind of a secondary concern for me at this point, given the concern I have with the strong mayor form of government.
 The first thing to note is that we should be working to consolidate government so that we can have more efficient governments, because a strong mayoral form of government does the complete opposite of that. Every four years, you have new directors.
 the friends of the mayor who come in and who take over. And I'm not referring to you, Mayor Lisa, I'm referring to a form of government, okay? So with a strong mayor form of government, it completely removes the professionalism of the administration. So a council manager form of government is you hire a professional, like a city manager, who will professionalize the administration by bringing visions and missions that were long-term and that will last long,
 long beyond one mayor over another. So that's the first point, is that it creates stability, it creates continuity, and it professionalizes your administration. The second concern here I have, let's use Austin as an example. Currently, Austin has a proposition, Proposition F, that they're currently battling over whether or not to turn to a council manager form of government to a strong manager form of government. So that's Proposition F.
 on the ballot in Austin, Texas today. There is only one city in the Texas, large city in Texas that has a mayor, a strong mayor, former government, and that's Houston, Texas. So Austin progressives, it's like the Austinites for progressive reform. There's special interest groups that are being created. There's special PACs that are being created because these are incredibly controversial issues that have been started, that planning in Austin have started
 in 2020. So now they're having an election in the middle of these issues.
 And I can tell you, just learning from the Austin experience, you're going to be faced, if this passes today, we're going to be faced with incredible opposition. And I'll tell you, my constituents who led efforts to transform from strong mayor to council manager, former government, members of the Salo Vista and New Bird Association, personally led that charge, canvassed, and really participated to change that. So I'm concerned about my constituents being able to get involved with advocating and opposing such measures. Okay.
 The other concern with a strong mayor-informed government is that governments that have strong mayor-informed governments are 10% less efficient than city councils and governments that have council managers form a government. There's a lot of literature that will demonstrate that, and I don't want to advocate for a less efficient government. The other thing is mayors, they become too strong, and actually mayors are not voting members of council. They're completely removed from...
 And they become the administrators. So the city would be tasked with hiring a mayor to do the city administrative work. So mayors are less available to the public, and it completely removes them from participating in the public. The other thing is they're harder to just get access with, you know.
 My major concern, given the historical corruption we face in our city, strong mayors, former governments are more likely to have corruption within the administration. Given the, you know, pay to play, quit pro quo, you see a lot of that in cities that have strong mayors, former government. It's very regressive if we were to go that route.
 And then the other concern I have with strong mayor's form of government is that members of council, our authority is diluted and we are essentially not the voice of our constituents.
 We worked so hard to have district. We worked so hard to represent our constituency, but a mayor can decide what they wanna do. They can decide what they wanna do without council permission. And even if that were the case, council would have to vote and put together plans to create like a three quarters veto power. So you would have to get the majority of council to veto anything of the mayor.
 I can go on and on. I've done a literature review of over 170 different communities that have council managers, former governments. And in every review I've ever conducted, it is, you know, 99% of the time, council managers, former government are not only more efficient, they're safer for our communities. You don't change a form of government if you don't like the person there today.
 So it is us as council members to hire or fire a city manager, hire or fire a city attorney. That is the role of city council because we do that on behalf of our constituency. You don't change a form of government. So if you're getting concerns about, hey, you're concerned about productivity about a city manager, it is our duty to evaluate our city manager and city attorney.
 and to make sure that they're the best person in that role. And if the public doesn't feel that way, then we are tasked with changing the person in that role.
 But the notion that we can expedite these discussions in the next six months to a November 2021 election, I can tell you I wouldn't support this November or next November solely because of the efficiency, professional and the less risk that there are on cities. And so I'm happy to talk to you one-on-one to share all of this information with you or any other people who are supporting going that direction for a strong mirror form of government.
 But, you know, to be honest with you, this community has made incredible strides since we changed our form of government. You're seeing investment. You are seeing economic development opportunities. We have historical data today to show how more progressive
 and how more beneficial this form of government is versus a strong mayor form of government and so i wanted to share those thoughts with council today because um i i i would strongly oppose this i urge my members of council to not consider task making this task for city uh charter advisory committee i support uh you representative anello and your amendment we need to look at the charter
 not just haphazardly, but aggressively looking at every single detail. This is our guiding document. We are charged to enforce this, so we need to treat it with the seriousness it deserves. And I know that that's what you want, and I know that other members of council, that's what we want. Let's take our time, let's do a deep dive, and let's table this to the next year. And let's try to save and achieve economies of scale by collaborating with elections and
 But given the time that we need to to efficiently reform our city charter we need more time than six months especially given the limitations that we have. We don't want to encourage congregation. If we can avoid it let's avoid it. But timing is certainly the cost and timing is certainly a concern for this November. But but the charge for a strong mayor or former government is incredibly regressive and we should we should not have those discussions moving forward. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I think we've actually taken this a little bit in the wrong direction. Representative Molinar's item on the agenda is to have a charter election, not to get rid of the city form of government. I know he made that, that his constituents have made that statement to him, but he did not say that's what he wants to see on the agenda. Well, we can ask Representative Molinar to clarify. Representative Nandes, please. I allowed you to speak, and I'm going to speak. Yes, sir.
 But so he didn't say that that's what the item and I'm looking at the item. That's how it was listed. And I think our city attorney did tell us that what does go on the charter will be voted upon by all the council members to make sure that it's something that that we want and look at just exactly what Representative O'Neill said that we need to look at, you know, some of the things that we might want to change in the in the legislature.
 and really review it. So I think that I don't want it to go to the direction that what this was an item put on here because that's not what it says and that's not the way I want the conversation to go that it's an item to change the form of city government because we're a long ways away from having that discussion because that's not what the item is on the agenda. And we do have eight members of council that have the opportunity to vote on any item that will be brought forward.
 whether it's November of 2022. So I just don't want it to get a conversation of changing that today because that's not the item on the agenda.
 And I thank you because you did have very instruct. I know that you're very passionate what you what you do and what you said and I appreciate that Representative Hernandez but I don't want to have the conversation go with something that's not posted on the agenda because that's not what's posted. Yes ma'am. DIRECTOR HARRIS GARCES- May I just add a comment. I didn't mean to interrupt you I thought you were finished with your comments so excuse me on interrupting.
 I didn't want to speak on behalf of Representative Molinaud those were his statements but that that's definitely was a red flag for me so I just wanted to clarify my position and then in the constituents because I have had this discussion in the past with them but I won't speak on behalf of Mr. Representative Molinaud he can do that himself. Thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Well thank you you did a good job of explaining it I appreciate that. And next item I mean I'm sorry next item.
 Next speaker is Representative Rodriguez. Thank you, Mayor. My question is really quick for Ms. Neiman. Yes, ma'am. I'm here. Okay, thank you. So my question is, by law, how often do we need to revisit our charter? There is no requirement that a council has to revisit their charter.
 The Constitution of the state of Texas simply states that you cannot amend the charter more more than two years or more often than two years. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay. And just to clarify the last time that that it was revisited was when. DIRECTOR RIVERA- In 2018. The voters voted in 2018. DIRECTOR RIVERA- 2018. Okay. All right. That is all. Thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. I'm sorry. Now we next representative Salcido.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Molinar for bringing up this issue. This is an issue that was very important to this Council. And of course, like a lot of my colleagues have shared, it was that postponed due to the pandemic and everything we are going through. But I just did want to raise the point of order. I think that the council is very important to us. And I think that we have to be very careful about what we do in this time. And I think that we have to be very careful about what we do in this time. And I think that we have to be very careful about what we do
 At the beginning, there was never a motion to accept nor a second, so having discussion should have never happened. Am I correct on that, Laura? Well, discussion was began without having the motion.
 So on an item that you have discussion in motion, it could start a conversation or discussion without a motion? I mean, yeah, to approve? Yes, this current council has been having discussion without making a motion first. Okay, and that is allowed? Yes. Okay, I just wasn't sure if it wasn't because how I've read Robert's Rules of Order, I was to the understanding that
 basically dies if it wasn't second. No, this council has been engaging in discussion prior to making any motions. Okay, thank you, Laura. And like my colleagues have shared, I do share a lot of this. I just don't think it's the right time right now. The cost that's involved in having an election right now is not, I don't think it's a
 and it'd be good for us to be spending money. I do definitely think this is an important issue and should be brought up later on, but not right now. And so this is an item that I cannot support right now. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Salcido. And I think it's Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Well, after all that, I have to side with my colleagues that they not only said it eloquently,
 but also with passion because had you been on before, you would not understand that this council has been wanting to do that without a problem. Right now, it's the wrong time. It's the wrong time to do this, to lay a burden of cost on the taxpayer. No, sir, I can't support that. I support my colleagues in everything they've said,
 I'll this is not the time for it. Thank you. Mayor. Thank you Representative Luebeta. Representative Molinar.
 Thank you, Mayor. Appreciate that. I believe for our city attorney, though, the last part, I don't have the city charter in front of me right now. I probably should have gotten a copy of it. However, the final list taken before city council, let's just say, for example, it's three items or five items or four items, whatever. They need to be voted on collectively. You will not be able to vote on them individually. And that's I believe that's the way I read this city charter.
 The other thing too, so I understand costs. I understand funds. I understand that we spend money on different things. But so now we have a redistricting issue that's going to come up by federal law that we need to take care of. So we're going to vote or excuse me, we're going to participate in an election, a general election in November of 2022. And guess what? That's going to cost us money too.
 So your argument that we're going to save money right now is probably to me a little bit moot, because if you don't hold a charter review ad hoc committee election in 2022, when are you going to do it?
 Because you're going to spend money on it one way or the other. You're going to do it in 2023, 2024. And then in 2024, you're going to have six years, six years of no changes. Okay? So think about that when you vote today. And I understand your passion.
 Great. Fantastic. I really do. But I believe you really need to look at it differently. And as far as a redistricting commission, I believe that we have excellent city employees. I believe we have good people in good places doing great work.
 And so, therefore, I really don't see this as a huge challenge. I really don't. I mean, to me, a budget cycle is probably, to me, a lot more, even though I've never experienced one, even though we're getting it piecemeal, probably a little bit more. I'm not going to say the word stressful, but a little bit different. So you're welcome. Thank you.
 I just don't think that we need to act on this. That's my thing. Thank you very much, Mayor and members of City Council. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. We have Representative Schwartzbein, followed by Representative Anello, followed by Representative Salcido, and followed by Representative Rodriguez. Representative Schwartzbein.
 DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Yeah. So again I want to thank again Representative Molinar for placing the item here. I want to thank Representative Inello for what again I think is the only motion that actually was made and was seconded here which would be to call for a charter election for November 2022. Also I think too just to sort of clarify any sort of misconceptions again.
 there will not be any cost for having a charter election in November of 2022 because there is going to be a municipal election for four city council seats in November of 2022.
 So there isn't any issue of having to split costs with the county or anything. It's already baked in because we already are going to have a November 2022 election for four of the seats in City Council of which I'm already assuming we've budgeted for. So no there is a difference by having it in 2021 and 2022.
 As much faith as I have in this in this in our city staff I also think too that it's extremely important to be conservative and prudent to make sure that we nail it on the redistricting commission and the redistricting process. And also give the proper amount of time and respect and courtesy to our constituents and our voters who we claim to care so much about by not rushing and piecemealing a charter election.
 And I think that again November 2022 gives more than enough time for this council and this body to adequately vet any any items that we might want to see collectively not individually collectively sent to a redistricting to a city charter commission. And then them having the time to review them and also being able to have enough time for public outreach so that we can help educate and listen to the concerns of our voters.
 To do so in 2021 is a slap in the face to voters. It's disrespectful. It's not enough time. And doing it with a redistricting commission at the same time seems to be something that isn't really respectful to our hardworking staff and also to our hardworking constituents and voters which we claim to represent.
 So again, I think that 2022 and the actual motion that Representative Manello made is a wise one. It's a common sense one. I think it's also a respectful one to the voters and to city staff as well. And so again, I wanna thank Representative Molinar for that. City Attorney, can you just again clarify again,
 the process we would have to vote collectively on which items we would want to see. I remember I believe in 2015 we went one by one because there was an item about moving the election to November a November municipal election. I think I was actually opposed to that in 2015 and voted against that but each item was taken
 individually to send it to the ad hoc committee, and then each item is taken then individually to send to the ballot. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct. Council would vote her item to go to the commission, and then once that item comes back from the commission, council then votes to decide whether they want it on a ballot. So each item is taken individually to the commission and then back from the commission to decide to go on a ballot.
 And if there's any other if there's any sort of questions that we have in terms of municipal law or anything like that for whatever reason that we don't necessarily want to agree with your opinions or the city the city legal department we can go and also look at outside counsel to get a second opinion if necessary. If any council members are not in agreement with that or have any questions.
 So so traditionally in the past we have hired outside counsel to assist us in revising the charter. So. DIRECTOR HERSEY- So that could be something. Okay. And then just again whether it's six years three years five years there is no legal requirement to actually look at having a charter election as part of as part of our city charter our responsibilities and duties as the city council.
 That's correct. You only have to, you can't do it more often than every two years. That's the prohibition. So again, I think, I think too that three years and six months is a very fair time in between charter elections, especially given the fact that we are still going through a pandemic.
 as well. I again want to thank Representative Molinar for bringing this item up you know between this and the redistricting commission. You know I think that this council this body has has set in motion I think some items that will really help to again further strengthening this this form of government and further strengthen the
 this institution as well. So again, I want to thank Representative Molinar for bringing this up. And again, very happy to second Representative Inello's standing motion and encourage my colleagues to do the same. Thank you. Representative Molnar Thank you. And I appreciate you thanking Representative Molinar. But and I do want to make sure that we are respectful to each other. We do have the ability to vote for or against.
 any item that, you know, come out slapped to the face to the constituents and this and that. Like I said, you do have the right to vote for or against, but I want to make sure that we stay respectful to each other. As I would say the same thing, if anyone says anything that what I feel is offensive to each other. So please, you do have the right to vote in any way. And I would appreciate total respect for each other. Representative and Anello.
 Followed by Salcido, then Rodríguez. Thank you, Mayor. Laura, Ms. Prine, I'm sorry, can you please read my motion? That was going to be my question, by the way, before we did it. It had been a while. Yeah, I'm going to clarify because I based it on what Commissioner Molinar said. Thank you, Laura. Sorry. Yes, the motion on the floor, and please correct me if I'm wrong, was to direct the City Attorney to work with Council and staff to come up with a list of City Charter amendments for a November 2022 election.
 Okay, thank you. Yeah, I just wanted to clarify that for Representative Molinarvich. I don't disagree with him. I think that, you know, the charter amendments and changes should happen and within a timely manner. I completely agree with with his concern there. And as Representative Schwartzbein had mentioned, because we are already having the election in November of 2022, uh,
 that cost has already or will be budgeted in for that. And so kind of merging these ideas is is a cost savings in a way. And so I just wanted to clarify that for Representative Molinar and I want to say I'm really grateful for him putting up this this item. It's a great conversation to have.
 you know kind of was on the back burner in my mind and so I'm glad that you know we could be directing staff to start those conversations again and and so I really want to thank him for that and I appreciate the the agenda item very much I agree with you thank you Representative Salcido followed by Representative Rodriguez
 Thank you Mayor and I do want to echo your comments. I think being respectful is very big and I think this body has been very respectful as we're having this conversation. And I do we all do thank Molly and I for bringing this this item up and it is an important item to us it has been so and we thank them for that.
 But I did want to get clarification because I kind of heard some numbers and I want to just verify I have the correct ones. How long has it been since we've had a charter election? I heard six years, but I read three. So I just wanted to get the accurate. 2018. 2018? Yes, ma'am. It was in November of 2018, Representative. So 2018 to now, that's three years.
 I had heard six years. Okay, so I just wanted to make sure I have the correct numbers on here. And just to clarify also, you know, as I make decisions and analyze any information, I look at everything holistic. So this decision that I'm making today is not just about
 money or saving money. And that's very important to save money for the constituents. But it's also the timing. So that I'm looking at and they run in tandem. And that's how I'm making this decision today. So I thank again my colleagues for all their comments. And I thank Representative Vanilla for her motion. And with all that, thank you. Thank you, Representative Salcido. Representative Rodriguez. And after that, we'll call the question. Thank you.
 Thank you. Again, this is for Ms. Nieman. Just a quick clarification of Representative Manalo's motion. She's calling the election for next year of 2022 correct? No I'm not calling the election. I'm just directing staff to work with council and staff to bring a list together for that process.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay because I thought I heard Ms. Primes say that we're moving your call that your item was calling the election for 22. DIRECTOR MACKIE- I'm doing the preparation for the November 2022 election. We will then have to come back with a list and vote and call the election and all of that. I'm just directing the city attorney to.
 and the City Manager to start that process. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay so we're simply just requesting that we get a list of items for council to consider. That doesn't necessarily mean that we will have an election or that that this will be on a ballot in 22. Correct. DIRECTOR RIVERA- We will have an election in 2022 that does not mean that this you know we're not voting to put this on there at the time. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Representative can I can I clarify so that I can answer your question more clearly. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Yes.
 So what Representative Añelo is recommending is that you all vote to direct me to come back with a list of items for potential amendments to the charter. Once that list is vetted by this council, this council will decide whether you want to consider doing a charter amendment. And then after that, you would then form a committee. Once the committee is formed, you all will send whatever items you choose off of that list to the committee.
 the committee will then have a period of time to determine what recommendations they would make back to this council for you to all then decide whether you want to have an election. So there's still four or five steps before you even call an election. So for November 2022, you have until August to call an election which is done by ordinance. So you would need two readings.
 to call the ordinance for an election in November of 2022 for a charter amendment. The 2022 election is going to happen irrespective of whether or not you put a charter amendment to the voters. Does that make sense.
 Yes that makes perfect sense and to me that actually seems like a much better way to move forward both legally and for my constituents. I know they wouldn't appreciate me just kind of going along with this item just on the fly like that. So I think that this would be a much better process.
 So you know I will be I will be supporting Representative Inalolo's motion. And again thank you to my colleagues. This has been a great conversation not only for us but for the public to to know the process that we all need to go through in order for us to be able to revisit our charter and potentially call an election. But thank you Representative Molinar for for putting this item for your passion and for knowing you know where you stand on this that you know. Thank you. Thank you. Bye bye.
 Thank you. And I want to thank Council for, I agree with everyone that it's been a great conversation. It's something that I think our constituents will have a lot that they've learned from this conversation. So thank you, Representative Lennar and all of Council for the conversation. With that, we have a motion and a second.
 Mayor really quick I have a point of clarification representative Vanilla and Ms. Neiman really quick in terms of compiling a list. The intention is also that she's going to reach out to each of our individual offices as well to to seek out any any ideas that we would have as part of this process at this step. DIRECTOR MACKAY Before Mrs. Neiman answers that was the intent of my motion. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Okay. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Ms. Neiman is there a timeline.
 So we would we would start meeting the members of council for their individual items and then we would also collect a list of items that our office routinely keeps as well as a list of items from the city manager and the departments that then would come back to council. So no I mean we have time between now and.
 the timeline for November 2022. I know that we still got to be echoed in the public. So hopefully we'll be in 90 days to 120 days somewhere in that time frame. So we do give our constituents plenty of time. DIRECTOR HARRIS 120 days or 90 days from.
 from today. That's what I said you know because we do have a lot of time I agree with you there's plenty of time. So we want to make sure we do it right. So hopefully and I know there's no timeline in the motion but I'm just hoping that we'll do that somewhere in that time frame you know four months from now that we can bring it back to council for and review a lot of the things that you and Mr. Gonzalez and council members have brought up. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Yes sir we'll start meeting with the members of council.
 Thank you very much. I appreciate that. And with that, again, we'll call the question, Ms. Prine. Yes, Mayor. I'll read the motion one more time just to make sure that it's correct. Representative Anello, please correct me if we need a correction. So the motion is to direct the city attorney to work with council and staff to come up with a list of city charter amendments for a November 2022 election. Yes, ma'am.
 And that has been seconded. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Really quickly, Representative Molinar, I'm sorry if that came off really aggressive. I just, I wanted to apologize because I'm very passionate about that. But I vote yes in this and thank you again for bringing this to the agenda. Thank you. Molinar. Nay. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera.
 Aye. Lizarra. And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Molinar voting nay. And I want to again thank you all for again the conversation. And Representative Donis, I'm sorry, your statement to Representative Molinar I didn't hear it if you don't mind repeating it.
 Oh I'm sorry I was just I was just thinking Representative Molinaud for bringing it to the forefront and to excuse my passion and not to and not to think that it's anger in any way. It's the way I communicate and you'll learn that. But because I'm very passionate it may come across as being aggressive and I'm sorry. You did a good job. I thank you for that. And with that we have item no we have a call to the public. To the public. Yes sir if we may move to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or groups in character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business. Nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. This evening we have eight members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Mr. Jesus Mendoza. He will be followed by Mr. Rick Bonnard. Mr. Mendoza?
 If you're on the line, star six to unmute your telephone, please. Jesus Mendoza. Mr. Rick Bonart. Star six, sir, to unmute your telephone. Mr. Bonart's topic is bike. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Mr. Bonart's topic is bike intersection through lane at Red Road and High Ridge. Yes, would you please put up the PowerPoint? Yes, sir. It is on the screen. Okay.
 Okay, go. So there was newly constructed bike lane at red and high Ridge, and it's not compliant with Mac toe, which is the organization that tells you how to construct such lanes. And it's very dangerous. So if you would show the second slide.
 which is an example of a good practice, which is only a block away at Ressler and High Ridge. Here, bikes stay next to the curb. And then if you show the next slide, which is slide number three, that lane also has some really great...
 signage that shows motorists what to do, how to turn, and not to hit bicyclists. Now here's the bad bike lane, an example of it, which is what I'm talking about at Red and High Ridge, where cyclists cross in front of high-speed traffic, and it makes cyclists an unprotected sitting duck when you're sitting there at a red light. You can see the two arrows how the bike lane actually crosses into traffic.
 And if you put up the next slide, which is slide number five, this is actually from the NACTO handout and their guide.
 And it shows bike lanes should not be provided at any intersection approach or through traffic lane transitions to a right turn lane only, which is exactly what you built. And here's from your own plans. You can see that that's exactly what you're not supposed to do. So please, before somebody gets hurt, and I've already been hit twice by cars.
 While I'm riding my bicycle. Don't do this. Fix this back. I don't know what started this, why there was a need to put a turn lane there and change.
 the bike lane that was existing and was perfectly fine. You retrofitted something, it's not a good fit, and it's extremely dangerous. So I would ask you to review this and change it back. I was also told it wasn't reviewed by the bicycle committee, and it was also constructed without the necessary paint to do it. So why would someone proceed with a plan without the necessary vetting,
 and or even the necessary supplies to do it, I think this needs to be rethought. So thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Bonort. Thank you, the next speaker is Mr. Peter Wolf. Mr. Wolf, star six please to unmute your telephone. Mr. Wolf's topic is appreciation for the El Paso Animal Services. Good evening, sir, you have three minutes. Thank you so much.
 Good evening, Mayor Leeser and members of the Council. My name is Peter Wolf. I'm a research and policy analyst for Best Friends Animal Society. We're a national animal welfare organization committed to ending the needless killing of animals in shelters across the country.
 As you know, and thanks to your ongoing support, El Paso Animal Services has made great strides in recent years. Indeed, El Paso's commitment to its companion animals was key to the city being named a 2020 All-America City by the National Civic League. This is an extraordinary honor and one you should all be very proud of.
 Progress continues at El Paso Animal Services as the agency applies the lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic. Among these lessons is the shelter's new managed intake policy. As is often the case with new policies, though, there is probably some discomfort and also some misunderstanding surrounding this policy. Some might see it as government agency ignoring its commitment to residents.
 Nothing could be further from the truth, however. In fact, through its managed intake policy, El Paso Animal Services is providing much better service to residents. Rather than transporting a dog across town to the shelter, for example, the dog can remain much closer to home, greatly improving his chances of being quickly reunited with his family. Let me assure you, managed intake is recognized as a best practice and being implemented across the country.
 Many of you will recall that El Paso's community cat program was considered a bit risky when it was first implemented, but quickly became the centerpiece of the shelter's life-saving efforts and a critical component in the city's All-American City application.
 If there's some nervousness about the shelter's new managed intake policy, that's understandable. That's what it's like to be a leader. And make no mistake, El Paso is a leader in animal welfare. Indeed, agencies across the region and around the country admire your city's remarkable progress and are eager to learn from you. I encourage you to keep up the good work, and thank you for the opportunity to speak with you this evening. And on a personal note, I look forward to visiting El Paso before long. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Wilk.
 And the next speaker is Ms. Faith Wright. Ms. Wright's topic is Support of El Paso Animal Services. Good evening, Ms. Wright. Star six, please. You'll have three minutes. Good evening, Mayor and Council Members. Thank you for allowing me to speak tonight. My name is Faith Wright, and I'm the Maddie's Animal Shelter Management Advisor for American Pets Alive. I've been working with the City of El Paso Animal Services since about 2018.
 And the improvements and the strides that I have seen in the shelter are just twofold. There's so many changes that have been made, so many positive changes. Your leadership and commitment is making El Paso very strong. The community support has shown your strategic and innovative program building in El Paso is allowing the community to feel more engaged and allows the community the opportunity to participate in these positive changes that were continuing to happen in El Paso.
 the engagement can be seen in the numbers in our community right now 35 of the animals that are currently in the custody of animal services are in foster homes so that shows right there that your community wants to be able to help with animals they have 35 percent of them in foster homes when an animal is lost and is allowed to stay with the finder 38 of those animals are returned to the owner through the community they do not have to come to the shelter
 the animals that actually come into the shelter have a much lower return to owner rate of only 18 so again we're seeing that it can keep the animals in the community out of the shelters they're getting home fast and they're not causing a burden on the shelter staff or the city budget for animal care
 The work that is happening at Animal Services is simply amazing. The programs are growing, and the staff are super, super committed to everything that's going on. I have enjoyed being here many times over the last three years, and I continue to look forward to a much longer relationship with City of El Paso Animal Services. I thank you very much for letting me speak tonight, and I appreciate all that you are allowing Animal Services to have happen there. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Farmer.
 The next speaker is Ms. Paula Powell. Ms. Powell's topic is support of El Paso Animal Services. Ms. Powell, star six please. Good evening, Mayor and City Council, and thank you for offering me this opportunity to speak on behalf of El Paso Animal Services. My name is Paula Powell and I'm the Senior Strategist with Best Friends Animal Society. But most of you know me from my long career with the City of El Paso.
 And in that career, I have never seen such devoted, hardworking, innovative, and mission-driven employees. The team there at El Paso Animal Services continues to progress from the days that they were taking in every lost dog and euthanizing to a progressive, community-empowering, and serving team that is now a valuable resource to the people and the pets they serve.
 The strategic plan for El Paso has been strong and has proven the test of a pandemic and other crises as those involved, including many of you in this amazing El Paso community, have saved more pets and they serve more people than ever before. El Paso is showing up at the national level in many different forums as a best practice. Is it perfect? No.
 Will Ramon Herrera and his team strive to make it perfect? The clear answer is yes. Will this community support less animals dying if it means that they can help their neighbors find their lost dogs? Of course they will, and have been doing it for years. Thank you.
 We can't go back to the days when it was not working, to the days when the shelter had 1,000-plus animals, or to the days when animals were killed just because they ended up at the shelter and their owners could not find them. We just can't go back to that. Animals are not dying in the streets more now, and the data shows that. More animals are getting home, as Faith said, and the data shows that.
 More customers are being supported, and the data shows that. And today, your city and your department are leaders in animal welfare, leading a progressive change and setting best practice that will change history, not only in El Paso, but across this country. And in my new position, I'm very proud to continue this work with them, El Paso Animal Services, and other shelters in Texas, as we lead this country to saving more lives than ever before. Thank you.
 And something I learned from a lot of you is we do this for one simple reason. Our communities deserve it. They deserve the best. And with that, I thank you always for your support and leadership. And it's nice to see your faces again. Your leadership does not go unnoticed. People are watching everywhere. And you are the example. And thank you. Thank you, Ms. Powell.
 The next speaker is Ms. Denise Valenzuela. Ms. Valenzuela's topic is Municipal Code Compliance Questions. Good evening, Ms. Valenzuela. Star 6 to unmute your telephone. Good evening, Mayor. Good evening. Good evening.
 Good evening. My name is Denise and on behalf of my active duty military family, I humbly request your help to one, stop the demolition of our home located on 3100 Zion Lane, El Paso, Texas, 799-04. And two, to grant a favor hearing to modify the BSE order ENHS17-00785 to reflect a reasonable home renovation timeline.
 Demolition of our home will cause irreparable injury and severe financial harm to our military family stationed 2,000 miles away in Washington, D.C. Contrary to what the Building Standards Commission's order describes, several professionals, to include structural engineers, architects, and general contractors, have assessed our home to be structurally sound, safe, and secure, and does not pose a hazard to the community.
 Also, the evidence presented by the Planning and Inspections Department has many unsubstantiated complaints and possible errors. The BSC regularly questions PID recommendations that may be inaccurate, inconsistent, or unreasonable, and often modifies orders for various circumstances. We believe our case merits order modification.
 Per El Paso City Code Section 2.38.090, we respectfully request modification of the standing BSE order to reflect a reasonable rehabilitation timeline. If necessary, Section 2.38.100B allows the Environmental Services Director or the City Manager-Distinguished to request at any time a rehearing on any case warranting review.
 Given the complex circumstances, our case warrants every hearing to obtain a reasonable order modification, without which would unjustly deny our family substantive due process. We have received no response from city representatives to our written request to modify the standing order. Additionally, our search for legal representation has not gone far, as many firms we've called cannot represent us due to their relationship with the City of El Paso.
 your help is really appreciated thank you very much thank you the next speaker is mr michael castro mr castro's topic is cannabis decriminalization good evening mr costro star six please to unmute your microphone and you'll have three minutes hey good afternoon city council
 Mr. Mayor, so my name is Michael Castro. I run an organization here in El Paso called Legalize El Paso. And I just wanted to bring attention to what's about to happen here with Sutherland Park or New Mexico going legal when it comes to cannabis. So there is a recreational legalization bill that they get passed, meaning anyone over the age of 21 can go and obtain cannabis, meaning you can get two ounces of cannabis, 16 grams of concentrate,
 and up to, I believe it's 800 milligrams of edibles. Now, edibles and concentrate are felonies here in El Paso, Texas. I work in a dispensary called Ultra Health five minutes away from UTEP.
 Now, over the past, I want to say six and a half months, seven months, personally, me and my brother, Colt, who you'll hear from in a moment, hopefully he's still on. We've helped thousands of people in El Paso actually get their medical marijuana cards in the state of New Mexico. And they're actually obtaining medical marijuana. Right. This means that they're actually getting flour. They're getting concentrates and they're able to obtain edibles. And this is all medication.
 Now, the city of El Paso does have a site and release program, but the site and release program is just another way for the city to make a penny off the taxpayer. Right. Cannabis is legal right next door in our sister city, New Mexico, or Sunland Park, New Mexico. What is El Paso going to do?
 when there are dispensaries up and down Sunland Park, New Mexico. And everybody has access from Horizon to Socorro, from the Far East side to the West side to Central. And they have 100% access with the state ID that says 21 and over. And they can walk into any dispensary and obtain this much cannabis. Coming back home?
 We're going to say it's illegal, but do you think that's right? And we all know it's not. And if you're sitting there and you think that's right, whoever it may be on city council, if you think that in any way, form that is right, maybe you should do or just really, really do some research into what's going on. There's a couple of house bills right now being considered on the Texas legislation. It's not enough.
 We might decriminalize felony possession, right, bring it down from felonies to misdemeanors, but that is not enough. What are you going to do when a 21-year-old kid has access to 16 grams of concentrate, right, right next door? So, yeah. Thank you, guys. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Colt DeMorris. Mr. DeMorris' topic is site and release program. Mr. DeMorris, star six, please, to unmute your telephone, and you'll have three minutes. Good evening.
 good afternoon council mayor my name is colt demorris i'm the executive director of el paso normal i am a constituent of representative joe molinar
 Since we last talked last year in 2020 and since the implementation of Cite and Release, I have started working in the New Mexico medical marijuana industry. I've been there for eight months and since then, like Michael said, I've helped over a thousand patients from the El Paso area access medical cannabis.
 I keep getting stories that people are arrested for less than half a gram for a joint here. I got one that was an apple pipe. The police aren't listening to site release. They're still arresting for personal amounts. Although the reciprocal program is about to close and these patients are going to lose access, on or before April 1st, 2022,
 New Mexico recreational sales will begin. Southern Park, Anthony, New Mexico and Chaparral, the recreational cannabis industry will boom. This will flood El Paso with legally purchased recreational cannabis.
 We are going to, if we continue arresting and prosecuting these people purchasing this legal cannabis, we are going to ruin lives for something that is legal five minutes away.
 This has to end. Council, we need to take a look at the site release program, and we need to take a look at what police are doing. We need to act, and we need to stop them. We need to stop them from arresting. We've tried. I appreciate all the work that was done on site release for the year that we worked with you, but we need to do something harder. Another thing is, is...
 we need to stop them from spending any kind of county money on testing right now that the dps does not test misdemeanor amounts of flour we need to stop them from using their crime lab to test these thc amounts or to test whether it's legal thc uh legal cannabis or him um it's
 It's frivolous spending of money. It's not needed. We need to put our foot down on this issue and put it down now because we're about to have a big problem. I look forward to – I'm going to reach out to my Representative Molinar. I look forward to speaking with you. Representative Vanello, Representative Hernandez, I'm going to reach out to you guys too. See if there's something that we can't work together and get –
 uh done because we're about to have a huge problem uh thank you guys for doing what you do and i look forward to talking to all of you soon you guys have a great day thank you the next speaker is mr jesus mendoza mr mendoza if you're in the queue sir star six to unmute your telephone jesus mendoza mayor i don't see mr mendoza's phone number in the queue this concludes call to the public
 Thank you, Mr. Bryant. Thank you everyone for your time. We return to page 14 of the agenda, item number 46. This is discussion in action to direct the city manager and city attorney to explore and make recommendations to amend Title III, Revenue and Finance of the El Paso Municipal Code Chapter 3.04, Property Taxes.
 Section 3.04.040, Exemption Residence Homestead by increasing the Ad Valorem property tax exemption from the market value of the residence homestead owned by an eligible disabled persons and persons 65 years of age or older. This is Representative Hernandez's item. Representative Hernandez. Motion to approve. Motion to approve.
 Second. Vice Chair Nunes. Thank you Vice Chair Zanello for the motion. So back in 2011-2012 was
 The last time the exemption for folks over 65 and persons with disabilities, which is 100% with our purview, that was the last time we amended this part of the title to increase from 30,000 to 40,000.
 And currently we have about 51,000 eligible residents who take advantage of this homestead exemption. These are also the same residents who are hurting significantly due to the, as we've learned yesterday, due to the spike of the values of homes. And so 10 years later, their Social Security benefits, their income has not increased.
 And so now we have a duty to explore how we can support these eligible residents who take advantage of the exemption. And so this measure wouldn't, it's not to tell council or the city manager to increase it artificially. I would like with this item to explore what those models would look like.
 um going into this budget year last year uh we started to have those discussions however unfortunately we missed the we missed the deadline because you have to change the exemption june of that fiscal year um so i wanted to get ahead of it do it earlier and i know that other members of council um feel very passionate about about this and so um this would give um the directive to city manager to start to look at those models those financial models
 and then have the city attorney look at what it will take to amend the ordinance. And so I asked if council would support this item and approve this today so that we can start to explore what those costs would be. And based on my recollection of last budget year, the total value in the exemptions that we give to our residents in El Paso equates to about $20 million annually. And we're looking at a...
 budget of about a billion, less than a billion dollars, but we're looking at of a budget about $900 million. So $20 million is currently what we set aside for exemptions. And so I do believe in the grand scale of our budget that that's very insignificant. And we and we really need to consider how this pandemic and how these
 large inflation rates and the values of our of our homestead exemptions are really impacting our senior citizens and so i know you've heard from senior citizens in your district and i think this might be a viable solution to consider at this time and so i again i ask that council would support this thank you mayor thank you i understand that we do have a motion and a second yes mayor there is a motion and a second to approve item number 46 on that motion mayor pro tem shortswain
 Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Nay. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. First of all, I want to thank Representative Hernandez for placing this item on the agenda. It gives us the opportunity to prioritize the needs of our community. Just like we focus on super seniors during the pandemic, we need to continue to help and prioritize our most vulnerable population, many who experience the hardship of a fixed income.
 I'm in complete support of the item and I want to thank you again Representative Hernandez for doing this. Aye. Big aye. And Representative Lizárraga. Thank you Representative Hernandez for this item. Aye. And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Molinar voting nay. The next item is number 47.
 This is discussion and action to direct the City Manager to commence with a rezoning process of the land formerly known as Tier 12 and any other changes in order to be consistent with the conservation easement process and preservation of the land and report back to City Council in no less than 90 days. This is Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein's item.
 I'd like to make a motion to approve. Second. Thanks. So since the May since the May election in 2019 calling for the preservation of TURS 12 and following actions by this council relating to the creation of a conservation easement I've been working with community members staff and stakeholders to ensure again that the will of the referendum was done in the most appropriate manner that would lead to a permanent all-time policy in the form of a conservation easement in which.
 many members of this council have supported previously. This item seeks to move forward with further actions by city staff to be able to further legitimize the preservation efforts in the books for the City of El Paso.
 Currently, there's no need for the land to be zoned for something it's not intended for as TURS 12 or the Lost Dog area is currently zoned smart code while the areas to be preserved in perpetuity is in its natural state as natural open spaces. So this is simply a cleanup item requesting further action in terms of rezoning and any other amendments that need to be made to the Massac-Trafford plan as well as there was,
 at one point plans for major thoroughfares through this area, which will be preserved in perpetuity as will the voters. So that is the intent for this item, and I respectfully ask for the support of this body. We do have a motion and a second. Representative Ed, I just got a message. You had a question. I got a feeling it was for the last question. Yes, it was, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you, sir. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 47. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizardaga.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The final item is number 48. This is discussion in action to direct the city manager to develop an intersection safety improvement program and bring back recommendations as part of the FY 2022 budget discussions and to develop the framework for an El Paso Vision Zero program that incorporates all current city traffic safety programs and aligns with the federal and state Vision Zero programs. This is Representative Anello's item. Representative Anello?
 DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Second. DIRECTOR MACKAY. Thank you so much Laura. Thank you Representative Schwartzbeiner Representative Molinar. So this item I've been working on with staff for a while. As we all know that we have an NTMP program that currently deals with traffic mitigation on residential streets. But in my district and I know many of y'alls we have some serious traffic and safety issues on arterial roads.
 In my districts I know many of the representatives have heard me talk about Trowbridge, Piedras, Pershing for years. And so this would really just start the process of looking at a program to help our residents who cannot benefit from the NTMP program. And so I really want to thank Sam Rodriguez for you know helping me out.
 and all the work that he has done and will do on this item. And so with that, Laura, do we have anybody sign up for public comment or anybody on the line? Yes, we did have one speaker that signed up on this item. This is Mr. Victor. Can we take that at this time, Ms. Paine? Yes, Mayor. This is Mr. Victor Barajas. Mr. Barajas, star six please to unmute your telephone. Hear me? Yes, sir, good evening. You have three minutes, sir. Hello? Yes, sir.
 Hi. Yes. Thank you so much for the time. My name is Victor Baraja. Well, I want to thank everyone for giving me the time to speak. I wanted to start out with a quick anecdote about speeding in my neighborhood. Just last week, I saw a police officer chasing a speeding vehicle.
 I was very surprised, as in the eight years that I lived here, I'd never seen that happening. I decided to investigate further and approached the police officer that was off to the side of the road enforcing speed limits. He tells me that his sergeant happened to be there. I thanked him for doing this. He mentioned that in his very first day, he caught a driver doing 65 miles per hour in a 35-mile-per-hour zone. There were other drivers, he tells me, doing 45 to 45 miles per hour.
 This is what we deal with on an everyday basis. I've been petitioning for this for a long time and it feels wonderful to have been listened to by our city representatives. It feels great, even if it was just briefly, not to have cars constantly speeding in our neighborhood. Our community has been pushing for more speed enforcement in the neighborhood. We successfully created a petition for speed feedback signs.
 Having spoken with my neighbors, we all want more safety, more peace of mind, less particular matter, and honestly, a better quality of life. My neighbors speak of speeding vehicles all the time, vehicles crashing outside of the home. I'm not feeling safe when they walk their kids or take their dogs for a walk.
 I am the lead for a neighborhood hub called Next Door. And on a regular basis, one of the main complaints in the group is vehicles speeding, vehicles running over animals, and even someone running over a fox a few weeks back. In the city neighborhood meeting, the uniform concern from community members is speeding and the lack of police enforcement in their neighborhoods. This is happening throughout the city. Yes, it is fantastic to have stadiums where parks, water parks, and nicer downtown and other amenities
 But we should be able to walk over to the neighborhood grocery store, walk our dogs, ride our bikes, enjoy our neighborhood in a safe manner without constantly fearing for our safety. That's what we consider quality of life. We know that speeding is one of the main causes for vehicle accidents. We know where this speeding is taking place. We also know that for too long, cars have had rain over our streets.
 We want to reclaim that. We want to have safer streets. First of all, for pedestrians, our most vulnerable group, for kids, for families, for runners, for cyclists. We're not asking for much. We want more police enforcement, because even if we reduce the speed limit, we want to make sure that it is enforced. We want attention from our representatives. We want to be listened to as taxpayers and community members. Most importantly,
 We want an El Paso that is safe for everyone. And an El Paso where people can walk, they can run, they can bike, they can take their kids out. Where Pasoans can enjoy being outside and feel safe in themselves. We have to remember that streets do not belong to vehicles. The streets belong to our community members. Thank you so much.
 Thank you, Victor. And I want to just for clarification for the council, Victor is one of many residents in my area who who deal with speeding and go through the NTMP process and get signatures only to then find out they're not qualified because they live on an arterial. And so I think it is really out of respect for our residents that we create a program that.
 that they can benefit that serves members of the community who cannot be served by the NTMP program. So this is just an item to direct staff to to continue the work that they've been doing and really come back with a comprehensive plan. Thank you. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Thank you. A motion and a second. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Yes sir there is a motion and a second to approve item number 48. On that motion Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbeck Representative Anello Hernandez. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Yes.
 Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the end of the agenda. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Yes. Aye. Anyone opposed?
 And the regular City Council meeting for Tuesday, April 27, 2021 is adjourned at 6.42 p.m. Thank you, Council. Have a great night. Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye. Bye, everybody. Godspeed. Thank you, Council. And the next meeting will begin at 9 a.m. with call to the public at noon for the regular meeting.