Good morning, Ms. Fine. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, May 9, 2023. Present and presiding in council chambers is Mayor Leaser, along with Representative Kennedy, Mayor Potemanelo, Representative Hernandez, Alternate Mayor Potemolinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Fierro, Representative Rivera, and Representative Canales. It is 9.03 a.m.
 Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting. I rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain David Mayfield. Good morning again, sir. Mayor Leaser, members of the council, good morning and thank you for having me. I invite all those who would to join me in prayer. Creator God, we gather here today to make decisions for the betterment of our city and its inhabitants.
 We ask for your guidance and wisdom to help us make fair and just choices that will benefit all members of our community. We pray for the health and safety of our citizens and for the success of our local businesses and organizations. May our city continue to grow and thrive in a positive and inclusive manner. We ask for your blessings upon our City Council members and their families as they work tirelessly to serve our community.
 May they be filled with compassion, wisdom, and integrity as they make important decisions on our behalf. EOC After Mass Transit. In this time of unrest and confusion, we pray that we might respond with compassion and humanity to the needs of all in our city, regardless of their origins or circumstances. We thank you for your constant presence and guidance
 and we pray that you continue to bless our city with your love and protection amen amen thank you sir thank you and to lead us in the pledge of allegiance this morning we have miss patricia garcia's class from sunrise mountain elementary school we have lucilla anguiano matthew avila emily bunch jayla castillo abigail de la cruz theodore inc jaylene garcia
 Alana Garcia Barnett, August Huffman, Isaac Jeffries, Avery Leyva, Yuvia Lujan, Damian Mendoza, Eric Metz, Jesus Olivares, Isaiah Oliveri, Madison Puga, J.C. Rollins, and Isaiah
 Thank you very much. . Emily Vaughn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 Thank you.
 I'm going to sit there. I know you came up and I did. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. Before we get started, Ms. Pryor, I do welcome everybody to City Hall. And I do want to have a moment of silence and kind of so, you know, people think about
 At midnight May 11th Proposition 42 will be lifted and there's already and will be a lot of people in our community and I think it's important that we pray for safety and not only for the asylum seekers but also the community of El Paso, Texas and that everybody continues to open up their hearts and continue to make sure that again that everyone is safe and
 that we will do this in a very humane process and make sure, like I said, that not only our asylum seekers but also the citizens of El Paso continue to be saved and will continue to pray for everyone's safety and continue to make sure that we will work hard and continue to represent everyone. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. The first proclamation is National Police Week, El Paso Police Officers Memorial Day. Thank you.
 Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas, whereas since the first recorded death in 1786, more than 23,000 law enforcement officers in the United States have made the ultimate sacrifice
 and been killed in the line of duty including 2,106 from the state of Texas. And whereas the names of these dedicated public servants are added to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial for officers killed in previous years engraved on the walls of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C. And whereas
 By joint resolution approved October 1, 1962, authorized and President John F. Kennedy proclaimed May 15th of each year Peace Officers Memorial Day in honor of those who have been killed and disabled in the line of duty. Further designating the calendar week in which May 15th falls Police Week.
 And whereas in the city of El Paso, state of Texas, and every American community, law enforcement officers with the El Paso Police Department are committed to the preservation of life and property, risking their lives to protect us from those who would defy the law.
 providing law and order and service to the cause of justice. Whereas the city of El Paso and the state of Texas honor the heroism of all law enforcement officers, especially those who have given their lives so that others might live, asking God's blessings for the families and friends they left behind. Whereas in the 138-year history of the El Paso Police Department, 35 officers have lost their lives in the line of duty, paying the ultimate sacrifice while serving and protecting the El Paso community.
 And whereas in the city of El Paso, state of Texas, during police week, the nation's flags will be flown at half staff on Peace Officers Memorial Day under Public Law 103-322 as amended. And whereas the service and sacrifice of all officers killed in the line of duty will be honored during the El Paso Police Department's Candlelight Vigil on the evening of May 10th, 2023.
 Now therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the week of May 7th through May 15th, 2023 shall be known as National Police Week, and that May 15th, 2023 shall be known as El Paso Police Officers Memorial Day. Signed, the Honorable Oscar Leaser, Mayor, City of El Paso. All right, thank you very much, Representative Molinar. Someone from the police department. And I wanna thank every police officer that
 serves our country and also serves the city of El Paso. You all leave your home not knowing what you will encounter and what will happen, but you do that day in and day out. And I thank you for your bravery, but also thank you for your commitment and your dedication to our community to make sure we continue to be safe. Thank you all.
 Thank you Mayor and City Council. It certainly is an honor to have this and thank you to our President Kennedy for recognizing and now because of that also we're able to carry on this memorial to validate and let the officers families friends co-workers and the community know that it wasn't in vain
 And for that reason, it's very important and always an honor that we can have this every year just so that we can pray for them as well. And make sure that, like I said, that they don't get forgotten and that we recognize that they did not die in vain. They did what they loved doing and ultimately paid their lives with it. So thank you so much for the proclamation, sir. Thank you. We'll never forget. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next proclamation is Mental Health Awareness Month. Whereas the City of El Paso recognizes the National Mental Health Act passed on July 3, 1946, to improve and foster mental health among the populace and become a federal priority. And whereas mental health encompasses emotional, psychological, and social well-being, mental health conditions involve significant changes in thinking, emotional regulation, and behavior.
 And whereas depression is the most common mental health condition in Texas, and 50% of mental health issues begin by the age of 14, and 35% of adults with major depression receive no treatment. And as of 2022, El Paso had a higher rate of depression compared to Texas, making the need for community collaboration vital for mental health improvement.
 And whereas marginalized communities consistently experience worse mental health than other communities, and failure to prioritize and address the mental health needs of marginalized communities perpetuates systematic disparities. And whereas the need to increase mental health awareness and screenings in communities is crucial, the City of El Paso Department of Public Health will focus on raising awareness of the causes, risk factors, and prevention strategies of mental health.
 And whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health is committed and dedicated to providing referrals to mental health organizations for individuals of all ages through collaborative efforts with mental health agencies and community partners by providing resources to increase timely behavioral health screenings, diagnosis, and treatment. Now therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso that the month of May shall be known as Mental Health Awareness Month. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Come on up please, thank you.
 Good morning, everyone. Good morning. My name's Yvonne Marquez. I am the program manager for the Medicaid Waiver Program with the Department of Public Health. I am grateful for the opportunity to speak to you about a topic that is important in our community, mental health. As you know, mental health is an issue that affects all of us, regardless of our background, age, socioeconomic status. It is an issue that requires everyone's attention and commitment.
 According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 50% of people will experience a mental health illness or disorder at some point in their lifetime. And 1 in 25 Americans lives with severe mental illness such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or major depression. It is essential to seek professional help when one's poor mental health interferes with daily activities.
 That is why we are honored for the acceptance of this proclamation in support of mental health. This proclamation is not just a piece of paper. It's a symbol of our collective commitment to raise awareness of the importance of mental health and support those who are struggling with mental health challenges in our community.
 On behalf of everyone who has been touched by mental health challenges and work towards a solution, I want to say thank you. Thanks to the amazing work, dedication, compassion, and commitment of the mental health organizations in our community, which are also present here with us today.
 Thank you City Council for standing along with us. I know that we can make a difference to create a bigger future, a brighter future for all those who struggle with mental health challenges. Thank you again for this proclamation and for your ongoing commitment to mental health. Thank you. Thank you very much for being here and.
 You know, awareness is so important, but also having the ability to work together and recognize people that need help and making sure that they understand it's okay to get help. And I think that's one of the most important things, that people sometimes don't think that it's okay, that it's embarrassing, and it's not. So to recognize and be out there and work together and reach out to people is so important. So I thank you for this.
 Good morning, my name is Kathy Guyton, I'm the CEO of the El Paso Child Guidance Center and also the Vice Chair of the Family Leadership Council. We understand improving mental health is a federal priority but we also understand it's a local priority as evidenced by this impressive and very important proclamation. The Family Leadership Council that stands behind me is a collaborative of behavioral health providers in our community.
 Our goal is to fill the gaps of behavioral health needs. We are, on our group, we have both providers and a family advisory council. We work together to build a stronger behavioral health system. We are all dramatically in support of the Mental Health Awareness Month. It's a critical time to acknowledge a topic that as you said, Mayor, has historically been shrouded in stigma.
 Today a light shines on the emotional wellness and resiliency due to this proclamation and all our efforts and the sea of green ribbons That you see before you so thank you so much Thank you And if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers council will have an opportunity to take photos with you Once all the ceremony monial items have been completed. The next proclamation is stamp out hunger day. Yes, sir Rebecca thank you Proclamation for the CEO of Paso, Texas
 Whereas for 28 years, the National Association of Letter Carriers combined with the United States Postal Service have used the Saturday before Mother's Day for the largest one-day food drive to eliminate hunger in our community. And whereas the generosity of the community made it possible for letter carriers to collect over 100,000 pounds of nonperishable food per year while delivering mail which supplements food to thousands of families in need.
 And whereas 162,636 pounds of food were donated and collected last year, making 2022 a record year for the Stamp Out Hunger initiative in the El Paso community. And whereas El Pasoans Fighting Hunger, the AFL, CIO, and Teamsters have joined the National Association of Letter Carriers in this great effort,
 And whereas we challenge the community to beat the record and make this food drive the best and largest single day food drive in the history of the city of El Paso. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and city council of the city of El Paso that Saturday, May 13th, 2023 shall be known as Stamp Out Hunger Day, signed by the Honorable Oscar Leaser. And so at this time we have Mr. Richard Dayoub.
 Sal Rodriguez, Albert Anzondo, and Rad DeVoe. Come on up, sir. Thank you. All right, thank you, and good morning, folks. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, sir. Good morning, council members. We know it's a challenging time in El Paso, and so we bring good news, and the letter carriers are ready for our annual food drive. Last year, we collected from El Pasoans about 202,000 pounds of food and money.
 And that actually broke our record for the biggest collection that we did with the El Pasoans Fighting Hunger Food Bank. So I want to make sure that we do thank the food bank, because they're very helpful in supporting the letter carriers to do this really big food drive. We want to thank the Postal Service, because they let us use their docks.
 and all their equipment to get all the food to the food bank. We actually do this project on the clock. The letter carriers are out there delivering mail on May 13th. So then they pull a double duty and they pretty much do it in the same amount of time, maybe a little bit longer and I know the supervisors don't want to hear that, but it takes what it takes, we always tell them. But they come back with trucks loaded with food.
 And this is just such a special honor and opportunity to be out here and to be with the letter carriers. We got bags that we're delivering to all our customers. Well, not all of them, but as many as we can. And we would like for everybody to fill their bag with food, non-perishable food. Protein foods are always welcome. And leave it out there at your mailbox. And on Saturday, the letter carrier will take the rest.
 take care of the rest of everything that has to be done for you. We have volunteers all over the city. We want to thank City Council and the mayor one more time, and we do have a little gift for each of you, and that's to give you a food bag that hopefully that you will use as well. And if anybody, we don't want to interrupt the meeting, but if anybody wants a food bag, let us know. So thank you again. Thank you.
 My name is Sal Rodriguez. I am the president of the National Association of Letter Carriers, and I want to thank everybody for helping us. You guys don't know how grateful we are and blessed to have a job. And believe it or not, we have letter carriers. Yes, a lot of people says you have a job, but we have a lot of carriers who leave paycheck to paycheck, and we have sent them to El Paso fighting hunger. Believe it or not, when they get this bag of food, when they provide it, it pays a bill for them.
 So everybody might be in need. We don't know when we're going to need them. So I want to thank everybody. Please touch your hearts. And we also going to be taking donations you can take into El Paso Fighting Hunger. The letter carriers actually donated last year $5,000 on top of that. So thank you again for giving us this opportunity. God bless you all. Thank you. I just want to recognize El Paso Fighting Hunger Food Bank. We really appreciate everything that you've done for us.
 You know the need in the community is huge and the hearts of everybody in this room needs to be large We take care of everything Susan CEO could not be here Susan Goodell But Richard and I are here and once again really appreciate the support of everybody in this room I'll pass on this fighting hunger food bank does make a difference in this community. Thank you. Thank you mayor and council. I
 That's Brad Dubow. He is the chairman of our board. He forgot to announce who he is. I serve with him on the board. It's my honor to be a part of the food bank leadership. And I just want to say thank you to all of you for all that you do to support the food bank, recognizing how critical the need is in our community, not just today, not just this coming Saturday, but throughout the year, and also to thank the postal workers of America who give so much to this effort. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you, and I do want to thank you all for being here and postal workers, but also
 El Paso is a very generous community, and we've seen it many times, and we continue to see it even in the crashes that were being affected in our community today. And it's a generous community, and when you talk about the 202,000 pounds, which was the record last year, it's no surprise because we have a wonderful and very giving community. And thank you all for giving your time and continue to make El Paso a better place. Brad, Richard, thank you.
 If you don't mind, Albert's going to approach you to give you guys a little gift. Thank you. Thank you, Albert. And the final proclamation is National Travel Tourism Week. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, ma'am. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. We're asked, Destination El Paso celebrates National Travel and Tourism Week with the local awareness activities honoring the travel and tourism industry.
 And whereas in 2022, the city of El Paso hosted 3.8 million visitors. And whereas travelers contributed 2.14 billion to the economy in our city. And whereas El Paso hotel occupancy was 71.76%.
 And whereas the hospitality industry employs 13,910 El Pasoans, and whereas given the global contribution to the economic, social, and cultural well-being of the citizens of El Paso, it is fitting that we recognize the importance of travel and tourism and encourage the citizens of El Paso to observe this week by participating with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
 Now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and city council of El Paso that the week May 7th throughout May 13th shall be known as National Travel and Tourism Week. Signed by the Honorable Oscar Mayer-Leeser.
 Good morning, sir. Good morning members of Council Jose Garcia president and CEO for destination El Paso It is national travel and tourism week We appreciate you all taking the time to recognize this week For the travel and tourism industry. It's an incredible industry here in El Paso Brooke will go over the tens of thousands of people that are employed in our industry and
 2023 is our Ruby anniversary. It's the 40th year that we recognize travel and tourism week and so we just want to again appreciate you all allowing us this opportunity to to talk about travel and tourism and its importance not only to the local economy but to the community as a whole. And so I would like this opportunity as everybody knows the infamous Brooke Underwood executive director for Visit El Paso.
 Your name again, ma'am? Apparently it's infamous, Brooke Underwood. Oh, there you go. Thank you. Good morning, members of council. Oh, thank you. If you'd bring up that PowerPoint presentation. We have a brief presentation. I will do my best to enunciate very clearly, but be respectful of your time.
 Again my name is Brooke Underwood I'm the executive director of Visit El Paso and it's been my pleasure to approach you for the last 15 years with my tenure at DEP but also introduce my colleague Veronica Castro director of tourism and strategic alliances many of whom you already know.
 El Paso received more than 3.8 million visitors resulting in a travel expenditure over over 2 billion The impact of this tourism is significant as it is sustained over 13,000 jobs and many cultural exchange experiences
 That translates to a healthy hotel occupancy. In calendar year 2022, El Paso led state and national averages, but has also consistently led major Texas metros in occupancy. What's also important to note is that local hotels have also experienced a 9% increase year over year in the average daily rate they're able to collect on those hotel rooms.
 In 2022, Visit El Paso's tourism department placed an emphasis on building El Paso's publicity on a local, national, and international level. Travel writers from across the U.S. and international borders were welcomed to visit El Paso and document their experiences and the city's attractions and to share with their audiences around the world. Similarly, the team worked to introduce more tour operators to El Paso and promote the city as a prime destination for travel and leisure.
 The Echo and Cultural Heritage Division focused on developing and promoting El Paso's unique identity. Monthly tours were held to engage community to learn more about El Paso's diversity and culture. Mission trail tours, streetcar tours, and mural tours were held year-long to encourage the public to learn more about El Paso's rich history and educational experiences. The tourism department also attended dozens of community gatherings at local organizations, sporting events, and schools.
 You'll recall that Destination El Paso has a dedicated team member, Nora Ochoa, who is strictly focused on this segment as it is both a priority of the council and our organization.
 the convention development team also maintained a consistent presence on a state regional and national level to secure convention and meeting activity the team doubled down on building and maintaining those key relationships that that resulted in secured securing notable state and national activity neighborhoods usa which will take place later this month with an attendance of over 800 texas state teachers association took place last month with attendance of about 600
 Texas State Firefighters Association will take place in June and have over 300 attendees.
 And then of course, I'd be remissed if I didn't mention the Texas Democratic Party. One of my honors to work with you all on helping secure, which is now estimated to bring over 8,000 individuals to our community. And then conveniently, we just saw Issy from Emergence Health Network. And our team worked very closely with him to bring NAMI Texas, which will take place in November of 2024. And that could draw over 300 attendees.
 The sports and tourism development department is equally as important and contributes to hotel room nights and economic impact when convention activity is relatively soft over those weekends. In fact, Ras Mota, our sports sales manager, is actually in Kansas City attending Sports ETA, formerly known as the National Association of Sports Commissions.
 It's their annual symposium where he'll have over 20 one-on-one meetings with events rights holders and different executive directors in an effort to secure more sporting activity for our community.
 The film and creative industries another division of visit El Paso saw an uptick in production driven by the film and production industry returning returning to location shoots and coming out of the pandemic. The film and creative industries commission reported for room nights and shoot days that exceeded their annual goals primarily due to a television reality show called Tex-Mex Muscle.
 Additionally, commercial production in El Paso has remained consistent throughout the year, as did documentary production with several New York-based docu-series shooting throughout the spring and summer. Green Ghost had a feature film, Tex-Mex Muscle, of course, Marza Volta had a music video. Between Borders is a television series that shot here, and then of course Khalid shot two different videos. And at this time I'd like to bring back Jose Garcia. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Brooke. Do I have to push the button?
 Okay, well, we'd be remiss if we didn't share the contributions to travel and tourism from our El Paso Live Division. I like to call the El Paso Live Division our facilities and events. As you know, the Convention Center, the Plaza Theater, the Abraham Chavez Theater, McElligian Canyon Amphitheater, and Arts Festival Plaza. The Plaza Theater,
 is ranked 69th in the world in Polestar. And I say that because you take every theater in the world and there's such amazing content going into the Plaza Theater, it's ranked 69th. But the Abraham Chavez is ranked 101 in the world.
 But if you put those two together, they're ranked in the top 50. And so we're really proud of that. These theaters are bringing in guests from the region. They're staying in hotels. They're eating at restaurants. They're shopping, et cetera, et cetera.
 Broadway and El Paso in its 19th season. This year we have over 2,700 subscribers. That is a record. We have Hamilton. We just finished Cats and Dear Evan Hansen. Hamilton we're looking forward to. We're very excited about a 16-night run. And that'll be in July. So we encourage folks to get their tickets because they will go fast. And then of course the El Paso water parks.
 Last year finished up our second season. We're starting our third season. Actually this past weekend we did a soft opening at the Chapoteo Waterpark. And so we almost had one hundred and two thousand park visitors. Season passes sold six thousand and then a lot of following on social media. So did I go too far?
 As we close, I'd like to draw your attention to two pieces that we have provided you in addition to the token of our appreciation for your support. V and Brooke are handing out some gifts. Inside theirs, there's a facts and stats sheet outlining much of the data that you all received today. Thank you.
 We're really excited about this next part. We also brought you a copy of our newest project, the Downtown Mural Guide. We're especially excited about this piece but also want to encourage individuals to check out a citywide guide available on our app and you can get that app on the Apple Store and the Android Store.
 And finally we would like to share the 2022 destination Paso created a scholarship for area students interested in pursuing a career in travel and tourism. And many of you know it's named after Brian Crowe who had done so much for our community and has moved on to Tulsa.
 So again, members of council, we all know that time is our most precious commodity, and we appreciate you giving us this time so that we could travel all the fun stuff that's happening in travel and tourism. Thank you so much, and have a great morning. Thank you. And Ms. Underwood, Ms. Castro, thank you. And you guys always have a smile on your face, and it goes a long way. So thank you for creating a lot of ambassadors to our community.
 You know, we talk about we can spend millions and millions of dollars advertising or we can have people come to our community and after they leave, they love the people, they love the things to do and they love being here and when they leave, they become ambassadors and you all have created thousands and hundreds of thousands of ambassadors to our community. So we thank you for that. Mayor, would you like to recess now or continue with the consent agenda? Let's do the consent agenda. We have any proclamations?
 Any resolutions? I'm sorry. No? So we'll go ahead and recess now, Ms. Pryor. Thank you. May we have a motion to recess? There's a motion and a second to recess. The council meeting all in favor? Anyone opposed? And the city council meeting is in recess at 9.42 a.m. Council members, if I can get you all, we're going to go ahead and take some. Almost. Yes, ma'am. Mayor, did you want to reconvene the regular agenda? No.
 Mayor, we have the TERS 10 board meeting as well. Yeah, we'll do the tax increment. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1022 a.m. That brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Mayor Pro Tem. Ms. Pratt, I have a few revisions you all don't have as well, so bear with me. So I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 3, item 2, delete per representative Molinar. Page 4, item 5, move to the regular per representative Anello. Page 16, item 42, move to the forefront per representative Molinar. Page 16, item 43, move to the forefront per representative Molinar.
 Page 16, item 44, move to the forefront per Representative Molinar. Page 16, item 45, move to the forefront per Representative Molinar. Page 18, item 51, move to the forefront per Representative Rivera. And page 18, item 52, move to the forefront per Representative Salcido. Mayor Pro Tem, can you please repeat the first one, the deletion? The first deletion was item 2, which is to excuse Representative Molinar.
 Thank you Mayor pretend the item for me was 52 or 51 yours is 52 listed from what I received from the To me directly I made an error so it's 51 but well then representative I read I had also asked that page 18 item 52 be moved to the forefront. Thank you mayor pretend. I
 There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. And if we could take those in order. In the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item five that was moved to the regular agenda.
 This is discussion in action on a resolution that the City Council accepts the recommendation from the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and Hereby approves the renaming of the recently renovated softball field across from the El Paso Municipal Rose Garden at 3418 Aurora Avenue to Armando Sam Sombra Thank You mayor. Thank you. Mr. Bryan. I'd love to invite the family up to speak. They have a really wonderful story I was approached by by family members and
 wanting to change the name of the park and was able to learn about their father his story I'm very happy to have someone who grew up in the area and really did what they you know played softball played baseball did refereed and did what they loved at that park and happy to be able to memorialize them for that but I do want to allow for the family to get up and tell their story good morning and thank you for being here
 Thank you Mayor Leeser and City Council members for having us here today to petition for naming the baseball park at Memorial Park after our father Armando Sam Sombrano. Our mother was my father's favorite fan and collected an album full of articles dating back to when he was a young man of 21 of his greatness playing baseball. While researching information on my dad, I came to find that he was a legend in the baseball softball world.
 We always believed in our father. However, when we began collecting signatures for the petition to name the park after him, we heard so many stories of the people who loved him also. He touched so many lives by being the man he was and being such a big part of the El Paso community, which made us more determined to get the park named after him.
 The greatest story is that he was a great father, husband, son, father-in-law, grandfather, man of God, and a greatest generation Big Red One infantry soldier. He earned the French Legion of Honor Award and the Belgium Forgari for his sacrifices in liberating France and Belgium during World War II.
 He also received a presidential citation with an oak cluster which signifies gallantry and valor, two purple hearts, and a bronze star. In May of 1957, our father was guarding home base when a runner came in and they both collided. His baseball softball days were over, but for the love of the game, he became an umpire.
 His umpire skills were a 99% accuracy and put to the test when he was chosen to umpire the international softball tournament in Rock Island, Illinois. It was at the end of the tournament, the 15th inning, bases were loaded, and our father called a bulk on the pitcher, and a runner came in and the game was over. Tension was high with fans calling my dad all kinds of names and throwing things onto the field.
 The losing coach came and yelled at our dad, but throughout the whole incident, my father kept his composure. The chief of police escorted our dad out. The final ruling from the ISC and Empire Association that our dad was correct in the call, and he was asked to come back for the six more years. The following year, the losing coach and team came to apologize to my dad, and the chief of police and my dad became lifelong friends.
 Our dad has five daughters, but unfortunately none of us are athletically inclined. Sorry about that. We are kind. But we were his pride and joy, and he was there for us whenever we needed him. We would feel so honored to have this softball field for girls named after our wonderful father.
 Our dad was inducted into the International Softball Hall of Fame in 1991 in Vancouver, Canada. Only the second umpire to be inducted, where his picture is hanging in the ISC Museum in Kimberley, Wisconsin. He was inducted into the El Paso Softball Hall of Fame in 1974 and the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame in 2002. This park is his heaven and field of dreams.
 It's where it all started for him as a baseball player and ended as an umpire. We are happy to share our angel and hero because we want his legacy to keep going. And we'll be sponsoring a scholarship named Armando Sam Sembrano for a deserving baseball softball player at Austin High School. Good morning. I'm one of Armando Sembrano's five son-in-laws, and I'm here with my wife Marie and two other brother-in-laws, Victor Montes,
 and Margie, his wife, and Fernie Torres and his wife, Connie Torres. I'd just like to add what an honor it would be for my father-in-law and his family to have a woman's softball field named after him, and how fitting it would be for my father-in-law to have such an honor bestowed on him, a father who himself also had five beautiful daughters, Marie, Margie, Angie, Connie, and Sandra.
 Thank you again for your consideration and your time. Thank you all so much for being here today, for bringing this forward and for sharing your stories. And with that, I will make a motion to approve. Second. When was the last time he umpired a softball game? What year? In 1974, he just couldn't. Actually, he played still while I was in high school. So maybe in the late 70s. Late 70s? He just couldn't do it anymore, or he would be out there.
 I played forever and I got a feeling he called a couple of my games. He did play? He did call? Yeah. Yeah, I played forever. It's amazing wherever I go and people they ask who a father is and they say oh my god I knew him he was a great person. Thank you. With that we have a motion and a second. Yes mayor the motion was made by Mayor Pro Temo Anelo seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item five on that motion call for the vote.
 in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Congratulations. Thank you very much. We now turn to page 16.
 Items 42 through 45 were moved to the forefront and they're related. Mayor, would you like to take them together? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Item 42 is an ordinance granting Elite Medical Transport of Texas a franchise extension and amending ordinance number 019172. Item 43 is an ordinance granting Dominion and Ambulance LLC a franchise extension and amending ordinance number 019171.
 Item 44 is an ordinance granting South Texas Ambulance Response Inc. DBA Revive Mobile Health, a franchise extension and amending ordinance number 019426. And item 45 is an ordinance granting Life Ambulance Service, a franchise extension and amending ordinance number 019173. We do have public comment. Sorry, we have motion and a second? Yes, sir. And we do have public comment on item 44. We have Carlos Alarcon.
 Followed by Samuel Dominguez and Michael Sarabi. Good morning, you have three minutes.
 good morning mayor good morning council uh we appreciate uh the time that you have invested in into looking into this and we just wanted to provide you an update based on on our approval for the city franchise so just to give you some numbers between july 2022 and december 2022 we were primarily serving el paso county and from there we were able to complete 129 calls you know with our ambulances
 From January of this year up to yesterday, we have been able to complete 805 calls, which means that we have significantly improved the inter-facility transport response times for our community, lessening the wait times for the freestanding ERs, for other facilities such as assisted livings, nursing homes, to make sure that we get the patients to their final destination.
 and in a timely manner so thank you very much for granting us the opportunity to serve our community and we appreciate that and we look forward to continuing to serve for indefinitely thank you very much for your time thank you the next speaker is samuel dominguez followed by michael sarabia good morning you have three minutes good morning council
 I'm Sam Dominguez, the Director of Operations for Revive. I'm here first recognizing that I'm more of a boots on the ground type of individual. Addressing city council is definitely not in my forte. I just don't wanna repeat anything my managing partners will have to say, but I do wanna say that Revive has set out to do
 Set out to provide service to the city of El Paso the county of El Paso and we've been able to do that Energetically, I took on the duty of continuing some of the plans that revived had started prior to my tenure But also I undertook many others such as the recruitment hiring and training new staff amongst many others
 Since being granted our franchise, we're able to build an ambulance workforce that is almost three times the workforce that we started with. And also we've doubled our fleet of ambulances that are available for the city. We've developed standards of care and standards in our policy that have positive impact on both our workforce.
 staff and also our clientele or the patients that we take care of and also the hospital partners that we have we've been able to transport some of the most critical patients that the city that these hospitals have without having to take away from the hospital staff basically we have critical care transport capabilities that have not been available in the city previously
 So Revive stays readily available to serve the city, to serve the community, to serve the population and our hospital partners. I also invite our council members and our mayor to visit our facilities so that way they can see that we make a big difference. Thank you. Thank you. The final speaker is Michael Sarabia. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Welcome back.
 So our city franchise has become a true beacon of hope for our community. The positive changes that have come with it have truly been a game changer for us with shorter ambulance waits an expanded fleet and a team of skilled EMT's and paramedics. Our city is now being better equipped than ever before to handle even the most challenging of transport calls.
 But the benefit of our franchise extended far beyond just logistical improvements. The increased contracts that have come with it are a testament to the trust and the confidence that our community has in our ability to provide exceptional care. We are proud to be able to say that our franchise has not only improved the quality of care that we have to offer
 but has also served as a source of inspiration and motivation for our own team. We are now more committed than ever before to providing the highest standard of ambulance care possible. Every day we work tirelessly to ensure that our community remains safe, healthy, and well cared for. We believe that every person deserves access to the best possible care, and we are honored to be able to provide that care to our community.
 Our city franchise symbolizes the power of teamwork, dedication, and passion. We are grateful for the opportunity to serve our community and look forward to many more years of providing exceptional care to those who need us. Thank you, guys. Thank you. And again, we're going to take all four items together. So with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Alternate Mayor Tim O'Leary, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve items 42, 43, 44, and 45.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido-Fierro not present. We now turn to page 18. The next item that was moved to the forefront is item number 51. And thank you to all of you all. And we do understand the importance of providing a service for our community. And that's why you saw a unanimous vote, because we believe that all of you all bring value to what our community needs. So thanks to everyone.
 Are there still people are we still waiting for people for 51 item 51 is next Item 51 is discussion in action on a request from Union Montwood LLC For City Council to grant an exception from the prohibition of sale of alcoholic beverages within 300 feet of public or private school for a restaurant bar at 9640 Montwood his prime we do have Speakers and callers. Yes, we do. Can we take those first man? I?
 Yes, sir. The first speaker is Eugene Sangre followed by Rosa Rosas Lujan. Good morning. You have three minutes Good morning, sir. Good city reps The city ordinance is put in place for safety. Is it not? My one question to you if you pass this the safety of our children that is a high school directly across the street less than 300 feet away and
 The bar establishment opens up at 11 a.m. The kids go to lunch at 1115. They're going over there. What who's not to say somebody is drunk coming out of there going to hit one of them children during lunch or after school. Do you want that on your conscience. I know that I don't. My children they go to that school. So please I'm asking you don't let this happen.
 When the gentleman that purchased the land came around with the petition, he said there was not going to be a bar there. It would be a beauty salon, something that would help the community. And in my opinion, a bar is not helping the community at all. So, again, please vote no on this. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Rosa Lujan, followed by Webster Powell. Hello.
 Well, I do pay he Nick. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, ma'am. Good morning mayor. Good morning council I am a resident of the Eastwood high school area and I've been there for like 25 26 years. It's very calm You have a lot of football games basketball games a lot of activities, which is really nice I believe like the gentleman previously said when we were approached they were going to each house whatever they saw out to get signatures and
 to purchase the land I specifically asked is there going to be any alcohol stores any alcohol being served and they said absolutely not. We want restaurants we want to promote the area. I feel that the residents were lied to. We were deceived because there's already previous union draft house owned by the gentleman.
 Okay, so I really opposed to that. I am all for local business growth, promotion, what have you, for profit, employment, but at what cost?
 I ask that you keep that in mind, look at the bigger picture of the accidents. We don't want El Paso to be known as just to have another bar in town. We want to promote, we're already in the national news for what's happening on the border, unfortunately. We want to bring more positive to the community. Why wasn't there something to bring and promote, you know, events for teenagers?
 for children instead it has to be another bar and I know that the property owner was appalled by the fact that we call it a bar you know it's bar tavern brewery union tap house it's all the same and I really believe that this is going to bring more what is the word more negative you know.
 fights, brawls, drunk driving. It's gonna increase the percentage of all that in our neighborhood. And I just ask that you look at the bigger picture and really take into consideration the safety, the peacefulness in our neighborhood that we have really enjoyed. And I thank you for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Webster Powell, followed by Guadalupe Giner. Good morning, you have three minutes. Council members, Good morning, sir. And Pasadena City staff and fellow citizens,
 Thank you for this opportunity to oppose the Union-Montwood LLC request for an exception to the prohibition of the sale of alcoholic beverages within 300 feet of Eastwood High School. My opposition is based mainly on my concern that granting this exception will pose a unique and avoidable risk to the safety of Eastwood High School students, staff, parents, and the Eastwood High School community at large.
 Before I elaborate on this, I'd like to point out that the main entrance to the Eastwood High School campus is on McCray Boulevard, not Montwood, as depicted in the slide presentation that I believe Union Montwood LLC has provided you guys. I'd also like to cite that the McCray parking lot is always utilized for evening school events, even for athletic events occurring in the stadium or gymnasiums.
 I'll preface the remainder of my remarks by offering that Union Drafthouse is more of a sports bar than a grilling bar like Applebee's. One only has to look at the two businesses' web pages and social media pages to see this clear distinction, regardless of how the businesses are legally categorized or recognized. I've lived in Montclair, the neighborhood directly across McRae Boulevard from Eastwood High since 2001.
 It's just south of Montwood and is adjacent to the site where Union Montwood LLC will operate. My sons graduated from Eastwood High School and I taught there from 2007 to 2016. Therefore, I'm intimately familiar with the student foot and vehicular traffic as well as general vehicular traffic around the Eastwood campus.
 I'm aware that much of the lunchtime foot and vehicle traffic, student traffic that is, may be eliminated if the school institutes a closed campus starting next year. However,
 This will not lessen the intolerable danger to students and staff posed by the inevitable few irresponsible alcohol-consuming Union-Montwood LLC patients who will leave the business inebriated in the late afternoon and throughout the evening when students and staff are departing the campus at the end of the school day or later after team practices, club meetings, sporting events,
 a plethora of extracurricular activities that contribute to Eastwood High's rating as one of El Paso's best high schools please note that to my knowledge and a recent map search no other high school in El Paso is as close to alcohol serving establishments as Eastwood will be at this exception is granted to Union Montwood LLC furthermore Thank You mr. Powell you've reached the three minutes I'm sorry and thank you for thank you thank you for being here sir
 The next speaker is Guadalupe Giner followed by Brian East, Ingrid Rojas-Keene. Good morning. You have three minutes. Thank you. Good morning, Council. Mayor Leaser, thank you for allowing us to speak. My name is Guadalupe Giner and I've lived in that neighborhood for 40 years plus. I'm not going to say exactly how long. Our representative is Henry Rivera.
 And I'm here to tell you that it's not just opposed by the people you see here. There's some here that aren't going to speak to support us. But Henry Rivera had a meeting at Eastwood High School, and it was very well attended. As you know, it's hard to get people out to come to these meetings. And there were close to 100 people there. And I would say 98 to 99 percent were against it.
 selling alcohol at that location. And we are for me I'm a big small business person I want to promote people that own businesses from El Paso but this is not a good location for that. So I wanted to tell you number one that there's strong opposal opposing sure to this whole thing not just the people that you're seeing here. So the scenario that one of the gentlemen posed I want to reiterate that at 4 o'clock if you're ever near a high school when it lets out it's chaos.
 And now you have an establishment 300 feet away that opened at 11 a.m. that has been serving alcohol and those people might come into contact at 4 p.m. with 16, 17 and 18 year olds that really are still trying to get their feet wet with their license. Not a good recipe.
 So when they were zoning, they zoned obviously to not allow alcohol there. And there was a reason for that. As you heard, our residents were told that alcohol would not be sold from that location. And so now the gentleman that owns this business has to ask for a waiver. And we're here to ask you not to do that. Because the whole premise of this was, yes, we do need, for me, nail salons and things like that in that area. We certainly don't need alcohol served so close to Eastwood High School.
 Well, I just want to thank you. You know, I just want to tell you Eastwood area is very different. So you don't have a whole lot of families coming in at once. Normally what happens is we own our home and our kids want to stay in that neighborhood. And the reason they want to stay is because we have the Eastwood cluster schools. So from kindergarten all the way to high school, we have some of the best schools in the city and even better teachers.
 So people aren't going to leave. So these people are there were established. We don't we don't want to have fun and entertainment. We want to have a quiet place to raise our families without having to worry about a drunk driver coming through leaving an establishment that had to go through a waiver to be able to sell alcohol. So I ask you city council.
 to please not vote for this waiver. We cannot allow alcohol to be served there. We're very grateful to the owner of Union Drafthouse for what he's doing for our community. He's a good man. I don't doubt that, but this is not the right place for that establishment. Thank you for your time. Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Brian East, followed by Ingrid Rojas-King, Rebecca Rojas, Carla Munoz.
 Good morning, sir. Good morning. Thank you for listening to me today. My wife and my daughter and I live in the Desert Hills area of the area, and I'd like to just point out a couple things. First of all, I love beer. We all do, really, and most of us do anyway. And I'm not against a draft house or a bar, and that's what I am classifying this as, a bar. I've been to many of them. I know what a bar is. This is a bar. Okay.
 I just want to differentiate between the two. A draft house is a beer bar, normally, typically. You sell beer and wine there and that's it. You don't sell alcohol. At a bar, you sell alcohol. That is what a draft house does not have. Both of them can sell food. There's one hidden evil about a bar that I believe in anyway and I've been accustomed to it. There are fights there and fights escalate. Fights escalate horribly sometimes and nowadays they escalate to weapons.
 I, to me, you're placing a possibility, a potential possibility of a gun 130 feet from a school. Why would you do that? These are, some of these people, they may have broken up with their girlfriend, whatever, the boyfriend, whatever, they had a bad day at work. You don't know what's gonna happen and you don't need to have this that close to the school. I'd wanna bring up, does anyone remember the three-legged monkey, all the problems they had there? This school is closer than any of those houses, any of them.
 by hundreds of feet probably. I was at the last meeting in Eastwood and I didn't speak, I just listened. And for the most part, people were, the pro people were taking this as an attack against Mr. Getsky and it wasn't. It's not an attack about him at all. We don't care about him at all. We don't care about his charitable events or anything. We care about our community. We don't want a drunk person
 Leaving school or an event I mean leaving the bar when there's a school an event going on and it's our people in our community Immediate community that will be hurt not his immediate immediate community my common sense Overrides the advantage of this monetary advantage I understand this has a monetary advantage to many people the last thing I want to bring up is why are we even talking about? this
 If it was, if the rule is 300 feet, if it was 290, I can understand bending the rule for 10 feet and saying, okay. We're talking about 170 feet, a small little chip shot on a golf course, a little poke in the park at a Chihuahua game in the center field. That's as far as we're talking about. We don't need this.
 Please do not allow this to happen. There are many more places on McCrae that this can be held at. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Our next speaker is Ingrid Rojas-King, followed by Rebecca Rojas. Good morning. You have three minutes. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Ingrid Rojas-Kinney. Hi, Art. I live in the Desert Ridge neighborhood, and my son attends Eastwood High School. He's a sophomore, and he has been in band. And I will tell you, the band home games, they're walking home across McRae at about 10, 1030 at night after the game.
 Would you feel comfortable with your teenager in the dark with a big instrument crossing McRae with a possibility of an inebriated driver going across and possibly hitting your child? Now that's at night. What if it's an away game? We're talking 11, 1130 at night. Regular day. Regular day at school. School lets out at 410. Okay.
 410, the lights are flashing on McCrae, people slow down. The minute those lights are off, which is about 30 minutes after, 40 mile an hour traffic is crossing McCrae. My son stays for a club meeting, robotics, okay? And those clubs are over at five. What happens at five at most bars? Happy hour. And let me tell you, people who tell you this is not a bar,
 Bologna, you know it when you see it a hundred beers on tap. Give me a break. I am justifiably Angered that somebody has the right to come and ask you the people we elected to represent us To give them a pass and let them be closer to our children our teens our immature drivers This is a danger
 And you are the only protection that we have. You are it. Do the right thing. Say no. Now, I am not against business. I am pro-business. I would probably visit Mr. Dusky's establishment if it was possible.
 at a place further than 300 feet from my school. There is a place just down the street next to Sprouts, two minutes from Eastwood High School, two minutes. There's an empty spot there. There's other places where they can go, and many in my neighborhood would gladly go and give him business, but this is not the right place, not the right time, and not the right risk for any of our children. In addition,
 We do not want the noise, the noise to our neighborhood. Just think about St. Patrick's Day when they fenced in the parking lot. Would you want that in your backyard? Say no. Thank you. The next speaker is Rebecca Rojas. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, ma'am. Good morning. Thank you for your time. My name is Rebecca Rojas, CBRE. I represent the property owner.
 We wanted to clarify there was mention of a petition earlier today. That was not a petition for The business this was a petition. We had a land use restriction prior to purchasing the property we had to Remove the land use restriction and it was only for residents that lived in the Montclair unit 3 area
 That's what the signatures were for after those were obtained we purchased the property and then the zoning process Occurred so there were 300 members in the Montclair unit 3 that we went door-to-door. We visited we had five Community meetings we met with the cielo vista neighborhood association cielo vista neighborhood association supported us
 asked that we bring restaurants and services to the area because there wasn't any services within that immediate area.
 Unfortunately, we're dealing with this issue of Union Drafthouse. So if not Union Drafthouse, what other restaurants? We are in current communication with several restaurants such as Andales, Julio's, and other establishments that could potentially be serving alcohol. It is a permitted use in the C1 area.
 zoning and I ask that you grant Union their permit thank you thank you ma'am the next speaker is Carla Munoz Carla Munoz if you're in the Q star six please to unmute your telephone Carla Munoz I don't see her phone number in the queue John Jeske good morning you have three minutes good morning good morning mayor
 My name is John Jeske I'm born and raised in El Paso. I grew up in current place and my mother and father are educators. I know in the past people have said why why don't we retain people after college and and and come and stay in El Paso and live in El Paso. I made a 23 23 year career out of it. I don't know if you guys know but.
 I'm I started my career 23 years ago at G2. I did Jeskies I did Garden Cincinnati Bar and Grill Bikini Joe's Cabo Joe's Nona's Pizza Boss Chicken and now Union Drafthouse. Just to let you know Union Drafthouse is one of the best things I've ever done. And the biggest compliment that we get as an organization is that people ask me where to where did I buy the franchise. I didn't buy it. I didn't buy the franchise. It came from my team.
 and our own brains and we're very proud of it. And the reason why we decided or we were we were approached and we decided to take on this location was we wanted to be a partner in the community. We wanted to be partners in education. We are partners in education. We we we fundraise for for for school districts middle schools elementary schools high schools. We were motivated to to infill develop and be at a location where.
 an outside restaurant or a big corporation wouldn't look at and be progressive and make El Paso a better place to live. And we envision our busiest nights being after a football game after a basketball game after a volleyball game after a track meet after a baseball game and make that area better. And we are not a wolf in sheep's clothing. We are a full service restaurant that I know that we can't appeal to everybody. We but we appeal to the majority.
 And we are good for date night. We're good for lunch. We are good for dinner. We're good for families. We're good for buddies getting together to watch a watch a game. They say we're classified as a bar because we have 100 beers on tap. The only reason why we have 100 beers on tap is because we wanted to focus on local local beers. Texas beers have a have more variety for everybody in El Paso and Texas.
 I know I'm rambling a little bit but we're proud of what we've done. We're we're responsible on what we do. We're proud to be in El Paso and I think the the main thing you need to focus on right now is I was very impressed with the. Thank you Mr. Jeske. Sorry. Thank you sir. We received a letter of support from Rick Macias and it reads
 City Council members and Mr. Mayor, I'm writing to express my wholehearted support of the Union Drafthouse to grant an exception from the prohibition of the sale of alcoholic beverages within 300 feet of a public or private school for a restaurant bar requesting to sell mixed beverages for the property located at 9640 Mountwood and legally described as a portion of lot A, block 20, Montclair number three, city of El Paso, El Paso County, Texas. We were told at our community meeting at Eastwood High
 They have proven to be extremely responsible restaurant owners and are full supporters of the community. They support local schools by partnering with bands, sports, music, and any other school function that asks for their help. They are a local establishment that has proven to be great employers of El Pasoans and are not a fly-by-night restaurant. My wife and I have patronized the Union Drafthouse
 And we're completely surprised at how clean, well-managed, well-lit, awesome atmosphere and not to forget how great the food was. Some opponents will describe this establishment as just another bar. That could not be further from the truth. I'm willing to bet that the vast majority of the residents arguing against this have never even set foot inside a union draft house. My wife and I made it a point to visit.
 To visit one when we were hurt, there was a proposal to have one built across from the high school. We needed to see firsthand what type of establishment this was. We couldn't be happier with our findings. Again, approving the exception will be a win-win for our neighborhood. The complaints against it are not fact-based, and some are outright ridiculous. I hope that council members consider only not...
 Only facts and not what ifs as a basis for your consideration for the vote you will eventually make regarding this. Rick Macias. Tony Campos submitted a copy of the complaint form he sent to TABC in opposition of the establishment. And Miguel Rosales submitted a...
 Letter of opposition that reads, I'm requesting that the city council not grant Union Monwood LLC the requested waiver in the sale of mixed beverages within 300 feet of Eastwood High School. Number one, the safety of the students and teachers should be the first concern for the denial. Number two, the neighborhood residents are going to be exposed to a certain daily danger, much like the Cincinnati neighborhood. Number three, the $93 million facility of Eastwood High will be exposed to any incident by patrons of the Union Drafthouse.
 This can be confirmed by two police officers and one paramedic who have been exposed to incidents at Cincinnati Street. These types of establishments draw this type of incident. Number four, we will not allow this neighborhood to deteriorate. Number five, should the waiver be granted, any harm to any student will be on the City Council's hands. Signed, Miguel Rosales, neighborhood resident. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item.
 Thank you Representative Rivera I mean I'll go represent everybody since he had the item go ahead sir Thank you Mayor first of all let me thank everybody got out to speak and voice your opinion on the issue when this was first brought to me a meeting was immediately scheduled
 That meeting was held on March 23rd of this year, 2023, and I invited my colleague, Representative Hernandez, because her area is just across the street with the new redistricting. That meeting, in that meeting, it was rather contentious. The motions were running high, people were vocal. You had some in support, you had some in opposition. During that time, no doubt about it, it was never expressed that
 Mr. Jeske was a villain here. It was just a matter of fact that he was he was expressed as a community contributor to schools and and and Fundraising has he stated furthermore when we got to that point and and the real truth behind this is that Mr. Jeske was the victim of not the developer but rather a separate entity who's proposed a supportive letter and
 So he felt it was okay. It wouldn't be here had they not withdrawn it. Short time after the letter was given, it was withdrawn. Thus having to come to city council. That's an ordinance that we need to change because in our books, in our alcohol TABC laws, we, it is,
 written in there about churches about bars being close to or being close to schools of churches Private schools hot and even public hospitals, you know, I think that we are one of the few Communities in Texas that allows that because if you go to other communities Dallas San Antonio Dallas, which I frequently visit out there except my granddaughters are out there you hardly ever see a bark as close as this one is being proposed and
 There are concerns, there are concerns on the matter of the school being that close. Having worked there as a school resource officer, I can also tell you, I can confirm some of the stories that were spoken about students going across from Cray. There was times when I had to do the traffic control for that area at the time that school let out. The thing is that, just like was said,
 I know I'm speaking for myself, and I'm pretty sure some others of my colleagues feel the same way, but I'm not speaking for them. I'm speaking for myself. Yes, I am pro-business, especially when they're El Paso grown, but this presents a very big problem, and as a former representative of public safety, I find it hard to really support this issue. I will actually make a motion to deny it.
 Thank you, Representative Rivera. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Followed by Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, ma'am. I'm a, like you all know, I'm a big proponent to supporting local businesses, but TABC does have a role. It's nothing to be within 300 feet of a school or a daycare. Today, I'm hearing from the neighbors. They came here and spoke loud and clear. I think it's a public safety issue. Thank you.
 I was personally in the hospitality industry as well, but I always make sure my girls work within the guidelines of TBC the goal of any business owner in any neighborhood is to Figure ways that they're going to coexist with the neighborhood and if you can't find that it's gonna make it very difficult It's only gonna cause problems. And so I mean I clearly see here. This is a public safety issue I hear about the kids students from Eastwood that I that it will be affected and I
 You know, that's something that I wanted to share with you all, but I will be abstaining from this vote. For full transparency, in 2015, I was a party to a real estate transaction with the Jeske, the Lisi. So it's more appropriate if I abstain from this item. But you all hear the neighbors. They're speaking loud and clear, and I hear a no. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Salcido. Representative Hernandez.
 Hi, thank you mayor. I just wanted the opportunity to invite staff to present The proposal any conditions and then any concessions the The parties have made if any and we'll do that as soon as let's make sure anyone else have anything to say I'm Senator Nella you had your line on Yeah, I was just you know going to say I I
 I'm fully supportive of small business. I've seen how the union draft tests have grown. As planning knows, I've never supported these. As someone who has been a victim of a drunk driving accident, I take these laws really seriously. And I do think we're a little lenient on them, so I will not be supporting this today. Okay.
 Thank you, ma'am. Representative Moulinard, then we'll go to you, sir. Thank you very much, Mayor. Since I've been on council, this issue has been brought to us before, and we've approved those waivers. So I see both sides of what people are saying, the residents in the area and things like that. But either we do it well or we don't do it at all. And so I
 It's just one of those things that someone's trying to be pro-business, and I understand that people do not want it in my backyard, and I get that. And I understand the citizen who mentioned that there's a business down the street near Sprouts, or I should say there's a vacancy there in the place there. But cars are still going to be speeding. People are still going to be consuming alcohol. People will all be speeding without consuming alcohol.
 There's still a dangerous situation there regardless. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning, sir Good morning mayor councilor. We're gonna see a plan inspections So this in terms of the presentation, it's really really short really just pretty much just one slide showing the map with with the distance
 And as as through the briefings that we had, this is a direct request to city council. Right. It's it's not your typical similar to rezoning or anything like that. There is no direct public notice in these cases where the establishment is unable to obtain a letter of support. Then the only option is to come before council. This also applies to child care facilities as mentioned public hospitals and churches.
 A lot of times those letters are obtained. In fact, in this case, originally the letter was obtained. But again, this is, and as you see in the back up, there is really no formal recommendation from staff. Again, this is a direct request from council. It's actually, it's not even an ordinance, it's not a resolution, completely up to city council. But yes, historically these have been pretty straightforward. They have been approved in the past. Again, the districts,
 take mostly a neutral stance or they provide a letter. Same for the childcare facilities. Those are the things we've seen historically regarding these items. But again, in the specific case, what requires city council in order for that alcohol license to be approved. Thank you, sir. Representative Nandez followed by representative, yes sir.
 I know. Go ahead, ma'am. Was there any, could you explain any conditions or any concessions the applicant or developer has made as part of the concerns from the public? Personally, specifically to us, there have been none made.
 yeah and and i recall hearing from the at the event that representative rivetta had made and i did want to ask mr jeskey if you can repeat what you told the the members at that meeting what what you were doing what steps you were taking in terms of your the time that you would open and close your establishment
 Yeah at the meeting I did say that I was going to make a concession and not stay until 2 in the morning.
 And what time would you close? Midnight. Midnight on, it was like Monday through Friday? Days, 1 o'clock on the weekends. Okay. Thank you. Excuse me. I just wanted to make sure we had the full scope of the information, Mr. Jetsky. I have had the opportunity to speak to Mr. Jetsky, Mr. Baradaz, the property owner, as well as the developer, the representative from CBREE.
 You know, we had real honest conversations about the concerns from the public. I was pleased to hear that Mr. Jeske would do that. I think that's really important for the public to be aware of. I would be remiss if I didn't reiterate that my district is the northern part of Montwood and I have had multiple residents on the southern part of Montwood, which is not in my district, reach out to our office.
 or I've spoken to directly, but on the northern part of Montwood, I have had multiple residents reach out saying they are in support of this, and then also the Selavista Neighborhood Association, they've submitted a letter in support.
 You know there is some conflict though from the residents on the southern part of Mountwood Folks don't know this but the syllabus to neighborhood boundaries actually covers all the way to McCrae down to I-10 and You know, I know there there's some concern with that, you know that their their voice wasn't really heard in the matter And so so I hear you and I understand what your concern is just the reality is is that they do cover this entire boundary and and they have made a letter in support and
 After, you know, my perception on this issue is that there's a lot of misinformation. You know, I thought it was very unfortunate that the Uselettis School District had submitted a letter and no opposition, it's like a no opposition letter is what they received, correct? That was pulled, you know, there's comment about why it was pulled, but the board trustee for the area made clear that he, on behalf of his constituency, didn't feel comfortable
 making that decision or supporting that so they had had that letter pulled which is why we're here having to make those tough decisions on behalf of the neighborhood I did I did feel there was a lot of missed opportunities a lot of misinformation and we really had an opportunity to share with the constituency
 that if there is a restaurant, then inevitably would require a waiver that would have to either be approved by a church or school district, or it would come to Council. And I think those were critical facts that were not clearly demonstrated to the public. Those are the same statements I have shared with the developer.
 I ALSO HAD MADE A COUPLE OF REQUESTS TO GET CONTACT INFORMATION SO I CAN HELP RECONCILE WHAT I'VE BEEN HEARING FROM CONSTITUENTS AND THEN HEARING ABOUT CHURCH MEETINGS, MEETINGS THAT WERE CONDUCTED AT CHURCH ON THIS TOPIC ABOUT ALCOHOL WAIVERS OR RECEIVING SUPPORT OR WAIVERS TO SELL ALCOHOL. YOU KNOW, UNFORTUNATELY, I DIDN'T GET THAT CONTACT INFORMATION. I HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO DO MY DUE DILIGENCE. I HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO TALK TO THE REPRESENTATIVES AT THE
 They no longer are the property owners, but for me it was really important that I reconciled what was said at the church, what I've heard from residents, and then my concern that residents felt like they were misled. What I want to reiterate is that
 We welcome the development. We want to, the residents want to frequent that site and they also want to provide business to the property owner and any leases, any businesses that go there.
 And we welcome that, you know, and I have historically supported any waivers that can clearly demonstrate a fair, honest approach and how they do this, but be clear with the expectations of what comes from these developments.
 and so I do want to be supportive of Representative Rivera I do want to support the residents although it's not in my district but I do have to say that my constituency are in support of this but you know on this matter I want to lean heavy and support the representative for this area because I know there's a lot of nuances and there's a lot of things we can't
 you know really explain in detail but I feel comfortable supporting the representative at this time it is with much regret that this is going to be you know at the potential risk of the business and and so you know for that I do want to send you know that that regret to to the property owner and to the business
 But I hope that this that we can grow from this and learn and how to be clear with our expectations How do we clearly define what an alcohol establishment is and then how we clearly support the residents and their concerns Because you know it is tough and and so I appreciate that Representative Ravetta
 You know did his due diligence to bring and convene a meeting but again so many so many missed opportunities so many so much misinformation, but You know, my heart is heavy on this decision and you know, I want to I want to support representative. Thank you. Thank you ma'am Thank You mayor I also had the opportunity to sit down with mr. Jeske and
 about a month ago about this issue and we had a very good conversation I told him that I Have a union draft house in my district. I live quite close to it And that I had never been aware of any problems that they had caused to the the surrounding residents and as a result of that that I On the face of this issue had no no problems with the with the location near the school and
 But I did tell him very plainly that what could derail my support of this waiver would be the opinion of the representative for the district because of how nuanced an issue like this can be. You know my colleague is elected by the people who live in that area to represent their interests and I think
 It is largely in a case like this that that district's representative's job to parse through the nuance and come up with a final decision that benefits ultimately the greatest number of people that they represent. And so I didn't want to vote without explaining...
 to everyone to the residents to Mr. Jeske and the team at Union Drafthouse and the property owner that it you know I echo the sentiments brought up by my colleague representative Hernandez I it's not a decision that I we take lightly we understand the impact that this has on local business and we want to be supportive.
 But in this case, I also have to support what I'm hearing from the local area's representative. And unfortunately, I think that's the right decision to make in the context of this kind of decision, where we are being asked to provide a waiver of a law. So I think that's all my comments, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Fierro? No.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, sir. You know, this is a sticky situation, and with all due respect, Representative, I just don't understand how an entity can give somebody approval to move forward and then after the process is started, say, change their mind. Mr. Mayor, may I ask Mr. Jeske a question? Mr. Jeske, you went into this with good faith. You went into this to help. Yes.
 not only yourself as a business owner, but also the community. And then this big roadblock was put before you about pulling the letter of recommendation or the letter of support. And so I can imagine that you went into this. How much money have you already in time, have you and your partners invested in this piece of property? Probably, it's over $100,000. You know, Mr. Mayor, that probably doesn't include the time. No, no.
 We're 90 days behind schedule as well. And this is something that we've done in the past Thank you miss Jessica may speak staff in the way. I understand this and this is the first time I've been exposed to this But we've issued these waivers in the past. Yes, sir In fact going past previous years pretty much all of them have been approved Yes, sir
 There's existing long-standing existing same type of situations with these types of establishments in proximity to schools long-standing existing And yes, these types of items do historically are approved. Thank you. And again with all due respect Representative Thank You mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Loretta. Thank you mayor. Well, first of all What we heard here is the fact that you know, mr. Jeske is a
 he's a he's a good man with a good heart and if i can answer you representative fiero uh this is the first ever location that's extremely close to a school school where students freshmen through seniors are very impressionable and can sometimes be lured by the some of these seniors up there in that area or people that are working in that area in that establishment rather so that they can you know
 just go in my anger here is and and something and I represent Malina brought this up yeah they've been approved in the past but we've got to change what's in El Paso first because the fact that they're giving school districts the authority to give a letter of support and then yank it out when it gets controversial and come to council that's got to change that's got to change and and the fact is that hopefully we can get to it
 whether we need to is there an existing ordinance miss Neiman? Carla Neiman for the record yes sir the 300 foot exception exists in the zoning ordinance there is a outright prohibition against this types of use within 300 feet of a school the church or daycare several years ago prior council asked to create the exception to the rule so this is all within the authority of the council to do away with if it chooses to do that I
 Okay, and that and that district before giving the letter support did not notify the residents from the area nor did they know that they notify those The city representatives and it's all of them because collectively we make the decision so they should have notified everybody and the fact is now Mr. Jeske falls victim to that letter and so I'll be looking at that in the future
 and hopefully we can have the support on that thank you mayor thank you again staff for all your due diligence thank you so much thank you sir representative um mayor procter thank you thank you um yeah I mean I wanted to address the a few things that are happening here there was a rezoning of this property correct Raul and there were some conversations with the neighbors that this would not be
 There would be no liquor license. It wouldn't be restaurants. What was the rezoning? What did the property owner tell you? The previous property, well, I guess the new property owner. Right. So just a little bit of history. This property was rezoned to C1 Commercial about a year ago, March of 2022. In terms of those discussions, whether alcohol was going to be there, we were really not part of that process. That was a separate process regarding some private covenants tied to the property.
 There's a couple of conditions that were part of that rezoning last year, the site plan and then the landscape buffer to mitigate the impact on the residents. Yeah, because I remember this rezoning because I thought, well, there's not even a lot of commercial in this area to begin with. And I remember that a lot of the constituents saying that they were told that they wouldn't be a bar and restaurant.
 I'm going to go back to the fact that these have been approved. I've never approved them. I think if there is a rule, there should be a rule. I do apologize that some of the school board members in that area made this political and gave a letter and then took it away. I wish that was not something that they could do because I see Mr. Jeske has put a lot of money into it because of having that support.
 But just because something is done over and over doesn't mean you shouldn't change it or stop if it is not serving the community So really the argument that Oh Council has approved this so many times doesn't mean that it was the right thing to do I don't think it was the right thing to do. I don't think that there should have ever been a
 an exception, though I do think that sometimes there needs to be exceptions for things. I think that there was actually one incident I did support because it was a bar previously and it was a new license or a renewal. But for me, again, this area is very residential. Individuals have chosen to live in an area like this. You could move to
 like my neighborhood which is a little bit more commercial if that's what you wanted but to put that on to a neighborhood after asking you know after the the property owner asked for their support under certain guidelines and then came back and changed that after they had that rezoning I think is is unfair and I think that the council members should consider you know what the position the property owners have been in but I do really want to emphasize that just because something has done before it doesn't make it correct and doesn't mean it shouldn't change thank you well
 Representative Moulinard. Thank you. I go back to the time that I've been on city council, and every one of them has been across the street. So whether it was a daycare or church or a residential area, they've all been approved. And Mr. Garcia, you've seconded that to a point, right? Your memory does not recall that we have not voted in favor or against that waiver, correct? And I understand what you're saying as far as
 Not because we always do it doesn't make it right. But the thing is I'm sure we took in consideration the Applicant we took in consideration all the facts and situations that were unique and pertinent to that making decision or that decision-making So, thank you. Thank you. And with that we'll take the question much prime. Yes mayor the motion was made by representative Rivera seconded by mayor Pro Tem Manila to deny the request on item 51 and
 On that motion to deny call for the vote. I just want to clarify it's to decline the motion with yes is to decline. Yes is to deny. No is to not decline. Correct. I just want to make sure everyone knows. Yes is to deny. Yes is to decline. No would be not to decline. It's a motion to deny. So. In the voting session the motion passes 4-3. Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Piero voting nay.
 Representative Salcido abstaining and Representative Zanello Hernandez Rivera-Canales voting aye. The motion does pass. That brings us to item 52 that was also moved to the forefront and this is presentation, discussion and action of the second quarter financial report adoption of the revised city of El Paso budget policy which allows for the establishment of a pay for futures fund to solely support police, fire and civilian compensation increases.
 Good morning members of council Robert Cortinas. So as Ms. Prine read into the record this is going to be a presentation to provide an update through the second quarter on our revenues and expenses. There's also an action item attached to this item and this is to amend the budget policies as you all have all been briefed to amend the budget policies to add Section 13 related to the creation of the paper futures fund and then also with the allocation of additional surplus revenues to the second quarter.
 So overall, as we look at the summary, overall revenue is up 6.2% compared to the same time last year. And again, this is covering the period of September 2022 through February of 2023, the first six months of this fiscal year. Overall revenue, again, up 6.2%. A large component of that is the increase we've seen in the sales tax revenue, which we'll discuss a little bit more about here in just a minute. Overall sales tax is up 5.7% or $4.6 million. Franchise fee revenue that we collect from the Apostle Water, Apostle Electric, Texas Gas.
 Again, as a result of the rate increases that we've seen on those utilities, the city has seen an increase in the franchise revenue. One of the points on here at the bottom of the bullet there on the screen, you'll see one of the areas we continue to monitor is the licenses and permits revenue. It's up slightly overall, 0.5%, however, fire inspections are up, but license, permit revenue from the commercial residential is down slightly, again, only about 290,000, however, it's something that we continue to monitor.
 particularly because it could indicate a slowdown in the economy with building on residential commercial properties. On the expenditure side, again, no surprise here. Overall expenditures are up 9.3 percent, again, compared to the same time last year, the first six months of this fiscal year, compared to the same time last year. Again, the large driver of that is the personal services, which is the wages, benefits, and taxes for our workforce.
 Again, as a result of the increase that we have in compensation related to not only public safety but also our civilians with the increase in the minimum wage that we provided during the two phases this year with the increases. Also, we've talked a lot about what we've seen as far as the increase in contracts.
 and the materials and supplies again inflationary impacts and just across the board additional costs being passed on as a result of the labor demand and we're seeing that through all of the contracts that have been awarded recently and again these costs are what drove the budget as we discussed last summer and again these things were factored into and again what really drove the budget increase for this current fiscal year so as we look ahead uh
 Not only providing an update to the second quarter, but this presentation is important because this is what the Office of Management and Budget utilizes combined with all of the historical data to really lay the foundation for what those revenue and expenditure estimates are going to look like as we get a little bit further along with the budget development for the upcoming fiscal year, which will begin in September. Again, we continue to monitor throughout this fiscal year not only the revenues, but also the expenditures and make any adjustments necessary over the next few months.
 Again, we'll talk a little bit more about sales tax here in a minute because we have seen unprecedented sales tax growth However with all again the talk of what we're seeing as far as again I know it's seems like it's never gonna go away the discussion about a potential recession However, we need to ensure that we're being conservative on the revenue side in order to avoid Negatively impact to see the operations if we're overly optimistic on those revenue projections so overall on the general fund revenue here you'll see broken down by category and
 Overall city budget five hundred twelve point seven million you'll see in the second column or third column from the left The actual through February we've collected just over three hundred and eighty five million Accounts for about seventy five point one percent of the overall budget through the first six months You'll see obviously in that first line their property taxes since property taxes are due by February 1st We have collected and this is in line with historical trends 95% of our property taxes
 Sales taxes, which again we'll discuss a little bit more detail here in the next few slides. Overall sales taxes, we've already collected over 60% of sales taxes through February. So historically we should be around 50% and so we're about 10.7% higher than typical. And again that's a result of really just unprecedented growth that we've seen continue through our sales tax collections. However, keeping in mind that this is only represented by the first six months of this fiscal year.
 as we look again as property taxes as i mentioned if we just continue to monitor this to ensure that we're collecting property taxes that since this is the largest source of revenue and we are in line with historical averages as far as the collections through february right around 95 percent as we look at the sales tax the most recent collection we have is for february of 2023 that month came in at 10.6 higher than february of 2022 so we continue to see positive growth you'll see the
 the trend there, positive growth that we've seen since March of 2021. So for about the last two years now, we've seen consecutive positive growth in our sales tax collections. As I discussed when we did the briefings, provide this slide just to provide some context and make sure that we're showing you the data prior to COVID because if you see this slide here again, we see historically prior to COVID, we would average around 5% increase in sales tax would generate about $4.5 million of additional revenue every year.
 The last two full fiscal years FY 2021 and FY 2022 we brought in 14 million and 15.2 million respectively. So coming in at 14.4 and 13.7 percent in sales tax for those two fiscal years. So again unprecedented. We're talking about more than three times historical average of what we saw as far as sales tax growth. But you compare that to the bottom box there, the green there.
 for the first six months of this year compared to the first six months of last year we're up about 5.7 percent so really coming more in line with what we're seeing prior to covid with the large increases that we have seen in the last two fiscal years
 Mayor, we provided this slide, some of the information that you requested. I know it's a little bit small, but you have it in the backup as well. The left-hand side there shows the allocation, the percentage of what makes up our overall sales tax collections. The largest component of that is going to be retail, combined with the accommodations and food service, so all of the restaurants. And so those two combined make up almost 60 percent of sales tax collections. And then the right-hand box there provides where we are year-to-date.
 This information is through January, so this is only five months of data, again, because of the lag. But really, the increases that we're seeing is in the retail trade, food service and accommodations, and then construction sales tax as well, making up the increase that we've seen so far on sales tax. Our mixed beverage tax continues to perform well, coming in at $1.9 million through the first six months, about a $200,000 increase to the prior year.
 our licenses and permits for the plant inspection department again the residential and commercial building permits is something we continue to monitor um again although it's down slightly compared to last year when you look historically over the last several years and nothing alarming at this point just something that we'll continue to monitor over the next several months as it could be an indicator of a potential slowdown in the economy as we look to bridge crossing revenue we're up about 300 000 compared to the same time last year from 13.6 to 13.9 million
 So bridge revenue continues to perform well. However, we do know that we're going through the current situation with the migrants. I know there's been discussions about potential impacts on the bridges and so this, in addition to the license department, is something that we'll continue to monitor over the next few months for any potential negative impacts on this revenue source. As we look to the expenditures, again, this information, we have three different slides breaking this information down, this is by strategic goal. And so again, overall city budget, 512.7 million.
 Actual expenditures halfway through the year. So this is as a February coming in at 220 million 390,000 about 43 percent of the budget a little bit lower than historical trends were typically around 45 to 46 percent And so slightly down but overall expenditures coming in right now pretty much on target with the overall budget This slide breaks down the same expenditure. This is broken down by category so again, you have your personal services, which is the wages benefits and taxes and
 Again, makes up about 73% of the overall general fund budget. And you'll see there about 45.2% of expenditures through February. And again, making up the overall 220.39 million through February. The next slide just provides a little bit more detail broken down by the subcategory level. So you can see all of the different expenditure categories here. Again accounting for the 220.39 million, again 43% of the expenditures.
 Again, everything pretty much on target. Really no surprises with what was adopted in the budget. We knew the big drivers were going to be from the wage increases for our employees and then combined with those contracted material increases, which we had factored in and built into the budget on the expenditure side.
 Just a couple of slides here on electricity. We've seen electricity pretty much flatten off. It's coming in at $4.4 million compared to $4.5 at the same time last year. We provide this because you'll see the three years prior, we were about a million dollars less. We have seen an increase, obviously, with the increases in rates for electricity. Water is down slightly compared to the same time last year. We're at $2.8 million compared to $3.2 million at the same time last year. One of the things the council approved a couple of years ago was the
 Funding to be able to go out and do the automated irrigation. We started as a pilot project the automated irrigation projects And so that's proven to be successful we continued to do those and Be able to save on the water side particularly as we have a large number of parks that require obviously a lot of water to Maintain those facilities on the fuel side Fuel costs are up about four hundred thousand dollars compared to the same time last year as we continue to see fuel prices stay at a high level Something we continue to monitor as well
 and we'll make any necessary budget adjustments as we develop the budget for this next fiscal year and then finally moving into the recommendation as we've discussed the city managers talked about this for a while now and we've actually something we've been planning to bring forth to the council over the last few months obviously with the passage of the fire collective bargaining last year the recent approval of the police collective bargaining agreement just recently we know the financial impacts of that have been competitive of being able to retax
 Excuse me to retain and recruit not only firefighters but our police force as well as we continue to grow both of those departments with The new facilities that we do have come in a line with our new fire stations our new police stations that are currently under construction And again keeping up with that 30 plan in order to increase the size of our police force and then that combined with the recently approved council item to increase wages for civilian employees with that target goal of getting to the $15 an hour by 2026 and
 And so as we've talked about during a lot of the budget updates, we know the largest driver of the budget is our workforce, makes up about 73%. And so with the understanding that we know we're going to continue to see impacts from these increases over the next several years, really being proactive. And so this recommendation that we have to create this fund will allow us to do just that. It will allow us to continue to be competitive, to be able to increase those wages for those groups.
 But at the same time, it will provide us savings to be able to set aside now so that we'll be able to minimize the impact on the property tax rate in the coming years. And so this item on slide 21 here is the actual language from the amendment to the budget policies. The budget policy adds Section 13, and it's the creation of the Pay-per-Futures Fund that will be established as a reserve of surplus revenues.
 The second bullet point is very important. And so we talk a lot about how one time revenue should not be used to fund ongoing costs. And so in order to not contradict what the city manager said, what I've said in the past, it's a very clear plan that we've established. It's outlined in the budget policy. It has a specific purpose. And then the very last bullet point on the slide here that it will last for five years. It will sunset after that. If there are any remaining funds, any remaining funds will go back into the city's unassigned fund balance.
 And so on an annual basis, we will bring forth not only the recommendation to allocate funds into the program or into the fund that we're doing today, for example, but also as part of the budget process. So just to be clear, today's action is just to create the fund and set the money aside into this fund. As a part of the budget process, we will bring forth the recommendation to allocate a certain amount for each of those fiscal years to be used to offset the impact from these costs. And so just to be clear, the action today is just to establish the policy,
 set the money aside and we'll report the recommendation which will be approved by council as part of the budget adoption and so i know that there's a question about could this be changed this is done by simple resolution it could be it could be changed in the future if the council decided to do that if they wanted to change the purpose or if they wanted to change the process that could be changed with how we go about doing the budget adoption and then the budget resolution as well and so the slide here slide 22 is just showing where the surplus revenue is coming from
 Right now about 15.8 million is what we have through the second quarter Again a large majority of that about 12 million coming from the sales tax Again continue to perform extremely well through the first six months We will receive the March sales tax allocation tomorrow And so that is the second largest month that we actually collected so that would be really telling of where we're gonna end up this fiscal year and really lay the foundation for what we're going to be able to estimate as far as the budget for next year for sales tax and
 And then we have a slide here that just shows the budget to actuals for sales tax collection. Again you can see the first six months the blue bar there is the budget the red is the actual collected for sales tax. And so for each of the first six months we've actually exceeded the budget to the tune of about that 12 million dollars that I just mentioned. So again the action that we have with this item is to adopt the creation of the fund outlined again in Section 13 which is on slide 21 that I just mentioned. That's that same language.
 Then the allocation of the 15 million dollars of surplus revenue to be set aside into this fund again for future action Pending the recommendation from staff as far as how much to use in the upcoming budget year. I'll be happy to answer any questions Yes representative Rivera. I mean, uh, you're It's hard to tell the difference mayor I understand Miss Cortina, thank you for answering my question before I asked it A different question. Yes, sir
 We're talking about the budget and you have it broken down by strategic goals. When you bring the final numbers to us, it's broken down also by
 By by different departments specifically correct. Yes it is. Okay. Yes, so you'll see the budget by we present by vision blocks However within those vision block presentations you see it by the strategic goal and then all of the departments associated So you receive all of the detail information all the way down to the department level so if there's a change that we need or would request at Within the goal we can move it move them around. I
 Yeah, you will see all of that information in the budget numbers. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. There's representative Kennedy on the pf3 It's a separate account that can be moved or reversed at any time by City Council, right? Correct Is it any difference than just holding those funds in reserve for that expense in the future? I?
 It is in the sense that we want to be very clear and have it outlined in the policies because it not only ends up in the policy but it's going to end up in our annual financial comprehensive report that we do as well. And so having those amounts set aside and actually have them called out it's just very clear to not only the council the community but also to bond raters or anybody that's reading that document that they know what. Because right now it just rolls up into the committed. And so for example we have our pension stabilization fund we have our operating and debt stabilization fund as well.
 and so we want to have these separate funds so that we know what balances are maintained within each of those funds right now well i hope for expenses in the future we'd know what they were without putting it into an individual fund my concern is it it doesn't doesn't change access from city council who could abolish this in a single meeting right correct it's done by a simple resolution right so to me it's like whether we have it or don't have it we know we're going to have to pay in the future
 um i don't think a bond writer is going to look to see if if we had enough reserves to cover our intended allocated expenses in the future it's going to make any difference i'm just trying to figure out what the benefit of it is to outline the specific purpose of why we're doing this that we have the plan in place that that's why and then also as we develop the budget for next year we know that we need to minimize the impact on the property tax rate
 So knowing that the council is supportive of this item in order to do that. So do you know what the item, do you know how much it's gonna cost us next year for the two CBAs? We're still finalizing the budget. We know that the police collective bargaining agreement, which was recently approved in the first year, is a $14 million increase alone, just from the CBA. I'm still trying to figure out how it's different than just allocating money for what you know are your upcoming contingencies.
 I mean, it looks nice, but it doesn't really change anything, I don't think. I mean, if we know it's going to be, say, $20 million further expenses, and we allocate that in our budgeting, or if we put it in a fund and then move it into the budgeting, it seems like another stop that looks pretty good and didn't change anything. Because it's taking money from current savings and not taking it out of the fund balance, not taking it out of the current fund balance. Which we would do anyway if we were budgeting and trying to balance the budget. We'd have to do the exact same thing, correct? Essentially, yes.
 Okay. But this outlines again a specific purpose. It has outlined what the specifics are as far as the amount that's going to be used every year and then has a sunset clause after five years. Honestly, I believe that we do a good job in realizing what our expenditures are going to be coming up and I think that this is more optics than substance. Mayor Pro Tem. If I may, so again, in order to minimize the impact on the property tax rate, being able to reinvest this current year savings? Yes.
 into the budget for not only next year, but over the next five years, is going to allow us to offset the impact from not only the fire and police CBA agreements, but also from, again, the increases for our civilians with the target to get to the $15 an hour.
 So reinvesting the savings in the current year into future budgets is what's going to allow us to do that And mr. Kennedy with regard to your question as far as the comment you made I understand where you're coming from But with regard to the use of the fund balance, it's better to use a planned allocation as opposed to say We're going to use the fund balance. You've used the fund balance and you do it on a regular basis It's not a bond rating and
 Issue that's seen favorably, but if you plan it and that's all this is if you planning the expenditure Then it is seen more favorably because it's a planned way of spending the money and it's this year's money It's not actually you utilizing the fund balance. We have allocated reserves now for projects correct from our fund balance No, sir. They don't have any allocated whatsoever. Not for fund balance. No, sir okay, but I'm trying to say if we say yes on this and
 How does this lower the impact to the average taxpayer? So it's going to depend upon the recommendation that we bring forth as far as how much to use in this upcoming fiscal year. Which we would have to do anyway. I'm saying, the difference between yes and no, does it save the average taxpayer a dollar if we say, yeah, we're going to just do it this way, we're going to allocate it this way, or if we don't? I don't think it does. You're still dealing with the same amount of money.
 Well, it depends upon how much we use in the first year. I mean, so that recommendation is going to outline what that savings is going to be on the tax rate.
 I think what this does is it better prepares you if you're looking at reducing the tax rate next year this takes care of an expense for next year's budget which gets you in a better position to do just that to put you in a position to look at next year's budget and how you can reduce the tax rate or if you want to go even further than we're just reducing it if you want to look at other options that that that's on the table in terms of next year's budget but but I think that a dollar is still a dollar
 WHETHER YOU ALLOCATE IT HERE OR SAY THIS IS, WE'RE HOLDING IT IN RESERVE FOR, WE'RE PUTTING IT IN THE PF3, A DOLLAR'S STILL A DOLLAR. YOU STILL GOT THE SAME AMOUNT OF EXPENDITURES. IT IS, AND SO YOU DON'T HAVE THE DOLLAR. I MEAN, YOU'RE LOOKING AT ALLOCATING X AMOUNT OF DOLLARS TOWARDS THE EXPENSE THAT YOU KNOW YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE WITH PLANNED EXPENDITURES. THAT'S ALL THIS IS. BUT IT ISN'T AN OPTICS ISSUE. IT'S HOW DO YOU PAY FOR NEXT YEAR'S COST WITH THIS YEAR'S MONEY? THAT'S WHAT THIS IS.
 But it sounds like we're creating more, and we're not. We're just putting it in a different account. We're taking it from our right pocket to our left pocket, but it's still ours. We didn't say we're creating more. We're simply attempting to pay for an expense in next year's budget with this year's money. That's what this is.
 Thank you, Representative Kennedy. Mayor Pro Tem? Yeah, I mean, I think I don't want to speak for Representative Kennedy, but I do see what he's saying is because we're not approving the expenditure today for the CBA. We're just putting it in another fund. And I think what he's saying is you can move that money into the general fund. You can move it into another fund. Either way, the recommendation to put this to the CBA is going to happen.
 and so i don't i don't want it to seem like you're saying you don't agree with paying that off is not what he's saying he's just saying that the fund is an unnecessary extra step but as someone who loves a folder within a folder within a folder i'm not going to totally agree with him on that my question i have less of a question and more of an ask
 I know that we have several kind of funds that are set aside one that I can think of on the top of my head is Kind of what we did for stormwater. I know there are a few others I think it would be beneficial every beneficial as someone who's been on council for six years But I think especially for newer council members if prior to the budget We can kind of get an overview of what all of those funds are and how much are in them That was yeah, that was it. Thank you, man. Thank you, man representative Nundas
 I'll hold my comments if there's any public comment until after public comment. Okay, ma'am Yes, ma'am, we do have two members of the public that signed up to speak The first person is Patrick not TV that followed by Paul Thompson. Good morning mayor and City Council. I
 My name is Patrick not the without on the current president of the El Paso Municipal Police Officers Association I just want to take a few minutes of your time regarding this issue here We ask our city leaders to be innovative and responsible with finances The city manager and his team made a commitment to be aggressive and innovative in structuring our most current CBA to attract and retain numerous applicants and keep the people that we have here and
 because we're having trouble having people come through the door. We depend on all of these men and women. Every single one of us in this room depends on all of the first responders that are coming through the door and staying for 20, 25, 30 years. The city manager and his team found a way to structure a system that would in fact take care of wage increases for not only police and fire but civilian employees of our great city. His plan would take
 from excess and not impact on the operating budget for this year and for the upcoming year. Wages that our men and women, not only uniformed employees but civilian employees, truly deserve. First responders and civilians are working in some of the most unforeseen and difficult circumstances that I've seen in 31 years as a police officer and a lifelong resident of El Paso.
 Council, I ask you today to move forward and approve this agenda item to move the excess funds from the city's excess sales tax and invest in your deserving employees. And, Mr. Kennedy, you said that this may be optics. You have thousands of uniformed employees, thousands of civilian employees looking at you all today in investing in their future. Thank you. Sir, one thing I do want to make sure that you understand, and I'm in support of it, don't get me wrong, but
 This council unanimously voted to support the police department and support the contract, and we will fund it, we will pay it, and we will make sure that everything that was agreed upon will be taken care of. We will never back up on that. So I don't want you to think because this wouldn't pass or may pass because it's here. It's just a different way of paying, as you were saying. But, sir, I want you to make sure you know that we will not back up.
 And we'll always respect the men and women of blue and we will always respect the contract that we agreed upon. I appreciate that sir Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Paul Thompson. Good morning or afternoon mayor and council morning again, sir Two minutes my colleague
 from the PD Association. I'm here to speak for this item. I have I do not have bodyguards with me. These are my colleagues from the fire department Kyle Phillips and Tim Fennell. I think this is prudent planning and I
 I'm here to speak on agenda item 52. I must say I was a little surprised when at the last meeting this item was tabled. However, I do understand that City Council, Selma City Council wanted the presentation. I want to thank City Management, especially the Office of OMB for their time and work on this item. I want to thank especially Representative Canales.
 for bringing forth the item in March to raise the minimum wage of city workers to $15 an hour by fiscal year 2026, and for city council supporting him. This agenda item accomplishes that goal. While I'm the president of Local 51 representing El Paso firefighters, I have the honor of also being the president of the El Paso Central Labor Union representing 20,000 union workers in this region, including AFSCME, the association,
 representing city employees. And we fully support increasing pay for all city workers which are the backbone of this city. I've been at city council meetings over this past year and this is not the first time establishing a pay for futures fund has been mentioned. Establishing this fund will ensure city employees are taken care of and also ensure the recently approved fire and police collective bargaining agreements are funded properly in the future. I may not look that young but
 I've served this city for over 25 years with the fire department, and I remember the times when the previous city administration would come to us in 2006 and 2007 and ask for concessions because these contractual obligations were not properly funded, or there was a shortfall in the budget. And she came to us and asked us for concessions because proper planning did not take place.
 Today's agenda item makes sense not only from a business standpoint prudent planning But it's also the right thing to do and I encourage City Council to support this item and support your city employees Thank you. Thank you, sir. And I do want to comment that you don't need bodyguards when you come to us, sir We respect everything you do and and the work you all do it No, one thing that I can tell you is that you'll always have our word that we have your back. Thank you, sir. I
 And with that, that will be representative Hernandez followed by representative Fiora. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, ma'am. Robert, I'm sorry I had to step away. And so I wanted to ask what was the current quarter savings that we have? 15.8 million. So that's the total amount? Through the second quarter. So the recommendation is to take 15 million of that and put it into this fund.
 So I've had an opportunity to review our bond raiders' criticism over the years since I've been in office since 2017. And I do pay attention to how much we put aside to our reserves, and I know there were some questions about it. But I only have August of 2022, right before we approved our fiscal year budget last August. So then we had an unassigned $51.5 million.
 BUDGET STABILIZATION, 50.1 MILLION. PENSION STABILIZATION, 22.1 MILLION. AND THEN THE RESTRICTED FUND, WHICH IS 22.8 MILLION. AND THEN IT'S ABOUT OVER 150 MILLION, GIVE OR TAKE, AND THIS WAS AUGUST OF 2022.
 So from fiscal year 2015, our rainy day fund had nine days, nine operational days, and then fiscal year 2023 to current, we're at about 91 days. And some of the, I pulled up some of the bond raters and some of the things that they've mentioned, S&P Global Ratings back in 2019, they said we had a very weak debt
 and contingent liability position. And so, and they say specifically, with debt service carrying charges at 18.7% of expenditures and a net direct debt that is 234.3% of the total government fund revenue, as well as a large pension and other post-employment benefits obligations and the lack of a plan to sufficiently address the obligations.
 And so if you go and read all of the bond ratings, they will specifically say, what is your plan?
 Another example from Fitch, they say spending growth should remain comparable to or slightly above revenue trends given the city's expenditure profile. Fitch believes the city retains adequate expenditure flexibility based on the management moderate control over public safety labor cost, its largest operating cost. And what it keeps saying over and over again, let's plan, let's plan for the future. Show us directly how are you setting aside reserves today?
 And I think that we're doing that and we're demonstrating that in our past history with the budget stabilization fund, with the pension stabilization fund, and then with the pay for futures fund. Really, these are steps to demonstrate not only fiscal responsibility, but to show the commitment to law enforcement and to our city employees that when we find excess funding, we have a duty to set it aside.
 so that it doesn't get lost, it doesn't get assigned to other departments, and that we carry it over to the next fiscal year so that we can be better prepared to adjust for those cost drivers. We know that those cost drivers are the collective bargaining agreements, which is why we've heard some of the statements we heard today from our union representatives.
 Now, you know, I know that, you know, it could be perceived as, you know, optics or what have you. I really do believe that this is good practices with budgeting, setting aside dollars to demonstrate to the taxpayer that not only are we committed to public safety, but that when we do find savings, we are going to restrict those savings so that they are not.
 looked at for any pet projects in districts or to any non-critical things like our wages for our public safety officers as well as our employees. And so now we have 152 million,
 or more, plus an additional 15 million. It shows the bond raters that we are a plan accordingly. I think it's really important, these steps that we take. And so I wanted to lend that support, but give a little bit of historical context that our bond raters are looking for these type of steps.
 and that we need to be addressing what those large operating costs are and I think you're doing that with this proposal. And I just wanted to share additional information so that as we go in with the new council, we're going into the budget year, that these steps are critical in how we can achieve not only increasing our bond ratings, but demonstrating specifically steps that we are taking to address the concerns from our bond raters. So I just wanted to share those additional points.
 Additional facts and I hope that you can bring more current facts after this action Where our budget stabilization pension fund unassigned a rainy day fund where where we're at What is the total dollar set aside and then how many days of operation we have based on these steps we've taken Thanks all of that information's in our annual comprehensive financial report that Margarita and the external charges brought forth But I'll provide that to the City Council. Thank you, sir representative
 Bureau. Thank you, Mayor. Now he's confusing me with Chris. Mr. Cortina, thank you. Well, my comments are really for Mr. Thompson. You know, Mr. Thompson, I fully plan on supporting this issue today, but a couple things that you said that I had to address. Number one, I voted against moving forward with this item last time because I had not been briefed.
 You probably were briefed because you mentioned that you had heard about it before. I had not been briefed. Ms. Cortina and Ms. Cody came to our office and briefed us, and I am in support of it. But just so you know, it sounded like you were a little
 I WAS DISAPPOINTED THAT IT WAS NOT FOLLOWED THROUGH LAST TIME. I WAS SURPRISED. I FULLY UNDERSTAND THAT WE HAVE NEW MEMBERS OF COUNCIL SINCE JANUARY. SO MY COMMENT WAS NOT DIRECTED AT YOU.
 You've only been here since January and so and I didn't say I was disappointed. I said I was surprised. Okay All right, myself just you know, I fully support you police officers, but I will not vote on anything Unless I'm briefed by my staff. Thank you. Thank you. I fully understand
 I'm sorry I didn't realize the mayor had walked away I would also I'd just like to comment to that as someone who's been here on six years and asked to postpone the item I also had not been briefed and as much as we are supportive I think that you do have to understand that we're responsible for the financials of the city and and asking questions is what we're here to do and I do think it's a little unfair to say because council members are asking questions they're unsupportive and I think that that really that relationship and
 and that that really needs to change because it's it's unfair to us um it's unfair to you and it's unfair to the community um and with that uh representative kennedy i'm back i do want to before i do and it is your turn but i i do want to make sure that that is important as a body here when we have not been briefed and we're not sure of something we do want to make sure and we do have the option to make sure we make the right decision which obviously
 This is a good thing, and it's not we're in support, but I think that Mr. Cortina, Mr. Gonzalez, and their team do have an obligation to make sure that everyone's brief when something's being brought so something like that doesn't happen. So it's not disrespectful to you or anyone else. I think it's very respectful of the community when we're not, we have not been briefed to make sure that we get briefed so we can make the decision based on why we got elected, and that's to have knowledge of everything before we vote on it, and that's all it is.
 Representative Kennedy? Yeah. First of all, I don't remember anybody up here saying they didn't support the CBA in paying everybody's contracts with what was unanimously voted for. And to convolute a conversation about the methodology to make it work into saying that it's a lack of support, I think is a bit disingenuous. I have supported both those contracts, and I do support both those contracts.
 I think the methodology, I may not agree with the methodology, but it's a methodology. It's not the contract itself, it's not the pay, it's not the rate. And to attempt to squash honest conversation about the methodology for fear that you will be accused of not supporting a CBA, I think is problematic. I've never done anything but support it, and neither has this council. And this council has never been the one that had to come to ask for concessions because they weren't willing to pay for it. I don't think anybody up here...
 blindly voted for a CBA not knowing that it was going to cost more money and we had to find a way to do it. And an honest disagreement on the methodology is just that. A healthy conversation so we can find the best way possible to make sure that these contracts are covered and plan to be covered in the future. The nice part is, we may disagree on the methodology. We don't disagree on making it happen.
 We don't disagree on following through to make sure that the city takes care of it for every year of the contract and to go forward. Or I would suspect we're going to continue the progress and rates and pay rates are going to go up so people can continue to fill spots that are empty. And has a progression inside the organization so we don't lose people to other organizations. As a matter of fact, we become a magnet for other organizations. We spoke with that. The city manager and I did.
 We want to become a magnet for people outside. So don't misunderstand that a healthy and vibrant conversation on the methodology is not a lack of support, but it's actually because everybody wants to get to the same spot. And we're just looking for different roads to do it. And I feel comfortable that, that,
 Mr. Cortines can handle all the financial questions as Mr. Gonzales can and come back with answers and we can disagree But it doesn't mean at the end of the day if it's not the best path forward We're going to take it but do not please try to conflate that with a lack of support for either of the contracts Either of the individuals or anybody involved. It's simply a nice healthy conversation Thank you. I believe we have public comment on this Mr. Turner
 Can I respond real quickly. I never once mentioned that you guys didn't support police and fire your votes for the collective bargaining agreements speak loudly to your support.
 And I think like I said, I was surprised that this was table last time I thought it should have been approved then that being said it wasn't and now after today's presentation I think it's only reinforced that it should be approved Shouldn't be approved till we've all been briefed and I wasn't briefed either and now I have been they came in and gave me a Full briefing with everything but we have at least three members that were not briefed And so I think it would have been inappropriate to vote for something of this size without being briefed. Okay. Thank you very much. Miss Turner. I
 We'll go to you. We'll go to you, Representative Sussi, this way. Well, I thought you were on your way up here. Come on up, Ms. Turner. I just ran into the wall. I do that, too. Just in case these gentlemen have forgotten, I sat in the budget sessions with Mayor Caballero because we were dealing with this very issue. We train our people, and six months later, they go to work with the federal government. So we worked hard to get people
 basically the basic contract that they have built upon since. And I've yet to see members of council, and I would like to reiterate this, not back police and fire. I have sat in budget sessions year after year after year, not only supporting them, but having other people show up and support, and then support them in public. So let me say this.
 I've yet to see a council not support our police and fire and that's just the basic fact and you won't see it from here Miss Turner, we will support them and I think you saw in both contracts unanimous Support and will continue to be unanimous. I'm sure because we very thankful for what they do day in and day out And it's um, and I am you know, the proclamation today spoken volumes of how we feel about representative
 So Just wanted to say yeah, I I share the same Sentiments of my colleagues, of course, we're all in agreements that we've won briefings great But in there we support the police in the fire So I'm here to to definitely support and I just wanted to motion to approve Representants I'll see you they'll beat me to the punch so you can second it again We've had more than one second before but we can we've had more than one before I
 Can we call the question, Ms. Pryne? And again, thank you all for what you do day in and day out. We're very appreciative. And these times are tough right now, and I've talked to a lot of you all, and thank you for getting up and walking out that door every morning and taking care of making sure our community is safe. And we do thank you. May God bless every one of you all. Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve Item 52. Thank you.
 That motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you council Thank you. Thank you all for being here. I appreciate that
 Mayor, may we go to call to the public? No, just one, please. Thank you. The El Paso City Council is local government body charged with serving all of the citizens, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have 17 members of the public that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Maryam Ortega, followed by Robert Ortega and George Loya, and they're all speaking on Hope for Chuco Third Annual Christian Event, August 19th, 2023, car show at Lincoln Park. Good afternoon, you have three minutes. Hi, good afternoon, council members. My name is Maryam Ortega, and then right now we're passing out, that would be,
 A little flyer, you know, with some pictures of the Lincoln Park that we're trying to use for August 19th. This event is a Christian event. We are going to have some Christian rappers, Christian oldies singers, Christian performers. And it's also going to be a car show.
 but this is basically to invite all of the community, the community out there that is hurting because we are gonna be offering prayer, baptismal. It's gonna be a great time, but the reason that we're here is because we need your approval to set up the vehicles on top of the parking lot.
 the grass area and like you can see in the pictures here, it has been done in the past. You know, we are working with the park inspector and you know, to follow all the rules and guidelines for that day and that event so that no sprinklers or anything around the area would be damaged.
 And that's it, thank you. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Robert Ortega, also on the same topic. Good afternoon, city council. It's an honor just to be here and just to get to speak. And just like my wife says, this is my wife, Maryam is my wife, and so this would be the third annual. We've, what we've seen, we've seen the community get closer and closer to this event.
 And what we hear, the outcome of it every year is that they're loving it so much because it seems like a family friendly, it's something beautiful and the community is starting to get attracted and attracted more and more to it. So we had to bring the venue to a bigger place because we see more and more people being united. So what we aim at is just basically unity
 and we love the unity of the community. And it's just showing generosity in general in every aspect, from prayer to baptisms. We do a lot of things to kids. We have a kid section. We do just a lot of amazing things, free food, and all the fun, right? And basically, it's just showing love to the community.
 I would really, really appreciate it. We would really appreciate it if you would be in our favor and just show,
 give us the approval to to park these cars on top of the on top of the grass and in certain sections where Where the inspectors allow us to because you know a lot of these people come from different all kinds of walks but in that in that very day they unite and for them to put their cars where where they Where they feel that their cars they work so hard to keep them cleaner or whatnot but they
 it attracts them more to being involved and it's just amazing. We appreciate you. I know the mayor is such a generous guy. We see him on the commercials every day, but it's beautiful. You know, we believe in generosity and they say that the world of the generous gets larger and larger. But I appreciate you all and thank you so much. Thank you. Next speaker is George Loya, also on the same topic.
 Good afternoon City Council and basically Mary and Robert they covered almost everything. We're here just to you know try to get permission to park the cars on the grass. We've already done a couple of events and we're you know in communication with the city permits and with the people from the parks to make sure that everything is in order. We have a couple of vendors that we will be having no alcohol it's a Christian event.
 And we target more people that typically wouldn't go to your Sunday church.
 We try to push for people that typically won't go and that's the tool Having cars is a tool for us to attract more people that typically wouldn't go to your Sunday church Other than that, we thank you for having us here We appreciate you taking time to hear us out and we would greatly appreciate it We would get your support on this to to get this Christian event going. Thank you very much Thank you again for being here. The next speaker is Melissa Harcrow. I
 Ms. Harcrow, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Melissa Harcrow. I don't see her in the queue. Mark Fierro. Mark Fierro, followed by Barbara Valencia. Their topic is animal services and dog laundering. I, too, will need the Elmo for Mr. Fierro, please. Thank you, City Council. Thank you, City Council.
 What is dog laundering? Adopted dogs are returned to the shelter due to aggressive behavior and bites or attacks, where the dogs are put up for adoption again and again. The dogs end up going out of the shelter and from family to family. Every time the dogs are readopted, the shelter counts that as a save, increasing the shelter's save rate. This is called dog laundering. As part of Best Friends Shelter Program, for a shelter to reach the 90% save rate,
 The shelter will adopt out dogs they know are dangerous and with a bite history to unsuspecting members of the public without disclosing the dangerous history of the dogs. In this handbook from best friends they post pictures of dogs looking happy and wearing a bandana misrepresent the dog's characteristics a dog's aggressive behavior and the bite history is never to be disclosed.
 to the volunteers, fosters, or adopters. When potential adopters come to look at the dog, you must give a false impression that the dog would be a good family pet. There's a picture there, a photo of an attack on a 13-year-old girl by a dog named Blue, adopted from Los Angeles Animal Services Shelter using Best Friends Shelter Program. Blue's first owner gave Blue to the shelter after a biting incident. The shelter, per Best Friends protocol,
 failed to disclose the bite history of the dog to the adopter. Following the attack, the dog was put up for adoption again per Best Friends policy. Next, there's a photo of Argelina. Both of her arms were mauled in a vicious attack by a dog adopted from Los Angeles Animal Services that follows the Best Friends shelter program. One arm had to be amputated almost to the shoulder. The dog, named OG,
 was brought into the shelter after it attacked a jogger biting both of his arms. The attack was unprovoked. The dog attacked in an aggressive and vicious manner, and the injuries it inflicted were severe, according to the police report and shelter records. The shelter, per Best Friends Protocol, failed to disclose the bite history of the dog to Angelina.
 At another shelter using Best Friends Shelter Program, a volunteer, Eve, sustained permanent and severe muscle, nerve, and tissue damage and now has very limited function in her disfigured and disabled right arm and hand after an unprovoked attack by Henry. Eve had absolutely no warning from the shelter staff that Henry had attacked in the past.
 At the time of Eve's attack, the shelter, following Best Friend's procedure, had just put Henry up for adoption a fifth time after having been returned by earlier adopters for aggressive behavior and killing another animal, a family pet, in one of the adoptive homes. Please rescind the contract with Best Friends. Thank you, Mr. Fierro. You've reached the three minutes. Next speaker is Barbara Valencia, also on the same topic. Okay, I will continue on where Mr. Fierro left off.
 Carolyn was killed by a dog her son adopted two weeks earlier from a Pasco County shelter using Best Friend Shelter Program. Her son was badly injured in the attack while trying to save her. The dog had been adopted out and returned twice due to aggressive behavior, one resulting in a severe bite, prior to her son adopting the dog. The shelter, per Best Friend's protocol, failed to disclose the aggressive behavior and bite history of the dog to her son.
 And most recently, a six-year-old girl was attacked by the dog the family adopted from Palm Valley Animal Shelter using the Best Friends Shelter Program. The attack resulted in having half her face ripped off. The attack occurred just eight days after the family adopted the dog. Shelter record states the dog's demeanor was aggressive towards people. Documentation from shelter staff states aggressive snaps and growls.
 THE SHELTER FOLLOWING BREAST SENSITIVE PROTOCOL DID NOT DISCLOSE THE DOG'S AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR TO THE FAMILY, WHICH INCLUDES FOUR CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF TEN LIVING IN THE HOME. THE DAY AFTER THIS ATTACK, THE SHELTER PUT THE DOG BACK UP FOR ADOPTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH BEST FRIENDS POLICY. THE DOG HAS BEEN ADOPTED OUT AND RETURNED THREE MORE TIMES FOR AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR SINCE THE ATTACK ON THE SIX-YEAR-OLD LITTLE GIRL. THIS IS HAPPENING AT EVERY SHELTER USING BEST FRIENDS SHELTER PROGRAM, AND IT WILL HAPPEN HERE.
 Shelters using Best Friends Shelter Program are knowingly putting the public at risk by adopting and re-adopting out dogs with aggressive behavior and bite history without full disclosure and by lying about the dog's behavior. This is dog laundering. Such conduct is negligent and reckless.
 The courts have determined Best Friend puts in place, as part of their shelter program, nefarious practices of aggressive animals in plain sight and concealing what they know to be their dangerous past and prior acts of violence. Local government and their shelters that willfully choose to use Best Friend's programs, policies, and procedures do so at their own peril. The courts go on to say the primary duty of any government is to protect the health and safety of its citizens.
 A municipal shelter acting on behalf of the government using Best Friend Shelter Program is negligently, recklessly, and knowingly endangering public health and safety. The government and the shelter cannot hide its reckless conduct behind a veneer of animal welfare and conservation in order to achieve a no-kill status. City Council.
 This is your notification that you are negligently, recklessly, and knowingly endangering the health and safety of the citizens of El Paso with the continued use of Best Friends Shelter Program. The courts have said the city will be held responsible and liable for these actions. Ms. Hernandez, you are now officially notified.
 Because you told me two weeks ago, well, you can't sue the city if we don't know that this has happened. Now you know it has happened. Thank you. Don't misrepresent my statements, Mrs. Barbara, please. And I'm happy to talk to you directly after this. No, that's exactly what you told me. The next speaker is Ron Colmo. Don't misrepresent my statements. Thank you, ma'am. No, you told me. Mr. Colmo's topic is animal services. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Hi. So today's show and tell.
 You guys are enjoying that little puppy. Just for fact's sake, that dog was found roaming. The couple that found it called 3-1-1. 3-1-1 told them if they couldn't take it home, let it go. They did not want to leave a five-week-old puppy roaming the streets of El Paso because El Paso Animal Services and best friends don't want to do the job they get paid for. They took the dog home. Comes the second part of this problem.
 the community member cared enough to take the dog home the dog got attacked by their dog why because they are making people take strays home and have no clue what's going to happen to them and don't care one of the things you need to understand i've been heard that the community the county is part of the problem for the el paso's problem
 The problem with El Paso Animal Services is the lack of doing their job. They have left strays on the street since 2020. The HOSS program has been in effect since 2020. It was put in effect by a heartless director. And just so we understand each other...
 Maricopa County's animal service director has now been moved to Best Friends after doing the exact same thing to Maricopa County. She was moved out of Maricopa County because she was getting the same results that our ex-director was getting. It's time. It's time.
 I say this every two weeks. And every two weeks, you guys blow us off. And every two weeks, you create more strays, more disease, more attacks on people in the city of El Paso. Google it. Look at the dates, 22, 23. The Google's full of it.
 you know we we have a unqualified director we have people making decisions for our shelter that have less animal welfare experience than my grandsons i'm done i'm tired you guys have left so many dogs to die in the street that dog would be dead today the dog that you all think is so cute and adorable when you go to bed tonight
 You've got your pet next to you remember what they did what they did to that dog They abandoned that dog on the streets of El Paso. Is that fair? Is that what you all want? Can you sleep at night knowing you're abandoning strays on the street? I can't thank you. Mr Como the next speaker is Denise Titus Denise Titus if you're in the queue star six, please to unmute your telephone Denise Titus star six, please. I
 Don't see her phone number in the queue next speaker is Paula Powell followed by Marsha Margario Barbara Candelaria sandy D Francisco also the speaking on best friends animal society work Good morning mayor and city councils. Nice to see you guys. Good morning, ma'am. Just a quick reminder. I'm Paula Powell I am a senior strategist with best friends animal society for the South Central region But I'm also a longtime
 El Paso resident, a retired city employee, a veteran, a grandmother, a mother of three, and a mother of three dogs, jelly beans, Krabby, and Taco. What being a senior strategist means is that I work to establish relationships, look for opportunities, and find common ground for life-saving with agencies throughout our region to include my hometown, my hometown, El Paso.
 Our primary goal is to create pathways, reduce obstacles, and to introduce, implement, and support life-saving ideas and strategies to help organizations save more dogs and cats. I wish I would have known all of the resources that Best Friends had to offer when I was the director here in El Paso. And once I started working for Best Friends 2.5 years ago,
 I realized there was so much more information, so many resources, so many opportunities that we could tap into. A vast menu of support that a national organization can provide to local shelters. And I vowed to make sure that every shelter knew, they didn't have to do them all, but at least knew of those, that menu of opportunities available for support.
 And we are here to help with many programs to direct support your work. Shelter engagement and program support, which includes the embed program that you have going on right now. You're in, I think, month four. We also have training and continued education. We work with universities. Southern Utah University puts out our executive leadership program, which your director is in right now. We have a network of over 4,000 communities and shelters that we connect with.
 We have grant making and fundraising opportunities available and El Paso's taken that opportunity many times throughout the last 2.5 years.
 And we have leading industry experts. You want that experience? You want the people that have the 20 years experience? Which is not me, I'm the first to say that. That's why these leading industry experts are best friends who do the research and do the studying and understand this industry inside and out and know the ups and downs, they're here for you. I am. Thank you, Ms. Powell.
 the next speaker is marcia margario topic is animal services no room at the intake good afternoon you have three minutes good afternoon mayor leaser council members i am marcia margerio
 Given El Paso's geography and the fact that tens of thousands of stray animals roam the streets each and every day, a strategic approach predicated on facts and data, not emotions, is warranted. Right now, the best and brightest directors in the animal shelter industry are basically rendered helpless.
 They lack the power, resources, and the capacity to manage this overrun of community animals. Even as intakes are below pre-COVID numbers, the disproportion of daily intakes to daily live outcomes is extremely problematic.
 For No Kill to be successful today, shelters appeal to their community to help slow down the pace of intakes. Taking healthy, friendly dogs out of their neighborhood and into the shelter conceivably results in those dogs lingering in cages and not returning home. In March of this year,
 San Antonio began a stray dog pilot program, a 10 person team canvassing two districts to capture and reunite loose dogs with owners or classify them as stray unowned. 94% of found animals had owners.
 Over six weeks, the team reunited 699 pets without them entering the shelter, and 619 pets were microchipped. Preventing animals from entering the shelter saves taxpayer dollars and saves animals' lives.
 It would be ideal to be able to control the loose stray population while also decreasing the suffering, disease, and euthanasia of shelter pets. I believe the majority of the community values life-saving and, if asked, will become part of the solution, a solution that doesn't involve taking the lives of shelter animals. Thank you.
 Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Barbara Candelaria. Barbara Candelaria, Sandy DeFrancisco, Sandy DeFrancisco, Alan Serna. Coming up, ma'am. Mr. Serna's topic is concrete and rubble left on Yarbrough Drive for over six months. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. I have some pictures to share if I could. That way the council knows exactly what I'm talking about.
 First. Good afternoon council. My name is Alan Serna. I'm a local business owner and I live in the Riverside area. Back in September, they started construction on a bridge down there on Yarbrough. Great bridge. They broke it all apart. They took it down and they laid all this rubble in a field right beside a brand new walking track that they did. Capital improvements. Fantastic track.
 Wonderful. Much needed. Appreciate it. A lot of improvement on the city's part on these projects. Since October, I've been calling my city representative's office to complain about the rubble that was left there. I've called four to five times. I haven't even gotten a message back. I ran into my city council rep at an Earth Day presentation a couple of weeks ago on April 22nd, and I asked him, when is this rubble going to get picked up?
 And he told me, it's out of my hands, man. I can't do nothing about it. Henry, you told me that. And it was a text dot project. Okay. So I said, all right, text dot project. Thanks, Henry. Great. Let's get this thing picked up. He says, all right, whatever. Next day, I went to the Civil Liberties rally over here, and I interrupted Jose Rodriguez talking. And he was nice enough to give me a few minutes, and I asked him about it. I said, is this text dot? Can you do anything about it? You know? And he said, well, I'm retired. I can't do anything about it.
 So I told him what Henry said, and then he said, well, you know, I'm not going to say what he said about Henry, but he said, Henry, it's your responsibility. So next I went to TxDOT, and I went and I talked to the big boss at TxDOT, and he looked into it and he says, no, this is not our rubble. It's the city's rubble. So I'm just here to say, hey, you know what? When are we going to pick this rubble up? Because if you look at these pictures, it's about 100 tons of rubble. And guess what's happening now?
 Contractors or whoever's doing it at night are coming in there. They're throwing cinder blocks in there They're throwing trash up in there and this was Dallas if this was Austin if this was San Antonio or Houston You wouldn't have this rubble here for six to seven months and and basically I've been growing trees for over 29 years and I'll pass when I've donated hundreds of trees to the city to the zoo to all kinds of other deals and
 And I'm a contractor. And if I leave messes like this, I'm not going to get paid. So basically, can you see this? Let me turn this around. This is the project that was done, okay, by Capital Improvements. Great project. But let me tell you something. You see those trees right there? You got two big giant trees right next to each other, six, seven feet apart. Guess what's going to happen? It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure this one out. Thank you, Mr. Serna.
 Thank you, sir. And we'll um, we'll check into and we will get back to you. Thank you. May we have The next speaker is Albert Rivera Mr. Rivera's topic is noise nuisances and lack of noise meters for EP PD officers. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes Well, I'm not doing too good and mr. Christian Alice hasn't done crap for me either I
 I've been trying to call him and get in touch with him to help me out because code enforcement told me I needed to contact my district rep but apparently he don't work there his secretary does I don't get any phone calls I don't get crap from him what are you and I going to meet we can discuss the noise that I have in my district when are you going to get up your cojones and do something for the for the neighborhood Mr. Rivetta I have to ask you to please be respectful anyway my problem is this
 The police department is coming to my house at 1230, 1 o'clock in the morning, whenever I call them, without the equipment to do their job, Mr. Canales. They don't have enough meters, sound meters, to do the decimal on these bars that are getting away with it. Sometimes they don't even show up when I call at 1230. The cops don't come up. When they do come, they come without meters, Mr. Gonzalez.
 how about getting funding for the police department with meters to come do their job so i don't have to go crazy every damn weekend to listen to this noise over and over and if this bar doesn't become neighborhood friendly we need to do some consideration and propose rezoning okay they made enough money and put it in that investment in that bar and this new bar hush hush
 took over the Blackbird Continent deluxe, which I sued and won, and they knew the problem before they even took it. And they added a second balcony, and they still don't have a roof, but they added a second balcony next to mine, three feet from my balcony, and they got a decimal level that they can go 68, 69, which is way too high for being as close to my house as that. In the future, and even now,
 These bars should be regulated with a sound decimal depending on how close they are to the property line. You hear me, Mr. Gonzalez? Mr. Canales, do you hear me? Every bar should be scrutinized with what they have in their bar, considering the sound system, the PA system they have. This bar has got a hell of a sound system, a PA system that needs to be looked at. Every bar should be looked at.
 And I'm tired of coming here, and I will keep coming until we get something done. But one thing for sure, get the police department the meters they need to do the job because they're wasting my time, they're wasting your time, and they're not able to do their job completely. They're showing up without meters. Let's help them out and get the proper equipment they need. Thank you very much. The next speaker is Efrain Saucedo.
 Efrain Salcedo, his topic is Make El Paso the Safest City in the State of Texas. Good afternoon, Mr. Salcedo. You have three minutes, sir. Oh, thank you. I got 30 minutes to say. Thank you. Three minutes. Good morning. How you doing? Jesus Christ. I always ask God to help you guys. How are you? Excuse me? You want to know my name? I know your name. I don't even know it right now. I'm real tired. I just came from the VA. Okay.
 to give him a seminar. My name is Efrain Saucedo. I always, like I was saying, ask God, God, my God and your God, to help you because you have a lot of stress, and the stress is killing a lot of people. Now, I want to congratulate right now my CREP, Isabel Salcido, because she's doing a well-done job. I thank you very much. Thank you. And I want to congratulate all of you guys
 You have a lot of stress. I mean, to make a good city like I've been doing all my life, we have to start with us, with us helping you, helping you, because we have to help. We have to help each other. Not because I live on the east side. I don't have the northeast. I do. As a matter of fact, I'm going to get with my city rep, and she agreed with me that we can help the other city.
 parts of the city. I have a lot of friends of mine, they are willing to work with me. They are made and create a lot of projects. Like I opened the express lane by myself. Carrupt, I say corrupt, Reyes helped me to do it because I help him. That's the only way we opened the express lane. Now please, I ask you if,
 Like when Ray, I forgot his last name, he was a mayor. I was a volunteer, and I raised more than $1.5 million for the city. So I wait when these guys from the shelters or the dogs or whatever, they ask you for money, you have the resources. You give me the badge or whatever to become a volunteer for you guys. I will promise you that I will raise $1.5 million.
 At least one million dollar so I wait when they come and ask you you have the money And I already called the guys from the dogs. Thank you. They call me back. I thank you very much God bless you and keep us doing the well done job. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Mr So the next speaker is Steven's drummer. I don't believe he's here Miss Turner Lisa Turner followed by Melissa Harcrow and
 MS. TURNER'S TOPIC IS TRANSGENDER AND FIRST VETERANS OF AMERICA. GOOD AFTERNOON, MS. TURNER. GOOD AFTERNOON, MS. TURNER. GOOD AFTERNOON, MAYOR COUNSEL. I'M IN MY SPEAKING AS THE NATIONAL VICE CHAIR FOR ADVOCACY FOR THE TRANSGENDER AND DIVERSE VETERANS OF AMERICA. ON MAY 2, 2023, THE TRANSGENDER AND DIVERSE VETERANS OF AMERICA, TDVA,
 is excited to announce the launch of this organization and election of its officers. TDVA is a 501c3 and a 501c4 organization founded by veterans for veterans. TDVA's mission is to support all our veterans. TDVA will work to foster support, education, and peer support for those veterans throughout the nation and those who live overseas. TDVA's political advocacy arm
 We'll work to advocate to develop policies that support care, positive outcomes for our transgender veterans throughout the Veterans Health Administration. It also will continue to work to ensure these veterans' rights and benefits will be protected for all future veterans. TDVA's vision is to be agile, adaptive, and locally responsive to the needs of our veterans.
 TDVA is excited to welcome our community of veterans from across the services and the LGBTQ plus community to come together and support each other through peer support, mobile and technological utilization, and guidance through housing and food insecurity and crisis as they arise in our community.
 Join us as we work to improve and secure the lives of veterans who secure our nation's future. For more information, please visit our website at www.tdva-ag.org, or you can find us on Facebook, also LinkedIn. Like I said, I am their vice chair for national advocacy, so you will probably be seeing more of me in that official capacity soon.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner, always for your time. I don't know what to do. Well, that's good, Ms. Turner. Thank you. The final speaker is Melissa Harcrow. Her topic is the Women Veterans State Events in June. Ms. Harcrow, star six, please, to unmute your microphone. Hi. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 hi good afternoon everyone um my name is alyssa hartcrow i'm calling you as a member of the el paso texas women veterans group and i just wanted to inform the public
 and invite everyone out to a few of the veterans, women veterans day events we have coming up in June. First we have on June, excuse me, June 9th, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. We have a women veterans day conference and that's gonna be at the VFW post 812. There's gonna be free lunch. It's a free event. There will be a silent auction and the free business clothing giveaway. We have a couple of speakers lined up.
 And we do ask that just women veterans sign up for this event.
 And the next event is Friday, excuse me, Sunday, June 11th at Economy Wholesale Grocers at 411 North Zaragoza. That's also free. We'll also have some speakers and recognition ceremony and some networking. And that is from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. And we also ask just women veterans at this event
 But we also invite the public to join us at our first ever Take a Walk in Her Boots Fun Run Walk. There will be a 5K and a one mile. You can choose to run or walk either one. And that's going to be at the Old Glory Memorial at 7 a.m.
 We'll have a t-shirt for participants, $35 registration, and the t-shirts have been designed exclusively for us by Viva La Mocha, and we're very excited about that. And if anybody is interested, you can contact the point of contact, which is Alexis McCrae at 915-
 three eight three five one eight zero. Or you can contact me at nine one five eight six seven
 And I'll also be sending an email out to the mayor and council as we've had to make some updates with these events. But thank you all so much. I really appreciate everything you've done for the veteran community. And we want everyone to come out and help celebrate women veterans. And we hope in the future to keep doing these events annually and get to a point where we can donate funds to veteran organizations and military organizations and their families. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Thank you. We're going to take item 17, then we're going to take a 30-minute break for lunch. Thank you. Yes, sir. Item 17 is discussion in action to direct the city manager to develop a programming plan for the use of the open space acquisition 2012 quality of life funds and dual purpose open space stormwater funds. This item was submitted by Representatives Anello and Molina. Mayor, can we do public comment? Yes, ma'am.
 We do have three people. Yes, sir. Three people that signed up to speak. The first person is Richard Bonnard, followed by Sharon Bonnard and Melissa Kirken. Good afternoon, Dr. Bonnard. You have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. So to me, this feels a little bit like paralysis by analysis.
 And I don't understand, there seems to be still some confusion and further need to study how to prioritize the 2012 quality of life and 10% stormwater fund. BOAC was charged with reviewing the 2012 quality of life projects and to provide oversight and feedback on project expenditures and implementation, including the $5 million for open space acquisitions that's in the 2012 quality of life bonds.
 On several occasions, BOAC and OSAP have made motions and recommendations to City Council, including this resolution on July of 2021. Motion made, seconded, and unanimously carried, recommend the Mountain to River Trail follow and focus on a natural surface route aligned through the open space acquired by the PSB and coordinate with various entities to create a multipurpose pedestrian crossing and mountain bike trails.
 This obviously would include necessarily acquiring land. In every meeting and vetting by the city since 2008, the Mountain to River Trail has been a priority, priority number one with all the stakeholders. The original plan was a route through Arroyo 41. Unfortunately, that plan was not followed and development wiped out the natural open space.
 Now before us, if the, if the, I do will need the Elmo, please bring it up is this proposal. And as you can see, this is a perfect opportunity for the mountain to river trail, unless the necessary parcels are purchased this time. And we will actually run out of options. As you can see, there's already development starting to the north and there's a lot of development to the south.
 This is a second chance. This is the last chance. So the route was originally proposed to OSAP by the PSB. This is not my idea, but I saw it as a golden opportunity. And as you see, what's kind of covered up by the black, years ago, my wife Sherry negotiated for that section that's in a conservation easement to be set aside. So it would be really nice to follow the recommendations of your boards.
 do this first as you understand there are limited amounts of funds available we need to use them wisely if you want to spend time prioritizing things of what the remainder is after we do this that's a good idea but this should be a priority and opportunity before it's gone thank you
 Mr. Bona, as we discussed, that is what the item is to move forward and do. There is not a plan. It is to move forward on how we would spend down the rest of those funds in the next year. Understood, but this is paramount that this get done now. I appreciate that. And it's been recommended several times over the years. This is not something new. Right, but council needs to take action to move forward with expending those funds. So let's do this now first. Okay.
 Yes ma'am. The next speaker is Sharon Lohnert. My turn. OK. And I'm going to follow up and kind of be the same thing that he said only different. OK. Good afternoon mayor and council I'm a member of OSAA open space advisory board I've been such for seven years and I don't speak for the board but I am reporting that OSAAB has repeatedly presented recommendations to city council.
 FOR THE USE OF FUNDS OF THE 2012 QUALITY OF LIFE FUNDS AND THE DUAL PURPOSE OPEN SPACE STORM WATER PROGRAM, SPECIFICALLY LOOKING AT MOUNTAIN TO RIVER TRAIL. THE NUMBER ONE PRIORITY FOR OPEN SPACE PROJECTS SINCE EVEN BEFORE 2012 QUALITY OF LIFE BOND HAS BEEN THE MOUNTAIN TO RIVER TRAIL. ALTHOUGH THE PROPERTIES
 ON THE OPEN SPACE PRIORITY LIST CANNOT BE DISCUSSED IN GENERAL SESSION. IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT STAFF HAS ADMITTED THAT THE ORIGINAL ACQUISITION LIST HAS BEEN LOST. THAT BEING SAID, THERE ARE THOSE OF THE ORIGINAL CITIZENRY WHO RECALL THE MOUNTAIN TO RIVER TRAIL AS ALWAYS HAVING BEEN A TOP PRIORITY PROJECT.
 The Camino Real Regional Mobility Authority has already stated they support the Mountain to River project and they have been in contact with staff. There remains over $3 million in the quality of life funds and there are funds in the dual purpose stormwater account. Those funds should be used to make this happen.
 Recently, the City spent $14 million on the Martin Luther King property in Northeast and another $10 million on the Knapp properties. This is the right time for the City staff to work with OSAB and BOAC to create a plan for the completion of the Mountain to River Trail before this land is developed.
 The Mountain to River Trail will enhance ecotourism as the only one of its kind. It will be a long trail that encourages healthy activity and connects our amazing mountain, a state park, and the Rio Grande. Complete the Mountain to River Trail. This should be the focus of any planning on using those monies. Thank you.
 Thank you, Dr. Bonnard. The next speaker is Melissa Kirkham. Melissa Kirkham, star six, please. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good morning, city representatives, Mayor Leaser, and city staff. My name is Melissa Kirkham. I am a resident of El Paso. Thank you for allowing me to speak today. I am here to talk about open space. Open space is very important for our El Paso community. We all benefit from open space.
 Open space helps decrease flooding and it helps our air and water quality. It is also important for native plants and wildlife. I am asking you to direct the city manager to develop a programming plan for the use of open space acquisition 2012 quality of life funds and the dual purpose open space storm water funds. Thank you very much. Mayor that concludes public comment on this item.
 Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks Mayor. I mean yeah I think that it's pretty straightforward is that we have recommendations the council has priorities but we've been sitting on this this money the you know bond was in 2012 we're up on 11 years now and it's to have city manager work on a plan work with the water utilities on some of the stormwater funds and come up with a plan to spend down those dollars so I'll make a motion to approve.
 Yes, Mary. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Manalo, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve item 17. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. Is there a motion to recess? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the meeting is in recess at 1.04 p.m. for 30 minutes. City council meeting, all in favor?
 Anyone opposed the meeting is back in session at 1 47 p.m We're on page 7 item number 18 and this is discussion in action to direct the city manager to prepare parks and Can we skip this item? She's not in here at this moment so we'll go then
 We'll go to 19. Yes, sir. Item 19 is update discussion and action on all information pertaining to but not limited to the current funding levels, current procurement timelines, current project scope, and current completion date of the new El Paso Police Headquarters from the 2019 Public Safety Bond and directing the City Manager to complete all necessary action to keep the project within publicly shared.
 Timelines this item was submitted by representatives on LO and Molina Thank You mayor yes on this item is
 I became a little bit concerned on what's happening. We're going on four years since the public safety bond was passed in November of 2019. And even though there's been some land designated over in District 4 off Martin Luther King, what else do we really know that's happening as far as the environmental, the design, and the rollout of the money that's gonna be expended on that? Sorry. Sorry, Sam. Sam Rodriguez, Chief Operations Officer.
 Representative Molinar, we are actually due to bring back a report on the public safety update on the various programs. So we'll schedule that at the next council meeting so we can share with you the timelines for that. As far as the police department headquarters, we have been working on the programming side of it so we understand the facility, working on the cost estimates so that we can right-size the facility. As you know, the COVID impact has created an increase in cost and so we're working through contingencies on that.
 so that we can give council options on how to proceed with the project moving forward. We'll share that information with you. Okay, so Mr. Rodriguez is saying in two weeks you'll bring this back with a? Yeah, that's our schedule right now is that we'll bring you an update, both in executive and public session to give you an update on the Public Safety Program as a whole.
 okay and that will include the backup will include the funds being allocated the design the environmental timeline correct specific on the headquarters city council already approved several several months back the actual owners representative services for a consultant to work with the programming so that work's already underway uh they've been meaning a lot of you know they've completed a lot of the meetings with the police department on the headquarters specifically to understand the size of it uh how big it's going to be working the cost estimates
 Because of the again the cost impacts and the increase in cost. We're working on contingencies and Options for City Council to consider as far as moving some of those project monies around so that we can bring to council Okay, and mr. Rodriguez, I know we had previously talked about a conservation easement in that area Would you be able to provide information on that as well? I?
 Specifically, the conservation easement, we'll give you an update. I do not believe we move forward with that because we wanted to make sure that the development of the academy, and we're mixing projects here representing Willamette. I wanna make sure that we're on the same page here. Right now, we are under the cone of silence for the academy project. So that's being negotiated and going through proposals through that particular project. That's the academy for PD and fire in the Northeast. The item that was posted today was for police department headquarters.
 It's a separate site, separate project. But we'll have an update for you on all the public safety bond program. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you, Representative Molinar. Sam, I have one question. Can you tell us a little bit more about the timeline? I know that it was supposed to originally be completed by
 22 and then got pushed back or 23 and got pushed back obviously a year because of covid um which would have the new headquarters opening by 24. is that timeline still on track it is not on track because of the covet impact as I mentioned um you know in the increase in costs uh we're starting to see uh cost stabilize uh somewhat so we're ready to move forward like I said the the both
 On the peat headquarters specifically to this item. It is a it is a proposed to be a design build contract So once we move forward without procurement, it'll start construction pretty close to there, but we don't have a timeline No, we'll share with you at the next council meeting. I don't have that with me today Okay, I mean and so since this bond has been approved I've discussed planning
 for the current headquarters and we keep saying we're going to do that for me the time is is ticking and so I would really like to start that process I know there was conversations about a five points master plan I don't know if that's entirely necessary would love to do it I'm not saying it's not a great idea but if that's not scheduled within the next year then it it kind of leaves me out of that conversation and so I would love to start planning on that
 kind of what happens with the current headquarters within the next year. You're talking about the site once it's not there. Yes, sir. Yeah, yeah. We can absolutely...
 if maybe put it in the next year's budget and start that process now and then have council approve that because you're right, we did have a discussion about what would be there. I don't remember if we talked about a master plan or anything like that but that makes all the sense in the world to integrate that into the discussion and the process so we will work on putting that in the budget. Thank you, I appreciate it. Yes ma'am. Do you need action, Sam? Yeah, I mean the action, we're gonna bring it back but if you feel comfortable just hold it accountable.
 you are posted for discussion and action okay and i apologize i didn't realize that i think go ahead and make miss mayor pro tem go ahead and take action that way we have it on record okay so i'll move to direct you to come back in two weeks second mr prime yes mayor the action the motion was made by mayor pro temponello seconded by alternate mayor pro tem on the nod and the action is to direct the city manager to return in two weeks is that correct with an update yes thank you on that motion call for the vote
 Ms. Prine, can I take mine verbally since I've been having some password issues since this morning's change? Yes, ma'am, and we'll ask IT to come and help. Your vote, ma'am. Thank you. End the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. Here, may we go to item 20? Yes, ma'am, please. Thank you. Item 20.
 Discussion in action to direct the city manager to hire an outside accounting firm to conduct an external audit of city managers office for the period of June 2014 through June 30th 2023 Involving all travel p-card purchases budget transfers vehicle allowances fuel carts demotions promotions all salary increases New hires at the city managers director and leadership positions this item was submitted by alternate mayor pro tem only not Molinar, thank you very much mayor
 So this item we're going to have a new transition as far as our city management and leadership and so to me it's like there's going to be a new chapter for the history of El Paso. Mr. Gonzalez will be exiting and we don't know who the next new city manager will be hired.
 So to me, it's a really good indication of where we're at financially. I know we've been talking about many things. I know, Mr. Gonzales, you do the budget year-round. That's a great thing. But besides the meat and bones, where are we at? We've had some issues right now already with gas cards and travel and some other things, but we're not going to talk about that all today. But we just need to be 
 to be sure that whoever takes over, that that person has a good strong foundation for decision making and knows and completely understands the health of our city financially. And that was my reason and purpose bringing this item forward. Any action? Motion to approve. So motion and a second. Other comments? Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir. The motion was made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linar, seconded by Representative Kennedy to approve item number 20,
 That motion call for the vote in the voting session the motion passes six to one representative canales voting nay Representative and not this not present the remainder of council voting aye the motion does carry and I think Yeah, and I think I know it's been deleted but we do have Council that will be coming in by name of Frank Archer that was hired by City Attorney's Office to come in and assist in the meeting on on
 THURSDAY THANK YOU MR. MAYOR AND THE CITY ATTORNEY ALREADY ANSWERED THE QUESTIONS I HAD OH OKAY GOOD SO THANK YOU FOR THAT THANK YOU MISS NEMAN FOR THAT ITEM 21 WAS DIRECT DISCUSSION AND ACTION REGARDING THE HIRE OF OUTSIDE COUNCIL FOR THE FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND AUDIT COMMITTEE FOAC REVIEW OF MISUSE OF PUBLIC RESOURCES THAT THE ITEM WAS DELETED OR DO YOU WANT TO DELETE THE ITEM SIR OKAY SO CAN WE DELETE THE MOTION TO DO YOU WANT TO HAVE A MOTION TO DELETE THE ITEM
 motion was the deletion not included in the revisions there is a motion made by representative Piero seconded by representative Rivera to delete the item on that motion call for the vote mayor Pro Tem thank you in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously item 22
 presentation and discussion on furry fitness program and approve a resolution authorizing the city manager or his designee to approve a monthly incentive and bonus incentive to city employees as part of the furry canine foster program incentive pilot I
 Good afternoon, Council. Mary Michelle Wiggins, Assistant Director of Human Resources, and I'll be joined with my partner here. I have Terry Kepchel, Director of Animal Services. So we're excited to come to you today to bring two different initiatives forward that we wanna make you aware of and just kinda wanna present to you. Our first is our City of El Paso Furry Fitness Program. If we can go forward. Thank you.
 So we have launched this furry fitness program and so as I'm sure you're aware we have moved some of our four-legged friends into the other side of City One due to some space constraints so they've moved in with us so we have new neighbors and so it's important because they're in the back that we that they need to get their exercise just like we need to get our exercise
 So as part of our Shape It Up program, we've incorporated our furry friends into our Shape It Up program. And so we have employees that are now volunteering during their breaks to walk our friends. If you could go forward.
 So on this, anybody who comes down, the location is at 501 East Mills, so it's on the side over here for anyone who wants to participate. And we're doing it Monday through Sunday. It needs to be during the employees' working hours, so it needs to be, and it can't be like a volunteer, it has to be during their working hours, during their breaks. And right now we have it anywhere from 8 a.m. to 10.30.
 We wish we could do it longer, but because the sun is getting so hot on the asphalt and their feet can't handle it, so we're having to compact it right now from 8 to 1030 that we're doing these walks. Go forward.
 So right now what we're doing, the walking is inside the perimeter. So if you go in the back, there's a back parking lot back there. And so they're walking in the back parking lot of the perimeter. We've walked it and if you do the entire perimeter, it's about a quarter of a mile. So when they go down, they're able to walk them, do about three or four rounds, you know, around the parking lot. So the employees get in their walk, the dogs are getting their walk.
 And we're asking for any employees that are in the downtown footprint. So it could be anyone who can kind of like walk here in the downtown area, we're asking them to come and participate.
 Just want to add real quick, I want to thank the mayor. This was his idea with respect to the walking, and then also he had indicated also, which was a good recommendation as well, to do it in the morning because of how hot it is and be hot on the asphalt for the dog's paws. So thank you for that, Mayor. Yes, sir, and then we also talked about getting different
 type of leash that we're gonna get sir that same day I asked Terry kept y'all to get those purchased and And to not use the rope leashes anymore. Yeah, great. That's great. Thank you. No, thank you. That was another good recommendation
 all right so how do employees sign up so with the help of IT who jumped on you know with us on this very quickly we were able to put together a calendar so we have this great calendar that you can just go into right now we have it in ten-minute signups you know while we're working out the specifics we're gonna probably bring hopefully that down to five minutes eventually but right now while we're working it out we have it in ten minutes
 So the employee just goes to the website. You can see where it is on the My El Paso site. You go on there, you're just gonna click, and then you get to pick the day and time that you wanna go walk. It has a release that you'll sign, and authorizing your supervisor knows where you're at and everything. So you'll complete the online waiver.
 We want to make sure before employees show up, though, that you have on full-length pants, closed-toe shoes, and no heels. In some of these cases, the dogs will walk you instead of you walking the dogs. So make sure that you have on comfortable shoes that are going to keep you safe on that.
 And just to kind of go back to the, before I go on to the foster pilot program, the other thing I wanted to expand on is as part of the Shape It Up program, each employee who signs up and comes down and walks one of the canines is going to get two wellness points towards their Shape It Up. So that's very important that you're going to get credit for that as well. So we're just trying to encourage participation.
 Another program, so we're going to expand even further, is we have our Furry Canine Foster Pilot Program. That's a mouthful. And so for our first 100 employees that sign up, what we are recommending is we want to be able to, the employees who sign up, they can get up to $200 a month for fostering one of our furry canines.
 Plus, well, let's back up a little bit of what they had to do. So if you're going to foster a canine, that means that you, you know, you're taking them home, but you're also, you're taking care of them in the hopes that they're going to find a forever home. And who knows that forever home might be your home, but if it's not, you're agreeing to help to find a foster home for, you know, for the pet.
 And so if you do, if you're helping us to do that, you will also get a $100 bonus for any of the canines that find a Forever Home. And I've seen some, like on Facebook and different things, I've seen some dogs that are on there and I see specific people that are listing the dogs on the program and I didn't know what it was. I kind of was trying to figure out how they had these dogs and they were trying to find homes for these dogs.
 participating with Terry on this I now understand that these are people who have you know we're taking fosters into their home and they're they're actively trying to find homes and so that's what we're hoping our employees are going to do as well is that they will take these they're going to give them you know lots of love they're going to give them that loving home but they're also going to be active and trying to find that forever home so
 Let's see, what have I not told you? They go to there, try to find adoption, and then the employee will also be supplied with the food. The employee doesn't have to worry about the food. They're typically given about two weeks supply of food. So we want to make sure they're well taken care of.
 So again, it's just for the first 100 employees that volunteer to do this. There's two different addresses that you could. So in order to get one, you would need to go to one of the two addresses, either on Fred Wilson or over here at 501 East Mills that we have here. They would go. They would show up. They would fill out. There's an application to be able to do so. And then we will work with Terry to be able to work out all the specifics and everything.
 And that is it. So in order to move forward on the second one, though, of course, we would need an amended budget resolution for this. So we would need council to take action. If council does approve this going forward, Terry and I are going to work together, and we're going to put together a policy that's going to work in coordination to make sure we have everything worked out and it works best for the employees and our friends. Is there anything you wanted to add?
 Terry Kepchell, Animal Services Director. Just a reminder that on that foster program, it is just like any other foster program. Animal Services, we will provide all the supplies they need. So if they needed a kennel at their home, not just the dog food, everything else, their vaccinations when they need to come in for those booster shots, just like a regular foster program. So we continue with that way.
 Do we have more percent of merprotem? Yeah. What is the funding source for this? The funding source...
 Animal Services? Okay. Yeah. And is there a limit of the number of employees who can participate in each program? Are you capping them? I mean, I don't think we're going to have like 3,000 people signed up, but just, you know, asking for the sake of asking too many questions. For the foster pilot programs, it's 100. It's the first 100. Oh, okay. First 100. I'm sorry. I think you said that, too. I apologize. Okay, good. I'll make a motion to approve. Second. Ms. Pryor? We do have public comment on this item.
 We received a statement from Mayor Kinsberg and Vargas, and it reads, good evening, I fully object to adoption of the above-mentioned resolution here and after the resolution. Let me rephrase that, in a scenario in which one, a city shelter would actually be a no-kill shelter, two, while maintaining an open intake policy, three, with several satellite locations with enough space so no euthanasia other than for humane reasons is necessary,
 Four, that actively spays and neuters dogs and cats free of charge without a long waiting list. Five, with plenty of animal control. Officers enforcing the prohibition of unlicensed breeding and the sale of pets and abandonment and actually picking up every stray that get reported.
 Six, and educates the people including kids about animal welfare and breed and sale restrictions. The resolution might be a well-intended idea, although it would need some revisions as to the recipient of such incentive. For example, the recipient should not be limited to just city employees, but it should be for everyone who fosters and rescues stray animals for the city. The majority of the animal rescuers are not city employees and the resolution, how well intended it might be,
 is of discriminatory nature. Why don't non-city employees, animal rescuers, including myself, get an incentive for doing animal control to the city's work? I have been trapping and securing dogs for over a year now, as soon as I moved to El Paso, and it cost me so far thousands of dollars for equipment, gas, missed work hours, transportation to get dogs out of the heat,
 El Paso dog food, etc. This is ridiculous in conclusion I urge you to not adopt the resolution but rather spend that money on the purposes as mentioned in one in five if not I am convinced someone will challenge the resolution in court sincerely mayor of kinsberg and Vargas The next statement was submitted by Anne McDowell It reads why our city workers more important than anyone else who might foster animals. I do not support the proposed resolution and
 Agenda item 22, Furry Canine Foster Program, pay everyone or no one. Thank you, Anne McDowell. Next statement was submitted by Catherine Magni, and it reads, I'm writing to let you know that as a citizen of El Paso, I'm opposed to this resolution. Please find another way to deal with this issue. No on agenda item number 22, Catherine E. Mangy. The next statement was submitted by Barbara Valencia.
 And it reads, Representative Fierro, I'm sending you this email to be read into the record regarding City Council meeting for May 9, 2023, in regard to Agenda Item 22. The Furry Canine Foster Program, as you know, Animal Services has closed intake to healthy, stray and lost animals for almost three months with no intentions of opening intake to all the animals in the foreseeable future. In fact, closed intake has been going on in some form for another three years.
 During this whole time, it has been the local rescues and kind-hearted citizens of El Paso that have been taking in and caring for many of the stray and lost animals. They are the ones doing animal services' job. Yet they receive no assistance from the city financially or otherwise for these animals.
 offering financial incentives for one group of people while not offering it to others that are doing the same thing is unfair. Fostering for animal services is one of their many volunteer programs. The definition of volunteering is to freely offer to do something. People foster because they want to, not because they will get paid to do it. The city by passing this resolution and implementing this program will be turning the dogs and puppies into cash cows for city employees to make extra money.
 These dogs and puppies are living breathing beings are not to be used as a mean for city employees to supplement their income Or to make a quick buck with the taxpayers money That money can be used in other ways to actually help those in the community that have taken on the task of taking in and Caring for the stray and lost animals in our city. I strongly urge City Council to not pass this resolution Thank you for your time and consideration in this matter Barbara Valencia huckleberry hound dog rescue
 The next statement was submitted by Karen Washington, and it reads, Karen Washington and Positive Rescuers of El Paso is against this prairie fitness program to be discussed at tomorrow's city council meeting. The next speaker is Paula Powell. Good afternoon, Ms. Powell, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council, Paula Powell, Best Friends Animal Society.
 I wanted to stay and comment this afternoon on the furry fitness program and the furry canine foster pilot program because it's two of my favorite things, fitness and our furry friends. I think it's an amazing innovative approach to help solve our capacity issues that we're showing at El Paso Animal Services. It's a great way to involve the community members who are city employees, community members who are city employees in the solution.
 Sydney employee benefits and our HR department continue to find ways to take care of employees and care about their fitness and well-being. I mean, that was when I was a city employee. It was great. All the different programs and incentives that our HR department came up with really came to light and made me the fit person that I am today. So this is just another one of those and I think it's amazing.
 Cross-departmental collaboration to solve community issues is the best use of taxpayer dollars. The HR department, the animal services department, and all of the other city employees who have departments, that cross-collaboration is gonna continue and expand with this type of program. This program is a pilot. Certain mistakes will be made, but that is what is so great about a pilot. You can measure impacts and make changes
 before it's a big program that causes a ruckus, right? When complete, I see this being replicated in other communities, much like your rescue runner program, much like your standalone scanner that you have that's in a pilot program, and it's going through some difficulties now, but that's why it's in a pilot. So we're working out those difficulties as a community,
 multiple departments so I come in a both HR and animal services this is amazing innovative approach it's not best friends I tell you is these two back here so congratulations and mayor congratulations on the amazing proposal thank you thank you
 i wanted to just make a statement i i you know listening to those public comments i do understand why people who foster or especially other rescues could feel a little bit why your employees and not us and so i want to just say that you know we are extremely appreciative to all of the people who have showed up all of the other rescues who have showed up to help animal services and i think um mary you can maybe speak a little bit more to you know there are some limitations we have with purchasing um
 with giving out money to other individuals or organizations that are not city employees. I don't know if you can clarify that a little bit.
 Well, I mean, so we have control over our own employees. We have our own funding sources. So to go out into the community, as you say, Rep. Anello, would be to go into a whole purchasing. And we get into a whole different demeanor on that. And like Paula said, I mean, this is a pilot project. We probably are going to make some mistakes, but that's how we're going to learn. And we can make it better from there. We want to see how this works.
 We want to encourage those that may not even be thinking about having pets or whatever. So just in starting the furry fitness program, we've even started getting emails from people who say, you know, I live in a small place, I can't have a dog or I can't afford a dog, but it was fabulous that I got to go out there and walk a dog.
 It's feeding different things for different people. It's the whole mental health piece. And so we're also trying to tie this back into, mental health, I mean, today we talked about mental health earlier at council. We're tying back mental health with our employees. The dogs, they need that extra love. Our employees, they also need that extra love during these trying times.
 And so we're trying just to work out what we can do in putting those two needs together, you know, and coming up with a solid product. Let us work through this, work through some of the things, and I think it's going to be a great success. I think that we're going to see, you know, lots of fruits come from this and many different things, not just the dogs. I think it's going to be great for our employees as well.
 And we do understand, you know, we do understand the public. Yeah. And I just wanted that for, like, edification. You know, if it was a means of...
 paying individuals for fosters. We do that. We would do that. We appreciate them. It's a lot more complicated for the city to do something like that. But I think for our fosters, we do supply food. We do. Correct. Yeah. So we do do what we can in terms of supplies to show that appreciation. But I just, I wanted to make the statement to the people who submitted those comments. I understand where they're coming from.
 I hear that, I would maybe feel the same way, but it is a little bit more complicated, and we're very appreciative to all the volunteers who come out and walk the dogs and who foster, and this program should not be us saying the opposite. That's not what we're doing here. We're trying to broaden...
 the reception to these kind of programs. So again, thank you all for putting that together. The goal is to stop paying our employees because we don't have any dogs left to foster. That is the end goal is to not have to. And hey, I mean, I agree with that mental health thing. My attitude totally changed once I picked that puppy up in public comment.
 Thank you all. Thank you. And I think it's important we think outside the box. You know, they come in and say we don't do anything. We sit there and we're overcrowded and we're just sitting there on our hands and every week they come and they get upset and we still didn't do anything. You know, we're thinking outside the box to do something and to help the overcrowded so we can continue to bring strays in and continue to unite dogs with their families. So I do thank you all for thinking outside the box.
 It's a pilot program and we'll figure out how to make it work. Representative Farrell? Mayor, we still have more public comments when you're ready. You still have more to read? Yes.
 Okay, we'll go ahead and I'll let represent Bureau go ahead and then we'll finish the last Thank You Mary And thank you very much for this great idea I did want to ask is it possible to bring one those puppies to every meeting for the mayor Pro Tem I have been asking for City Hall dogs for years. I just want to say that Thank you. Go ahead I
 The next statement was submitted by Paula Wright and it reads, I absolutely do not support agenda item 22. Why is this limited to city employees and how would you even come up with the idea to have it for city employees? Will city employees not do this for free like the rest of us have been doing? Who will monitor the city employees who are fostering to make sure the animal is being well cared for? Will there be a home check prior to animals going into these homes?
 I'm an individual that has picked up many strays, both cats and dogs, has done many TNRs for cats, does volunteer transport driving, feeds feral cat colonies, fostered many dogs, puppies, cats and kittens. I have spent thousands of my own dollars doing this. This idea is about as ludicrous as animal services not taking animals in. Paula Wright. The next speaker is Lisa Turner followed by Regina Wagner. Good afternoon, Ms. Turner. You have three minutes.
 I have a problem here. You don't even have a policy or any kind of plan laid out for you before you go and start paying people money. You know, are you going to inspect the homes? You're going to make sure that it's safe, not only for the dog, but for the people inside the home, if they have children, if they have other animals in the home. And how do you prevent an employee from being in this program and turning it into a business?
 other words they foster they getting people out and they're actually this is their side business and they're being paid for by the city it's not just oh I won't take one dog in for a while and get it out where they'll take one and are they gonna be able to take five dogs is this the perfect per dog or is it just one animal it doesn't say anything here so you know I'd like to see
 policy before you all decide to start spending money and institute a program I understand a pilot program but a pilot program will have a set of goals it will tell you what it intends to do right now it's all I see here is we're going to spend $200 a month if you take a dog and then if it gets adopted another hundred so I'd like to see something
 Plan before you all decide to start spending money. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Turner. The next speaker is Regina Wagner Regina Wagner star six please to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. I
 Good afternoon. Under the foster pilot program, the shelters are over capacity and this program will help alleviate some of that. Animals tend not to do well in shelter environments and unwanted behaviors may start to be displayed. A pup will thrive in a home and make for a smoother transition if allowed to participate in a program that allows home-to-home adoption.
 Foster parents can help identify unwanted behaviors and work with the pups to curb these behaviors. A great example would be potty training the pups, something that is hard to do in a shelter. This is a pilot program, and granted, there might be initial bumps in the road, but we must recognize the benefits of this program. Pups will learn how to socialize with people and, in some circumstances, with other pets.
 The participants of the program would not do anything to jeopardize their job. In addition, the foster parents will learn so much about their pup, the likes and dislikes, and this is information they can pass along to potential adopters. This could also assist in helping families to find a perfect fit and reduce the return of a pup post adoption.
 We're really excited about this innovative pilot program to move dogs out of the shelter and into foster homes where they can thrive. The shelter is overwhelmed and we need creative solutions like this one to keep animals out of the shelter and with families. Today City Council, the pups and I are pleading for your approval of this program. Please be a savior to these pups by providing them a better chance in life. Thank you. The next speaker is Barbara Candelaria.
 Mayor that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you Mayor. From that we have Representative Canales. Thank you Mayor. Mr. Kipchel I can see in the resolution sorry yeah in the resolution language it has kind of the financial portion of the policy is it safe to assume that because this is these are fosters just like any other foster that all of the policies and procedures related to fostering a dog.
 through the existing process would apply here as well yes exactly so when they apply to be the foster they still fill out the exact same paperwork any anybody would do so all that that contractual obligations are all there exactly like anybody else so that none of that's different okay and that includes like
 completion of the feeding log if it's a puppy for the neonatal feeding log the daily care sheet and all of those things that They'll have to be able to demonstrate that they are providing the adequate care. Yes, sir. Okay That's all my questions. Thank you, Mary. Yes, ma'am And then can you all clarify for mr. Nick because I what I read and you've mentioned it that this is just a resolution to direct you all to come back with that Policy correct. I think that you all said that you'd be coming back with the actual policy. I
 Because it's a non-binding resolution, right? So there would have to be a policy. So we can come back. Well, you don't have to come back to us, but you have to write that policy. It's not been written yet. Yes, you have to write the policy. And so to answer Ms. Turner's question, so it's for the first 100, and so what we would like to do is offer it to the first 100, one dog.
 but then if we aren't able to fill the 100 then we will allow up to two so so let's say you know that we are able to foster 80 and we still have 20 left and somebody wants to come and get a second one we would allow up to two um two animals but it would not be more than two they could not but we want to allow we want to allow up to 100 people the opportunity first before allowing a second one to go to someone
 Yeah, I think maybe an update in the next couple months would be helpful. I think that the questions were valid, and this is just a resolution, not the policy. But I think that a follow-up on how it's going and kind of the details of that policy would be helpful for public edification. Yeah, absolutely. We're more than happy to bring back, you know, the success. Thank you, ma'am. With that, we have a motion.
 Yes, Mayor, the motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Manalo, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve item 22. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Can we go back to item 18, please? Yes, Mayor, item 18 is discussion and action to direct the city manager to prepare parks and recreation partnerships and pricing options for senior fitness programs by accepting insurance and other senior fitness programs.
 And this was submitted by Representative Hernandez. Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. If we can put the  and I'll just prompt you if you can move on to the next slide, please. We had met with residents in the Gary de Palacio Senior Fitness Program back in October, and I really want to thank Dionne. Oh, thank you.
 I really want to thank Dion Mack and Ben Phy for joining us in that October meeting. And we learned a lot. First, the residents were really grateful for having senior fitness programs. They also brought a lot of ideas and recommendations on how we can improve the programming. And so I wanted to share with you some of their recommendations and how to move forward. And this is what brought this item forward.
 And so here we you know, they they've expressed the transformational changes to their lives There was a woman who is in her 80s. She just had heart open heart surgery she really credited the senior fitness program is saving her life and
 Other residents, and I think we met with about 15 residents that utilize the senior programs at the senior centers.
 And the rec centers, excuse me. We're talking about the Carrier de Palacio Rec Center. They talked about how they now have more stamina. They now have more balance. They have more strength. A lot of them have severe illnesses. And this program has been really helpful, not only for their wellness, but their mental health. They kept going back to the building camaraderie, building relationships, cultivating relationships with one another. They, quite frankly, say they love each other. They call each other to back each other up.
 And they credit that program to the city of El Paso's senior fitness programs. So what we wanted to do is share one of the ideas they had from us and I remember talking to Mr. Gonzalez when we opened our community centers to talk about this might be something that we can do to help get access easier to senior citizens. And so you're aware senior fitness programs are available through your private insurance, through Medicare, and any other health care plans.
 And let's just talk a little bit about what is the Medicare work. And in Texas, who qualifies? Medicare is a United States federal health insurance program designed to provide and reduce the cost of healthcare services for those who are Medicare eligible. Individuals are eligible for Medicare if they meet one of the following criteria. If they're over the age of 65, if you're younger than 65, but if you have an eligible disability by the Social Security Administration,
 or if you have a disease such as ESRD or ALS. In the El Paso County, the statistics are great. There are over 140,556 Medicare eligible folks living in El Paso County. Over 100,000 are enrolled in Medicare Advantage Plan in El Paso, that is over 71% of those enrolled in Medicare in El Paso.
 And what is the silver sneakers program? The silver sneakers program is a program that's offered throughout the city of El Paso. Your YM and YWCA accept them, your gyms accept them, any health organizations they accept them. And silver sneakers is a fitness program that provides participants access to gyms, fitness classes and wherever in their areas if you were just to go to the silver sneakers program
 and their website and just type in your address, you'll find where it's available in your community.
 It provides members with nutrition, health tips, and also provides a social online wellness community. And most Medicare Advantage Part C plans include a SilverSneakers membership. But you must first have original Medicare, then select a Medicare Advantage plan that includes SilverSneakers. And we got this information from their website. The benefits of the program is to access to conditioning classes, all exercise equipment, pools, and other amenities.
 Customized silver sneakers classes designed specifically for older adults and taught by trained certified instructors, health education seminars, healthy lifestyle events, member-only online support to help with weight loss, quitting smoking, and reducing stress.
 And we did a quick screenshot of if you were to type in, you know, where it's available in El Paso, you immediately see this whole lack of access to the program south of the freeway from downtown all the way to the Mission Valley.
 and you know we really do see an alignment here with our new community centers one in Chamisad one in the Valle Bajo Alameda area and then the other in the Loma land area those are all new gyms and facilities that we have that are new gyms south of the freeway and there's there's rarely any access to gyms south of the freeway so these community centers that were approved by
 The Quality of Life Bond in 2012 and then later opened in the past couple of years really do have an opportunity to provide access to health and support to our senior citizens.
 BUT IT'S NOT THE ONLY PROGRAM AVAILABLE FOR SENIORS. WE HAVE SILVER AND FIT. AND THAT PROGRAM PROVIDES ITS MEMBERS WITH FITNESS OPTIONS, HEALTH AGING RESOURCES, MEMBERS WHO LIKE THE FLEXIBILITY OF WORKING OUT AT HOME. THEY CAN CHOOSE A HOME FITNESS KIT PER BENEFIT YEAR. THEY MAY EVEN GET ACCESS TO SILVER AND FIT AS MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES THROUGH MANY INSURANCE COMPANIES SUCH AS MEDICARE ADVANTAGE AND SUPPLEMENT PLANS.
 The benefits, again, for that program is resources, library, full of online classes, healthy aging videos. They provide coaching. They have access to networks and fitness centers. They have fitness centers, studios, and unique fitness over 4,000 premium locations.
 And then there's another program called Active and Fit Direct. It's a flexible and comprehensive low-cost fitness program offered through the American Specialty Health Fitness, Inc., to help individuals become more active. It provides a broad range of fitness and health care programs nationally, and it's only available through AAA, your employer, or your health plan.
 The benefits for this program is there's no long-term contract, flexibility to switch fitness centers anytime, activity tracking through the Active and Fit Direct connected tools, which aggregate data from over 250 wearable fitness devices and apps, exercise equipment, online classes to help get started, and exercise setup routines.
 And we did a quick search online to see which Texas cities are providing senior fitness programs that are accepting some of these health insurance, private insurance, Medicare. And we found that the city of Denton, Texas, Portland, Denison, city of Athens, Tyler, Texas, and San Antonio. In full transparency, I did not issue any open records requests. These are, you know, just quick.
 online search engine searches, and we found that they were promoting these programs either through news releases or their websites or through senior newsletters. And, you know, we felt that based on the conversations with our management and with this wonderful senior fitness group, we do have an opportunity to help access our gyms at low cost or no cost.
 to residents. I do recognize that we already provide low fees for our seniors, but when seniors have insurance, I think it's just so important that we allow for them to utilize their own care to pay for these programs so that they can keep those additional funds in their pockets. And this is a request that was made by the public. They want to see the city be more friendly with senior fitness program insurance plans, and so the request today
 IS TO DIRECT THE CITY MANAGER TO PREPARE A PARTNERSHIP AND PRICING OPTIONS WITH SENIOR FITNESS PROGRAMS BY ACCEPTING INSURANCE AND SENIOR FITNESS PROGRAMS SUCH AS BUT NOT LIMITED TO ACTIVE AND FIT, SILVER SNEAKERS, AARP RENEW, SILVER AND FIT, AND PREPARE A SCHEDULING FEE FOR THE UPCOMING FISCAL YEAR AND TO WORK WITH THE CITY MANAGER TO PROVIDE CALENDAR PERIOD ENROLLMENT TO ALLOW FOR EITHER A MONTHLY FEE, A SIX-MONTH
 or annual membership fee. And the other thing I wanted to mention is that I know that the Parks Department has done a full review of all the programs they have for seniors, and what they had expressed to us is that they have over 400 classes
 of senior programs and of which about 25% of them are free of charge. And that may have changed since the last time we've spoken. But there's so much work that we're doing here and there's an opportunity to kind of
 kind of put all of this into a package, share with the senior citizens all of the programs we have, provide them an option for a low fee, either monthly or annually or every six months. And I think what's really great about this proposal is that it comes directly from our seniors who are utilizing our rec centers
 And so on behalf of my constituents, and I should say they're not only my constituents, they did introduce themselves. Some of them live very close to the Albon Park area. A lot of them came from across the city because they love the program so much. And so we would like to explore how we can provide that program and accept that insurance in this upcoming fiscal year
 But I'd like to hear more from the department to see if that might be something we might be able to do this fiscal year or if there's more due diligence that's gonna be required to get that on at a quicker time. Thank you. Dion Mack, Deputy City Manager. It was a delight to meet with the team out at that center and we also heard this as one of the priorities at our latest neighborhood summit.
 so we've begun to do the research and homework we've been in contact with silver sneakers we will continue to gather information and data and at least have some options available for our community we feel that this is a great compliment to our live active and in our B well program that's being run by our public
 Health Department and so we will be prepared during the budget cycle to have that information available as well as look at the packages that are being recommended in terms of the membership groupings as we consider the budget for next fiscal year thank you for that and we're out of time so thank you is there a motion needed and so I would move to approve there's a motion made by representative at another second by representative Rivera to approve item number 18
 On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hierro, thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representatives Kennedy and Anello not present. Thank you, council. That brings us to items 23 through 36. These are the first reading of ordinances. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 23 to 36.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representatives Kennedy, Anello not present. That brings us to item number 37.
 Item 37 is discussion in action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services for environmental services at the El Paso International Airport on a task by task basis between the city of El Paso and WSP USA environment and infrastructure Inc and professional services industries Inc move to approve. I
 Motion is second. There's a motion made by representative at another second by representative You better to approve item 37 on that motion call for the vote mayor. I had a question. Yes, sir. Go ahead I think this is a question for staff the two recommended company bidders Says they have local offices in El Paso are either or both of them based in El Paso. I
 This is Jerry DePierre with Capital Improvement Program. Neither are based in El Paso, but they have a rather large presence. Okay. And I know there were six bidders overall. Were any of the six local companies? Yes, there were some of the six. I'd have to look at the presentation. No, none of the six were headquartered here. None of the six headquartered in El Paso. Correct. Okay. Of the six, then, did some receive the bonus points for...
 having their El Paso locations or was that all of the six some of the six for these type of procurements we don't have have a program for an El Paso preference that strictly applies to construction bids if the bids are within 10% of one another understood okay I appreciate you answering my questions Thank You Jerry sure thank you thank you in the voting session the motion passes unanimously
 Item number 38 is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign a contract 2023 dash zero three three eight single and multi-purpose police service dog with a qualified vendors identified in Exhibit eight this resolution. There's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Salcido to approve item number 38 on that motion call for the vote and
 In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Item 39 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2023-0329, plants and trees to Sierra Vista Wholesale Growers, Inc. What was that? Was there a motion? There is public comment on this item. From Ms. Turner? No. Okay. Her question has been answered.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by Representative Canales to approve item 39. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. Thank you. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Mayor, the next two items are EP water items. Would you like to take them together? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Item 40 is a public hearing on an ordinance establishing a municipal drainage utility system extendable commercial paper program and authorizing the issuance of program obligations. Item 41 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issue of City of El Paso, Texas municipal drainage utility system revenue refunding bonds.
 Good afternoon mayor and council for the record Paul Braden with Norton Rose Solbright bond council to the city I'm just gonna make a couple of preliminary technical corrections to the two ordinances that are being concerned before mr Duran does the presentation so the respect to the first ordinance and we provided these change pages to the city clerk expected the first ordinance in section 4.01 D which is on page 29 of the ordinance and
 There is a time referenced in that section that says 1.30. That time actually should be 12 o'clock. So in two places in that section that is corrected. And then with respect to the second ordinance there's a change being made to the definition on page eight.
 The definition is being conformed to the first ordinance so that the two definitions are the same. So subordinate and lien obligations now will be defined as means each series of bonds, notes, and other debt obligations payable from and secured by a lien on and pledge of the net revenues of the system junior and subordinate in rank and dignity to the lien and pledge securing the payment of the bonds similarly secured. And then one more correction to that ordinance. It's in Section 8.01B.
 As in boy that's on page 22 of that ordinance and that section now reads and this is just to conform it with the fact That the ECP program is being adopted The city of El Paso, Texas municipal drainage utility system revolving note payment fund the not payment fund heretofore created by prior city ordinance and
 Hereby reaffirmed and shall be maintained for the benefit of the holders of the subordinate lien obligations those were technical corrections In order for this to move forward. Thank you. Good afternoon To run CFO for El Paso water welcome back. Thank you, sir On behalf of the utility we want to thank you for your support on the last two fun issues we're gonna be pricing next week and hopefully we have successful transactions
 This one is for the financing for stormwater projects, the CIP projects for the utility. We plan to do $70 million a year for the next 10 years to complete master plan projects.
 So what we did, the current line of credit that we have is for $25 million, and that one is going to expire on June 19th of 2023. So we needed a new financing tool to accomplish the goal. The goal is to complete CIP projects. So we did an RFP, and we did get five proposals.
 And on this one, we rank them based. The main component on this one was on the experience that do they have with this extendable commercial paper. And we did get two proposals that did have experience with the extendable commercial paper.
 We did do our due diligence and we did make reference calls and all the reference calls were positive. So we want to propose recommending Morgan Stanley as the dealer for the extendable commercial paper and approve their recommendation for line of credit up to $60 million. The other thing with this extendable commercial paper is if you don't use it, you don't pay any fees.
 If you do do drawdowns, it will be 10 basis points, which is 0.1%. So it's very efficient. I think one of the comments was, how are we being innovative in financing? This is one of the ways that the utility is being innovative in financing for our CAP projects. One of the other requirements that is by State statute is parameters resolution.
 So you're familiar with the parameters resolutions that we do on the bonds. The only difference on this one is the, this is for 365 days, for one year. So you're giving us the authorization if needed to issue bonds up to 61.2 million. We did change the maximum interest cost. We had 10% before on our presentation when we met with city council representatives. We lowered that one to 6.75%.
 which is 2% higher than the current rates. And with that, if approved, we'll go ahead and move forward and complete this transaction by next month. That way we can continue with our funding for our CFP projects for stormwater. And with that, I'll open it for any questions that the city council may have. And, of course, stormwaters to prevent flooding and public safety. Exactly, sir. Okay. Do we have any motion? Second.
 Here we do have public comment. Yeah, we can hear the public comment first, if that's okay. Pardon me, sir? We can hear the public comment first, if that's okay. Is there any public comment? Ms. Turner signed the right in 40 and 41. So let me understand this correctly. We're now setting up a total of two more commercial paper programs, correct? Mm-hmm. So we've got one for $80 million, one for $60 million, one for $61.2 million, and
 Now this is already included in the budget. I'm not going to be able to afford water. Correct. This is already in the budget for last for, this won't increase the bills moving forward because it's already been included in the budget. That's correct. Okay. Excuse me? No, last meeting was you. Additional. Borrowed $192 million and changed $40 million. And then it went to reset their original commercial paper to their $80 million.
 Now we're adding two more commercial paper programs, one with 60 million, one with 61.2 million, giving you a grand total of over $200 million in commercial paper at which they can issue in whenever they so please, which eventually ends up in my water bill. And that 192 million is not in our water bill yet because they haven't borrowed it yet, they haven't paid a single penny in interest,
 return and the same thing with this I I just wish I mean we're spending all this money and we've yet to dig one foot of trench to bring water from West Texas and by the time they get around to realizing that that we need that water this will be a dried up will be like red sands there'll be nothing out there no I'm not mistaken miss Turner they did back in 16 somewhere around there they purchased
 and spent $500 million to bring water into the area and it was guaranteed basically for an additional 50 years of water, if I'm not mistaken. We bought land in West Texas. But I think it was, yeah, but it was at a very minimal rate. But there hasn't been any pipe laid. Yeah, well, they said we got 50 years and I volunteered to stay around and make sure it works.
 With growth you won't see it in 50 years. Huh? Volunteer, no charge. So just for clarification, the line of credit for commercial paper that we have on the water and sewer utility, remember it's two separate utilities, is for $80 million. And the board did approve $40 million to refund outstanding notes.
 that was done on the last city council meeting. This is for the stone water utility, and it's only one extendable commercial paper program for $60 million. The $61.2 million is if we need to refund it. That's the amount that we're asking for your approval if there's a need. If there's no need, we don't use it. But again, it's just included in the...
 It's included on the current charge for the stormwater fee. $5.66 for the typical residential customer. Thank you. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, simple comment. I just wanted to say thank you for reducing the maximum true interest costs.
 cap I know that was basically the only question that I had outstanding from when we met you know a very thorough presentation as always and that makes me feel better seeing the six point seven five percent thank you thank you thank you we have a motion in a second yes mayor the motion was made by representative Kennedy seconded by alternate mayor Pro Temo Lina this is to approve 40 and 41 correct yes ma'am thank you on that motion call for the vote
 In the voting session the motion passes unanimously Representative theater not present. Thank you everyone. Thank you. That brings us to item number 46 item 46 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from our FH ranch and farm historic to our dashboard H risk residential historic at 246 Southside Road. I
 There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 46. There is no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. Voting session is open. Item 46, thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously.
 item 47 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from c3 commercial and c3sc commercial special contract to c4 commercial and c4 sc commercial special contract and imposing conditions at 10202 dyer street second there is public comment on this item from mr moncera good afternoon sir you have three minutes good afternoon my name is ray moncera
 I represent the property owner and as per the lobby ordinance I introduced myself. I thought there was going to be a discussion and you never know that's why I'm here. I'm glad that we were able to address an issue that was brought up by a local resident concerned about the noise and the dust that was going over the plot to the property to the residential area.
 And with the conditions that were imposed, I think that tremendously alleviates and addresses that issue. So she was very happy. So my client concurs with the staff recommendation and we appreciate your support. Thank you. Thank you. We have a motion. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Temo Anelo, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 47. Public comment has been taken. Call for the vote in the voting session.
 The motion passes unanimously. Item 48 is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for an infill development with reductions to average lot width, front and side yard setbacks, and a 75% parking reduction at 916 South St. Rain Street. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 48. There's no public comment.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Item 49 is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for infill development with a reduction in lot area, average lot width, rear yard setback, and cumulative front and rear yard setback at 5833 Macias Street. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Potem Manelo, seconded by alternate Mayor Potem Molinaro.
 to approve item 49 there's no public comment call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 50 is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for infill development with reductions to average lot with front and side yard setbacks and a 75 percent parking reduction at 708 south saint rain street move to approve
 There's a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item number 50. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote and the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the end of the agenda. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye. The regular city council meeting for Tuesday, May 9th, 2023 is adjourned at 2.58 p.m. Thank you.
 Have a good week.
 I believe I heard the second from somewhere. It was Henry. He seconds everything. Believe it or not, there has been a number of issues. Was he the mayor? Absolutely, yes. And I kept looking at Chris's face.