Good morning, Mayor Leaser. It is 9 o'clock. Would you like to get started? Mayor Leaser, Good morning, everyone. Thank you. Good morning. Mayor Leaser, Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, May 11th, 2021. It is 9 o'clock a.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings.
 Mayor Leiser is present and presiding and we begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine? Present. Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez? Good morning, here. Molinar? Present. Salcido? Present. Rodriguez? Good morning, here. Rivera? Present. Lizárraga? Present. Thank you and we do have a quorum.
 That brings us to the invocation. Will everyone please make sure your microphones are on mute? This morning we have the invocation delivered by Police General Robert Kemp. Good morning. Most holy and loving Father God of peace.
 I come to you this morning asking for your blessings, your wisdom, and your spiritual guidance to help the mayor and city council address their agenda items, make the tough decisions, have favorable results and outcomes. Help us fathers to work together as a unified team. Show us how to conduct our work in the spirit of joy and enthusiasm. Let your presence be known,
 As you lead our mayor and the city representatives in these meetings today, please guide us so we can be productive, Father. And thank you, Father, for we know that you are always here to support your people. This we ask in your name. Amen. Amen. Chaplain, thank you for that, and may God bless you and the city of El Paso. Thank you for inviting me, sir. God bless you.
 Thank you. That brings us to the Pledge of Allegiance. And to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance this morning are students from Benito Martinez Elementary School at the invitation of Representative Claudia Rodriguez. This morning we have Jordan Aguirre.
 Eli Dominguez Amador, Ismael Contreras, Mia Contreras, Georgia Lynn Cruz, Trace Delgadillo, Carlos Delgado, Mavis Estrada, Valentino Franco, Angela Galas, Chloe Gonzalez, Bella Johnson, Chase Lopez, Oliver Montes, Eric Novella, Sari Optante, Zachary Optante, McKenna Primacio, Dante Ramirez, Sabella Ramirez, Brianna Reed,
 Gemma Rodriguez, Giovanni Rodriguez, Daniel Banix Rodriguez, Josias Rodriguez, Jayden Salas, Evangeline Sierra, Lillian Sloggett, Hedget Solis, Jaime Vasquez, and Oscar Verduzco. Good morning, Mr. Hedge. Good morning.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, House Excellent. And I want to thank you all for taking your time to come to our city council meeting and do the Pledge of Allegiance. You guys did a great job. And I've always said that the youth is the future of our country and our city. And I can tell by seeing you all today that El Paso's got a bright future. So thank you for coming here. Thank you. Thank you. Have a great day. Have a great day. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Hatch. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is El Paso Police Officers Memorial Day and Police Week. Mr. Rivera, Representative Rivera. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Before I redirect the proclamation, again, thank you, Representative Rodriguez, for bringing the chaplain back. And it's refreshing and takes us back to one step closer.
 I'd also like to recognize Lieutenant Robert Zavala, who will be carrying this proclamation back to headquarters. And the proclamation reads as such. Proclamation from the city of El Paso, Texas. Whereas in the city of El Paso, the state of Texas, and every American community, law enforcement officers are committed to the preservation of life and property, risking their lives to protect us from those who would defy the law, providing law and order and service, the cause of justice, and the cause of justice.
 And whereas the City of El Paso and law enforcement officers of the El Paso Police Department accept a profound responsibility and work to maintain law and order, safeguard our rights and freedom, and continue to confront the challenges of the fight against crime. And whereas the City of El Paso
 honors the heroism of all our law enforcement officers, especially those who have given their lives so that others might live, and the sacrifice of the families and friends they've left behind. Whereas by joint resolution approved October 1st, 1962, Congress authorized and President John F. Kennedy proclaimed May 15th of each year Peace Officers Memorial Day.
 in honor of the federal, state, and municipal officers who have been killed and disabled in the line of duty, further designating the calendar week in which May 15 falls as Police Week, whereas in the city of El Paso and the state of Texas, during Police Week, the nation's flags will be flown at half-staff on Peace Officers Memorial Day.
 under Public Law 103-322 as amended. Whereas an awareness across the nation and in the city of observance, and in observance of police week will commence with ceremonies, including the display of a blue bow or ribbon to honor the law enforcement officers who have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty and to honor all those who continuously strive to keep us safe and therefore,
 Be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that May 9th through May 15th, 2021, shall be known as Police Week, signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Nisip.
 Thank you, Representative Lovetto, and thank all the peace officers in our community that have served our community. And I'd like to thank you and Representative Molinar for also serving our community as officers. But again, thanks to all our officers that serve our community and continue to do that. And may God bless every one of them. And thank you again, sir. Thank you. And the next proclamation is Joint Advisory Committee for Air Quality Improvement Recognition Day.
 Representative Hernandez, please. Thank you, Mayor. The proclamation of the City of El Paso, Texas, whereas on May 7, 1996, the U.S. and Mexican governments took a major step towards fostering cooperation for implementing effective air pollution policies by signing an agreement that created the Joint Advisory Committee, JAC,
 for the improvement of air quality. And whereas the Jack in Cedar Juarez, Chihuahua, El Paso, Texas, Dona Ana County, New Mexico Air Basin, the Paso del Norte Air Basin, formally recognizes the international air basin that sustains the rich and diverse communities of Cedar Juarez, El Paso, Sunland Park, and Las Cruces.
 And whereas the three Paso del Norte communities rely on the unified air basin to successfully implement air quality projects that bring pride to residents of Paso del Norte, knowing that their local leaders' commitment continues to bring healthier air, protecting children's health and citizens' well-being, while building environmental infrastructure at the lowest cost possible.
 And whereas we, the people of these communities, acknowledged the JAX activities with various stakeholders to improve air quality throughout the unified air basin, lowering emissions at El Paso and Dona Yania County of ozone precursors, as well as emissions of CO.
 particulate matter PM10 and PM2.5, recognizing that JAAC's work and its initiatives have markedly improved air quality in Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico. And whereas we the people of these communities wish to recognize the 25th anniversary
 anniversary of the Jack and honor the organizers of programs and projects conducted in the spirit of the one air basin and now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that May 11, 2021 shall be known as Joint Advisory Committee for Air Quality Improvement Recognition Day signed by Honorable Mayor Leeser.
 thank you representative nundus and i did have the honor on friday to um to be at the meeting between uh juarez and el paso and also new mexico so it's a region and it's so important because we as we all know we breathe the same air so to have quality air within our region is so important for us so thank you for for reading on the representative nundus and uh and miss prime yes mayor council please remember to keep your cameras on at all times so we can ensure a quorum is
 If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor and wait to be recognized prior to unmuting your microphone. Per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor from the presiding chair, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem? You're on mute, Mayor Pro Tem.
 I'm not sure if you're someone. Mayor Pro Tem, you're on mute, sir. Yeah, there he is. Let me text him. Can y'all hear me? Yes, sir. Good morning. How are y'all doing? Good morning, sir. Representative Rivera, nice to see you today, sir. Morning, sir. Morning. Okay, so we have the following revisions for the City Council meeting for May 11, 2021. Page 7, item 20.
 revised by Representative Salcido. And that revision is to add Representatives Rodriguez and Liz Arraga as co-sponsors of the item. That is, I think, all the revisions that I have right now. Motion to second. Is there anybody else that has any other additional revisions? Okay, there is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello. Hernandez.
 Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga? The motion passes unanimously. Mayor, I was just informed that there's someone that signed up to speak on item 17. Move to reconsider? Second. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconsider the consent agenda. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Anyone opposed? And we're back on the consent agenda.
 Mayor Pro Tem, will we have a motion to approve once again? Yes, motion to approve the consent agenda. Do we have, well, call the public? Yes, we have Ms. Erica Ruiz that signed up to speak on item 17. Ms. Ruiz, if you press star six, you can mute your telephone and begin speaking for three minutes. Good morning, ma'am.
 Good morning. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on this item. My name is Erica Belief, and I am the sole manager member for Vertec Construction and Engineering. Hello.
 Provided a little bit for this project. Um, I am speaking against this approval due to the fact that, um, I provided a bit on, I provided the financial backup to do this project. I was not awarded this project because, um, lack of experience under my company. My company is open for, um,
 It's very new. We haven't had any projects on the job. I've been in the construction business for over 20 years. I have a construction management degree. I'm pursuing my master's in construction management, and I clearly have the experience. I've managed 3.5 million projects, $6 million projects in the other companies that I have worked for and currently still involved in.
 Clearly, I do have the experience to do this project. I am a small business, women-owned, minority-owned business, and I cannot get the experience if I don't get the opportunity to get it. So that's why I am speaking against this, because I'm trying to build up my business, but it's being very difficult with the obstacles that are in front of us because of the,
 denial that I'm getting for not being able to perform this project for the City of El Paso. That is why I am speaking against this matter. I did do a protest. I presented my evidence as far as my experience that I have with my resume, but I was still denied the request. Are you there? Are you there?
 Thank you. Are you there? Are you there? Are you there? Again, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak against this. Are you there? Are you there? Thank you, Ms. Reese. Thank you, Ms. Reese. Is there anybody else that signed up, Ms. Pryor? Not for the consent agenda, sir. Do you need me to reread the item? If you can just make the motion, sir. Okay.
 motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions page 17 page 7 item 20 rep is revised for representative Salcedo that revision is to add co-sponsors representative Rodriguez and representative Izarra okay is there any other revisions from council okay second there's the most motion in a second to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion mayor Pro Tem Schwartzweil
 Representative Anello? Yes. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Liz Arraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to page 7 to the regular agenda to item number 18.
 This is discussion in action to direct the city manager to provide an update on the transition plan from the temporary facilities, providing services for the homeless at the Delta site, as well as funding allocation details regarding the 10th Amendment to the City's 2019-2020 45th Year Annual Action Plan for the Community Development Block Grant Coronavirus Phase 3. And this is Representative Lizárraga-Zayra. Representative Lizárraga? Thank you, Mayor Leiser. Good morning, everybody.
 I wanted the City Manager to provide an update on the transition plan from the temporary facilities providing services for the homeless at the Delta site, as well as funding allocations details regarding the 10th amendment to the City's 2019-2020 annual action plan for the Community Development Block Grant Coronavirus Phase 3.
 During the pandemic, the City Council has made large allocations of funds in area of homelessness, including via multiple amendments to the CDBG-CV allocation. There have also been significant changes in the services provided, facilities and so forth. I thought it would be beneficial to have a single comprehensive update with all of the information presented in the same place.
 You know, as El Pasoans, resilience is in our DNA, and compassion for our extended El Paso family defines who we are as a community. That compassion was on full display among my constituents who live in the vicinity of the temporary facilities at the Delta site, namely those of the Washington Delta and Valverde Neighborhood Associations.
 These temporary facilities were set up very rapidly in response to the urgent need realized by the pandemic. While it was not always easy to accommodate their new neighbors, these neighborhoods did so with empathy, caring, and grace. In their warm-hearted approach, they demonstrated what an El Pasoan is all about. So I thank you, City Manager, for your help with this.
 Yes, Representative DeZarraga, we'll come back in a work session and present that detailed comprehensive report for you and the rest of the council. I appreciate that very much. Yes, ma'am. Thank you, Mr. Contrales. Thank you, Representative DeZarraga. Ms. Pryor? Is there a motion? Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the action on item number 18. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar.
 Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga?
 Thank you. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 19. This is discussion in action to direct the city manager to draft a plan to implement renewable energy sources possibly including but not limited to solar generation into city of El Paso facilities and projects to seek the input of the regional renewable energy advisory council and the development of said plan and to bring the draft plan back to City Council for consideration within 120 days.
 And this is Representative Liz Arrega's item. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Representative Sotka. Thank you Mayor Leiser. Thank you Miss Prime. You know at various times the city council has discussed in our public meetings the possibility of integrating renewable energy generation into existing city of El Paso facilities and or new projects.
 This item would direct the city manager to create a plan for such actions so that the council can formalize a blueprint for renewable energy at the city of El Paso facilities moving forward. I believe Representative Swartzbine also has, would like to make a comment on this. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Representative Zarga. Very excited to see this item, you know, as a council member who had originally
 to introduce legislation to create the first renewable energy advisory board from the from the City of El Paso. It's exciting to have that board of volunteers that are placed by Council and Mayor to do that. This items and discussions are some that I've had with our CEO from El Paso Electric, Kelly Tomlin, as well as city staff. Very excited to see what Representative Lozarga
 alternate deputy mayor Pro Tem Lazardo, my apologies, has brought to the table here. It compliments a lot of the discussions that we've been having with the Renewable Energy Advisory Board about creating a strategic plan. It compliments
 our resiliency plan and the work that we've done with Nicole Farini and the Rockefeller Foundation. And I think it also will complement an item that I plan on bringing back item. I plan on introducing with Representative Lazaga as well as Representative Nello to instruct staff to look at reaching out to create a climate action plan for the City of El Paso.
 As we know, you can either plan to fail or you can fail to plan, as a wise former City Council member once stated. And it's absolutely important that in the Sun City, one of the 50 largest cities in the United States, that we have a strong, cohesive, unified climate action plan that can incorporate a lot of the ideas that we're hearing from REACT, from this Council and from City staff to have a very,
 very robust, strong and cohesive effort towards a climate action plan that can incorporate a lot of the ideas that Representative Lozargo has brought up, as well as many members of this Council, the public and staff moving forward. So I want to applaud and commend Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Representative Lozargo for this item today and would strongly encourage my colleagues to pass this item. Thank you, Representative Schwarzschwein. Representative Nenello?
 Thank you Mayor. Good morning everyone. I also wanted to thank Representative Lasada. I think this is a really great idea. You know a few years ago we integrated the resiliency plan into our strategic plan. It's been a few years and I think this is the perfect way to really hone in on that and transition into a finalized plan. So thank you Representative Lasada for bringing this forward.
 Thank you, Representative Nello. And, you know, it's so important to start thinking of new ways of energy and new ways of being able to save money and do business a different way. So, Representative LaSalle, I thank you for bringing the item forward and look forward to the dialogue moving forward. And with that, do we have a motion? Motion to approve. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the action on item number 19. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Thank you, Representative Lizarraga. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Thank you, Representative Lizarraga. Yes. Lizarraga.
 Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 20. This is Laura. Yes sir. Laura, just for the record, just to respond to the Deputy Mayor Pro Tem and Mayor Pro Tem, we will bring that back in a future work session. Thank you sir. The next item is number 20 and this is discussion in action regarding virtual attendance at future City Council meetings by members of Council and members of the public.
 And this is consideration of amending the City Council's adopted Rules of Order to allow members of the public to continue to address the Council virtually or telephonically, and to clarify the process by which members of Council can appear virtually, telephonically at a City Council meeting after all provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act are reinstated following the pandemic. This item was placed by Representatives Salcido and co-sponsored by Representatives Rodriguez and Lizara.
 Thank you. Representative Salcedo. Thank you, Michael. I wanted to bring up this item before us. I wanted to discuss a little bit more on how we can continue the virtual attendance for City Council and also for the public department.
 participate. So I propose two ways that we can do it, but I wanted to bring it up to the body so we can have a good discussion on how we go about it. I think it's very important for our constituents whenever they aren't able to time it and get to our city council meetings for this virtual opportunity to still continue there for them as we continue our city council meetings in the future. And so that's why I got this.
 item before us and I wanted to hear a little bit more from my colleagues on their suggestions thank you anyone else sorry can I speak I can't I didn't expect to text you quick enough manner make sure you text me when you're ready to speak thank you
 Thank you. And thank you, Representative Sabasivo. I think that you and I spoke about this item and it's just more preparation. The inevitable is that we will be going back in person meetings and so it's better to be prepared as to, you know, how to better handle it for representatives that can't be present or for
 call to the public, anybody that still wants to participate, that we keep the easiness of participating virtually. That way people don't miss out on the meeting. So again, I think it's a great idea to be prepared and I'm really excited to be co-sponsoring this item. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Representative Molinar.
 Thank you very much Mayor and thank you for the opportunity to speak. I would like to know maybe possibly make an amendment to this. The backup documentation basically states city council meetings. I would like to include the work session meetings and any special city council meetings to that effect. If we're going to do one we should probably just go ahead and do all three of them. That's my input. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you Representative Molinar. Anyone else.
 Commissioner Lesarga?
 Thank you Mayor Leaser. Thank you Representative Salcido for bringing this item and putting it on the agenda. I think it's really important as my colleagues had mentioned to give the public the opportunity to be able to call in. I know that if somebody's at work for example it's really difficult for somebody to take off from work and go down to City Hall to sign up for public comment. So I think... Oh gosh now there's an echo. I believe...
 Some of us are having problems. But anyways, I think it's a really good solution, a good alternative to be able to give that to the public, that they could still be able to call in virtually with their comments. It's really important for us to be able to hear from all the community, their thoughts. So thank you, Representative Salcedo. Thank you, Representative Sadga. Representative Schwartzbein? I'm just seeking some clarification for this item a little bit.
 The intent of this item is to what exactly? You said there was two different ways about, I guess I'm just, I'm trying to understand the intent of this item. It's to basically regulate the ability for council and the public to still remain virtual. I don't know, Mayor, if I can, if that question can be relayed to the members who placed the item on the agenda.
 I can speak on that. This is really just to be able to be proactive and being able to allow for City Council members in the future to be virtual if they need to be so, but also for the public to be allowed to chime in virtually.
 like you've seen many times, a lot of our constituents can't make it to City Council to chime in on some items. So we wanna allow them to have this opportunity to continue this virtual forum for them to be able to chime in during City Council meetings in the future. I also would make a friendly suggestion similar to Representative Molinar about also including language or the ability for
 to the boards and the commissions as well. Thank you for that. Can you all hear me or no? Yeah, you're coming in and out. Keep going, sir.
 Just basically to include language to provide city appointed city run boards and commissions and flexibility as well. I think one of the things that we've also seen from the pandemic with a lot of programming going virtual it's actually increased the the audiences and participation from a lot of members of our community which
 for a variety of reasons, don't necessarily have as much of an ability to attend some of these programs and events and boards. And so I think that that's also something to consider as well as we sort of evolve during the pandemic. Also to look at and include it in language for boards and commissions as well.
 Thank you Representative Schwartzwein. I have a question for Ms. Neiman and I think it's important that we do you know start meeting in person when and the reason why I'm saying that is that the governor when Ms. Prine reads the beginning of our meeting she does say based on the governor's open records I mean open meetings.
 that they've waived the open meetings rules. So I wanna make sure that we're within the guidelines of the state by us taking this vote. And number two, is it required, and I tried to find this out, that we have a quorum live once it's,
 It's set up for us to be able to meet live. And the third statement I'd like to make is that it's important that we do meet in person. I understand if there's a medical emergency or some type of emergency that we have the ability to meet virtual so we do have everybody, the participation since you want to represent, we need to make sure we continue to represent our constituents. So my question to Ms. Neiman is, are we required to have a quorum live once that is,
 we moved to that type of meeting. I tried to look it up and find that. And I would like some clarification on that please, Ms. Neumann. Yes, Mayor. Under the Texas Open Meetings Act, the council is required to meet in physical presence up to a quorum. So even if you wanted to appear virtually, no more than four members of council could appear virtually. Once the Texas Open Meetings Act is back to its full effect,
 And then as to the boards and commissions there are some boards and commissions that are created by ordinance that have attendance requirements that are created by ordinance. So if if council is directing us to come back with those amendments they would take a little longer. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Okay thank you for that. So we do have to have a quorum live before we could conduct a meeting once the governor lifts the restrictions.
 Correct. And that's going to be really important then depending on the action taken by council that people would request to do it because at some point if we don't have that type of procedure, we will end up not having a quorum and not being able to have a city council meeting, which would be a shame that we would have to postpone a meeting due to lack of quorum.
 and uh... i do do or city council members that uh... once we are able to come back
 to meetings that we do meet in person as soon as it's safe. That's the most important part. And I know we've talked a lot about safety and as soon as it's safe that we do move forward with that and only use that as an emergency procedure. And I agree with Representative Salcido to bring it up to be prepared and make sure that that is part of what we're doing because it's important, again, and I'm starting to repeat myself so I'll stop, that we do meet in person when we have the ability. Thank you.
 Mayor, may I? Absolutely. Yes, ma'am. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted some clarification for, from Carla, just so I understand. I know that Representative Molinar mentioned he wanted special meetings. I just want to make sure the way the language is written, does it include special meetings and all the meetings he spoke of? I'm sorry, Representative, you broke up at the question, at the end of your question. Okay.
 I'm asking on Representative Molinar. Are you all, can you hear me? Yes. Yes. I keep saying I actually have bad reception. It keeps like lighting up. So I apologize if you all can't hear me. I just wanted to clarify if it basically city council meeting addresses every meeting, like special council meeting, the agenda review on the way I've written it on this agenda.
 So under the Texas Open Meetings Act, a meeting of council is when there's a quorum present. So a meeting of council includes the quorum. You don't need to specify work session, city council, or special meetings. It's a quorum of the body.
 Okay, perfect. I just wanted to make sure that's included in there. So with that, I motion to approve. Yeah, the only thing I want to, and I apologize for right there, that we do put on, you know, the rules that council does request to be able to go virtual so we can make sure that we do have a quorum moving forward. Because if you, if all of a sudden we come and we don't have a quorum because, you know,
 some of the council members decided they could make it for whatever reason, then again we would have to postpone a council meeting, and that would be really bad. So I do urge the council members, and I don't know if Ms. Neiman, that needs to be part of the rule, that they would submit to attend the meeting virtually.
 Right, Mayor. We'll make sure to include language, but pursuant to state law that is assumed, right? So council is on notice that they're required to be in person to have a meeting of council. And if they do want to do a virtual, they do have to request, so we make sure we have a quorum. Is that okay, Representative Salcido? Yes. Under the Texas Open Meetings Act, Mayor, they would need to notify
 that they are attending virtually because it's a requirement that we post that in on the face of the agenda. Like we have been doing in the last year you see every time we post an agenda the language state lists everybody that will be attending virtually so that would not change. But in order to comply with that they would need to notify us and then we would need to post it on the language of the agenda. If it's not posted they are required to attend in person. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Perfect. I appreciate that. With that.
 I'm sorry, Representative Schwartzmeyer. And I know that. Go ahead, sir. I just I need to note this. If the language is currently states extensive boards and commissions, and if not, if I can make a friendly amendment to include the same rules of five decision on boards and commissions as well. I don't know if this is for Representative Salcido or for
 So the boards and commissions already comply with the Texas Open Meetings Act as a matter of policy. So all boards and commissions are held to the same standard that Council operates under. Does this item, would this item as it's currently written address boards and commissions or does it
 would it need to be amended? If Council wants to include the language, you can. There are specific boards and commissions that are created by state requirements that have the obligation to comply with TOMA, separate and apart. So I guess I'll ask Representative Salcido if, or others, if they would be open towards a family amendment to include the language, to include boards and commissions.
 So they're held to the same standards we are, correct, Ms. Neiman, is what you're saying? Yes. So it's included in there? We can add additional language, Mayor Pro Temp, that will include boards and commissions. Okay. Thank you. And with that, I know we have a motion by Representative Salcido. I didn't hear a second. Second. And Representative Salcido, will you please state your motion again to make sure I have it correct?
 So the motion remains the same as that you have on the agenda, but just adding the boards and commissions, if it's allowed to be added. I think there was an amendment made by the pro tem and second by Rep Hernandez to amend it. Do we need to vote on that first? Mm-hmm. Yes. Mayor Pro Tem, will you state your amendment, please? To add to the existing language boards and commissions. Is there a second on that? There was by Rep Hernandez. Second by Rep Hernandez then.
 Now she's seconding the original motion. I just want to make sure we got a motion on it. Second. There. Now we have a motion. Motion and a second. Okay, so this is for an amendment, and Representative Salcido, I need to make sure that I have your motion correct. So your motion is to amend the rules of order to allow members of the public to continue to address council virtually and telephonically,
 and to allow members of council to also appear virtually and telephonically at city council meetings after all provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act are reinstated, is that correct? Okay, and the amendment is to also include meetings of boards and commissions. On the amendment, Mayor Pro Tem. Before we move forward, I'd like to, Representative Hernandez, do you have a question?
 Um, correct. So the amendment that you're making right now, Mayor Pro Tem is for item one, correct? Or is it for item one and two? Excuse me, item 20 and one and two. So I just want to clarify because it makes a difference. Or is it for both? Um, I guess it would be for whichever one would be germane.
 So if I wanted, if a member of the public wanted to call in for a CPC meeting, let's say, not be present, but they wanted to call in, that would apply to number one. But if a member of the CPC board, if they wanted to attend virtually, that would be item two. Yes, it would be for both. It would be for both. Okay. Again,
 keeping in mind with what I guess the Texas of the Meanings Act require that you have at least a quorum in person. It still gives the flexibility of members again if they give enough time a heads up as the same as a city council member that they can still attend. DIRECTOR HARRIS KINZER.: OK so then this action would then go to legal and then you all would have to bring forward some ordinances.
 for the board's commission. So if I may, we would include language on the proposed amendment that allows boards and commissions to include virtual attendance as allowed by TOMA. But what I want to clarify is the rules of order don't apply to boards and commissions. So it's a stretch for you all to want to include language for boards and commissions. This document governs the way that Council
 comports itself and runs its meetings. By policy, all of our ordinances or resolutions or bylaws for specific boards and commissions include language for TOMA in regards to how they hold their meetings. So I just want you to bear in mind that you would be radically amending this document to now include boards and commissions.
 But we can include language that says and allow boards and commissions to include virtual appearance as allowed by TOMA because we've done it as a matter of policy historically. DIRECTOR HARRIS Okay so it's so you're comfortable with that action. It just where we just need to understand that the rules of orders do not dictate the boards and commissions. DIRECTOR MACKAY Correct. DIRECTOR HARRIS And then my second question is it's my understanding that TOMA allows for virtual attendance.
 Um, you know, you and we've done it before the emergency directives. We've done it before the governor's emergency orders. And I think the since I've been in council, I've seen Mayor Pro Tem sports plan attend virtually. And we had his little monitor on top of his desk and his head was there. And so so Toma, it allows it's allowed. Correct. So I just didn't understand the conversation about quorum. So I just wanted to understand that.
 If you're present virtually and your face appears at the dais, then you still have quorum? Correct. So under the Texas Open Meetings Act, the law allows you to attend virtually. The requirement is that you notify the clerk that you're attending virtually so that it is properly posted on the face of the agenda. And then we have the capacity
 Part of the requirement is that the city has to prove that we have the technological ability to have two-way communication, which is what we've been doing now. Right? In the past, we didn't have the two-way communication, but we can do it now. Okay. And then there's what I would caution you is that I don't believe that the way that we've interpreted TOMA in the past is clear as to...
 attending meetings virtually may become the norm. And in terms of how TOMA is interpreted, in the past there had been situations where you needed to show that there was some sort of emergency that forbid you from being present. And it was a higher standard. I think that because of the pandemic, we've been able to show a form of council can appear virtually and still comply
 with the purpose and the intent of TOMA, which is to allow people to have dialogue with their elected officials. DIRECTOR RIVERA- OK. Thank you for the added clarification. I know you already talked about it. I just I just needed to really understand. And thank you Representative Salcido and co-sponsors. Happy to support support this initiative today. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Representative Salcido.
 Thank you, Mayor. I guess I get a little confused with the boards and commission, but from what Ms. Neiman said or explained, we would have to change ordinances and there would be a lot more to do. I thought you said it would be a simple sentence to change.
 Will you allow her to finish, sir, please? Go ahead. So I guess I wanted to take a clarification. If there is processes, I think a little bit more cumbersome processes, if we could direct staff to come back with those processes so we could understand and be able to take the right action, or is it a simple sentence, Ms. Neiman, that can just fit into this?
 We will include language in the rules of order that says the boards and commissions are required to comply with TOMA for virtual attendance. Okay. Okay. That sounds good. That answers my question. Thank you so much. Thank you, Representative Salcido. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second to amend the item to include virtual participation and attendance by boards and commissions in compliance with TOMA. Is that correct, Mayor Pro Tem?
 Thank you. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartz. Representative Anelo. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Nay. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizárraga. Aye. The motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Molinar voting nay. Now there is a motion by Representative Salcido seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve
 On item number 20, to amend the City Council's adopted rules of order to allow members of the public to continue to address the Council virtually and telephonically, and to also allow Council members to appear virtually and telephonically at a City Council meeting after the provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act are reinstated, and this also includes the amendment for boards and commissions. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsmeyer. Representative Anello. Hernandez.
 Yes. Molinar? Nay. Solcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Molinar voting nay.
 and again i do um ask council to please we need to do every effort possible to attend uh the meetings uh as scheduled uh live meetings and i think this has been as far as the open meetings act uh this we did have this available prior to us taking action so i think it's important that we continue to be live in meetings when possible and uses for extreme need only so i thank you all for it thank you with that ms pine we go to
 Item 21, which I know Representative Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein has been on the edge of his seat waiting for this item. Yes, Mayor, we move to the operational focus updates. Item 21 is an update on airport projects, achievements and initiatives. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Council. Sam Rodriguez, Director of the airport. Michael, if you could bring a presentation up, please. Today we're going to be giving you an update on the airport.
 operations update for the airport. It's going to be a partnership presentation with Jessica Herrera. She's going to share with you specifically how the airport fits into the overall city's overall economic development strategies. We're going to talk about the air service development passenger recovery efforts that we have.
 the operations update and discuss a little bit about what we have planned from economic development standpoint in the development side of the house, as well as talk about the CIP, the five-year CIP for the airport, which is an item that's part of the agenda today.
 Next slide, please. So the airport is part of Vision Block, vibrant regional economy under goal number one. We're critical to the economic activity for the region and the city. We're specifically part of goal 1.1, stabilize and expand El Paso's tax base. We have over 1700 acres of available land for development and we're gonna be very critical as we move forward as far as expansion of attracting additional businesses to the area.
 And then 1.4, which is to grow the core business of air transportation with the expanded airport development. Next slide. This is the agenda for the presentation. Again, Jessica is going to cover the economic development strategies and how the airport fits into the city's policies and initiatives.
 talk about the air service, the brand. One of the biggest efforts that we started when the pandemic started is to start to develop the airport as a destination for the city. We have seven hotels on property, a lot of parking areas and a lot of public spaces with a great inventory of public art. So it's a great opportunity for us to really start targeting and using and program the airport as an amenity for the region so that it becomes a destination.
 especially given the amount of food and beverage offerings along the Airways corridor with additional hotels along that road as well. And talk about the budget update as well as the five-year CIP. Next slide. So I'm going to turn it over to Jessica now. She's going to cover the next several slides. Jessica. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Jessica Herrera with Economic Development. And I think as Sam mentioned, one of the areas that we're intricately involved with the airport is really to focus our efforts to continue to attract, retain, and expand investment opportunities. We consider the airport a very important target area. Earlier this year, you approved a Chapter 380 incentive policy that really gives us a guide. It gives us an opportunity to focus our efforts and align them with the city's strategic plan.
 When you look at areas such as growing and retaining our veteran employment opportunities, continuing to grow our wages, continuing to partner with our higher education partners, all of these efforts really coincide with what we're seeing happen at the airport, with the proximity to Fort Bliss, with the proximity of opportunities for investment that we've seen in the last year. We know that.
 As we continue to move forward, we have targeted industry sectors that are very closely aligned in everything that we do. And when you look at the airport property and you look at the opportunities that exist currently, we are seeing continued and tremendous growth in the area of advanced logistics. We do have a presence, a very strong presence of business support services, as well as distribution and fulfillment center operations that are some are breaking ground. I'll go into a little bit.
 of that a little later into the presentation, as well as opportunities for advanced manufacturing and also a very strong focus specifically at the airport with an aerospace and defense opportunities. Again, these are very targeted. And again, we look at opportunities to really continue to grow and strengthen our workforce in the area. If we go to the next slide.
 As we continue to work, you know, in strengthening the airport as an asset, and that really plays into the benefit that we see when we structure any partnership with a company. We really try to focus on not just growing jobs, but actually giving people an opportunity to grow their career.
 and to continue to keep and grow our talent here in El Paso. We continue to understand that it's important to expand our tax base and continue to really focus our efforts in increasing the number of commercial businesses that are paying taxes. Again, this is an opportunity to also provide relief to that residential taxpayer. We're seeing continued investment
 Even throughout this pandemic, we've seen continued investment. And specific to the airport, we saw a very significant opportunity that's really going to be a catalyst as we work our way over the next few years. Next slide.
 And as we know, you know, competition is continuing to increase. It's really a globally competitive environment that we have to situate ourselves in. So when we recognize that we have to continue to grow our toolbox and economic development, we know that even smaller communities, I have an example here, Frisco, Texas, they continue to grow.
 be a competitive market even though from a population standpoint they're a lot smaller, but they also are able to leverage other assets that even though we don't have here in our market, we need to be very focused, very strategic and continue to leverage every opportunity and then every partnership that we can to ensure that we continue to retain and attract investment. Next slide.
 We've seen that we've had continued growth over the last five years, just a snapshot of more than 13,800 jobs, over a billion dollars in investment. But when we see these efforts, and specifically, you know, something to be said, if we go to the next slide, in terms of the efforts that we're seeing to continue to not only bring in those jobs and investment opportunities, but continue to grow our wages, we're seeing that over the last.
 six years, you've seen our wages grow from median county wage of about $12.38 to $14 an hour. So we know that our policy is working. We know that as we continue to grow our jobs, we're continuing to upskill, reskill, and continue to attract competitive wages to be able to continue to attract and expand our workforce opportunities. If we go to the next slide, you'll see that our efforts are not just to attract jobs,
 new companies.
 Go ahead and go to the next slide. They're not just meant to attract new business opportunities, but we're also focusing our efforts on enhancing our existing business opportunities. We saw what and how important it was, especially during the pandemic, to reach out to our existing businesses. SDI Technologies, Technimark, Charter Communications, Fred Loya are a number of businesses that have been in this market for many years. They've strengthened and continue to grow, and we're –
 continuing to partner with them as we move forward in the pandemic over the last year you saw a significant increase i talked about a catalyst for the airport tjx is an example and um
 Sam will continue to provide a little bit more with that throughout the presentation. But I'll tell you, you know, the $150 million investment, the 950 jobs, and the opportunity to strengthen this logistics and distribution center sector for the airport is going to be an important asset for us. And we're going to continue to see the indirect investment that it will attract in terms of just the other supply chain opportunities. Next slide. Thank you.
 When you look at the opportunities, I'm going to focus on two sectors in particular, just because when you look at the airport, we're really closely focused on our manufacturing sector. That really closely aligns an opportunity for a distribution center, fulfillment center, as we continue to see a strong transition into an e-commerce environment.
 We have more than $39 billion in annual purchases from the manufacturing sector, yet we only retain about 3% to 4% within this region. So if we can continue to grow that supply and buyer opportunity within the region, we're going to continue to see a significant increase of that particular user at the airport, specifically just because of the capabilities that the airport can provide to what these users are needing.
 Next slide. You see that as a region and as a hub for manufacturing, we're fairly strong. We're also very competitive when you look at just the overall employment and how we're ranked fifth in the country in terms of a strong opportunity to continue to further upskill and reskill that employment into what is going to be seeing a shift in terms of what automation, other areas in AI, and others will continue to impact manufacturing.
 this advanced manufacturing capability. Next slide.
 So when you look at the other industry sector that were closely aligned and when we're focused on the airport, we see an opportunity also in the aerospace and defense and a very specific focus and partnership with assets such as Fort Bliss, White Sands Missile Range. We also see an opportunity once you see the opening of the William Beaumont Army Medical Center, that's going to be a significant catalyst. You saw what the hospital did out
 in the northwest side of the city with Tenet when it opened and the amount of development that we saw from a commercial residential industrial development that took place. We're gonna continue to see that type of development also across the airport and across that area. So we also need to be very closely tied in to the TxDOT improvements that are happening also and that are in the works as well as those that we're gonna have to make sure
 that we secure from a public infrastructure standpoint. But when you look at the assets and capabilities that we have and the fact that the proximity to those are really closely tied into the airport, I mean, you see that it's a no-brainer really for us to continue to attract this type of user, this type of manufacturer.
 We're continuing to work with partner organizations. We have a very specific strategy with UTEP, with our El Paso Chamber, and with other organizations, to mention El Paso Community College and others, that are very closely tied in to the aerospace and defense supply chain companies. We're seeing even technical schools like Western Tech, for example, putting in curriculums that are specifically focused on ensuring that we have a workforce
 that will have the tools that they need to be able to work within this area. When you look at the opportunities that we see with our soldiers as they transition out of the military, most of these soldiers already have the opportunity to work in these types of companies that most of them will require some level of training.
 of security clearance. And so that already gives us an edge in terms of being able to secure a strong, and continue to grow a strong veteran workforce. So if we go to the next slide, we see that there's continued efforts, there's continued initiatives that we're very focused on and working closely with the airport. And we're going to continue to see growth as users like TJ Maxx put a shovel in the ground here in the very near future. Thank you, Jessica.
 The next several slides are going to cover our passenger recovery numbers. Since the pandemic started, El Paso has recovered passengers at a higher rate compared to the national average.
 Leisure travel has really driven the demand for air service across the nation. And we saw that here more recently in spring break and some of the preliminary numbers that we're seeing for the summer. But within the region, Fort Bliss has really impacted our passenger counts positively. Once we started to see troop movement in and out of the airport, our numbers started to kick up again at a much higher average than the national average. Next slide.
 This is a really great slide to show you how we've been working, inching closer to 2019 numbers. The purple line at the top is 2019 numbers where we had record numbers for passengers at our airport over the last decade. You saw the dark blue in March where we had the big dip because of COVID and the pandemic with the lack of passengers in and around the area.
 And then of course the green is what we're working towards here in 2021. And based on the passenger, based on the number of flights that we have booked for June, it's looking like a great summer and a great recovery for us. Next slide. This is a slide that's been provided by some of our national industry sectors where they're projecting the passengers numbers to come back to 2019 levels up until 2024.
 And this is critical for us. This kind of information is very critical for us because as we work very closely with Robert Cortina's and our financial model for the airport, we need to be very strategic about where we have, where we spend the money that we do have, how we leverage the federal dollars that you'll see here in a minute that we're getting from the various acts that have been passed nationally, and how we're able to support and use those funds effectively.
 to further our strategy specifically to the development along Global Reach and the 601 corridor, in addition to maintaining the airport and our asset to ensure that the airlines have a cost-effective airport to operate out of. Next slide.
 Two weeks ago, we had a great announcement. Charlotte was a new destination on our map. It's a city that we did not have prior to the pandemic. So it really speaks to the opportunity and the potential that the airlines see in our area. For the month of June, all the cities that you see on this map have been brought back for service to include Orlando and San Diego. Those are available now for bookings on Allegiant.
 for the month of June. And of course, Charlotte will begin new flights in August of this year.
 And we continue to do a lot of effort on the air service development. Next slide. We've been meeting with airlines, sending them emails, regular updates. Announcements like the TJMAX or the Fulfillment Center for Amazon are critical information to these airlines as they plan out their schedules. They typically plan out their schedules five, six months ahead of time. Through the pandemic, they were very nimble. Adding additional flights or canceling flights if the demand was not there.
 But these kinds of information, the economic development, troop movement, and everything that's happening within our region is critical for them so that they can set up and assign aircraft to our airport to ensure that we're able to accommodate the demands for our region. Excuse me.
 In June, we'll be traveling out to Orlando to meet with a lot of these airlines. We continuously have meetings with them. We had a meeting with a Mexican carrier last week as we continue discussions to provide that Mexico service that's been talked about for many years. Next slide.
 as i stated earlier one of our goals as we move forward especially through the pandemic is to really establish the airport as a destination for for our city we have great assets public spaces seven hotels restaurants uh so we started things like movies on the fly we had food trucks on the fly uh through the through the pandemic and socially distanced
 scenarios. October Night Lights was a really great program that was started with our PIO office here because of the lack of homecoming events at the high schools for the various high schools we actually had every night in October September we had
 the airport light up for the various colors of the different high schools throughout our region. And a lot of them took advantage. They came out, took pictures, great pictures here for memories for high schools. We have the Elevate project going on right now. Of course, the Holiday Delights continue to be part of the events that happen in San Jacinto Plaza as a satellite location here at the airport. It's greatly attended as well. Next slide.
 We're proud to announce an award that we received for our PIO office in 2019. We had a program that was Animals on Approach. It was a collaboration with El Paso Zoo, where El Paso Zoo brought animals out to the airport and have these animals greet and meet the passengers coming in and out of the airport. And we received the Communications and Customer Service Award for our airport. Next slide.
 We also have a new program, additional two dogs that came into our airport, new canine teams. These new teams are really great for us because right now our canine teams basically go out there and inspect cargo
 or cargo coming into the airport. With the new capabilities of K-9 teams, they're able to also screen passengers. This is very critical for us as we move into a higher demand here for the summer. They'll be able to screen passengers during those peak times so that, in essence, all those passengers that are screened by these K-9 teams will be able to be determined as pre-pandemic
 pre-check customers so they won't have to take off their shoes. They won't have to go through the extra process that we typically go through. And again, this is a great capability that we have. We have four of these canine teams now and another one scheduled to come on the way in 2022. Next slide.
 This is another great program that our operations team has been working on. It's a drone detection system in collaboration with UTEP and various other agencies. Part of what we're going to be seeing in the future is drone technology service delivery and what
 and whatnot. And so it's really critical for us to be able to ensure that we have a safe airspace for the airlines to operate out of, as well as protect additional aircraft that may become about in our area. And so this program is state of the art. It's one of the most advanced in the nation that we've been able to leverage in collaboration with UTEP grants, additional equipment with federal agencies that allows us
 to really set us up for for as a test fit for drone technology as well as to allow for things like we we had utep we had walmart deliver a covid test back in november 2020 and it was all it was all allowed or enabled if you will by this program that we have next slide our budgets um and this is another area we're going to be talking about here for fiscal year 22 but our budgets are typically made up of non-aeronautical revenue these are um
 These are things like the industrial parks, the southern industrial parks, the land leases that we have throughout the airport. It makes up about 54% of our revenue and aeronautical revenue makes about 46%. And so when we see passengers come down in numbers, our aeronautical revenue has impacted tremendously. And we saw that in fiscal years 2019 and 20 where we saw our budgets impacted by over $8 million each of those two years. Next slide.
 As we got the federal stimulus dollars from CARES, the CRRSA, and then the new one that was just passed, we were able to leverage those dollars to really continue to make the airport an attractive airport for the airlines to operate on. And one of the things that we report as one of the key indicators, if you will, for the airport is our landing fee rate for the airlines and our cost per airplane passenger.
 And you see the numbers here on the top left. We kept it at 181, very, very competitive. And so when airlines are making decisions on where to send the aircraft, if they have the same demand, for example, at El Paso or Tucson, if we have a lower cost for them to operate out of, that means a higher margin for them. That means getting the aircraft to El Paso rather than somewhere else. And so this is really important for us. It's something that we look to be very strategic to ensure that we have these numbers moving forward.
 budgeted for 21 for this year. We budgeted for 37.5% of passenger counts compared to 2019, and that's why you see that 1145. We far surpassed that number in terms of our recovery. We're hovering above 50% now when it comes to fiscal year 21. So this number, 1141, is strictly a result of the denominator, which is the amount of passengers that we have, and that number's gone down once we chew it up. Next slide.
 These are the federal programs and what the airport has received in federal money. The coronavirus, the initial one that was approved, we received $15.4 million and that was again much needed. As I stated, we saw revenue losses of over $8 million at the airport. Everything from concessions to parking to hotels was impacted from a revenue standpoint.
 And so we were able to leverage those $15.4 million to augment our revenues and keep our operations going and cost effective for the airlines. The CRISA grant has already been executed and that's $5.5 million that we received additional. And then with the most recent one was the American Rescue Plan Act, we're scheduled to receive an additional $15.6 million. That's a total of over $37 million that we're scheduled to get to keep our operations going.
 And this is very critical for us at this time. As you'll see here in a minute, we have a very aggressive CIP. And so we'll be able to leverage these federal dollars to augment our revenues and allow us to really continue to invest into our assets, into the airfield, to our terminal, as well as continue and begin the development along the 601 corridor as well as the Global Reach corridor. Next slide.
 I'm going to turn it over to Terry Sharp, who's going to talk a little bit about the projects and some of the agreements that we've been able to accomplish here over the past year. Terry, are you there, Terry? Well, let me get started with this one. One of the things that I've got it that we had a computer glitch in the other office. Thank you.
 morning mayor and council terry sharp department of aviation just like to talk about some of the many things going on at the airport that have happened over the past year and how our focus has been on uh keeping the ball moving forward during the whole pandemic so i'd like to start with the golf course over at butterfield now we recognize that the golf course closed in march of 20 and right at the beginning of the pandemic
 We knew that year over year, the golf course had been losing money. And it became especially critical as the pandemic started. And although we kept watering the course throughout, we had to find a new method of operation from a reimbursable contract to a concession-based contract. We found a partner in Spirit Golf Management who could do the job for us. It's turned out very well. The course opened in August.
 We're having full rounds Thursday through Sunday right now. The course is in great shape. Food and beverage and alcohol service has been reestablished. The restaurant's open until 8 o'clock at night. We're operating at a profit now. And for the 20 years of the term, our 10-year term with our 10-year additional option, we're projecting a net revenue stream of $24.5 million from what was habitually a $1 million per year loss. Next slide, please.
 Certainly, as Jessica mentioned earlier, one of the biggest things that we were able to bring to town was the MarMax deal. And having the distribution center for TJ Maxx and Marshalls and HomeGoods in El Paso is huge for us.
 200 acres of land to the airport is certainly our largest development to date. The jobs, the $150 million investment, just a great thing for the city. And I want to stress, this didn't happen without the strategic partnership that exists between the airport, economic development, BorderPlex, and really the support of council in moving this whole process forward. So we're very proud of it.
 marmax has now applied for permits their design is complete we're finalizing our comments on that so i would expect ground to be broken here within the next 90 days next slide you can see that even during the downturn of passenger activities our efforts were focused on development throughout our property and i'm going to go through some of these slides but just to hit on
 all over the airport, all over our 7,000 acres. We were busy reaching out, making deals and bringing long-term deals that we had been working on for a length of time to fruition. Next slide, please. Certainly the Millionaire FBO project was a huge win for El Paso. It put the airport in a different league as far as business jet travel and brought us
 to a par with airports, Austin, DFW, Houston, San Antonio. It's just a game changer for us.
 Atlantic Aviation already existed. They had invested significant dollars in their hangars over the past five years. Millionaire just compliments that with a five-star luxury FBO and the services that that provides. Also, $42,000 in ground rent per year. So, welcome addition and competition between the FBOs on the airport is absolutely necessary. Next slide.
 thank you uh circle k coming in at montana and hawkins uh another another win for a property that had been vacant for so long and and it recognizes the importance of that corner and the boeing bypass that a lot of people use every day in getting to work so it replaces a facility that's across the street uh modern many gas pumps uh
 A lot of amenities in a modern C-Store package, so we're pleased that that's coming along. I drove by there the other day, and I expect them to be open probably around Memorial Day. Region 19, a longtime airport tenant. Certainly, they do all of the training for all of the school districts in El Paso and Hudspeth County. They recognized that they were short of space, and they brought a design concept to us,
 about two years ago, and this is built to smart code. We're so pleased with the way it's being constructed. And, you know, 50,000 square feet of conference space up top, a five-story parking garage with 650 parking spaces, built to smart code. We look for mixed-use development in that area. And this is truly...
 I think a kickoff to all of the development that we're believing is going to come along with EPISD moving out of their track directly to the west on Boeing Drive. This should be completed in October of this year. Next slide, please. And you can see right there what's going on daily. It's certainly a hub of activity, and we're looking forward to that opening very soon.
 The FedEx UPS expansion, certainly cargo has been a bright spot throughout the whole pandemic. As you might expect, package delivery was way up as many of the stores had limited access during the shutdown. UPS has increased their space on the airside from two aircraft parking spaces to four.
 Picking up an additional 125,000 square feet. This is $90,000 per year more in their rental rate to the airport.
 FedEx under roof increased by 6,300 square feet. That's $51,000 a year in additional rent. And they also extended their lease for 10 years. I was informed earlier this week that DHL also has expansion plans in the works right now. They have a senior VP for landing contracts out this week to tour the facility. So we're reaching...
 plan that started 20 years ago when we built the cargo buildings to have them full active and just going full tilt as we move into the next decade. So next slide, please. Out in front of the building, you know, our directive from the city manager and city council was always to create a sense of place at the airport. And
 With all the enhancements that come along with Airway Boulevard coming up from I-10 and all the work that had gone into refurbishing that area, our landscape needed a facelift as well. And I'm proud to say that we completed that last year, and it's been well received. We've done a lot of work out front just to make our house, our front door, look so much better. And I'll show you that in the next few slides here.
 You can see just the major walkway out from the Port Cachere out to the equestrian statue and also all of the 10-foot sidewalks that meander through next to our parking lots to create walkability to our hotels and restaurants on property. We also have three walking paths out there going up to 2.2 miles, and we also have an exercise facility out there. So our hotel guests...
 our passengers, our workers here at the airport can all take part in that.
 Additionally, we made major enhancements to curbside, which allowed us to segment traffic a little better. We were able to bring our TMCs into one area with shaded parking. Our taxi cabs have shaded parking, as well as our hotel shuttles and Sun Metro. They also have shaded areas for passengers to wait. And it really took a lot of congestion off of curbside. So we're very pleased with that, and it is...
 It was truly a labor of love, this project, because as it grew, we could see what was happening and how well it was received by the public. So now that it's finished, we couldn't be prouder of it. Next slide.
 That led us to Convair Road and parking lot improvements across from the Conrack. After the Conrack was finished and the administrative offices and the quick turn facility was established, the buildings that occupied along Convair Road and across from our cargo building were demoed. First step in this process in developing that vacant area right now was an enhancement of the curbside areas along Convair Road all the way down to Airway Boulevard.
 So this was paid for with customer facility funds, and we designed a new parking lot for our Conrac employees, street and drainage improvements, and the new 10-foot sidewalks. These are part of the walking path as well. Next slide.
 And there you can just see this was set up during our holidays and we had some lighting going on. It's typically our white lighting right now, but you can see just how the whole street looks so much better now than it did. Next slide, please. And I'll turn it back over to Sam. Sam wants to talk about the little development that we've got going on our lands throughout the airport. Thank you, Terry.
 So what we're looking at and what we're working on as far as new initiatives in 21 and as we move into 22, when we gear up for the budget for next fiscal year, we're looking at development opportunities and branding initiatives. So really outlining our different neighborhoods throughout the airport. We're envisioning the Crosswinds Entertainment District. That's the area that will be right to the west of the Region 19 facility that Terry went over. Butterfield Industrial Park, really branding that and really working with existing tenants to ensure their long-term success will be critical for us.
 The 601 corridor with a hospital opening up for Beaumont out in that area, and you'll see a map here in a minute. It's going to be a great opportunity for developers to be able to do good development out there. And then the Boeing business district and really working very closely with them. So we're working on land use plans. We have a consultant that's going to help us do the master development behind it.
 We're looking for obviously for partnerships with the existing local developers as well as border plex and economic development. And really, again, truly the whole focus behind it to develop the airport as a destination for our city. Next slide.
 This is a great map of what we're talking about from across Winds Entertainment District. So we have the 24 acres that EPIZ is going to vacate to the west of Region 19. It's a great opportunity for the development. The 10 acres on Boyne and Airways is another one that's a very attractive project, very attractive site. We envision food and beverage hotel that would happen here.
 And of course, the area that was vacated, the 10 acres where you see the C store in the hotel, we want to be able to capture the rental car business for fuel and convenience store at this location, as well as an additional hotel that would basically flank the terminal to the left on your screen. And then an additional hotel site, a four acre site to the left.
 to the right of your screen, which would be to the east. That four-acre hotel site, we're envisioning a multi-story hotel that would have a rooftop overview of the airfield, a really great amenity and opportunity to really capture a lot of business, not just for passengers coming in and out, but again, as a destination to be able to go and do plane spotting. There's a big crowd out there that's a big fan of that, and it's a great opportunity for us to take advantage of. Next slide.
 This is what we call the 601 corridor. At the top over 601, the military hospital is scheduled to open. You see the TJ Maxx, the MarMaxx facility that's between George Perry and Cottonwoods and then our golf course. We've laid out a preliminary roadway network to really start to sell to developers and to understand how the transportation connectivity is going to work here.
 The highway, Montana, the control section, will have direct connectors onto Global Reach, so it will provide great connectivity to this area. It's over 1700 acres of available land for development. And we're obviously in discussions with many interested parties and working in conjunction with Jessica.
 But we envision a mixed use development with food and beverage offerings to the hospital, possible hotel that would serve both the golf course and the hospital. In addition to the additional industrial development along the 601 corridor and then additional focus down by Montana for commercial development. That's all zoned C4. So again, great opportunity.
 And of course, on the other side of Global Reach to the west is all aviation development. There's a great opportunity there, as Jessica mentioned, the aeronautical air defense industry, high-advance manufacturing is a great opportunity for folks to come in here to develop, do R&D, and obviously manufacturing is something that we're going to be marketing with and moving forward.
 Of course, to build the infrastructure, we heard feedback from potential developers that we need to get these developments, these sites, as closely as we can to be shovel-ready so that somebody comes in, says we want to build a 60,000-square-foot facility or a 600,000-square-foot facility, that utilities are on site, that the roadway network is built out. And that's going to be critical and part of our focus that you'll see. Well, we've added a project to the CIP, and the reason that we're presenting to you until today is...
 is that we want to include funds, airport enterprise funds to be able to start to design on some of this roadway and infrastructure. The other piece of it is the construction costs that are associated with this. And so we're gonna be looking to bring back, next slide, to bring back to council in the near future, a TERS that would help support the roadway network and the infrastructure
 We heard very clear again from potential tenants or developers that the roadway, the infrastructure, utility extensions are all critical to them. The entitlement process needs to be taken care of so that when somebody wants to come in and move in their facility, they want to be able to design a building they're parking at and start construction quickly without having to wait for utility extensions and roadways and whatnot.
 This is something that we're going to be briefing council in the near future and bringing that back again as an opportunity for us to provide that cash flow and be able to build out the roadway network to see that development come to fruition. Next slide. Terry, you want to cover the CIP? Yes, sir. Next slide, Michael.
 Council, we're going to be bringing this to you as item 36 for approval today, but we brought this back to you in January at the first meeting for approval. We've added some items to it since then that really focused on the land development that Sam had mentioned earlier and some other improvements here on the property. One of them...
 You can see they're highlighted as the Ameristar hangar improvements. After Ameristar left, we took possession of that building. We are remodeling it now to return it into a profitable business center for us for business aircraft. Also, monies into the global trade center area, and that is enhancement of our infrastructure along global reach,
 You can see there, Burke Williams Iron Dust Off. This is part of a DAG grant that we're working with Fort Bliss to secure to enhance accessibility into the William Beaumont Army Medical Center. And also along Terminal Drive, repaving
 outside of the curbside areas going down to Airway Boulevard and some necessary improvements on the bridge that exists out there. And then also some monies dedicated to Conrac. The building's now about five years old, so it's time to invest a little more money into that. Next slide.
 In our five-year CIP, we certainly stress more than anything is how we can leverage federal dollars and what we can bring in from the federal government to enhance our projects and
 really carry the carry most of the weight for the project and you can see here 69 million dollars of leveraged federal dollars between entitlement discretionary and supplemental with the remainder coming from Airport Enterprise funds passenger facility charge funds and customer facility charge funds, so we've worked very hard at increasing that federal share
 Terry, if I can add on this slide, Michael, come back. I really want to recognize Terry and his team, Michael and Shane. They've been working the FAA for a lot of extra money on our capital program. Historically, we get our entitlement funds. These are the funds that come through the AIP program where we get an allocation based on the number of passengers that we have here at the airport. And that's typically around $5 million. So if you account for the five-year CIP, our entitlement funds will be about $25 million.
 and through the work that Terry and the team has done putting data together information analytics based on our master plan a lot of great data the city manager talks about this all the time we want to let the data speak for itself all that data that's been submitted to the FLA has really brought us an additional over 40 million dollars that we're scheduled to get over the next five years to address a lot of the safety and pavement and infrastructure in our airfield and again that's money
 that we had to work for. Terry and his team put a lot of effort into that and we're scheduled to get that. So thank you, Terry. Go ahead, next slide. Thank you, sir. One of the projects that's coming up pretty quickly here is a passenger notification system. This is our flight information display system as well as the public address system. These items have pretty well lived their useful life.
 The contract has been awarded. We're working on scheduling and bringing in the team now to start construction. This is paid for through Passenger Facility Charge Application No. 8 and Airport Enterprise Funding. We expect construction to start any month now and then completion by the end of the year.
 The next few slides are going to be airfield based and it'll just show you some of the things you have here. You can see in the hashed areas, pavement to be removed and new connectors off of our cargo building. This is just really in line with aging pavement and necessary engineering changes that the FAA has mandated.
 So this is a $15 million project. We're using our entitlement funds for this and construction. We should have design complete by May, construction starting later this year. Next slide is one that the FAA considers critical for our airfield. You can see in the...
 Pinkish red area there. This is all pavement to be removed. That area is called the five node intersection. It's considered challenging for pilots that are not familiar with the airport. And the new area you can see there in the green and the gray is
 how it will look at the end of the project. It's really a simplification of what we consider to be a highly congested area that could be confusing to transient pilots. This is part of the supplemental pool that the FAA has agreed to pay, and that $25 million is critical to making this happen, and we expect construction to begin next year.
 Pavement rehabilitation on Runway 8R26L. This is a discretionary project that the FAA has awarded to us, and it'll also use Airport Enterprise funds to complete it. Our runways are asphalt. We look at a useful life of about 25 to 30 years before reconstruction. However, we can rehabilitate by repaving about every 12 to 15 years, and that's our plan on this runway.
 If we rehabilitate rather than we can reconstruct, provided that our subgrade is in great shape and we believe it to be through our core samples, then we can keep these runways operating almost indefinitely if we put the needed monies in about every 12 to 15 years. That is scheduled for repaving next year. Taxiway mic relocation, we...
 FAA has told us we need to realign the taxiway to the runway threshold rather than having it in its current location where it's an intersection. That is $13 million paid for through FAA discretionary funding and airport enterprise funds, and we have this scheduled for the books for fiscal year 23. Okay.
 So in our five-year CIP, you can see that AIP funding comes in at 59%, just a huge win for us when the FAA partners so well and gives El Paso the money that I would say it richly deserves because typically discretionary monies and supplemental monies have historically gone to large hub airports in the state of Texas.
 We made our case to the FAA based on safety, security, capacity factors out on the airfield, and they recognized it and they have sent us the money that we've requested. You can see their airport enterprise funds, our fund balance pays a large share of it as well. And then our passenger facility charges also contribute greatly to this. Next slide, please.
 Our five-year CIP, as you'd expect at an airport, we're spending most of our money on the airfield. That pavement needs constant attention, and it's our job under our pavement maintenance plan that we have with the FAA to make sure it's in top condition all the time, making our airport as safe as it can possibly be. We also invest heavily in our terminal. We never like to just
 sit on our laurels and say, yeah, we've got a great airport. We're always looking to improve it, enhance passenger facilities, make it an easier airport to navigate, create more food and beverage and news and gifts opportunities for our passengers and the meet or greeters that come out to the airport. We've also got investments in our parking lot coming up, industrial parks, everything.
 It takes a lot to manage the whole airport. So we're invested heavily in this, and we've got a great plan coming up for the next five years. So we'd like to show you a video here next of some things that are going on at the airport. We've had a few glitches this morning. I apologize for that. And, Michael, if you're ready. Okay, we're not getting the sound. Let me work on this for just a second, and I hope you'll bear with me. We're going to – the sound is important to this one, so –
 Michael, you just want to go ahead and reboot and restart that. So while we're waiting for that to come up, and he's going to have to cycle through, I just want to let you guys know how much we appreciate all of the support that you've given to the airport. And it's been an interesting year having Sam come on right at the pandemic and working through that.
 It's been a challenge for all of us to watch our passenger traffic drop so mightily, but yet through it all, we found some real bright spots here. Our cargo business thrived, and our phones were ringing off the hook just simply because of all of the business and land development opportunities that existed. So we're very proud of what we do, and again, we thank you so much for council support on this and our...
 We're going to try this. More time to bring that video up. Mr. Sharp, how long have you been with the airport now? Michael, stop it. Sir, I've been with the airport since 2002 with the city. I've worked at the airport since 1988, started in general aviation after I got out of the Army. Congratulations. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I'm as a ground ops aide, just advising that taxiway Lima has been swept for God and is now available for you.
 I'll see you, Rick. Appreciate that. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I'm going to turn it over to the City Manager. Thank you, Sam. And thank you, Terry. Very good job. Just wanted to share with the Council that through our strategic plan, we're making these comprehensive improvements that have transformed the airport. You know, our community, they've seen these changes over the last several years. These changes include the renovations to the interior and the exterior. We have connected these improvements to hotels nearby with walking paths, landscaping, and new lighting features.
 so we've aligned our improvements also to Winterfest during the holidays. Along with these improvements, we added airlines as well as direct flights before the pandemic and now we're doing it again during the pandemic. Millionaire that was presented during the presentation happened because of the fixed based operations expansion
 So these projects, they didn't happen by accident. And as we bring these projects forward to you and you approve them, we tie it back to the plan. It shows how the plan is working and how the focus on these priorities are working. We've made them happen through this plan, through your urging and pushing for these strategic improvements.
 because they've been strategic in nature, because they're all related to each other. And talking about strategic improvements, we also connected airway
 the airway road to I-10 through landscaping and lighting improvements. I think you've seen those improvements. What we wanted to do is have a big impact when people land in El Paso and drive to I-10 that they see a very beautifully landscaped road, lighting. So all those improvements and then that art piece at the end of that is very, very helpful. That connects to the art piece that was already there.
 So we've been very focused also now on advanced manufacturing for the last four years to work on how we continue to increase our wages, as our wages remains the number one priority for us. You saw that we've increased it by 13%. I know that that's a priority for the city council. We all know that as a staff, so we continue to make that a number one priority. We see the airport as a great opportunity to truly develop the business industrial park like you see in other major large cities across Texas.
 We think that these strategies to grow our industrial park at the airport, since we control the land, can be meaningful business additions to our community. So we're now ramping up for federal infrastructure funding for the airport and other assets across our organization and in our community. So we plan on sharing these concepts in the upcoming strategic planning session update with the city council.
 We want to start looking beyond 2025 and look towards 2030 goals and objectives. Because some of these improvements don't all have to get done with the local taxpayer money. They can get leveraged with state money, with federal money, and it's important that we look at those and that we then,
 align those with our objectives, and that we then also are able to absorb those operating costs as we add these additional projects. But we have to continue to look at the future and look at these comprehensive improvements.
 I think what you've seen today is a comprehensive report on how we are strategically making these improvements in order to get our goals accomplished, whether it's higher wages, more jobs like you saw in these reports, and then more options like Millionaire with that Boutique opportunity for our business community. These are just additional things that make us more competitive.
 They didn't mention this, at least I didn't remember seeing it, but they've been named the top airport in the nation for the last two years for its size. And that's because of all the improvements that they've made out there. Sam and Terry with the Lean Six Sigma projects that they've done, they've improved customer service significantly.
 dramatically. I think when you go to like the restrooms as an example, they're very clean. The custodial staff does an amazing job. And then the maintenance staff does a great job in responding to customer concerns and customer needs. So these kinds of improvements happen by having a strong plan. Having you approve those plans and being supportive is extremely helpful in getting these objectives accomplished. So thank you, City Council.
 Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez, and I think many years ago when we talked about this, we talked about that you only have one opportunity to make a first impression, and so it's been very important to do the things we've done, but we've taken that opportunity, and it's a great first impression. With that, I have Representative Hernandez, Representative Schwarzwein, and Representative Molinar. Representative Hernandez, please.
 Thank you Mayor. I wanted to compliment you Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Terry Sharp. Really wonderful presentation and really a testament to all of the work and vision that you all have.
 and for Council for approving a lot of these strategies and our budget, our comprehensive and infrastructure CIP budget. And I remember one of the first actions taken while I was on Council was funding for landscape and all of the lights and some of the improvements that you're seeing today, and it's really an honor to be able to be part of that strategy today.
 Um, and I did, I did want to, um, make a comment about the plan about the expansion of the current infrastructure over by global reach. It seems like it is really a point of opportunity. I 100% endorse and support these efforts because as Mr. Gonzalez says, these, even though it's just, you know, brick and mortar or just concrete on the ground, it equates to jobs for the future.
 And so it's absolutely imperative that we do improve that global reach area similarly to how we've done it in the Butterfield Trail area. It's going to bring more manufacturing jobs, and that's what we need. We need higher paid, more skill sets, and more opportunities for Opasos, and that's how we're going to do it. I also had the privilege of attending a conference in Canada, Edmonton,
 And we were able to tour the airport out there. And I was just blown away. You would not believe what the airports look like out there. They have full shopping centers. They have state-of-the-art and Fortune 500 billion-dollar corporations out there in the airport. It's like its own city. And so if there's a layover, if you have time to kill, you can take a bus to the shopping centers, which is in the backyard of the airport.
 And really that should be the vision of the city because essentially we're landlocked. And so we have all this airport land that we can develop not only for business opportunity, for entertainment. So I really, really enjoyed looking at that plan, the entertainment plan, because that's going to be vital for the expansion of our economy in the future. So thank you for the wonderful presentation. I would love to hear more about how the funding can help, especially the airport tours.
 And so we can talk about that in the future, but I'm certainly eager to learn about that. And I guess I never knew you could have a TERS because it's airport land. It's owned by the city of El Paso. So I just don't know how the mechanism works. So I'm just curious a little bit. How would that look, Mr. Rodriguez?
 Yeah, definitely. So it's no different. So we're looking at the incremental value of the additional improvements that come into the area. And so part of when we enter into a lease, in essence, the new tenant, whether it's TJ Maxx, they in essence become the possessory of the property. And so the way the CAD works is the CAD is going to tax them as property.
 It's called possessory taxes. So they're going to tax them on the land, the value of the land, and the value of the improvements. It's that incremental increase in value that happens with the development on airport property that would be part of the tourism, the funding that we're anticipating or working towards and making available to expand the infrastructure out there. Okay, wonderful. And then I do get two questions a lot from my neighborhood associations about the –
 Existing Circle K, what's gonna happen with that? But it's not airport land, I know that. Well, I just learned that. But they moved the Circle K across the street to airport land. And then the EPISD property, since they moved over to downtown, what's gonna happen to that property?
 So the EPISD property is going to be, all the buildings are going to be demolished. So in essence, it's going to be prime property for development. And that's part of the marketing strategy to really develop that into what we're calling the Crosswinds Entertainment District. Again, just working with the developers, we have a great consultant that's going to help us really push that out from a marketing standpoint.
 to be able to make that make it very attractive. We're revising our leasing policy to be competitive. We work with the market that's out there. There's a lot of shopping centers. There's a lot of development out in the community. So we want to make sure that we're competitive in making folks come in here. It's one of our biggest challenges is that the FAA doesn't allow us to sell land
 to anybody. We have to keep it under a ground lease. And so it's, and somebody wants to build a hotel, they typically want to own the land as well. And so that's the challenge that we got to work over. But at the same time, we got great pieces of property available for land. And so that's really our biggest selling point.
 Right. And that was the other thing I was going to say. I have heard over the years since I've been on council that there's so much opportunity with the land and the existing space we have and the airport. And so are we being aggressive enough with getting tenants in those facilities?
 And do we do we need a realtor? Do we need a broker to help? You know, we need to be a little bit more aggressive because that those those non aeronautical dollars are so vital for our budget and could be helped rediverted for this other development. So something to consider. I know there's hard work going on, but given the current environment and market, I think there's an opportunity there.
 Yeah, no, for sure. I couldn't agree with you more. I don't think we had ever dedicated as an airport. I was here at the airport a while back, but it's
 a specific project to really help the development. And we didn't have a specific project to help the development. It was really wait for the phone call to come in. We've included in the CIP that you'll consider here in a minute, two and a half million dollars to help us develop strategy designs, concepts, because it's so much of it is, and being able to sell the vision and if you just sell a piece of dirt,
 you know, to somebody, it's hard for them to see what you're trying to accomplish. So part of those funds are going to go towards developing renderings to develop a marketing material to really develop a good marketing strategy that could be aggressive to your point or would be an aggressive behind it. And then the other side of it too is, you know,
 we need a revision to our leasing policy right i think historically we've been very stuck on x percentage or x number of years and being able to look at those those policies that still meet the faa requirements first and foremost but still be more aggressive because at the end of the day we're competing with other developers around town and then in certain cases on the global reach we're working and
 competing with other airports around the nation or other developments around the nation for some of those major manufacturing developments. And so that's part of what we got going on. We're being very aggressive. The city manager definitely asked us to and we have responded very, very aggressive to those strategies. When we talk about how we
 wanted to look like an industrial business park. I know those are just three words, industrial business park, but what I mean by that, to your point about being aggressive and to Sam's point about renderings, I've asked them to work on entry features, entryway markers.
 And those aren't for aesthetic purposes. Those are so that people see that we've made utility improvements, there's lighting improvements, there's entryway feature improvements, so that they start seeing what their business could look like next to that. That's something that's done across Texas. It's a best practice in terms of what an industrial park needs to look like, the airport with Sam and the staff. And just before Sam, too, when Sam was in CID, he helped with a lot of the
 the planning and a lot of the work that has gone out there right now. And that's what we mean by being aggressive. That's what we mean by strategic improvements. They need to be improvements for a reason, for a purpose, and it needs to tie back to something else of what we're trying to get. So I think y'all are seeing more of that, and that's the reason why we wanted to present this in this fashion, so y'all can see how one connects to the other in terms of the improvement. They're not just improvements for improvement's sake.
 They're connected to each other. And like in this particular case, the airport connects to Winterfest. In this particular case, the airway connects to I-10 and to the 25 high-periodic corridors that the council is doing throughout the city. All those are done with a purpose, with a reason, and some science behind it in terms of how these improvements are recommended and why the council has been so supportive.
 Great. And then the final thing I wanted to say is that I'm very pleased with new airlines and nonstop flights coming on board. And what I heard from my constituents is like, hey, that's great, but we can't even get a direct flight to local cities in Texas.
 And so I know that my colleagues feel the same way. We need to find a way to be more aggressive, whether that's through lending fees, other economic incentives, so that we can try to bring those direct flights. Because a lot of El Pasoans, it is part of their –
 I guess, routine in their family. A lot of their family lives in East Texas, so they take direct, they take flights. And so they complain that they have to stop in Dallas to get to San Antonio or stop in somewhere else to get to Austin. There's only like one nonstop flight. And so I hate to beat the dead horse here, but I just, if we can be a little bit more aggressive, you know, we welcome that. Our constituents are looking forward to that as well. I think it's a great point. And before the pandemic hit, we had brought in 20 more direct flights
 And we had those, we had more routes to like Austin per se, but even when we had those 20 more direct flights, it still wasn't enough. People still wanted more. I let Sam talk. I think he was going to say something. Yeah, no, we've been very aggressive as I went over my presentation, sent him an information, working very closely with the planners.
 Terry and I are scheduled to be in Orlando to meet with all the airlines. It's a big conference that they all go to. And it's really important for us to really understand that the service, the way the industry is right now, they've been very nimble. And so if the demand is there, we'll get frequencies like there's no tomorrow.
 And so right now, really pleased with the June schedule. Austin is back every day in the month of June. San Antonio's back, I think Saturday and Sunday right now. And again, that's really just based on the demand that we have out there. American Airlines, I saw their June schedule
 all the, I think out of the 10 flights, nine flights have gone to the big jets, to what they call the mainline. So it's not going to be the regional jets. And that's just based on the demand that they have. And we've been working, again, very closely to share with them what's been out there and what we anticipate from a service demand. And the community has really responded to be able to have...
 The schedule that's been published for all the airlines, all the cities that you saw on the map are back in June. It's pretty, I think it's a great response from the community and the airlines recognize that. We're going to continue to work that approach and be aggressive, as you stated.
 Thank you. Thank you, Representative Nundas. And I think to a lot of the points you made that we know that connectivity from city to city is very important in economic development. And we talk about that a lot and also having projects shovel ready. We have quite a few projects and companies that have been interested in our community, but until we have just like Mr. Rodriguez talked about that,
 Those properties are ready because these companies are ready to make a move within the next six months to a year. And if it takes us a long time to get this prepared and done, they go somewhere else. So it's become very competitive out there. So, you know, I know that Colonel Weston and Mr. Gonzalez, Mr. Rodriguez and.
 and Mrs. Etta are working really hard to make sure that we're prepared as these companies continue to show interest in our community that we're prepared to be shovel ready so they can invest and meet their timeline to invest in our community. So I can tell you that's probably a weekly discussion and I know we've gone out and looked at some of the properties within the community to see where we can prepare them to be ready
 when these companies show interest that we're ready to welcome it into our community and allow them to expand in El Paso. So that's been very important to us, and we've continued to work on that. So thank you for that, and I'm going to go with Representative Mayor Pro Tems-Schwartbein. Thank you again, Mayor. Oh, everything's going on at all.
 So really great presentation. Just had a couple sort of things to bring up. Really great presentation again. I think it's already been sort of stated again that airport is one of the most front-facing places. It's one of the natural gateways to our community and making sure that we invest in this asset and project the best face forward is absolutely imperative.
 Um, with some of the discussions that we've been having about, again, um, how to make our city the the smartest city can be in the best city. It can be an also presenting that forward facing face. Another thing that, um, I think probably dovetail with, uh, the item that Representative Lazaga put on relating towards,
 solarization buildings as well as the upcoming climate action plan item that we intend on placing there would be to look at ways to make sure that the airport is as energy efficient as possible, including master planning and planning for solar to be adopted.
 One of the largest energy users in our community, certainly within the city of El Paso's operating budget is the airport and the ability not just to have solar panels present, but also factor in the ability to really
 take aggressive actions towards making the airport more energy efficient. I think it's something that we should be looking at very aggressively as well. Not only is it an energy hog in terms of the use that's there, but also when we talk about what kind of face do we want to project to the world and project to our visitors, having an abundant use of solar, whether it be in the parking lot or a dedicated facility
 solar industrial scale source for the airport is something that we should all be looking at. I know that that was one of the 10 items we brought out to the Congresswoman as well. So I'm just kind of just wanted to sort of throw that out there. I know that we're talking about 2025 and beyond, but I think that that really should be part of what we're looking at as well.
 So just wanted to throw that out there. And I know, Sam, that we've had those conversations before, with our senior manager, Carlos, about those ideas. But I just wanted to put that out there as well. One of the questions that I had, too, was relating to the direct flights to Mexico. Yeah.
 as far as I know, we should be signing our another sister city agreement, signing with Chihuahua City, hopefully within the next 30 days. So I'm kind of curious. I know you made mention about that conference in Orlando, but can you talk a little bit more about our strategy or what we're looking at in terms of trying to increase direct flights to Mexico? Yeah, definitely. Absolutely.
 So just to come back on the solar, yeah, we're very aggressive on that. Part of the strategy that we have is we're looking for federal dollars there, but also even working within the parking lot areas to be able to provide premier covered parking areas, covered areas.
 parking facilities at a premium would definitely be a great opportunity for us to leverage those additional dollars and bring in additional solar capability for our airport. So definitely tracking with you on that for sure. On the Mexico flights, we've always known that a good section of our community uses the Hacienda Juarez Airport for the direct connects that they have. Basically, our airports kind of function as a
 symbiotic, if you will, symbiotic, in that all their destinations are national Mexican destinations. All our destinations on this site are U.S. national destinations. And we wanted to find out how big of an amount that was. And we did a leakage study here at the end of 2020 based on 2019 numbers, and we found that on a daily basis 390 passengers crossed the border in 2019 to use the airport in Juarez. That's a significant amount of numbers.
 amount of passengers and that's captured some interest from various airlines to include some of the national Mexican national carriers. Their challenge as they see it and has been presented to us is they already have a base operating out of Ciudad Juarez. And so for them to overfly that airport that's 11 miles south of us is very challenging both politically and financially for them because they
 flying into El Paso, in essence, would take away some of their passengers that already use their station in Ciudad Juarez. So that's a challenge that they have, but nonetheless, we have multiple meetings with Volares and Viva Arbus have been really, really productive and Viva is one of the ones that requested to meet with us in Orlando in June. So we're looking forward to that discussion.
 But we're also talking to other airlines Mexican airlines that are not currently flying to see the waters is a great opportunity for them as well as we got me it was Southwest as having a potential service down there as well as American Airlines and
 American Airlines is a great opportunity for them in that they already function within the Federal Inspection Service areas of their airport. It's a great opportunity for us to do that. And so I can't share with you a whole lot more details, but I can tell you based on the leakage study that we did, we have a great story to tell and we're definitely capturing some ears in and around the industry because of those numbers. It's pretty significant. 390 passengers a day. If you're
 If you were to put that on this side of the border, you could easily fill up a couple of airplanes a day to the right destination. I do think, I mean, I think that's really great. And I do think that there's an opportunity to increase that 390, given the fact that the sort of,
 um ease of being able to fly from mexico city or other guadalajara chihuahua wherever i have you um being able to fly into into the united states and not have to deal with some of the challenges that are having at our ports of entry um that unfortunately sort of exists and so i do think that there's an important story to tell i do think that that
 I think it's important to have a plan when you talk about. I don't think it's necessary just taking from the pie rather than growing the pie itself because I think you'd have different travelers take those flights from Juarez as well as going
 into El Paso. And again, you look at other border cities, whether it's Otey Mesa and Tijuana with the CVX connection, whether it's Laredo or McAllen or Brownsville, they have direct flights into Mexico. And it's really about making us
 much more economically competitive as well by offering those. And so I'm really happy to see that we're having those conversations and will continue to have them. Also, one of the things I wanted to mention as well is that I, you know, it is good to see that Southwest is now carrying those direct flights back to Austin, at least beginning in June. It's one flight a day, but it's better than no flights a day. So we actually went on to Southwest.com to,
 to sort of see that. One of the other questions I had was with Global Reach Corridor, is there a specific reason why we looked at branding that as 601 as opposed to say like the Global Reach Corridor? Is there any specific reason why sort of staff sort of looked at that, at that, uh,
 We do envision to the two corridors, Merit Pro Tem. We don't have the Global Reach Corridor logo on here, but we do envision that. Yeah, because the 601 corridor is such a great opportunity for us with the hospital and the manufacturing and industrial that we envision up there in conjunction with TJ Maxx, kind of bringing that down to Cottonwoods. And then south of Cottonwoods, we envision the Global Reach Corridor that would be both on office space, commercial, that whole area is on C4 corridor,
 And so there's a really great opportunity there to really brand the Global Reach Corridor as the Global Reach Corridor, but the 611 Corridor is our big focus in some of the specific areas that we're working with, economic development for the manufacturer industrial development that we're envisioning out there. Okay, that's great.
 The last thing I had here, and it's just it's something I drive by driving by the airport and see, I don't know if I can bring it up. It was a screenshot that I took off of Google Maps earlier. It's it's something that I've just seen that one of the. So I don't know if you can sort of see it near where the arrow is. There's a little bit of a rock wall that sort of juts out of the walking path.
 I don't know what purpose it does, except that it just kind of stops the walking path in its path. So I don't know what we're looking at it, but it's just something that I sort of see constantly when I drive by the airport. Yeah, and I'll mention that I'll talk about this. So this is a great shot of our pavement that we want to rehab that was included in the CIP. Okay.
 But the whole intent, that walk path there, is not really a walk path in Mayor Pro Temp. There's no specific destination around that area. We set up HAWC systems, the Pedestrian Safety Crossing systems, right at the plaza area. So we encourage, the whole intent is to encourage the,
 the pedestrians or the visitors to cross into the walk paths that take you to the hotels, because that, that little rock wall that you saw there is, is it, that path doesn't really lead you anywhere. It leads you to the bridge and the underpass on airways. And so we really want to distract pedestrians from going into that area because once they get there, they're not going to be able to go anywhere else. And so the safe pedestrian crossings I read at the Plaza. So we encourage folks to cross there and to the walk paths that are on either side to get to their hotels.
 uh the light if i made is terry sharp uh that's that's technically called a mow strip and it's a it allows an area to where grass doesn't grow up to the curbside and then our mowers can turn around there without uh engaging traffic right at the edge of the curb so it was designed as a for a turnaround okay um the last the last uh
 Mayor Pro Tem thank you very much. I just have one more question Mayor if I could just sort of answer it. You're at 11 minutes already sir. All right then I will speak to you in a minute. Thank you sir uh Representative um Molinar followed by Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. Mr. Rodriguez, Mr. Sharp, thank you very much for that presentation. Great job. I was going to ask either one of you gentlemen, how many fixed-based operators are currently operating out of the El Paso International Airport? Two. Two, sir. And what's the name of the other one? It's Atlantic Aviation and then Millionaire that just opened up. Okay. And so is Millionaire already fully functional?
 Yes, sir. Okay, great. Thank you. Also, Crash Rescue.
 Are they still part of the airport by FAA regulations and stuff? Absolutely. Part 139 of the FAA regulations requires to have a fully functional off-station, and so that actually was being invested through our current CIP. The station is being remodeled as we speak, but it is fully functional in order for us to be able to continue to operate as an airport. Okay. Last question as far as crash rescue. Are they still doing...
 training and scenarios, nighttime, daytime, things like that for hopefully training and making sure nothing like that ever happens. Yes, the Part 139 regulations also mandate specific training requirements for ARF personnel and airport personnel. So we do get the ARF personnel out to live burn training sessions.
 at those locations as they require. And of course, we do our tri-annual. That's a full exercise that was scheduled last year, and we did semi-virtual, semi-in-person, but also annual training as required by the FAA is all accomplished. Part of the annual FAA inspections that we get is the revision or review of all our training records, and we've been able to do
 go through those inspections with zero findings over the last couple years. Great. That's fantastic. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. That's all. Thank you very much, Representative Mullen. Representative Rodriguez, followed by Representative Anello.
 Thank you. Thank you, Sam and Terry for that presentation. I think it's awesome and exciting to see what's going on at the airport. I don't really have questions. I just have a couple of suggestions. First of all, Sam, on the hotel, I think you said in the Area 4, the one that has the deck, potentially could have a deck overlooking into the airport to see the airplanes landing.
 I think it would be really cool to see an infinity pool up there where people can be up there and looking at the airplanes landing. I know Houston has an iconic swimming pool with the Texas-shaped Lazy River, so we could have something iconic here in El Paso at our airport. I think that would be very exciting.
 The other thing is potentially at the airport if we could ever have a mural of all the high schools. As in El Paso, one of the first things that people ask when we meet somewhere else outside of the city is, what high school did you go to? Because we have a lot of pride in our high schools. So we could have a mural of all the high schools in El Paso. I think that would also be very fun.
 Um, also I know we do sideways, for example, into Winterfest, introducing it at the airport and leading into downtown. If we could do a little bit more of outreach, for example, the
 the wine festivals maybe you know I know Memorial Weekend we're going to have a big wine festival and I know that's New Mexico but a lot of El Pasoans do go into the wine festivals maybe having some of these wineries go to the airport and give out wine samples and invite them to the wine festival and I think that could help out our local businesses as well maybe on Tuesdays we could do Taco Tuesdays and we invite the local businesses to invite to take
 taco samples into the airport and also advertise their restaurants, because also our food in El Paso is amazing and I think everybody knows that. So just kind of those ideas I think would be adding to the projects that you all are doing. And that's it, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. And with that, we have Representative Anello followed by Representative Salcido.
 Hi, Sam. Thank you so much for the presentation. There's a lot of really exciting things in there. And I think Representative Hernandez touched on this a little bit. The improvements for the airport, in addition to helping people who are coming into the city for the first time, have really helped our residents and given them a sense of pride for their neighborhoods. And I'm really excited to hear about the entertainment center where the current EPISD facility is right now.
 I do want to kind of know, I'm going to try to wrap my thoughts around here so they make sense all together. So if there is a plan to kind of integrate the airport capital plan with any capital projects from General Fund City, right? So, for example, we know that Airway is not the only entrance into the Boeing airport.
 kind of entertainment district that we're looking at, but we do have airport. And I know that the airport fund did a lot of work around there and TxDOT did a lot of work there too. But when we look at the city road, it's in really, really bad condition and doesn't have sidewalks. And so I don't know if y'all have a plan, if you've had this conversation yet,
 If not, I would really love to encourage it, but really how we're incorporating our general fund dollars and our city capital plans to enhance these projects. Yeah, that's a great suggestion, Representative Manello. We do envision as part of the...
 the development of the redevelopment of the Boeing corridor to look at the pedestrian amenities and that will roll into Airport Road. As you know, the top 25 material program is addressing the lighting and the last keeping piece. I think the pavement is very critical as well. And that's something
 on the other side of, if you were on the general fund side that we can look at and if there's an opportunity to address it with the TURs as well. It's gotta be critical as you stated, we're already addressing the landscaping along Montana from Hawkins all the way to Airways as part of the
 Lockheed and forget the name of the side road there, but we're that projects are already going to kick off with the additional funds that were approved. So that project will be going. And so yeah, definitely airport will be the next road that will be targeted on all sides of it.
 DIRECTOR MACKARTHY Great. Yeah. And I do know that we have the landscaping lighting program which I don't want to dismiss. It's very important over there as well. But but you know furthering enhancements not only for the residents but also these investments I think would be a great idea and it's really important moving forward. So thank you so much. We'll be looking for that. Thank you. Thank you Representative Van Nelo. Representative Salcido followed by Representative Mayor Potem.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say thank you to Sam. Thank you to Terry and all the staff for this great presentation. I definitely have seen this aggressive push and thank you for that. But I also want to commend this council for voting for, you know, the strategic plan for voting for new jobs and for voting for
 for the landscaping you know has made a great difference so when i do want to commend the the council for taking those aggressive um votes as well and as a whole all of us working together will really get to where we need to be so i definitely see this this as working together to grow our community like never before so just wanted to chime in and say thank you thank you thank you representative salcido with that we have representative mayor schwartzbein
 Mayor Potem. Yeah, Mayor, thank you. Just had one other question. So as part of the CIP, there would be a sort of public art component included with this?
 Yes, sir. We're working very aggressively to bend to identify additional public art opportunities. Can I make one suggestion real quick? Sure. I believe that we had a missed opportunity with the last CIP that we did with the sort of extension with the fly ELP sort of promenade walking area. You know, we have some of the words like love and live and this sort of thing. I think there's a really great one.
 One of the best, one of my most favorite public art pieces that we have in the city period was done by Mitsou Overstreet at the baggage claim area that was done back in, I think, 2011 or 2012, which included quotes from El Pasoans. It was a sort of crowdsource kind of public art piece that I think is really beautiful and very evocative. And so I would just make one small request.
 that in looking at this future CIP and a possible public art component that perhaps it can be something that could sort of reengage that spirit of sort of crowdsourced opportunity, whether it's evocative words, phrases, something that has a sort of crowdsource sort of public art social sort of element to it, I think would be something beautiful and continue along the spirit of what Mitsou
 had started back in the baggage claim area about 10 years ago. So that was just something that I wanted just to sort of throw out there, because I think that looking at that sort of walking promenade with the fly ELP might have been a missed opportunity, but I think we can do something really special here as well at the sort of one of our gateways to our community.
 I couldn't agree more. I think that, as I mentioned, we have a great inventory of public art. We actually carried that River Spirit piece into the Conrad facility, if you remember, and added additional local poems by local poets as well. We worked very closely with Ben. He was out here with a muralist. We're looking at opportunities as well. So there's some great opportunities to do that, for sure. Thank you. Thanks.
 Representative Schwarzbein, now we have Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Sam, staff, and speaks volumes of your work. And like always, you don't settle for just anything. You go for the top. And I commend you all for that. And I've just got one question since Mayor Pro Tem opened the door there.
 And I'm pretty sure Rep. Hernandez has been on you for this too as well. But the piece of artwork that you have heading down the airway, I noticed it was damaged through, I guess it was the wind that was up there. When are you all going to fix it? What's the delay on that? Because it's a really beautiful art piece, but that one hole makes it look kind of...
 Yeah, I don't disagree. I know. I don't know if Ben's on the line, but I can ask him to give you an update. He's been working with the artists to get that prepared. And then for us to... I'm actually here, Sam. Okay, great. So actually, I believe the piece you're talking about is ITIN and Airway. Is that correct, referee? Yeah.
 No, sir. It's on the airway itself as it curves down to the A. Okay. So we have had a number of cars that have actually done hit and runs and impacted the piece. We're currently working right now with legal to be able to actually bill out to driver's insurance for some of those repairs. And then we're also working with the Capital Improvements Department to actually create a bit of a barrier around the median.
 It will not impact the aesthetics of the piece, but will also slow down any cars that jump the median and prevent them from actually heading headlong into the piece. We'll be back in front of the council in a few weeks with permission to actually extend the artist contract for repairs.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you, Sam and staff. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rivera. And with that, thank you all. Thank you, staff, for the presentation, and congratulations on all the great achievements. And Ms. Prine, I think it's mass transit time. Yes, Mayor. May we have a motion to recess the regular city council meeting? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye.
 And the regular city council meeting is in recess at 1122 a.m. One is adjourned at 1145 a.m. Thank you. May we have a motion to reconvene the regular city council meeting? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor?
 Ms. Prime, point of clarification. Is public comment at noon? Yes, sir. Or rather we're at 9 o'clock? It is at noon, sir. Correct. And the meeting is back in session at 1146 a.m. We're on page 8 on the first reading of ordinances. These are items 22 and 23. Motion to approve. Second. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances items 22 and 23. On that motion Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine. Representative Anelo. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizara. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 24.
 This is a discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-0733, lease of unmarked police vehicles to Acme Auto Leasing, LLC. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 24. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzman. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye.
 Yes. Lizada. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 25. This is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a contract of sale and special warranty deed to convey to Yerrmaland Enterprises a portion of lots three, four, and five, block five, Kessler Industrial District number one. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 25. There's no public comment on this item.
 On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzmeyer. Representative Anello. Fernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 26. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for infill development at 9124 San Fernando Court. Motion to approve.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 26. There's no public comment on this item. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. Representative Anelo. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 27. This is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from PC Plant Commercial to C2 Commercial at 6700 North Mesa Street. Motion to approve. Is there a presentation on this, by any chance? Is there a second? Second. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem, you were asking for a presentation on the item? Yes, ma'am. Okay, thank you. Thank you.
 And Guaranteed Planning and Inspections, if IT does not have those slides, bear with me one moment while I pull them up. If IT does have those slides and you can beat me to it, that may be faster. They are pulling up these slides for you, Ms. Guaranteed. Fantastic. Thank you very much.
 So this is a rezoning request to change the zoning of the subject property from PC planned commercial to C three, which is a commercial zoning district that happens to match the other properties along that portion of Mesa. The existing shopping center is proposed to remain with no changes. Next slide, please.
 Here you see an aerial map. You can see the subject property. It's outlined in light yellow. And as you can see there is a variety of commercial zoning districts. There's C3 C2 and C1. Existing development is the same in character as the subject property. It consists mainly of commercial businesses and shopping centers in that portion of Mesa. Next slide please.
 Here is the zoning map illustrating the same information, but you can see the zoning district highlighted in their color. The proposed zoning district would be consistent with what is currently present. And so it would give the same permissibilities on the subject property to those enjoyed by other properties along that portion of Mesa. Next slide, please.
 And here you see the future land use map from Plan El Paso. As you can see, the subject property, as well as its surroundings, are all within the G4 suburban walkable future land use designation. The proposed district is consistent with this designation. Next slide, please. This is a site plan depicting the subject property. It reflects current conditions as no changes are proposed.
 Next slide, please. This is a photograph of the subject property in its current condition, which is proposed not to change. Next slide, please. And I have one correction to make. I misstated C3 when the request is for C2. The information in your backup is correct. This is the surrounding development. As you can see, it's very similar in character to existing conditions at the subject property. This is looking...
 and the cardinal directions along and across Mesa. Next slide, please. We have not received any communication and support or opposition to the request and CPC's approval recommendation was unanimous. Next slide, please. Staff's recommendation on this item.
 is for approval and it also states that because this was in the Hillside Development Area, it was required to go to OSAP and that body also recommends approval of the rezoning request. So with that stated, that concludes my presentation and I would be happy to answer any questions, comments or concerns. Thank you. There's no questions for that. We have a motion and a second.
 Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item 27. There's no public comment on this item. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzman. Representative Anello? I'm sorry, Mayor, I did have a question. I didn't have time to text you. And what... We do have one question. Representative Anello? Yes. Sorry. For clarification, what is the difference between planned commercial and C2?
 Planned Commercial is a much more restrictive district and it does have a detailed site development requirement for most uses that would be permitted. And so what this is doing is it's giving it similar permissions to those uses which are around it and it's removing the requirement for a detailed site development plan prior to further development on the site. It'll just have to go through standards.
 building permit and zoning review prior to any subsequent development.
 And so I'm sorry, the backup is not really informative for me, but so there is currently a development on the property, but you're saying there's also undeveloped property. No, what I'm saying is, so this is the fully developed parcel. This is just to give it the same permissions as everybody has, that's around it currently enjoys. There's no changes proposed at this time, but this is a move that'll allow it to stop being differently regulated from what's around it. It's fully built out.
 But in the future, if there was a desire to change the use, change the configuration, scrape it and build something else, this will then allow it to do so in the same manner as its neighbors rather than to have to go through a different process and be more restricted in what can be done there.
 Sure. And I guess my concern is that I know that, you know, we've been having work groups with certain representatives talking about the kind of development we want to see, right, more smart code, things closer to the right-of-way. And so I'm wondering why we would, if that zoning is on there, you know, if there's ever future development, it could be done in the way that the council prefers, why we would then take that away. Does that make sense? It does.
 It does. Now, the existing commercial districts do allow for those things that we encourage. They do allow for a zero front yard setback, which would put development right up to the street. That's something that we currently allow and encourage. It allows for parking to be to the side and behind. It allows for development to be close together so long as there isn't immediate residential adjacency. So...
 This could potentially be seen as a move that could better encourage the development of this parcel in a manner that's consistent with what we advocate. So I guess my follow-up question is that does planned commercial require those things?
 Planned Commercial is a district that is as near as I can tell it replaced we used to have something called planned unit development which just allowed for relax setbacks for any of the uses that changed to be more descriptive if we it changed to planned residential planned commercial and planned industrial so it's a little bit
 not in keeping with, with necessarily what's current. It isn't something that gives, that's, that's going to introduce any sort of a form based code or any sort of, uh,
 You know, best practices or anything like that. It was it was something that arose from some performance based zoning from, you know, the 70s and 80s and in a future evolution of that in order to make it more descriptive. Or residential because under the planned planned unit development, there really wasn't.
 You know, it wasn't even descriptive as to that front. So it was just an evolution of that rather than something that emerged from best practices today. So the existing plan commercial, it doesn't advance any of our current goals necessarily on the smart code front. So this is something that was done long ago, and this, what they're asking for now is going to, we would consider it a cleanup because it's going to match what's around it.
 OK, thank you for the clarification. I just wanted to make sure we were not .. So with that, I will vote aye. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizalaga. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. It's prime now. I think it's time for call to the public. We have, we'll pause just for a few seconds, sir, until noon. Take the next item, or we're going to wait.
 It's up to you. I think it's almost noon, just to make sure we're on time. We have two members of the public that signed up this afternoon.
 Okay, it is noon. We now move to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum.
 that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. This afternoon we have two members of the public that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Mr. Michael Castro. His topic is cannabis decriminalization. Good afternoon, Mr. Castro. You have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon, sir. Hi, good afternoon, guys. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Awesome. So yeah, this past Saturday, City Council, and again, my name is Michael Castro. I run a page out here called Legalize El Paso Community Organization, where it has to do with cannabis decriminalization and cannabis legalization, but also cannabis education in El Paso, Texas.
 Now, this past Saturday, we actually had a protest, a march for cannabis decriminalization and for the city of El Paso to really pay attention to the site and release ordinance that was passed this past year because there are still people being arrested for misdemeanor amounts of cannabis. Now, something that bothers me a lot, you guys, there's a lot happening in Texas legislative session and things like that.
 But not enough is happening. And the city of El Paso is going to be affected by what's about to happen here in Sunland Park, New Mexico. Like I've stated many times, I work 10 minutes away from UTEP, the University of El Paso, Texas, at a dispensary here in Sunland Park, New Mexico.
 And by April of 2021, there are going to be multiple, if not dozens of dispensaries here on the New Mexico Sunland Park border. And the people in El Paso are going to 100% have access to a plant that they already have access to. Because in this city, cannabis is easily accessible, right? Because it's not a drug, it's a plant, it's a medicine.
 Legally, in El Paso, Texas, I run and operate a legal hemp CBD farm on the far east side of El Paso and in the Socorro area of El Paso. Now, CBD cannabis is still cannabis. It just does not produce the THC, right, that everybody is still making illegal. So the city of El Paso really needs to do something to protect the people of this city.
 Because time and time again, and we've already, when we got to city council in the beginning, we told you guys the numbers, right? We've proven that everybody that sits in county jail, they're only in there because they got arrested for weed. They're not, you know, it's 90% conviction rate here in El Paso, Texas, when it comes to people arrested for weed. And then you have a 35% or below arrest rate for misdemeanor assault, misdemeanor rapes,
 misdemeanor burglary, that means that the El Paso Police Department is wasting too much time arresting people for a plant instead of going after real people that are actually causing harm to someone or causing harm to themselves. Cannabis use is not a crime. It's not harmful to yourself and it doesn't hurt anybody, right? So again, you guys, the city of El Paso needs to do something. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Colt DeMorris. Mr. DeMorris' topic is misdemeanor marijuana arrest. Mr. Colt DeMorris? Good afternoon. Mr. Colt DeMorris, if you're in the queue, star six please to unmute your telephone. Mr. Colt DeMorris? Mayor, I don't see Mr. DeMorris' phone number in the queue and I don't see anyone unmuting their telephone. Thank you very much. Thank you for that. Yes, sir. That concludes call to the public.
 We're on page 11 of the agenda on item number 28. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a non-exclusive franchise to Elm Shire LLC to place and maintain waste containers on sidewalks and city property. Motion to approve? Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 28. There is no public comment on this item. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthy. Representative Anello? No.
 Hernandez, Molinar, Salcido, Rodriguez, Rivera, Lizárraga, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsway? I. Thank you. And the motion passes with five affirmative votes. Representatives Anelo, Hernandez voting nay, Representative Salcido not present, and the remainder of council voting aye.
 The next item is number 29. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a non-exclusive franchise to A1 Outdoor Marketing to place and maintain waste containers on sidewalks and other city property. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 29. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Representative Anelo. No. Hernandez. No. Molinar. Salcido.
 Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Liz Arraga? And the motion passes with five affirmative votes. Representatives Anelo, Hernandez voting nay. Representative Salcido not present. The next item is number 30. This is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating a 20-foot public utility easement located within a portion of Block 36, Clardy Fox Subdivision Unit 4. Move to approve.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 30. There's no public comment on this item. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Was that yes, sir? Yes. Thank you. Liz Arraga. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present.
 the next item is number 31 this is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a conservation easement between the city of el paso el paso water utilities and the frontera land alliance to convey a conservation easement over the space property commonly referred to as the lost dog property do we have any public yes sir can we can we take that please yes sir we do have
 three members of the public that signed up to speak on this item. The first person is Miss Sharon Bonner. She will be followed by Miss Marilyn Guida and Mr. Rick Bonner. Good afternoon, Miss Bonner. You have three minutes, ma'am. Good afternoon, Dr. Bonner. There you don't want to do the presentation first. Pardon me? Did you want to do the presentation first? We've already called the call to the public. A lot of them to do that. Then we can do the presentation. We'll do that on the next item. Thank you, Miss Bonner. Good morning. You have three minutes.
 Star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Okay. Good afternoon, ma'am. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I'm Sharon Bonar, one of the participants in the campaign to save lost dogs. The success of that campaign is ultimately why we are here today. I would be remiss in my role if I didn't continue to look out for the interests of the thousands of El Paso voters whose mandate is to save lost dogs in its natural state in perpetuity.
 As written, the CE just needs a fix. It does a very good job of enumerating third-party activities that are prohibited. However, these harmful activities are without remedy. In fact, the conservation easements expressly exempt the city, EP water, or Frontera from service damages created or caused by third parties.
 Simply put, we're describing the acts of vandalism, the deliberate destruction of public or private property. Under the CE, the property still belongs to the city. Ultimately, the onus to care for city property rests with the city. Are there any city properties you know of where vandalism or damage is tolerated and not repaired?
 For the city to exempt itself from caring for the citizens' property is totally irresponsible. How, then, is Lost Dog to be preserved in its natural state for all time? Are the conservation values to be maintained with this hands-off approach? We need to be proactive, not reactive. This is the proper time to fix this. The Lost Dogs...
 Conservation easement needs to be amended to identify who is responsible for protecting the surface estate, even if that damage is created by a third party. No one can deny this is a problem. This request is far from unreasonable. Currently, there are over approximately 200 complaints on Facebook about this very issue at Lost Dogs.
 What is unreasonable is the notion that these concerns will be addressed at a later time. Please fix this now. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Marilyn Guida. Ms. Guida, star 6 please. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, Mayor, council members, and city manager.
 you know after hearing what dr bonar just said i'm confused and it would have really helped to have the staff presentation or if they give an answer to dr bonar's concern because i i i didn't know that that was i thought that problem of the damage was going to be solved by the conservation easement
 So I really would like an answer to that. But what I wanted to say was that there are many people in El Paso who extend their thanks to each of you for supporting this citizen-inspired effort to persuade the city to purchase the Nat property and also to implement the conservation easements for protection of natural open space on the Nat property and the Lost Dog area.
 Upon your approval today, I hope the idea of conservation easements will spread to El Paso County and the other municipalities in the county, as well as to private landowners, such as ranchers and farmers, who want to protect their land as well. My sincere thanks to you, Mayor, to each city council member, to the city manager and your hardworking staff,
 for moving this process forward since the council's june 11 2019 decision to create the conservation easements today's approval of the conservation easements that i hope will occur will be a momentous event in the history of el paso one which i hope will begin a process for protection of more of our natural open space within the boundaries of the city and county of el paso and i'm also signed up for item 32. thank you
 Before we go any further, Representative Schwartzwein had asked, and there was miscommunication here, that he wanted the presentation after a call to the public, but that's not what he said. He's telling me so. If we can do the presentation now before Dr. Bonaut, I would appreciate that, Ms. Klein.
 Because I know that's the next speaker and that might answer some questions that are being asked. So thank you for that. Yes, sir, we'll defer to staff presentation next. Yes, good afternoon, Mayor and Council, Sam Rodriguez, City Engineer.
 Laura, do you mind reading item number 32 into the record as well? Because the presentation will cover both items. Yes. Item number 32 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a conservation easement between the City of El Paso, El Paso Water Utilities, and the Frontera Land Alliance to convey a conservation easement over the open space property commonly referred to as a NAC property. Yes. Thank you.
 The State of San Rodrigo City Engineer. This is a presentation very similar that I gave two weeks ago at the Council work session. And we have made an adjustment based on comments that we received after the initial presentation. The components of the conservation easements, obviously we have the agreement that's being approved via an ordinance on the second hearings that are scheduled for today on items 30 and 31, I mean 32, 31 and 32.
 It also has various exhibits attached to the agreement that include the legal descriptions of both properties, the surveys, the baseline report, which defines what the natural state of these two properties are, the excluded areas, and those are areas that were reserved by El Paso Water for various functions, either for maintenance of existing facilities.
 or the preservation of stormwater capabilities on various locations on these properties. No, I feel like I was with the- The two conservation easements before you, again, it's for the NAP property and the Lost Dog. For the benefits public, for the benefit of the public, a conservation easement is a voluntary legal agreement that permanently limits the use of the land and defines how the property will be managed in order to protect its conservation values in perpetuity.
 The progression and timeline of these two properties on the NAP land, this was acquired as open space with a 2012 quality of life bonds. There was an additional parcel that was acquired with a 10% stormwater open space dual purpose fund, and an additional parcel was donated by the previous landowner. On June 11, 2019, the City Council did direct that the City work with Frontera Land Alliance to establish a conservation easement on the NAP land.
 For the Lost Dog, the May 2019 election, again, preserved the Turst 12, the Lost Dog area, as natural open space in perpetuity. And in February of 2020, the City Council directed that we proceed to do a conservation easement on this property as well. Since then, we've been working with Frontera and El Paso Water.
 as well as the state and Chevron to finalize the agreements, as well as the surface waiver for mineral rights under these two properties in order to be able to present these two items before you today. Under the conservation values, this is really important because it speaks to what it's been talking about and the damage that could occur after that. So under the agreement, the conservation easement will be conserving for the public benefit
 The property which contains open space for recreation, scenic qualities, as well as the variety of wildlife, subsurface water and plant life, all of which are important to the city residents and the region. The baseline report which is attached to the backup includes various photographs and site descriptions of both properties. To include the NAP property, it documents scenic vistas, natural amenities, the wildlife and flora of the area.
 as well as with the the lost stock property the next several slides are going to cover what are the common elements of both agreements the naplan has different clauses in there that are associated with that specific property but again these this next several slides are included in both both both properties under the agreements the grantors which include the grantor is defined by the city of el paso and el paso water as a combined entity the
 Under this agreement, the existing uses by both include stormwater drainage to maintain and continue, obviously right of entry to enter the properties. Recreational uses, this is to include passive recreation such as hiking, biking, photography, and birding. We also have water rights, rights to water, subsurface, and stormwater
 the drainage to install and construct and maintain drainage structures within the excluded areas. These are drainage facilities that would be adjacent to like the maintenance road over on the Lost Dog that leads up to the water tank that's existing. Also maintenance and repairs to existing improvements specifically for stormwater and water facilities.
 fences that can be replaced and repaired. Habitat management. This is to control noxious vegetation and improve the habitat for the environment, as well as utility improvements that are existing that may be repaired or replaced. In addition, continuing with the cranters permitted uses, this is the transfer of cell conveyed the property subject to the easement, if that was to be the case.
 We did make the modification from the last council meeting, the first reading of the ordinance. There was a comment made by Ms. Guida about artifacts. So that language has been updated to reflect historic and cultural resources so that it's in line with the language that's associated with the Texas State Historic Preservation Office. The roads, the existing roads, we're allowed to maintain them.
 Emergency vehicle operations and habitat restoration work is also permitted by the City and El Paso Water, as well as restoration, restored damage caused by natural disasters, as well as trash receptacles.
 The grantees right this is Frontera Land Alliance include the right to protect and the conservation values. So this is where a portion of the enforcement comes in through the easement through the rights that are being provided to Frontera under this easement, the right of entry to inspect.
 The restoration, this is also a frontier under this agreement, can also go in and restore the condition prior to the damage. This can be done through a third party agreement or in conjunction with the grantor to include El Paso Water and the City of El Paso. Monitoring of the properties is also one of the primary purposes and they will be issuing out a monitoring report on a yearly basis to both entities.
 And then the service fee. This is the fee that will be paid over five years under a separate agreement for the various amounts listed on your slide today. These are the prohibited uses on the property. And one of the requests that has come in as a result of our dialogue and the public input, we are working in conjunction with the
 the parks department to develop signage that outlines what are the prohibited uses out there at some of the main entrances of both properties to include Lostog and Napa Land. And of course, under the agreement, the signage that's going to be proposed will be coordinated with El Paso Water and the Fronterra Land Alliance to make sure that they're in approval of it as well.
 These prohibited uses include structures and improvements. Any unimproved road can be maintained, but no replacement of structures. Vehicles, no motorized vehicles. Paving or road construction is not allowed. Subdivision of the properties is also not allowed. Agricultural activities, to include farming, is not allowed. Trash, no dumping of accumulation of trash. Commercial and industrial activity is not allowed. Hunting or trapping.
 recreational construction and usage such as barbecues picnic tables receptacles are not allowed on both of these properties pest and weed control is also not allowed signage again no billboard signs where existing signs may be maintained and replaced so the only thing that would be allowed under this agreement will be signs that are related to the conservation easement for information with signing wayfinding and as i stated earlier information about the prohibited uses um
 will also be included in there and will be processed and installed with the proper authorizations and then future uses again would be evaluated to ensure that they're consistent with the conservation values continuing on with the common elements there is the grantees discretionary consent so frontera will be allowed to consent for prohibited uses under certain circumstances as discussed and approved by the city in el paso water
 The land management plan is critical. This is a companion exhibit to this agreement, and it basically mirrors the conservation easement as to the rights and responsibilities, but it gets into a little bit more detail related to the restoration and the maintenance responsibilities of entities within this agreement.
 And I'll be going over that here in a minute. The enforcement, the grantee has the right to prevent and correct or require the correction of violations. So Frontera under the easement has the right to enforce violations.
 the restrictions if there's prohibited uses, whether it's by the City, El Paso Water, or a third party, that they have the right under the agreement again to enforce and to prevent and correct the required violations through the proper notification process outlining the agreement. The acts beyond the grantors control,
 is also language that was included in there. Again, under the agreements, the City of El Paso or El Paso Water cannot be held legally responsible for anybody doing any of the prohibited items or activities listed on the agreements. However, under the maintenance clauses of the agreements, the City and El Paso Water are responsible for the maintenance and restoration in conjunction with Frontera, subject to budget appropriations by both entities.
 and we'll cover that a little bit more in the land maintenance management plan. Public access will also be maintained on both properties. Cost and upkeep of maintenance, again under the agreement, Fratera will not be responsible for the cost related to the operation of or maintenance of the facility. Hazardous material, insurance and liability are all included as part of the general language of the agreements.
 the state or federal government came in with eminent domain actions, we would work with both Fronterra and El Paso Water to address the situation if it ever comes up. And that language is included in there. The mining Chevron waiver, they have provided a surface waiver for mineral rights for both properties. That is a 30 year waiver. And then the mining
 and that will be executed after the approvals are considered today. The easement can be assigned by Frontera to another entity with the approval of both El Paso Water and the City. And of course, it's got general provisions in the various exhibits associated with it. The Chevron waiver, as I stated, covers both properties, the Lost Dog and the NAPLAND, and it is a 30-year mineral rights surface waiver that has been proposed and will be executed after the approval and execution of these easements.
 Some of the unique elements under the NAP plan, which is item 32, include
 that the water the city of El Paso owns a portion of it so under the maintenance clause in the land management plan the city owns the property that was bought with 2012 quality of life bonds and so the city itself will be responsible for some of the maintenance or any of the restoration that that that would be associated with this portion of the property and El Paso water will be associated with their portion with that was bought with the 10 stormwater fee
 Under the NAP, what was envisioned and what we discussed the last council meeting was that it includes a building envelope clause that would allow the city of Frontera and El Paso Water to develop an educational structure or an educational area that could include and highlight information about the conservation efforts as well as information about the properties. Trash cans are also allowed into this area so long as it's approved by the locations approved by El Paso Water and the city.
 Under this agreement, as I stated, the city will bear cost and responsibilities for the city property, and then the El Paso water will bear the cost and responsibilities to update, upkeep, and maintain and restore the El Paso water parcel.
 The Meats and Bounds for the NAPLAN include a total of over 360 acres, 350 acres, again two parcels. The 280 acres that was bought with quality of life bond, 72 acres that was donated, and the 158 acres that is the El Paso water parcel that was bought with 10% stone water fee.
 The baseline report is what documents on both properties the natural state of each of these two properties. It documents information of the site itself. It includes easement provisions. It includes the phase one environmental assessment,
 the historic and current state of the land, ecological features, the water source, water demands, soils, as well as photo documentation that's really important to me to ensure that we have a good baseline for the properties as to how they exist today.
 The areas excluded from the conservation easement, again, these are facilities or areas that El Paso Water currently has facilities. In this case, there's two dams that are associated with these areas that are excluded from the conservation easement. Of course, both properties are subject to the exceptions under the title, so if there's existing easements or no.
 Title information, those are obviously the conservation easements are their exceptions to the conservation easement. Under the management plan,
 So again, it serves as a reference and to help and guide each party, each party to ensure that they're following up with with the proper responsibilities. It is a supplemental document to the easement. It is intended to be updated at least once every 10 years to ensure that we capture any additional, any additional techniques or any additional opportunities to preserve the conservation values of the properties.
 And also assist in the protection of the native lands geological formations, as well as ensure that we're providing a unique outdoor experience for the future. Under the Land Management Plan, the grantor, which again, it's El Paso Water and the City, the City is required, El Paso Water is required to maintain the uses, the ingress and egress, restore any damage,
 Again, Dr. Bonert talked about who's responsible. There's a responsibility to restore damage under the land management plan. Also under this, we allow the public to engage in passive recreational uses, the water rights that were discussed, install and construct drainage structures within the exempted areas of the conservation easement area.
 maintain and remodel existing improvements. We're allowed to remove any structures that may be out there, repair or replace fences, specifically within the NAP land area, control noxious weeds, as we discussed, restore disturbed areas. It's also the responsibility under the land management plan. The lease to lease land within the building envelope is an opportunity. This is the educational area within the NAP land area.
 We can operate motorized vehicles for emergency, secure funding to restore damage caused by disasters, secure funding to restore damage by any third party.
 and construct and maintain a parking lot, provide maintained trash receptacles, bear responsibility for maintenance, enforce rules and ordinance of the City. So even though there may not be specific to any punishment or enforcement on third-party damages, under the City Code 13.24, the City does have the means, or the Apostle Water has the means also to recover any damages from third-party
 third party entities that may have damaged the property of the city or or pass water, go out there and restore or repair any damages under 13.24. We're allowed to recover those damages as well.
 Under the grantee, the land management plan, Frontera is allowed to preserve and protect the conservation values, enter the property at any time, inspect for compliance, secure funding to restore any harmed area by violation. A violation would be an activity that is prohibited under the easement.
 prevent and correct or require corrections of violations. So under the agreement, there's a process by which Frontera Line Alliance can send a notice to the city in El Paso Water that there's been a violation of the easement and under those we're required, the city of El Paso Water is required to respond with a corrective plan under those violations.
 The frontiers also allowed to monitor conditions of populations, resources and the populations would be the animal populations as well. Funding to restore disturbed area following utility improvements, place signs on property, monitor trail conditions, as well as enter into agreements for maintenance and repair with third parties.
 Under the agreement, there's flexibility for everybody to contribute and collaborate to restore any damage that is caused within these properties. The city and El Paso Water officially have the maintenance and the cost responsibilities, but Frontera also has the ability to enter into third party, whether it be volunteers or any nonprofit agencies out there that may want to do cleanups or restorations. They're allowed to do that as well under the current agreement that's before you today.
 For the lost dog unique elements again, it's got very similar exhibits behind it. The upkeep and maintenance in this case, all of the parcels over a thousand acres will remain in El Paso waters inventory. And as such, they will bear the cost and responsibilities for the maintenance on the lost dog.
 Hazardous material was also established, well there was a phase one study completed, so that's unique to this property. And then of course the mining, the state of Texas did not waive the mineral rights on the 1,000 acres for lost dog. These are the two main parcels associated with this property, and it's got its own baseline report. Again, the documents and the various characteristics of the property to include VISTAs,
 soil scenic features as well as ample photo documentation to include flora and fauna of the area. The areas included in the conservation easement that will be excluded from the agreement include the access to the existing facilities for a pass of water to include a water tank and the roads. And this is the last exhibit for that.
 And this property is also subject to the exceptions under the title that include utility easements, mineral interest, and other reservations under the title work.
 The land management plan, again, very similar to the NAP plan, so I won't go into detail as well. But this really outlines the responsibilities and the capabilities of both entities as to the restoration specific to any damage that is caused by third party entities that may be out there. So today before you is the second reading of the ordinances. It's again, it's item 31 and 32. And as I stated at the last go around, part of our strategy with this new assets that we've
 included in our inventory ben fife with parks and rec and brian crow with destination el paso are working on the ecotourism information that's outlining the strategic plan so they'll be looking to highlight and definitely take advantage of these two properties and the conservation easement that we have to ensure that we're taking full advantage from an ecotourism strategy for the city and these are the two items that are before you today
 So with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. Again, I want to go back, if I may, just on the land management plan. I think it's very clear the legal responsibility is different than the maintenance responsibility under these agreements. So the city cannot indemnify a third party
 that goes out there and builds a new trail that dumps trash or or tires if you will and so we can't be legally responsible for that as a grantor however we are responsible to go out there and restore and maintain and upkeep the property in coordination with frontera land alliance and that gives us the right to go after those third party if we if we're able to identify those so that we're able to recover the costs associated with any restoration of such actions i'll be happy to answer any questions
 Also, before I turn that over, I did want to turn, if I can, I don't know, I'm not sure if Scott Cutler is on the line. I do want to thank him and Janae from Terra Landa Lions and obviously El Paso Water and Eddie Moreno with Machinic Alignment that worked really good, really hard on this agreement. And then, of course, City Attorney Roberto Berto also was a big part of this. Scott, are you on the line by chance? I am. Can you hear me? Yes. Go ahead.
 Well, great. Thank you very much, Sam, for the review of the easements. And on behalf of the Frontier Land Alliance, I do want to say how pleased we are to be part of these historic conservation easements for the city of El Paso and for our community. We look forward to working with the city and El Paso Water to ensure that these conservation values for which these lands are being protected in perpetuity are maintained. And all of us, as community members...
 have a stake in helping to make sure that these lands remain forever places that we and future generations will be able to enjoy. So thank you all for the work that you've put into doing this and we look forward to being able to enjoy these properties for a long long time. Thank you sir. And with that Ms. Prine I want to go back to Dr. Bonhart. Yes Mayor we do have Mr. Rick Bonhart.
 Star 6, please. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I hope you can hear me. Hello, Dr. Bonhart. So, you know, this is 99.9% great, but we still have some work to do, I think, a couple of issues. And if you could, you know, in a backup, if they could bring up page 116, I think that would be most helpful for everybody to look at. I don't know.
 Page 116 of the PDF, Dr. Bonhart, is on the screen.
 Is it? Okay, we're not seeing it here, but hopefully what you're looking at there is Exhibit E, the land management plan for the Lost Dog property, the conservation easement, page 2, bullet point 6. It says may install or construct drainage structures within the areas identified on the El Paso Water Reservations map.
 Is there a water reservations map that we could see? I don't know where that is. You need to scroll down to bullet six. Yeah, it's right here, Dr. Bonhart. I'm highlighting it with my cursor. Sam, where is that map? Will you read that to him, Mr. Rodriguez, since he can't see it?
 Yes, absolutely. So it's bullet point number six says under the grantor, this is outlines the grantor again, city of El Paso and El Paso water are our responsibilities and permissions. So we may install or construct drainage structures within the areas identified on El Paso water reservation maps.
 if required by the city or utility district, provided prior notice is given to the grantee, Frontera, and grantee retains the right to ingress and egress on the property. So these are the maps that I went over in the presentation, and they are included in the agreement. And I'm going to...
 go up here and show them to you so it would go a long way if that was an exhibit but i'd like to see what that map looks like so this yeah so the exhibits um in the meet and bounce for these reservation areas start on the pdf um on would be page give me one second here
 I think you're talking about Exhibit D. That is correct, Dr. Bonar. Exhibit D provides you the location of these facilities and the meets and bounds that will be recorded that will be exempted from the easement. On the NAP property, there's actually an exhibit that references the...
 Water reservations, reservations, reservations map. But that's not part of the lost dog agreement. And in fact, if you go back to that page 116, it's actually footnoted as being part of the NAP agreement. I think you just need to change that bullet point. See, I'm trying to make a very.
 Easy correction here. All you have to do is change the language, take out reservations map, and insert the words Exhibit D, and then you've fixed it. Does that make sense? Makes sense. Okay. Then as to the second thing, which is a little bit bigger issue, but really not. And I listened to you guys earlier today, and I appreciate you giving me time here, talking about the golf course and what a great job has happened since you hired a manager out there.
 this is the same issue that you have here if you go into your page 27 of your pdf you'll see what i'm talking about and it's referenced as item 15 cost upkeep and maintenance under both the grantor and the grantee it says they shall not be responsible for
 New trails or damage to the surface of the property created or caused by third parties or the activities of third parties. You know, what you're talking about here is vandalism. And when I had my own property, if vandalism occurred on my property, even if it wasn't my fault...
 I need to fix it. And, you know, the city has a responsibility. If there's a parks department, you know, and damage at a city park, even if you can't find the person that did it, you're going to correct that. We're not asking for the sky here, and we're certainly not asking for you to deal with problems that other communities haven't dealt with. And I forwarded to some of you a job description and,
 what it would take to be a manager of natural surface trails. There are industry standards. There are books from the U.S. Forest Department and the Mountain Biking Association and even a study by the colleges that I referenced. All you're trying to get us to do is what's known as the best efforts, best practices, and all you need is one person,
 i think you guys were interested in a trail coordinator red job should really encompass management of this this is something new to our city i understand it may seem foreign and you don't really know what to do but i will assure you there are many job advertisements out there from colorado nevada utah
 They're looking and advertising for trail maintenance personnel. It's not a weird job. It's something that you need. And so if you would go into this cost upkeep and maintenance and under grantor shall bear all costs and responsibilities to the extent allowed or required by law related to the operation, upkeep, and maintenance of the property in its present state as documented in the baseline report,
 However, grantor shall not be responsible for new trails, et cetera, et cetera. Just strike that last sentence. At the end of the day, the city is responsible for that, you know, and should welcome it as leaders and not duck it as something that you would not want to take care of. You don't need to try to exonerate yourself from a responsibility. Dr. Bonert, will you allow Mr. Rodriguez to answer, please?
 Yes, and I'm going to see if Roberta Brito is on the line as well. I want to make sure that we understand the two differences between what we're talking about. There's the legal responsibility and then there's a maintenance responsibility. So the agreement is very clear that the city and or El Paso Water, depending on who owns the property, is responsible for the repair to damage property.
 to maintain, to upkeep both properties. This particular language was included in here to allow the city to pursue and not indemnify anybody that would damage the property out there. And so I'm not sure, Roberta, are you on the line that you can help clarify from a legal standpoint? I am. I think Sam did a great job of explaining it on the PowerPoint pages 13 and 24 when he talked about this.
 We would not want to take that sentence off because that would make the city responsible legally and financially for any misdeed of a third party out there. Under no circumstances would the city want to do that. This is a conservation easement that is held by Frontera. We are one of the entities that are subject to this conservation easement.
 Third party actors are also subject to this conservation easement. We want to include, we want to make sure that not just the city, but third parties are also held accountable for any violations of the conservation easement. But like Sam said, the city is also required to maintain the property, the city or El Paso water, because we own it.
 That's just what it is, and we've said in this agreement that we'll maintain it. But to be legally and financially responsible for the acts of a third party, that's just not something the city would want to do under any circumstances. So I guess what I'm getting at is my example. So if someone goes into a city park and damages that park,
 then isn't the city going to step up and repair that damage? Because what you're doing right now is creating a very large part. Well, what we would do in that circumstance is we would want to repair the property, but we would also want to go after the offender.
 And we have the right to do that. That's a misdemeanor. And also just under regular, you know, property rights law, the city can go after someone who harms city property. So that's what this is about. It's about Fonterra's right to pursue violators, the correct violators of their conservation easement. And, you know, and as you stated, Ms. Brito, that's,
 There are numerous laws, state, federal, and city laws that address different harms to your property. It's obviously illegal to destroy public property or even private property. No one's questioning that, and I don't think that this statement—
 Dr. Bonnard, would you like for us to pull the item off the agenda so you can negotiate and talk to City Attorney and Mr. Rodriguez in a different form? No, I really don't, Mayor, and I appreciate you asking. I just think it's common sense that you need to think about this. I don't think, you know—
 i don't think you need to delay this but i think that it needs to be corrected so that it's very clear that the pose this to mr ballou earlier and suggested that what they should do is add a position to take care of these properties and as you acquire more properties we have them this needs to happen mr can we make these uh can we make these changes or do we need the the table the item because of the impasse
 Mayor, our recommendation from operations and from the legal team would be not to change this statement. I think the documents are very clear. We need to define what the legal responsibilities are and what the maintenance and upkeep and restoration responsibilities are.
 I think as Roberta stated, Ms. Brito, that taking away this language, in essence, what we would end up doing would be indemnifying any third party that goes out there that does damage and could jeopardize our ability to recover any damages or costs associated with the repair or maintenance of those deeds. Mayor, I concur with Sam's comments.
 And I don't believe we're at an impasse. I believe that council is prepared to vote on this item and I would recommend that it move forward. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. I'll make sure I didn't want to continue the conversation that was totally.
 there was no agreement on it so i just wanted to make sure that we're okay with it moving forward so um dr bonart i i do thank you for your time and i gave you a little extra time to make sure that you did have the opportunity to explain and move forward so with that i thank you very much dr bonart for your time and we'll move forward thank you very much sir again for your time and i know we met
 in my office and came to what seems to be an agreement that the voters voted on that we needed to represent so i thank you for that sir thank you bye-bye and with that we um we'll move forward i know that um we um we have representative vanilla would like to speak and followed by representative schwartzwein and followed by representative molinar represent anello
 Yeah, Mayor, thank you. I did want to just, you know, I agree with Sam. I think there's been a lot of work done on both of these agreements, and I think there is a sense of urgency on behalf of Frontier in getting these agreements passed. And I actually would, I don't know if Janae is on the line, if she would like to kind of give her opinion on the conversation that was just had.
 I don't know, Sam, do you know if Jenea is on the line? I know Scott Culler was on the line. He's the gentleman that just spoke. I think Jenea was going to be on the line as well. Or if Scott, you know, wants to chime in. Sorry, Scott. I'm here. We also have Eddie Moreno here from Kemp Smith who represented Frontera with the negotiation of these documents. I think Eddie Moreno would probably be a good one to answer your questions related to the...
 Okay thank you. Frontenna's view of the issues discussed today are in line with the City's recommendations. I think there's just a misunderstanding about
 the ability to maintain and repair any damage to the property versus being legally liable for third party actors. So that's the distinction there. Both the City, El Paso Water and Frontenna all have the ability to restore any damage
 and the agreement states that we would work together to come up with funding and plans for taking action on those issues. Again, it's just the distinction of not being legally liable for third parties, which I think would be unreasonable and uncustomary to make either party responsible for those actions. Mr. Murrino, thank you so much for that quick and quick answer. Can you introduce yourself for the record, though, please?
 Yes, my name is Eddie Moreno. I'm an attorney with Kemp Smith and our firm assisted front end with the review and negotiation of these documents. Thank you for that. Thank you for your comment also. Thank you. So yeah, I just I want to thank everybody that's been involved in both of these. It's been a long time coming. It means a lot to many of the council members. And you know, as we saw the referendum, members of the public and so really happy to support this today.
 very excited that you know this day has come and I know that there are still questions and I think that we can work in the future to clarify kind of some of the misconceptions and what we can do and what the plan is but but I do think it is important that we do support these today so thank you so much. Thank you Representative Ranallo and with that we have Representative Schwartzwein followed by Representative Molinar. Thank you again Mayor and very excited about about this process and
 being there and us getting this much closer. And I want to thank, again, everybody for getting us to this point. First and foremost, the supporters who voted for Proposition A, for the Bonarts, and other members of the hiking and biking community who have been advocating to preserve this land for a very long time, as well as members of city staff, PSB, and the Fronterra Land Alliance. I think it's important, you know, to not...
 Um, to sort of work through some of these questions that are still there and that we're working through to make sure that we look at the maintenance of our open spaces as a whole in our community. Um, and so I know that at the, you know, in the beginning of this conservation easement, um, it talks specifically, um,
 I don't know if we want to go to, I think, page 17 on this, whereas on July 23rd, the El Paso City Council approved municipal J-Utility Systems 10% fund to compensate the system for the fair market value. Again, these are...
 These are funds specifically dedicated to for dual purpose stormwater and open space funds, right? For stormwater management as well as the preservation, and I would argue the maintenance of open space. And so since the PSB receives these stormwater fee funds and had received many, many millions of dollars for these funds,
 for the express purpose of preservation and maintenance of our open space. And these funds are received directly from the public, from you, the taxpayer, for the express purpose of preserving and maintaining open space and stormwater.
 I would like to make a motion today that I think will help to address some of these concerns. And my motion would be to ask the PSB to return within 60 days to the City Council for their maintenance plan for the Lost Dog Trail area and property.
 And I hope that I could at least entertain a second from one of my colleagues. I'll second that Representative Schwartzbein, but Ms. Prime, am I wrong that we still need a second on the main motion? I did make a motion to approve, but I did not hear a second on that. That's correct. I surrendered. On the main motion, I heard Representative Anello make a motion, but I never heard a second. Oh, second.
 Do you want to remake your motion, Representative Schwartzbein? So yeah, I would like to make a motion to ask the PSP to return within 60 days to the City Council for their maintenance plan for the Lost Dog Trail area and property. So second.
 And again, I, my, my intention and hope is that with those stormwater fee funds, um, that were used for this, the dual, dual purpose and others, um, and with some of the conversations that have been having by the public, like Dr. Bonad and others about looking forward because NAP land lost dog. These are not the last open space parcels that we are going to be discussing as a community and how to preserve and celebrate them. You look at areas like the palisades, the Northeast Franklin Hills area.
 Lazy Cow, Chuck Heinrich. There are many, many other areas that the city's looking at leaning in towards towards embracing an open space future, towards embracing ecotourism. And it makes sense to be strategic and smart about when we talk about maintaining open space with those with those dual use funds that maintaining and preserving is included in that. So those those are some of the ideas and I look forward to
 to the support of my colleagues for this and coming back with PSP, coming back with this maintenance plan as well. And so, again, I would like to that that's kind of this great opportunity that we have. I mean, this has been a tremendous opportunity for residents and institutions to collaborate to better our city through bold, progressive action. And this is something that is me.
 I'm really, um, me truly happy to see this project come to fruition. Uh, possibly one of the most important projects that I've had an opportunity to work on as a representative. Um, and it's been an honor to be able to work on this. Again, I hope that we can counter support. I also understand too that there's many other people that would like to speak, but this day has been long
 We are so close towards the finish lines. And I also think too, by again, this motion to ask the PSB to return back with the maintenance plan, I think will help to clarify some of those questions that are still there and again, provide a further path towards maintenance preservation of our open space areas in El Paso into the future. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. And this is the item I knew that you were very excited about, I was a couple items too early.
 You were so excited about my excitement that you got excited. I got the wrong one and then the wrong order. So thank you again. So with that I have Representative Molinar. Thank you very much Mayor Leeser. This is a historic day for the city of El Paso. I take pride that I was there at the first meeting reverence lost dog.
 They're at the podium finish with Dr. Rick Bonnard, his wife, Dr. Sharon Bonnard, and a bunch of others, 30, probably like 30, 35 people there in attendance. And we had a vision to save Lost Dog. We were able to get voters to register, and they were great.
 branding and marketing to get the voters to approve this back in May of 2019. So I'll thank heartfelt thank you to the Bonnards for that as well. They never wavered. They continued fighting that. The Frontetta Land Alliance I'd like to thank them as well. El Paso Water and everyone working for the City of El Paso. It'll be my honor to vote yes for this but penny what's exactly going to happen. That's all. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you Representative Mullinaar. And with that we have a motion and a second.
 Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to ask the Public Service Board to return within 60 days to City Council with a maintenance plan for the Lost Dog Trail property. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzman. Aye. Hold on one second. I just got a request from Representative Hernandez. If we could just wait on the vote one second, please. Representative Hernandez. Were there more members signed up to speak? No, there was three of them. Oh, I thought I heard 30 for a second.
 No, sir. Representative Nunes. Oh, I was confused, but I understand now that the city owns the land, but PSB is required to maintain it. So your plan is to ask them to come back with a maintenance plan, but essentially there's going to have to be a budgetary discussion. And so that's where my concern is because that
 I mean, the only funding available is stormwater funds or, you know, you charge it back to rate payers at the end of the day, water rate payers will have to pay for that. And so I'm happy to support that. But I want to bring up the looming question that we're ignoring here is how is that going to be paid for? And are rate payers going to have to pay for that? And so I'll support the plan, but I'm concerned about the budget, whose responsibility it should be.
 whether that be PSB or the for VEDA or the City. I think everybody needs to come to the table to come up with the plan because again, that cost is going to be shifted to the repairs or you're going to re-divert stormwater funds. And we already know that the funds are very limited. So I think respectfully, Mayor, if I can just sort of address Representative Hernandez's question. Absolutely. Go ahead. So I think that when we're
 I think that when we're talking about an overall maintenance plan, we're talking about the kind of commitment that would needed to be there. I think that Dr. Bonar brought it up and I think having, you know, a position of sort of open space coordinator within the PSB would seem to make a lot of sense. I don't think it's something that needs to be an entirely new department or group of people could be a person, but somebody
 and can help coordinate different projects or efforts relating towards maintenance of open space. At the end of the day, you know, the document seems to be sort of clear about who would maintain these areas. You know, even before there was possibly an easement placed on it, you know,
 the area still is being maintained by the Public Service Board. So not sure how that necessarily would change. You know, that seems to be something that's there and it's something that's also, you know, again, written into the document. Again, those stormwater funds are there. The dual-purpose funds are there for preservation of open space as well as stormwater. And it seems well within the understanding of
 preservation of open space that part of that is also maintenance and so again I think this is a conversation that will continue to go but it's important to sort of again have this item where we can continue this conversation as well yes this motion was to ask the public service board to return with 60 within 60 days to City Council with a maintenance plan for the lost dog trail property
 And Mayor Pro Tem voted aye. Representative Anello? Aye. Molinar? Nay. Hernandez? Yes. Salcido? Nay. Rodriguez? Rivera? Yes. Lizara? We're voting on the amendment, that's correct? Yes, ma'am, this is for two, yes. What's that? I too have concerns about the cost and so my vote is nay, no.
 Thank you. The motion passes with five affirmative votes. Representatives Molinar, Salcido, Lizardo, Orine, the remainder of council voting aye. The motion passes. Also, the second motion was to approve, and this was made by Representative Anello, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein, to approve the ordinance on item number 31.
 On that motion. Are we taking 32 also since it's related or separate? No, sir. This is only for 31. Okay. And this motion is to approve item number 31, the ordinance on item number 31. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbeink. Very, very proud to be voting in support of this today. I vote yes. Thank you. Representative Anelo. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Honored to vote yes. Thank you. Thank you. Salcido.
 I'm excited to vote aye. Rodriguez? Rodriguez? Yes. Thank you. Rivera? Yes. Pizarro? And the motion to approve passes unanimously. The next item is 32, which was also written to the record. This is an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a conservation easement between the City of El Paso, El Paso Water Utilities, and the Frontera Land Alliance to convey a conservation easement over the open space property commonly referred to as a NAP property.
 Motion to approve. Second. And we do have public comment on this item. Go ahead, Ms. . The first person is Ms. Sylvia Richards. Sylvia Richards, Ms. Richards, if you're in the queue, star six. Ms. Sylvia Richards will be followed by Ms. Lois Baylen, followed by Ms. Sharon Bonnard, and Ms. Marilyn Guida. Ms. Sylvia Richards, Ms. Lois Baylen, Ms. Sharon Bonnard. I see Ms. Bonnard in the queue.
 Star six, ma'am. Mrs. Bonhart. Star six. Good afternoon, Mrs. Bonhart. Good afternoon. I'm really pleased that you all have done such a wonderful job on this. I know it's been a hard...
 hard thing to do. And I'm really sorry that more of the community wasn't involved in this so that there could be a greater understanding of what some of the terms were. But with Representative Schwartzbein's recommendation and the council passing that, I think that remediates the big concern that a number of us have as to
 who's going to do what and how things are going to be remediated. Again, I want to tell everyone thank you very much, and I think we've got something that El Paso can really be proud of. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Bonhart. Thank you. Is Ms. Marilyn Guida in the queue? Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Yes, thank you, and good afternoon again, mayor, council members, and city manager and staff.
 I think there are many people in El Paso who have been following this. They've been kind of quiet. You know, we've had a pandemic, and it's really sort of awkward to try to figure out how to use the technology in order to make a public comment, although I like the opportunity to have this virtual conversation.
 input. I certainly am completely in favor of going ahead with item 32 on the NAP property. I see the conservation easement as a beginning, not the end. And there's a lot more that we need to do to safeguard these properties because as we saw on Lost Dog when Dr. Rick Bonart did his presentation on April 27th,
 You know, people are loving the open space to death. They're creating more trails. And so we really do need staff at the city and El Paso Water to be watching out and overlooking this and working with Frontier Land Alliance. And I totally appreciate the points that Scott Cutler made from Frontier Land Alliance.
 There is one important person missing from the public comment list on this item. That is Bob Geyer. Bob's impressive work history included Sun Metro for 19 years, including 15 months as acting director of Sun Metro. Also he worked for the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. He worked for a disability policy consortium and the Houston Metropolitan Ministries.
 He was a professor in the University of Houston Graduate School of Social Work, from which he graduated, and an instructor at EPCC. His community service included 13 organizations in El Paso, Houston, and Austin. Mayor Leaser had recently appointed Bob to his second term on the El Paso Open Space Advisory Board. Bob accomplished all this after being significantly paralyzed at the age of 22 from a car accident.
 Recently, Bob told me that the most important thing to him at this point in his life was to see a conservation easement on the Knapp property. Bob passed away on April 30th. I don't know for sure, but I hope he was viewing the April 27th council meeting when you all unanimously voted to move the conservation easement ordinance forward to today for a final vote.
 So I thank you all for your efforts to continually work with the citizens of El Paso, and I appreciate all of what the staff has done to make this happen. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Weta. Thank you. Ms. Sylvia Richards or Ms. Lois Balin, star six? Mayor, I don't see either of their phone numbers in the queue at this time. Thank you. So we'll go with the motion. Yes, sir. Thank you.
 There is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 32. Public comment has been taken on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shorts. Mayor, I wanted to speak. What was that, Representative Malamor? Mayor Leach, or this representative will be not attest you to speak, please. Oh, there you are. You did text me. Go ahead, sir. All right. Thank you very much. Yes, once again, thank you.
 Back on the 20th, April the 27th, I mentioned a litany of people who are the core group of SOS or Save Our Sierras. That list included Mr. Robert Bob Geyer. I echo the same sentiments as Ms. Cuida that she mentioned, this gentleman, Mr. Geyer.
 uh was a profound citizen always wanting to do what's right always wanting to do what's well for the community i know he worked tirelessly i had a friendship with the gentleman and i learned a lot from him and he was always a strong advocate to do things well and to do things right so my heart goes out to his family that we lost the great citizens for the city of el paso
 But also at the same time, once again, I won't say the names again, but those people that I've met every Monday at the IHOP on Hondo Pass, thank you very much. The Knapp family for donating the parcel of the land to the Knapp property as well. The Frontier Land Alliance, El Paso Water, and everyone involved in the city of El Paso. I thank you. A heartfelt thank you. Thank you. Mr. Grier did call and was very thankful. As a matter of fact, he called.
 a couple times to thank us for reappointing him to the board. He was very proud to serve on that board, so thank you. And with that, now we'll take motion. Yes, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Mullen. There is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 32. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein.
 Once a day, great vote and a great day for our citizens and our beautiful community. I vote yes. Thank you for everybody who has supported this, both from the public side, the city side, Frontera, PSB, and everybody in between. What a great and beautiful day for our community. Representative Anello? Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Yes. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Yes.
 And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 33. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12, Section 12.88.180, no stopping or standing tow away zone to add portions of Rio del Norte Drive. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 33. There is no public comment on this ordinance. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthand. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez.
 Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 34, this is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12, section 12.88.150, speed limits to establish a maximum speed limit on Stan Roberts Sr. Drive Avenue. Move to approve. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 34. There's no public comment on this item. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arana?
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 35. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12, Section 12.88.150, speed limits to reduce the speed limit on portions of Zaragoza Road. Motion to approve. Second. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance on item number 35. There's no public comment on this item. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthine. Representative Anello.
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizardo? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 36. This is discussion in action on the approval of the Department of Aviation's El Paso International Airport Five Year Capital Improvement Plan. Move to approve. Second.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Terry Sharp, Department of Aviation. I presented in detail this morning during our quarterly presentation the projects that we'd be taking on with the CIP. I do have a presentation if you'd like to see it. It's pretty much a repeat of what we looked at this morning, so I appreciate your consideration on this matter. I think we saw the presentation and did a great job. Unless you want to start all the way from the beginning all over again, Mr. Sharp.
 So I think I'd pass on the dispute. Allow me. Thank you. You did a great job today, though. Thank you. And you do a great job out there. So with that, we have a motion in a second. There is a motion in a second to approve item number 36. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Yes. Representative Anelo Hernandez. Yes. Molina Molina. Hi. Thank you. Salcido. Hi. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Liz Arraga. Rivera.
 I believe Representative Rivera is having technical difficulties. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Rivera not present. The next item is number 37. This is presentation and discussion by Project Arriba on their mid-year report on status of activities during the fiscal year, use of grant funds, and progress in the performance measures required under the agreement with the City of El Paso.
 Good afternoon, Monica Fuentes with Economic Development. Item 37 is Project Arriba delivering their media report to Council as required in their Chapter 380 agreement. This was executed on October 2, 2018. I'm here today to present the report, Mr. Roman Ortiz, CEO of Project Arriba. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm sharing my screen. Please let me know if you see the PowerPoint. We see your screen. Good afternoon, Mr. Ortiz.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. It's an honor again to speak to you all. This is just our, like Monica said, this is a quick update on the mid-year, how well we're doing in our third year in partnership with the City of El Paso. We've had many, many years in partnership with the City, but this is in regards to the impact fund contract that we have.
 As you know, Project Arriba is vital in creating essential workers. That's one of the biggest jobs that are in demand for this region, and it will continue to be something that will continue to grow in our community as well.
 As mentioned before, the City of El Paso Impact Fund of $300,000 for year three was leveraged with other federal, state, and local dollars to promote needed job training for this region. And Project Arriba is on track to meet and or exceed all of our performance measures.
 Our graduates are equipped with the knowledge and the skills and the abilities needed to attain meaningful employment that moves their families out of poverty and into great living wage jobs.
 We have four main goals for our organization, and that's to provide access to an at-risk population to college, to keep those at-risk populations in persisting through post-secondary success.
 And then obviously having those folks graduate and complete their post-secondary success. And the main goal is to get them into great jobs here in this region. Ms. Dorothy, allow me to interrupt you, sir. We've lost quorum. Okay, thank you. We regained the quorum. Thank you.
 Our main tagline is investing in human capital, and that's what the partnership with the City of El Paso is doing, is that we're investing in the human capital of this local region in El Paso. So our first goal of access, we proposed that we would case manage a total of 465 participants at the completion of year three, which would be by August of this year.
 And of the city participants sponsored at Project Ariba, 60% would be at or below 100% of the Health and Human Services Poverty Guidelines. And our actual activity is that we have case managed now 459 participants midway through this year. And over 88% of the people that we serve are at or below poverty. And continuing our access goal of the 459 case managed under the City of El Paso Impact Fund,
 The following demographics are true. 83% of them are female. 51% have dependent children. The average age is 30. 93% Hispanic and 31% of those received food stamps.
 Of the city's participants sponsored through Project Arriba, our goal was to have five ESL to living wage participants per year. Our actual activity right now is we have 15 participants were enrolled in the Bridges to Success ESL to Living Wage program. Our next goal of persistence was to maintain at least an 80% academic retention rate year to year.
 And the actual activity through Project Ariba's innovative case management approach and wraparound supportive services, we have a 91% academic retention rate that was achieved. And this is mainly due because of the great case management that Project Ariba has, it being as comprehensive as it is and being able to serve this at-risk population, helping them navigate getting through college at Community College, UTEP, and at Texas Tech.
 Our next goal was to graduate at least 60 per year by the end of year three, August 31st of 2021. As of right now, mid-year, we have 43 participants that have graduated in a high demand occupation. And cumulatively, Project Riva has graduated 183 participants over these last two and a half years.
 Of the 183 graduates, you can see here that all of these graduates are essential workers. So over the last 31 months, you can see that we've graduated 83 BSNs, 50 ADNs, 33 licensed vocational nurses, and other ancillary healthcare degrees, as you see there.
 Our last goal is to job place at least 50 individuals at or above $14 an hour and to maintain relationships with employer partners. Our actual activity as of mid-year, we have 37 participants that have entered living wage employment as of April 30th. They are earning on average $24 per hour, so way above our proposed $14 an hour wage average.
 And cumulatively, Project REBA has job-placed 152 participants in year one and year two with average hourly earnings of almost $24 an hour. We'll quickly review the financial statements. In 2019, $1.6 million in revenues were recognized, including $1.2 in grant revenue and $400,000 in unrestricted contributions. Our expenses in 2019 were about $1.5 million.
 For every dollar spent, 84 cents went to program services, 12 cents went to admin, and 4 cents went to fundraise. We spent directly $728,000 for tuition, books, materials, and supplies.
 With regard to the City of El Paso, for year three, we have spent $79,000 in tuition, $33,000 in books, $20,000 in school material, $11,000 in child care, and $156,000 in case management and other client services costs.
 We have a matching fund clause with our contract. During year three of the contract term, Project Arriba had matching funds of almost $750,000 in state and federal grants and $25,000 in new private investments. So year three...
 Like I mentioned, $750,000, that comprised of the Texas Adult Career Education Program, which is the ACE grant program, which matches every dollar that the city gives, dollar for dollar, the state will give. The County of El Paso, Workforce Solutions Borderplex, and we were able to become a subcontractor for case management with the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, the School of Nursing.
 And we also received an additional amount from Bank of America due to the COVID pandemic of $25,000. We got a $40,000 investment from them, but it's $25,000 over what we did last year. So with that, you know, we want to thank you for all of your support that you've given Project REBA over now the two decades that we've been in partnership. And we continue to want to add value to the economic development department that Jessica leads, as well as the...
 maintain the goals that the city manager, as well as the city council and the mayor have for this great region. And we wanna be able to add value to that. If I can be of any service for anything, my information is there. And I thank you again for your support. Thank you again, Mr. Ortiz, and thank you for the great job you do. Thank you, sir. Ms. Prine.
 Yes, sir. That brings us to item number 38. This is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and 1031 Firestone LLC in support of an infill development project located at 1031 Texas Avenue. Motion to approve. Second.
 Mayor, Council, leadership, good afternoon. Public also good afternoon. Rafa Llano, economic development. This item number 38 is a request. Actually, I'll wait for IT to put up the presentation. If you please cut IT for item number 3838. IT, if you could please put up the presentation for item number 38. Good afternoon, Rafa. Good afternoon. Mayor, good to hear from you. Okay. So next slide, please.
 So this is a request to approve a Chapter 380 infill incentive agreement between the City of El Paso and 1031 Firestone LLC. And so the applicant, 1031 Firestone LLC, is proposing to invest a minimum of $443,918.00.
 to fully renovate the property located at 1031 Texas Avenue in downtown El Paso. And that is a property that is 9,429 square feet in size internally. And the company will substantially rehabilitate the building's exterior and interior. And after that's complete, they will activate 25 brand new offices within the downtown plan area.
 They also, in terms of actual additional design, they're proposing to have this covered patio that you all saw before that you can see on the side right there, proposed for the ground floor as well as the top. So that is an image of the top floor, but that's also going to be twinned for the bottom part. So this will increase density and of course enhance the aesthetic value of the area.
 So here's some interest from Scott to give you a sense of where the property is. On the left side, you can see that it's located on the eastern edge of downtown, the downtown plan area. On the right side, a bit closer, you can see that it's located right at the corner of the intersection of Octavia and Texas Street. That is how it appears from the air. Next slide, please, IT.
 This next slide will show you how it appears from the ground. So as you can see from all angles, northwest, northeast, southwest facing, it is currently blighted and vacant. In fact, if you were to drive through there today, the only real difference would be that you would see the chain link fence has been removed. But otherwise, it's the exact same building. And so it is in disrepair. It does need a bit of love and renovation. And so the intent of the request today is to help approve...
 an agreement, Chapter 3, the Inflow Center Agreement, which will help transform this property from what you see here to what you see on the next slide. Please, IT. And here is what you, you know, images of it earlier, but you can see that this is a full renovation of the property and it's really substantial, especially if you look at the details that the applicants are putting into the property, and of course, to do with the color of the lighting and the decorative lighting, the signage.
 And so this is actually a design that we all reached together from the very beginning. The applicant was very good about working with us from the very beginning of their project to make sure that the project that you see in front of you is fully correlated or coordinated with what the infill policy means to encourage. And so in doing so, they've also objectively qualified for the set of incentives that are approved within the city's infill incentive policy, and that'll be shown to you on the next slide. Please, IT. Thank you.
 And here is the incentive. And so the principal portion of the incentive is an incremental property tax rebate capped at $15,772. That is a total for 10 years. And of course that's only the incremental. So we keep the base and this is brand new monies that come into the city. And so we do want to rebate that at the scale that you see at the bottom. So we do start recapturing brand new tax revenue year four. There is also a construction materials sales tax rebate.
 $2,220 and then a permit fee rebate capped at $10,000. So the total proposed incentive as per the info policy is capped at $27,992.
 And so that is what the incentive looks like. Next slide, please, IT. And of course, we always like to show you what your all's potential positive approval actions will generate in terms of positive tax flow to ourselves and to our partners. And that's what you see on this slide. As you can see, the city will get over $7,000 net.
 during the grant period, but also at the same time the county gets 12,000. EPIC gets 33,000 new dollars for our schools. EPCC gets over $3,000. EMC gets 6,000. So the total positive inflow generated by this development will be over 63,000 additional tax dollars in our community. So that's very beneficial. Next slide, please, IT.
 And so again just to repeat the request the request is that the city manager be authorized to execute a chapter 380 and fill a settlement agreement binding between the City of El Paso and 1031 Fireside LLC for the redevelopment of the property located at 1031 Texas Avenue. And for the reasons that I've mentioned previous we are recommending approval. And so that ends the presentation I'll take any questions you all may have. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you for your presentation. We do have Representative Schwartzbein. DIRECTOR DEWOLF.
 Yes, thank you so much, Mayor. And thank you, Mr. Arrejano-Rafael. Thank you so much. Once again, a great presentation, great infill project as well. And if I'm not mistaken, this also is a Trost design building as well. Is that correct? Correct.
 Alright, so it's also an opportunity to also promote historic preservation with one of, if not the most important, architect that we have had from El Paso, if not the Southwest Henry Trust as well. So really great to support this project, an iconic jewel in our downtown. And once again, Rafa, thank you for all the hard work that you've done in working to make this happen as well.
 Thank you, Representative Schwartzman. Appreciate it. Thank you. With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 38 on that motion, Mayor Potem-Schwartz. Representative Anel. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizardo.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor really quick. Just want to thank again for the folks who are listening that are investing in our community that thank you for them investing in our downtown and it's really great when we see these opportunities to utilize our infill incentives with eager investors in our community. This is the best of both worlds. So thank you.
 Thank you. And also, Ms. Prine, we'd like to reconsider item 36, so Representative Rivetta can vote on it, please. Can we have a motion to reconsider item number 36? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconsider item number 36. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And we're back on item number 36. This is discussion in action on the approval of the Department of Aviation's El Paso International Airport five-year capital improvement plan.
 motion so moved second motion in a second there is a motion in a second to approve item number 36 on that motion mayor pro tem schwarzwein representative anello all right hernandez yes yes rivera thank you councilman mayor and the motion passes unanimously
 Well now on item number 39, this is discussion and action that the City Manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services to perform civil engineering services on a task-by-task basis between the City of El Paso and the 10 consultants posted on this agenda. Motion approved. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 39. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzweil. Representative Anelo.
 Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizara? And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 40. This is presentation and introduction to the 47th year 2021-2022 annual action plan for the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, entitlement grants, community development block grant.
 home investment partnership, housing opportunities for persons with AIDS, and emergency solutions grant programs. And this marks the start of a 30-day public comment period. Merchant approved. Second. And we do have public comment on this item. Mayor, would you like to take public comment first? Okay. We have Mr. Gilbert Raynard. He's joining as we speak. Mr. Raynard.
 Yes. Good afternoon. You have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon, sir. Yes, my name is Gilbert Raynaud. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Yes, I was, yes. Yes, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Yes. Go ahead, sir. We can hear you. Yes, my name is Gilbert Raynaud. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Can you hear me?
 Go ahead, Sam. Just bear with me. This is my first time. I'm very happy to be here and give my opinion concerning the help that I got from HUD in April 29th of 2019 when I first approached a gentleman by the name of Mark Marcus. Please understand that everybody's situation is different.
 Up to the point before I got sick, everything was okay. Some fortunate things happened and I am now under Social Security Disability and needed some help from my home. I asked around to see if I could get any help and everybody just said no, no funds. All these other programs that were available in the city. A gentleman down the street told me about HUD assistance and I never knew about it.
 I said, well, I'll try and went down to Texas Street and spoke to a gentleman by the name of Mark Marcus. From that point on everything, his approach to trying to help me was amazing. And I said, well, then he threw me a big package I needed to fill out. And he was very friendly and helpful and was unaware of these programs that were available to us.
 It's amazing how he was able to help me with trying to get assistance to get my house fixed. And he was able to take care of me and all the people that were there. Cesar Grava, who's a building inspector. Salvador Reyes, who's the other gentleman that's another inspector. And Mike Marcus was able to assist me and get everything that I needed.
 Again, I am a senior who is on Social Security Disability, very little. Things do happen. Sometimes people need help. Programs like this really help a lot of people. I didn't know about it, and one thing I wanted to mention is how maybe we could spread the word around to seniors and people that get in unfortunate situations where they don't know about these programs. I didn't know about it. I've heard about HUD.
 Because I never needed it in the past, and as a Hispanic, sometimes we just don't want to get any help. So I'm very grateful for these programs, that if it wasn't for this, and also there's a program called the Forgiveness Program.
 I didn't ask for that. They're the ones that approached me that I'm going to get that. Thank you, Mr. Raynaud. And I'm very pleased. Thank you for the opportunity. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Ms. Carol Henry-Bowley. If she's on the line, star six, please. Carol Henry-Bowley. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Thank you so much. Good afternoon, Mayor, city representative, and city manager.
 My name is Carol Bowley, and I'm the Executive Director for the El Paso Coalition for the Homeless.
 And I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank Nicole Farini and the staff of the Community and Human Development Department for recommending funding for the coalition as well as all of the homeless programs in this year's annual action plan. And to also ask that the city continue supporting projects focused on preventing and ending homelessness.
 In 2003, the coalition has served as the lead entity for El Paso's continuum of care for the homeless, providing services, training, and technical assistance on the complex issues that all of our homeless assistance providers encounter daily.
 We also serve as the administrator for the operation of the region's homeless management information system and provide training, technical assistance, and help desk support to the numerous programs that enter their client data into that system.
 We have a long-standing relationship with the City of El Paso in addressing homelessness and appreciate the continued support of these activities through the funding recommended before you today.
 I'm very excited about a new project called Homelessness Diversion that we are being funded for, or recommended for funding for. It's a brand new intervention for our city with the primary objective to divert households from entering the homeless system altogether. This project, it combines intensive case management,
 active listening, creative thinking, along with financial assistance to provide solutions for households who are literally at the front door of our shelters. This is going to be a real carefully coordinated effort with many of our partners, as well as the County of El Paso, as the operator of the community's coordinated entry system.
 So the launch of this program will prevent households on the edge of homelessness from entering our system, helping them safely avoid a traumatic and stressful homeless episode. It will take pressure off the shelter system and reduce overall homelessness in our community. So again, I just wanna thank you for considering approval of this year's annual action plan to fund this project
 as well as the other activities I have described above. So thank you so much for your time today. Thank you. And the next speaker is Mr. Roger DeMoor. Roger DeMoor. Yes, sir. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Okay. Star six, please. Yes, sir. We can hear you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Roger de Moor and I'm the Executive Director of Rebuilding Together. And I would like to use this opportunity to thank the City Council and the Department of Community and Human Development for the continued support we get with the CDBG grants. We do home repairs for low-income, elderly or disabled homeowners and our relation started in 2008 when we got the modest $25,000.
 We have been able to grow that amount over the years to 120,000 this year, and hopefully you will approve the new proposed funding for the next fiscal year.
 We grew this by diligently working on the targets and meeting the targets, which were defined by contract. We had an excellent financial performance, always in time, accurately submitting the request for reimbursement.
 CDBG has been very important to us. It has been a motor for growth, because we get also funding from many other organizations, but CDBG was the core of the activity. With CDBG grants and the other funding we get from other corporations, we have reached over time out to some 2,500 residents in El Paso, doing 1,100 projects.
 And we do this with skilled labor, but also involving volunteers. There have been years that we could involve up to 1,000 volunteers in painting homes, cleaning up yards, and small repairs.
 Besides home repairs, we reach out also to the community for other kinds of projects. And I would like to mention the SheBuilds program, where we try to involve women in home repairs and construction. We work together in this project with the YWCA, Workforce Solutions, and Nicole Ferini of the Community and Human Development Department. So three top women are supporting our program, SheBuilds.
 And I'm very happy to inform you that last Saturday we had the first training as Rebuilding Together for a small team of women who learned basic skills to manage their own home.
 The opportunity is there to continue this skill training, even involving training institutions in El Paso, so that women can find employment in a non-traditional sector working for contractors. So we are focusing on reaching this in cooperation with the three partners I just mentioned.
 We have to finish 40 homes this year for the CDBG grant, and we are well on schedule to do this. I thank you for your attention. Thank you. And the next speaker is Ms. Sandra Garcia. Ms. Garcia, star six to unmute your telephone. Sandra Garcia. Is Ms. Celia Garcia in the queue? Hello, everyone. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 Yes, thank you so much. My name is Celia Garcia, and I'm the Chief Operating Officer of Social Service Programs here at Amistad. Good afternoon, Mayor Leaser and City Council members. Amistad has been serving the community for 45 years.
 addressing the social determinants of health through a variety of social service programs. During this time, we have received CDBG funds to operate our money management program, and we're grateful for the continued recommendation for funding to continue these valuable services. So through this program,
 We assist some of the most vulnerable in our community, such as the elderly and adults with disabilities who lack the capacity to budget, negotiate with creditors, and create and pay their bills on time. We protect and safeguard their assets. We build a savings nest, a system in completing forms for services such as Medicaid, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program applications, and other government benefits to improve their quality of life.
 and prevent them from being exploited and becoming homeless. So this program provides an opportunity for these individuals to maintain limited independency and increase their economic stability. So therefore we want to express our full support of the 47th year annual action plan to continue nurturing and promoting a healthy and sustainable community and
 And we, of course, ask that you all please support it as well. We thank you very much for the opportunity to speak today. Thank you. Thank you. Is Ms. Sandra Garcia in the queue? Sandra Garcia? Star 6? Sandra Garcia? Mayor, I don't see Ms. Garcia's phone number in the queue. Thank you. That concludes public comment. And Representative Hernandez, I feel pleased to withdraw your second. This is not an item posted for action. Switch around.
 I withdraw my motion. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Thank you Representative Hernandez. DIRECTOR HERNANDEZ Remember that. DIRECTOR RIVERA- There's no further comment. There is no action on this item. And is there a motion to retire into executive session. DIRECTOR PINKHAM So moved. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Second. DIRECTOR MACKAY Second. DIRECTOR RANKIN There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Yeah. DIRECTOR RANKIN Anyone opposed.
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into Executive Session pursuant to Section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss Executive Session Item 1, Legal Consultation Regarding the City Attorney and City Manager Performance Evaluation under 551.071 and 551.074.
 This item is taken into executive session under 551.071, consultation with attorney, and 551.074, personnel matters. It is 1.52 p.m. Council, I will call you in shortly. And move to reconvene. So moved. We're missing a couple of council members. We're just waiting for the mayor to rejoin. You guys are with me. I'm on. And we're ready to go. Second.
 We have a motion and a second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the meeting is back in session at 3.42 p.m. Mayor Pro Tem, we're on EX1. No action. There's no action on EX1. That brings us to the end of the agenda. Move to adjourn. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed?
 And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, May 11th, 2021 is adjourned at 3.42 p.m. Thank you. Thank you. Good night. Bye, everyone. Bye. Good night, everybody.