Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, everyone. It's 9 a.m. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, May 21st, 2024. Mayor Deeser is present and presiding in council chambers along with Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, Representative Acevedo, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, and Representative Rivera. It is 9.01 a.m.
 Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting. I rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Senior Chaplain David Mayfield. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor, Council. Thank you once again for this opportunity to pray for you and our city. I invite everyone to join me as I pray. Creator God, we give thanks for the opportunity to come together in service to our city.
 May we approach our discussions with open minds and hearts, guided by wisdom and a spirit of cooperation. Let us strive to make decisions that promote the well-being of all our residents and the prosperity of our community. We pray also for the well-being of this council and for the concerned members of the public who attend this morning, for it's only by cooperation between the citizens and those who govern that a free society can prosper.
 We also take a moment to recognize and honor our dedicated police department as they celebrate their anniversary. We are grateful for their unwavering commitment to ensuring our safety and protecting our community. Their bravery, sacrifice, and service do not go unnoticed and we extend our heartfelt appreciation to each and every member of the force. May we also remember the families of our police officers who provide them with strength and support
 enabling them to carry out their duties with courage and integrity. As we proceed with our meeting, let us be mindful of our responsibilities and the trust placed in us by those we serve. May we act with integrity, fairness, and justice, always seeking the greater good. Amen.
 And this morning to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, we have students from East Point Elementary School. We have Kira Esqueda, Nathaniel Ortiz, Selena Mendoza, Angelique Maldonado, Isabella Castaneda, Renata Salgado, Zadie Andrade, and Madison Serrano. We pledge allegiance to the United States of America, public for which it stands, one nation, under liberty and justice for all.
 Can we get all the children to center in front of the seal behind you? There you go. Thank you. Thank you.
 For the record representatives that not this and canales join the meeting at 9 0 3 a.m And representative Fierro join the meeting at 9 0 6 a.m. Good morning, everyone and glad to see a lot of people here There's some early voting has begun and yes, it was the first day early voting will continue through Friday and Election Day is on Tuesday. Please exercise your right to vote and I
 I think it's important every vote does count. Also, I had the opportunity on Friday, myself, Representative Molinar, and Mayor Pro Tem attended the memorial service for the fallen officers. And Chief Pacillas, thank you, sir. And I think it's important that, and I think while we're there, that a lot of what was said, but we'll never forget the men and women that sacrifice for our community and continue
 to be part of our lives and the families were there and I think it was really important to show our support for the families but also for our police department and again the men and women in blue thank you for what you do and I know when you go to the training and when you come out the thing that most prepare you for is for the unknown and I thank you all for
 being there day in and day out and giving us the opportunity to go to sleep but know that the best in the country is protecting us so again chief, thank you and I'd like to have a moment of silence for the the officers that gave their lives on duty that gave their lives for us To be able to be safe. So a little moment silence, please Thank you and may God bless America and may God bless El Paso. God bless every one of you. Thank you. I
 Thank you Mayor. That brings us to the Mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is National Travel Tourism Week. Thank you Mayor for the opportunity to read in this proclamation. Good morning. Welcome.
 Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas, whereas Destination El Paso celebrates National Travel and Tourism Week with local awareness activities honoring the travel and tourism industry, whereas in 2023, the City of El Paso hosted 3.5 million visitors, and whereas travelers contributed 2.22 billion to the economy in our city, and whereas the city of El Paso
 El Paso hotel occupancy rate was 69%. I understand it's one of the highest in the state. It's the highest in the United States. There you go. Yes. He always asks out.
 where has given contributions to the economic, social, cultural well-being of the citizens of El Paso. It is fitting that we recognize the importance of travel, tourism, and encourage the citizens of El Paso to observe this week by participating with anticipated ceremonies and activities.
 Now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor, the Honorable Mayor, and the Council of El Paso that the week of May 18th through May 25th, 2024, shall be known as National Travel and Tourism Week, signed Mayor Oscar Leeser. Thank you and congratulations, Sonia. And I think if you look at the numbers in the state of Texas, it's 62.3.
 In the US it's 63% and El Paso, just as you mentioned, 69.1. So congratulations and I know that one of the things we talked about and we always talk about that
 You know, you all don't do this on your own. You do it with a great community, the city of El Paso and the team of the city manager and their staff, but also the county. You know, we work together and we talk with one voice and make sure that our visitors have a unique experience. And when they leave, they become ambassadors to our community. So I thank you. Those are great numbers. And I know we'll continue to be the shining star in the U.S., so thank you for that.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, city reps. Thank you, Art, for reading that. Appreciate that. Mayor, you're absolutely right. It's a labor of love. It's an everyday thing. And what we do is we try our best to get them to El Paso because it is the El Paso community that really helps sell El Paso.
 Some of the other numbers that we like to talk about is the 2.2 billion, and that's B with a B, economic impact that tourism has on the city of El Paso. And that helps El Paso households because it takes away from additional tax burden that households have. Because these tourists, these guests are coming in and they're spending money here.
 and it's about 3.5 million tourists a year and so we're really proud of that and our benchmark of 69% occupancy again we want to inch that up and you know get it closer to 72 75 percent and we'll be able to do that through meetings and conventions and additional leisure travel tourism
 Some good news is that last week El Paso was ranked number ninth in the country for summer travel destinations. And so being in the top 10, and this is out of 75 communities, and this was a ranking provided by WalletHub. And so we're really proud of that. Again, that's not something that Destination El Paso can take credit for. That's something that is organic to El Paso as it is.
 having incredible weather being a valued destination having great accessibility a number of different things and so we look forward to a healthy leisure travel this summer with the help of those rankings the other good news is that visit el paso is a finalist for a stella award and when we talk about who we're going up against we're going up against other you know big cities with much bigger budgets
 and that's in credit to the staff that we have. And then I'm gonna segue to, obviously Brooke Underwood is here and I'll ask her to say a few words. Val Garcia, our Director of Sales, but last week, Mayor, you proclaimed that May 16th was Veronica Castro Day and so I'd like to just acknowledge Veronica Castro.
 20 years working in the industry, 20 years with Destination El Paso, just a really incredible asset to the city of El Paso. And with that, I'm gonna turn it over to Brooke again, Mayor, city reps, much appreciated for the recognition. We appreciate you, we appreciate working for you. It is a labor of love and continue to look out for great things coming from this organization. Thank you so much. And I'd like to thank city staff as well. Great partnerships all along the way.
 Thank you. Good morning. And just to note that the proclamations will be limited to six minutes for the speakers. And you have about two minutes, 57 seconds left. I will not even take the two minutes. I want to thank you for your, thank you, Mayor. I actually need a little bit of water myself.
 Thank you for your support through all these years. And obviously we could only do that with the support from you all and city staff trusting us with such a precious commodity as the marketing and destination of El Paso. So super happy to be here. Veronica celebrates 20 years. I've had the pleasure of working with her for 16, but we've got a great team and Val now joins the three Amigas.
 I do want to point out that downtown is quite the hub of activity right now as we have the border security expo in town. We have just come off a number of other conventions. And then we'll roll right into the Texas Democratic Party where we'll see between 4,000 and 4,500 people converge in our city, hopefully returning ambassadors to their respective homes. So I think the team is doing a great job, but it's only because of great support from our leadership and then, of course, wonderful hotel partners and other attractions. So thank you and happy National Travel and Tourism Week.
 Thank you. Hey V, I was a young man when you started working. I just want to let you know. That's right. I was only 10. Thank you all. Congratulations. And the next proclamation is Border Patrol's 100th year anniversary. Thank you very much. If I could have the United States Border Patrol agents move forward, please. Good news.
 I'm sorry Mayor Pro Tem Molinar we're going to do the pictures correct? Yes ma'am we're going to do pictures real quick. The photo before the next proclamation. Okay let's do a quick picture real quick. Thank you. We'll send behind? Okay great. I want to give my cup back because I want you to give me mine. Thank you. We now proceed with a proclamation for the Border Patrol's 100th year anniversary.
 Thank you very much. Good morning. Before I begin this proclamation, I just wanted to make sure everyone understands El Paso is the birthplace of the United States Border Patrol. One hundred year celebration. Proclamation. City of El Paso, Texas, whereas prior to the formation of the U.S. Border Patrol, the Immigration Service employed the Mounted Watchman, also known as the Mounted Patrol and Mounted Guards.
 representing early efforts to enforce laws between ports of entry, whose foundational work was integral to the development of border enforcement strategies. And it was not until May 28, 1924, following congressional approval of funding, that the Immigration Border Patrol was officially established, enhancing its land border patrol functions
 with El Paso playing a pivotal role by becoming the location of one of the first 32 sectors. And whereas the motto, Honor First, is believed to have originated within the El Paso District of the United States Border Patrol around 1926, encompassing what are now Tucson, El Paso, and Big Bend sectors.
 This model encapsulates the ethos of unfailing courtesy, resourcefulness, and self-governance, reflecting the deep pride and integrity with which Border Patrol inspectors, later known as Border Patrol agents, and whereas the U.S. Border Patrol has been pivotal in safeguarding national security, managing access enemy detention camps during World War II, and overseeing vital operations such as the exchange of Bay of Pigs prisoners.
 This role was underscored in 1961 when, under President Kennedy's directive, Border Patrol inspectors ensured the security of commercial flights and in times of natural disasters, the U.S. Border Patrol has consistently extended their mission beyond border security to offer humanitarian assistance and aid recovery efforts.
 From responding to the devastating San Francisco earthquake to providing relief in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, their actions have been pivotal in helping communities rebuild and recover, exemplifying their dedication to service and compassion. Whereas the U.S. Border Patrol's 20 sectors continue to enhance our nation's border security efforts, developing innovative and specialized technologies within the agency to bolster the capability of its agents.
 These advancements ensure that the future of the U.S. Border Patrol will be as dynamic and impactful as the storied past, steadfastly upholding the motto, Honor First, which has guided its agents since 1924.
 And whereas the El Paso City Council is proud to recognize the unwavering courage, integrity, and dedication of the United States Border Patrol for the past 100 years. And honor the men and women whose diligence and professionalism keep the United States of America and the citizens safe.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that May 28, 2024 shall be known as Border Patrol's 100th year anniversary. Signed, the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. I want to congratulate you all. I wasn't quite as young when you all started out, but...
 No, congratulations. And one of the things that's, you know, I've been in office since 2013, and really when I took office again in 21, when the asylum seekers came,
 You know you all worked really close with the city you worked really close with the county and everyone else to make sure that We took care our asylum seekers and they work together and we're very proud of the job We do together from chief Chavez who in my opinion is a rock star and did an incredible job Early working with us and finding solutions that we could all work together to chief good. He's done an incredible job also working with us
 that today the city of El Paso because of the cooperation from Chief Good we don't have street releases where there's no other major city in America today that doesn't have street releases for us because of the cooperation and the things we've done together and so I do I'm
 I want to thank you all for, you know, not only congratulate you on 100 years, but thank you for really working with us to make sure that El Paso sets the standards of what it should be and make sure that people are treated with respect and make sure people have a place to sleep and have a warm meal. And because of you all, we're able to do that. So thank you, and God bless you guys.
 Thank you, Mayor, and distinguished members of the Council, too. I just have something really quick that I wanted to read. I was the first to be a part of my family who actually joined the United States Marine Corps, but I was third to join the U.S. Border Patrol. Both of my uncles actually started here in the El Paso sector back in the 70s. And so on behalf of the El Paso sector and also all the families, all the staff, and all the agents of the entire U.S. Border Patrol, thank you for the proclamation celebrating the rich 100-year history of the U.S. Border Patrol.
 Here in El Paso, our motto is where the legend began because El Paso is where, like all of you mentioned, where Border Patrol was born. El Paso was home to the original Mounted Guards dating back to the early 1900s, and the first National Border Patrol Academy was actually here in El Paso back in the early 1930s.
 We appreciate all the support, Mayor, as you mentioned, the coordination, the collaboration, the partnership with the city of El Paso and all the local and state law enforcement agencies. We look forward to that relationship and working together to protect the citizens of El Paso, but also of the United States. To my right, I have a newly promoted Division Chief of Specialty Programs, Operational Programs, Lorenzo Sandoval. He was actually born and raised here in El Paso. Hopefully he has a good reputation here.
 And then to my left, I actually have one of our stellar supervisors, Nathan Davis. Nathan was actually born in the state of Virginia, but I think he's been in El Paso longer than he's been in the state of Virginia. So actually his parents moved up here too and his grandfather. So we love the city of El Paso. My name is Alfredo Lozano. For those of you who don't know me, my nickname in the Border Patrol is Lozay. They say in the Border Patrol if you don't have a nickname, they don't like you. So I have one.
 I've been here for approximately eight months and I love this city I've been here before I used to drive from the Rio Grande Valley all the way all the way over to San Diego When I had three or four days of leave from the US Marine Corps during my time So I really appreciate the proclamation today and all the recognition. Thank you for everybody in the room the community I hope to be a long partner in this community moving forward. So mayor distinguished members. Thank you so much Thank you, sir. Now you gave us your nickname. Yes
 Yes, sir. And I really do wanna know what that means. You know what I mean? You spelled it for us, so we got that down, but now what does that mean? So Lozano, Lozano's not a name that's pretty common, at least not in the Rio Grande Valley where I started working. Actually, I started in Laredo
 Back and forth there was a lot of bandits on the border. They all had radios, we had radios, and they would memorize your last name. Sometimes they would call you out, they would tell you mean things, and so instead of calling me Lozano to protect my last name, one of the senior agents who dates back to about the 80s says, we're going to call you Lozy from now on, that's short for Lozano. So ever since then it's stuck, I've had that nickname for over two decades, and today there's
 There's a lot of chiefs in town. There's a lot of agents in town. If you ask them who Losey is, they'll know it's Lozano. So, yes, sir. But I'm the deputy chief here. I support Chief Good and all the agents and all the families and all the staff of the apostle sector. If you ever need anything from us, please reach out. Thank you so much. Thank you again. Thank you. Thank you very much. Do you have a parade Saturday? Do you have a parade Saturday? Yes, a parade.
 Can you see our chart? That brings us to the next proclamation and this is national cancer survivors month. Ms. Henry, good morning. Do we have the proclamation? Yes. Thank you all for coming up. A few familiar faces here. Proclamation city of El Paso, Texas.
 Whereas, a cancer survivor is an individual living with a history of cancer from the moment of diagnosis through the remainder of their life. And whereas, there are more than 952,543 Texans who are cancer survivors and nearly 18.1 million cancer survivors in the United States.
 And, whereas, more than 140,000 new cancer cases are expected to be diagnosed in Texas, 67,000 in women and 72,000 in men. And whereas, the overall survivor rate has gone up by 40% over the past 50 years and currently sits at 68%.
 and whereas helping those with cancer is a top priority through increasing access to quality cancer screening and care, providing effective prevention strategies, and providing services to individuals living with and beyond cancer.
 And, in El Paso, Texas, we celebrate our cancer survivors who have reached their milestones and recognize those who have supported them along the way. And whereas the first Sunday in June is recognized as National Cancer Survivors Day, and during the month of June we celebrate those individuals who have bravely and successfully battled cancer to earn the designation survivor.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of June 2024 shall be known as National Cancer Survivors Month, signed by our honorable mayor, Oscar Leaser. Thank you so much, Chris. And good morning, Mayor Leaser, City Council, Colonel Weston. I'm going to miss seeing you up here. I've been up here so many times. I know. I know.
 PRESENTING TO THIS COUNCIL WITH YOU AS THE LEAD. THIS IS PROBABLY THE LAST TIME I WILL BE HERE. THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE TO THIS COMMUNITY. THANK YOU. APPRECIATE THAT. MY NAME IS CAROL BOWLEY. I'M THE DIRECTOR OF THE RIO GRAND CANCER FOUNDATION. WE ARE SO GRATEFUL FOR TODAY'S PROCLAMATION FOR NATIONAL CANCER SURVIVORS MONTH. BECAUSE NO ONE IS EXEMPT FROM THE CANCER EXPERIENCE. WE ALL KNOW SOMEONE.
 are related to someone or are the person who has heard the news that they have cancer. That's who we celebrate this month. But Cancer Survivor Month is not just about the celebration of life, but an opportunity to bring awareness to the challenges that many of those with a cancer diagnosis face. As many survivors will tell you, the effects of cancer don't end when treatment does.
 Cancer survivors face ongoing, often long-lasting, material and psychological hardships because of their disease, including potentially devastating financial struggles. At the Rio Grande Cancer Foundation, we are committed to reducing the considerable burden of cancer on those in our community, for those living with, through, and beyond cancer.
 Survivorship is something to celebrate, but it's not the end of the story. Cancer changes your health and your life forever, so thank you for the awareness. I am joined today by office staff Diane Medina and Cindy Martinez, and also the lovely Filippa Solis, who is executive director of Pro Musica and also a cancer survivor. Thank you so much.
 You're so correct. Unfortunately, or fortunately, I'm a more than one-time survivor, and you're right, it's very impactful. And the first time you ever hear those words, you have cancer, your life gets turned around. All I did was cry, you know, and then I realized that you don't need to cry. There's hope and people there to help you and be with you. And the most important thing is to surround yourself with people with the right attitude. Mm-hmm.
 and people that will help you go through there. I've more than twice, unfortunately, but I'm fortunate to be a survivor and continue to be able to talk about it. So, I mean, you're so correct about that, that, you know, it just, when you first hear those words, it devastates you, but it's the beginning of something. And...
 Don't surround yourself with people that are negative because it's so curable nowadays and the treatment's so different that, you know, what we thought would have gotten us years ago, it's pretty easy to fix today. So you're right. So thank you for that. Thank you. And I don't know if you all heard that statistic, but there are more people surviving cancer nowadays than those that are diagnosed. So that's very exciting news for those that are in the clinical and medical communities. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Diane Medina and I am the program assistant at the Rio Grande Cancer Foundation. I just wanted to go over a few of our services that we do offer at the Cancer Foundation, which is our PATS program, our Four Seasons program, and our classroom series.
 Through our PATS program, we do offer financial assistance in the form of a $250 prepaid MasterCard that our cancer patients can use towards their co-pays, deductibles, medication, or travel expenses if they're traveling outside of El Paso County for treatment. We offer wigs, scarves, mastectomy garments through our Four Seasons program, and we offer appointments for fittings Mondays through Thursdays.
 In our classroom component, we offer educational, nutrition, health, and fitness classes such as yoga and select days and times. Those who are interested in our services and additional resources, they can request more information directly through our portal, which is the cancerhelpcenter.org, or get more information through rgcf.org. Thank you.
 Good morning, I'm Cindy Martinez from the Rio Grande Cancer Foundation. Briefly, I want to say of course that June is National Cancer Survivors Month and June 1st is actually National Cancer Survivor Day. The Rio Grande Cancer Foundation is hosting a Give Cancer the Boot event. It will be Saturday, June 1st at Cielo Vista Mall from 12 to 2.
 We encourage cancer survivors to come down to the event and they dance to a DJ with country western music. We also have rehearsals the day before and the week before. So we do encourage them. I'm just going to show you real briefly what it looks like. It's just our Give Cancer the Boot event. It's our third annual event at Cielo Vista Mall. Thank you. Thank you. My friend, Philippa.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and members of city council. What a joy it is to be here with you today and to stand beside my incredible friends at Greo Grand Cancer Foundation. And when you use the term survivor, I don't like to talk about me. I like to talk about all of us. And what this organization does and what you do as a city is so vital for not only the survivors, or who I call thrivers, but so many member families, friends,
 people who are there to hold our hands and make sure that life can continue in a positive, fruitful, wonderful direction. So it's with incredible solidarity that we stand before you today with Rio Grande Cancer Foundation. And again, thank you so much. It's so wonderful to work with them, even with music, with El Paso Pro Musica, where we provide music to soothe and heal and comfort.
 all of us in this community working together hand in hand to help each other fight cancer. And obviously, we're going to be giving it the boot on June 1st. Again, thank you so much for your incredible support. Thank you. Y'all want to come up? And the next proclamation is Allison Cuellar Day. I have the proclamation. Yeah. Thank you. Representative Nundes, good morning, ma'am.
 I'm really thrilled and excited to read this resolution. Mrs. Cuellar was nominated by our JP judge, Mrs. Lucia Najera, and very honored to see a lot of representation from Riverside. And it reads, the proclamation of the city of El Paso, whereas the Texas State Science Fair 2024 allowed over hundreds of students to demonstrate their ability to conduct themselves
 as young scientists, engineers, and innovators attempting to grapple with current social, environmental, and medical issues. And whereas Allison Cuellar, an intellectual and humble 13 year old, has endured challenges in her life, confronting and overcoming her obstacles allowed her to present her science project to her peers and teachers,
 and serve as a positive example in her school community. And Raz Allison's science fair journey began in late September when she began her research, taking inspiration from her grandmother and aunt who have an extremely difficult ability to consume their medications in a pill form.
 Her project, how does the spherification of medication help people with disabilities? Allowing her to compete in the biomedical engineering category.
 and whereas Allison placed in her campus science fair, first place, which advanced her to compete at the district level where she placed second. This led to being able to participate in regionals at the Sun Country Science and Engineering Fair. Her second place there made her eligible to compete at the state level at the Texas Science and Engineering Fair. At state, she competed against 40 middle school students in her category.
 Working diligently and rehearsing after hours at school and at home, Allison earned a third place finish amongst the rest of the hundreds of participants who competed at the science fairs in the state. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that May 21st, 2024 shall be known as Allison Cuellar Day and it is signed by our honorable mayor Oscar Leaser. Congratulations.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Norma Payne. I am the science fair coordinator and sixth grade science teacher at Riverside Middle School. Thank you Mayor Leaser representatives. Thank you so much for the honor. There is really much more I could say because it was pretty much said I'd just like to say a couple of words about Allison and what she did have to go through.
 The process of doing the science fair is a very long arduous process. They have to first come up with the project that's going to help the community help the citizens. So what she did was again she did a project based off of trying to help her grandmother who had a stroke and couldn't swallow pills.
 I'm sure that many of us at one point in time or other have had that difficulty where we cannot swallow or take pills Especially the very big ones. So what she did was she came up with the process called verification If you can think of the little boba balls that come in drinks, basically, that's what she did so she went and she did the whole process of crushing up Smarties and
 and putting them in and doing it that way to be able to take those pills to be able to swallow the pill. So she went through that process and again it was a very long process. She competed with thousands of students from the state of Texas in that division and for her to be able to go in and come in in third place was very difficult for her especially for her. If we know you met Allison she's a very shy
 soft spoken young lady but an incredible young lady at that. Thank you. I wanted to see if Principal Medina thank you for being here and the parents of Mrs. Coyote if you all had wanted to share a couple words. Thank you so much for this opportunity to recognize our incredible student at Riverside Middle School. She's a representation of the incredible hard work that we have in the valley in the community. And just want to thank you because.
 we have amazing kids down there. We have amazing staff members who give their all every single day and education is not easy and it's very, very hard especially now we have to compete with our cell phones and everything that comes with it and so just thank you for this opportunity because Allison is a great example of what hard work, perseverance and she really, she
 Makes us so proud and so just thank you for this opportunity. Thank you guys. Thank you now listen You want to say a few words Allison and you know, you and I have a lot in common. We're both soft-spoken I just want to say thank you to miss pain Miss Medina and my parents for supporting me through all of this. I
 Thank you. And I always say, and, you know, after listening to Representative Litton on this and listening to the science quarter and the principal, that I always say that our future is the youth, and you are our future. Congratulations and thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 And the final proclamation is El Paso Police Department's 151st Anniversary Celebration. Thank you, Mayor. It's really an honor to present this proclamation to our police department, having been a member of it as well as Mr. Representative Linares. Proclamation from the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the City of El Paso, Texas was established in May of 1873 via the city charter that was received by the Governor's Office
 on May 16, 1873 and approved on May 17, 1873. And whereas the City Charter Section 29 states the establishment, regulation, support of night watch, police and define the duties thereof. And whereas the City Charter Section 96 states that at the first City Council meeting,
 the council was to elect one city marshal and assistant city marshal or other or assistance assistant marshals and such as police officers as they deemed necessary and whereas section 101 states that the city marshal shall be the chief police officer of the city
 It further states that they shall have powers and execute like powers, authority and jurisdiction as a sheriff of a county under the laws of state within the city limits. And whereas the city charter clearly defines the existence of police department and that city marshal was a chief police officer, thus establishing the birth date of El Paso Police Department.
 as May 17th, 1873, when the city charter was approved by the governor's office and whereas the city of El Paso recognizes the dedicated work, commitment, and sacrifices made by the men and women of the El Paso Police Department and their families for 151 years, the mayor and city council thank those who have served and are currently serving in the police department, making El Paso a safe community.
 Now therefore be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that May 2024 shall be known as El Paso Police Department's 151st Anniversary Celebration. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor, Council. Appreciate that. Thank you, Representative Rivera.
 I know Camilo, your staff, along with Sergeant Zambrano and Officer Cisneros did a lot of research on the birth date of the El Paso Police Department, 151 years, so this proclamation, thank you very much, Mayor. We have incredible police officers on the department and those that came before us, literally thousands and thousands of individuals
 who have taken the oath of office, sworn to protect and serve the community of El Paso and do it very, very, very successfully. We have police officers sitting through out here. You have the police officers that stand watch over city council every week.
 And you have many, many more that go out there, all three shifts, day and night, hot and cold.
 and they do the job we have great police officers on this department they keep on exemplifying their duty and commitment to the community as an example a few weeks ago on the west side you had officers running into gunfire to protect those citizens living in that apartment complex and they didn't hesitate a single bit we have great cops
 Last week, Mayor, as you just recognized, we did have our memorial for 35 police officers who gave up their lives protecting this community and all their families that miss them to this day, giving up all their tomorrows. So this proclamation recognizing the birthday of the El Paso Police Department is truly appreciated by the men and women of the El Paso Police Department. Thank you very much. Thank you, Chief. One of the things when you talked about this, now when you said hot or cold,
 One thing that came to mind, council for example, when COVID came, we went remote. A lot of works went remote. You guys didn't have that option. You have to be out there. You have to be protecting our community. You couldn't go remote.
 And I think that's something that very admirable that when you talk about that, you know, and I say and I said all the time that you prepare for the unknown. COVID was a big unknown, but you didn't have a choice. You have to be out there day in and day out. So when you said hot and cold, that's first thing that came. As you remember, we were gone for a long time off the dais. But yet you guys were in your cars, on your motorcycles, on your bicycles and in the neighborhoods every day. So thank you very much for that. Yes, sir. Thank you.
 Detective Victor Hernandez and his wife took it upon themselves to make bracelets for every police officer, and they have some extra ones for you. Back the blue. And it has our recruiting campaign along that bracelet. So Sergeant Sobrano is going to hand one out to Ms. Laura Pryne and everybody here on the dais, and Colonel Weston, you and your staff. We truly appreciate your support. Thank you. Thank you. Good office morning.
 If the PAR individuals, if you can join the photo. You know, while they're coming up, I do want to say that we're very honored to have you as our police chief. And me personally, I'm very honored to have you as my friend. So thank you, sir. Hey, let me grow out. What's that about? Hey, Lieutenant, you can't get too close to me. We're going to include the PAR. If I fall, nobody better look at me.
 Mayor, may we take items 16 and 17 next? Thank you, sir. Item number 16 is discussion and action to approve a resolution recognizing the Riverside High School Boys Soccer Team for reaching the regional final known as the Elite Eight. And this item was placed by Representative Hernandez. Hi, Melissa. Yes, Mayor. Representative Hernandez, please.
 Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for joining us. I'm going to read the resolution into the record and then we'll take a vote shortly after. The resolution states, whereas the Riverside High School schoolboys soccer team... Oh, I should mention that you all were nominated by your former principal, Maribel Guillen, who reached out to us. So she's very proud of you, as well as your current administration.
 Resolution reads, whereas a Riverside High School boys soccer team, the Rangers, reached the regional final, also known as the Elite Eight at the 2024 University Interscholastic League Texas Boys Soccer State Championship, the UIL State Championship,
 And whereas the Rangers Road to the Winner's Circle at the UIL State Championship was preceded by several tough matchups across the state. And whereas the Rangers won the bi-district title against Midlands Greenwood High School, became the area champions against Wichita Falls High School and won the regional quarterfinals against El Paso's Bowie High School and succeeded at the regional semifinal against Fort Worth's Diamond Hills Jarvis High School.
 and whereas El Paso, Texas are rich in soccer talent and during the UIL state championship playoffs, the Rangers played valiantly but were defeated one to zero by the eventual state champions, the Sanelli High School Eagles. And whereas among over 200 high schools competing in the 4A division of the UIL state championship playoffs, the Rangers stood out as one of only a handful of schools to advance to the regional championship.
 And whereas this marks the second time in Riverside High School's history that the boys soccer team has reached the Elite Eight, and the coaches, school administration, students, and parents are incredibly proud of their team. And now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso,
 recognizes and celebrates the athletic achievement of the Riverside High School boys soccer team, commending them for their hard work on the field and for representing El Paso admirably with their talent and sportsmanship at the state level. And we're incredibly proud and congratulations. I move to approve. Good morning. Thank you, good morning. Thank you, Representative Hernandez for that resolution.
 First and foremost on behalf of the Riverside High School. We'd like to thank City Council and the mayor of El Paso for recognizing our soccer team these young men put a lot of hours and It's a lot of dedication. I've been there for 20 years. I've been proud to serve that community It's a lot of hard work
 Unlike other schools where you know club team comes through to party roll We have to work with individuals coming from different different parts Different teams and we make one and this year was no exception the boys succeeded and Very very proud of them. It was a long season but the members
 We'll ask forever. Thank you. Thank you I do want to say something that they don't get there on their own
 You know, they need a great coach and they need a great mentor. And, you know, kids grow up and some of them have the talent, but never have the leadership to help them get to the level where these young men achieved. And I want to congratulate you on the ability to teach and you guys on the ability to learn and the willingness to learn.
 And, you know, one team stood in front of you all, but you should be very proud of your accomplishments because it could have gone either way. I was listening to it. And, I mean, I don't usually watch soccer, but I kept watching and I was, you know, just...
 hoping you guys would do it, and you did it. You did a great job, and I'm very proud of every one of you all for your accomplishment because, as Coach said, not very many people get where you all got, and you should be proud of the memories that, you know, when you get to be this old, a lot of things that, you know,
 the things we do have and we share is our memories of growing up. So congratulations and coach, thank you for being such a great mentor. Thank you, I wanted to add one more thing. Every time we go out, I remind the boys, we only represent Riverside High School, but instead of the school district, we represent the city of El Paso, so thank you. Thank you, you all wanna introduce yourselves and then maybe come up to the front? As you do that, that way we can take a picture after that? Yes. Go ahead, sir.
 All right, so before I introduce them real quick, I just wanna take this time to recognize, like you said, Mayor Leaser, the teachers, the coaches, the school administrators of the Riverside community, the families, the supporters of the Riverside soccer team. You know, we owe it to them. We owe it to them. They are a large reason why we are successful. And so,
 You know, exactly like you said, right? You know, Coach Rivera and myself, Coach Jurado here as well, you know, we could coach them all, you know, the whole day, the whole week, but at the end of the day, it's them putting in the work and it's all the mentors that they've had at Riverside High School, Riverside Middle School, or whatever other school they had transferred in from. And so it takes a village. It takes a village and education to help mold our young men. And so I would like to...
 Call them up. Kevin Gonzalez, Brandon Olivas, Angel Chavez, Oscar Tavares, Diego Padilla, Ricardo Arellano, Jared Arellano, Alejandro Marquez, Jose Varela, Miguel Abud, Isaac Roque, John Paul Martinez, Josue Figueroa, Adolfo Lujan, Angel Morales, and Sam Hockes. Thank you. Hey, Coach.
 Maybe you think the media guys look good, huh, also? Of course. We're good. Can we get this gentleman in the front to come this way just a little bit? A little bit less? And then can we have the gentleman behind him scoot over so you can just step back? There we go. Perfect. Nope, we can see him. He's good. We're good. All right, ready? Right this way. One, two, three. A couple more. One, two, three. Okay.
 One two three. Anybody else? Thank you. And there was a motion made by Representative Hernandez seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the resolution. On that motion call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy. Thank you. And the voting session and that motion passes unanimously.
 We continue with item 17, and this is discussion in action to approve a resolution recognizing the El Paso football officials camp. This item was brought forth by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy. Good morning, Mayor Pro Tem. Come on up. This was a camp that had Victor Firth involved with it. Before I read this real quickly, I just wanted to say that I've been a sponsor of this for longer than either one of us want to think about.
 First with the Sports Commission and now with the law firm. And this is, just to let everybody know, it also generates about 1,100 hotel room nights from this event. So you've spilled past one hotel and now are all over the place. Whereas the El Paso Football Officials Camp is sponsored by the El Paso Sports Commission and is owned by Zebra Sports LLC,
 Richard Corona and Victor Firth and whereas 2024 will be the 20th year of the event taking place annually over Memorial Day weekend May 23rd through 25th this year. And whereas initially the purpose of the event was to improve officiating skills of El Paso high school referees officials and offer college athletic directors and coaches the opportunity to view potential hires.
 And whereas the El Paso Football Officials Camp has offered participants, both male and female, the opportunity to refine their officiating skills and be evaluated by actual decision makers, and whereas the El Paso Football Officials Camp began with 50 to 60 participants and has now grown to over 200 individuals from all over the United States wanting to take their skills to the next level,
 whereas participants officiate local high school football scrimmage games while receiving on-field instruction and film review.
 And whereas the camp is the longest running of its type in the United States, and approximately 20% of these attendees are recruited to junior colleges and Division I football officiating, and several have been hired by the NFL, including the first female official in the NFL that came through this camp.
 Whereas last year, the NFL designated this camp as one of only three elite training camps in the United States.
 be it resolved by City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso proudly honors and recognizes the significant contributions from the El Paso football officials camp to the City of El Paso and the United States of America in May the week of May 20th through 26th, 2024 be known as El Paso Football Officials Camp Week. And I make that motion. Second. Good morning, sir. Nice to see you again. I usually was at the airport, but good to see you here. Thank you.
 almost ready to leave Victor and I started his camp 20 years ago we used to go Reno Nevada and go to it and we started here for the local guys it ran for three years for the local officials and then after that it morphed into what it is today we're very proud what we've done we've had the NFL here since post kovat they are a very very important part of this camp
 Mr. Kennedy, Thea Chambers have been with us for plus 15 years have helped us through all of our things what we need to do with their generous sponsorship money we have never received any money from the CBB or the visit El Paso they've never done anything for us but we sell out the Radisson Hotel every year we partnered with Coral Independent School District we're using a sack this year
 We use this less schools and some El Paso high schools schools But we mainly use all six of the Socorro Independent School District schools This year the NFL is sending their executive staff down here We'll have everybody from Troy Vincent on down. They will be coming in on Wednesday and Thursday You're more than welcome to come to visit us on Thursday afternoon at 12 o'clock at the Radisson Hotel for our general session So you can see what what's going on down there? I?
 We've had a replay since last year. We had replay last year. We really grown it this year So you can see what's going on in the replay booth at the college levels because they review every play on Friday night Thursday and Friday night will be at the sack everything at the sack is filmed NFL is filming it for us The guys will get immediate input what they're doing right wrong and great on the field and on Saturday we're at one of the where they're gonna be at East Lake Hotel or we're gonna East Lake High School or we're gonna be at the new sack
 for the final closing sessions of that. But we'd also like to thank everybody who has supported us through this event. And my dear friend, Victor Firth, you know, I miss the man greatly. You know, he's a good friend of mine for 15 years. I mean, actually 25 years, and, you know, we've done this. Sylvie's not in town. I had asked Sylvie to come and join us, but she's out of town right now.
 I was going to say a shout-out real quick to Thea Chambers, who brought this to the Sports Commission and said, this event is going to grow, where I first got to talk to you and Victor about this program. And people don't understand that you have to be truly one of the elites for the NFL to say, we not only want to come help you with this, but we want to take a look at who's refereeing so we can recruit future NFL refs.
 and future Division I college. When you see them on TV, there's a good chance that somebody that came through El Paso is on that television refereeing. And I want to thank you for keeping it in El Paso, being not only in El Paso but keeping this in El Paso.
 because I do know that there have been other people's flirting with this event to take it somewhere else and El Paso should be proud of this this is one of the secret gems we don't know what happens it's kind of behind the scenes but the truth is is if you're in the referee business you know it happens and you can't wait to come to El Paso and I want to thank you for that you're welcome and just a highlight Karina Tovar she was hired out of El Paso last year she is the next female referee in the NFL and she will be here this weekend
 Thank you. As part of our staff. And to our friend Victor, may God bless you. Thank you. And Sylvia. Thank you. With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the resolution on item 17. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. For the record, Representative Salcido joined the meeting at 10.04 a.m. Thank you, Ms. Parn. We're ready.
 Yes sir, would you like to go back to the consent agenda? Please ma'am. Thank you. In council, per the rules of order, no use of personal cellular devices nor personal communication should take place on the dais while the meeting is in session. Once you obtain the floor from the presiding chair, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. You may speak twice per item. Please speak into the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the dais while the meeting is in session.
 For those of you joining virtually, please make sure your microphones are on mute to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Page 8, item 21, revise per economic and international development. And that revision is to strike out the words US Highway 54 and replace with Gateway Boulevard North. Page 10, item 29, postpone for two weeks per tax office. Page 10, item 30, postpone two weeks per tax office. And also, Ms. Prine, if we can move animal services till after lunch.
 Yes, sir. Because they have the veterinarian is in surgery right now. Yes, sir. Thank you. We do have public comment on the items on the consent agenda. On item number four we have Ms. Patricia Osmond and item four is that the solid waste liens on the attachment posted with the agenda be approved. Good morning, Ms. Osmond. You have three minutes. Good morning again. Unfortunately, I'm here again.
 You know, I had some questions in regards to this one. I was looking at the attachments and it seems as though they're for, leans on people's residential home. Is that for cleaning up people's yards? And if so, is there any way that I could request that our representatives instead of expenses for Easter egg hunts and volunteers and snacks for the volunteers to fill eggs.
 could they perchance do some organization where you do some volunteer get togethers and help some of your elderly citizens, some other citizens help clean up these yards so that these people don't incur these liens on their properties? Because that, by what I'm reading and how they're listed in regards to addresses, some in my district,
 It appears as though they're their liens on Personal property is is that how I'm reading that in regards to the solid waste. It's a lot of different things for sauce But that's just not one thing on that. It's not just home such properties and Okay, but is that for cleanup? Okay, so is that any way we could request our representatives so instead of the wasting expenses on filling eggs for stuff like that
 Maybe really help your citizens and organize some cleanup with some of the homes in your areas because there are residents, senior citizens, and disabled people that don't have the funds to hire somebody to go do that. And then instead they're going to end up with a lien from the city. I'm just hoping that, you know, put that out there as a nice suggestion to actually help the citizens versus a PR stunt with Easter egg. Thank you for that, Ms. Hossman.
 I think you're also on the next item seven miss Osman. Yes miss Osmond signed up on item seven Which is a resolution that the mayor be authorized to sign an intergovernmental support agreement Between the city of El Paso and the United States to provide animal control services Through its Department of Animal Services to Fort Bliss in the city of El Paso. Sorry I thought y'all were gonna do five and six but so one is
 Find that a disgrace. I don't think the city citizens should be in taxpayers should be subsidizing for bliss and the reason being But the reason being we're not they're paying our cost that they're we're not we're not paying it for him That's why it's an this is the thing is that for bliss used to have their own animal shelter and their own regulations for their own families on base they had higher regulations when they had their own shelter and
 that when those families MOS'd out, they didn't just dump these pets into our community, which is what's causing a lot of the issue with our shelter and pets on the street and so forth. If you're on any of the social media, you will see, even on Fort Bliss, all of these stray pets that were dumped because somebody MOS'd out. So I don't think the city...
 should be doing that. The city should force Fort Bliss to open up its own shelter as it once had on the old Fort Bliss property because we didn't have as much issue and we didn't have the same dumping of pets from families on Fort Bliss
 When they MOS out, whether it's overseas or anywhere else, they decide, hey, I'm a little lonely and that I'm in a town I really don't like. I'm going to get a pet as company. But then when they leave, either to go back home or whatever else, they dump the pet. And that's a disgrace. And we should not be facilitating them doing that. We should force Fort Bliss to open up their shelter again. That would help our streets.
 And honestly, reduce costs for all the citizens. Thank you. And Fort Bliss and El Paso is one community. El Paso is Fort Bliss and Fort Bliss is El Paso. And we're not, we're charging them what it costs us? One, it's not. Okay. That is why they have the mall on base to try to keep the residents on base. Ms. Osmond, well, you were talking out and interrupting, and I'm going to respect the same thing, or I'll turn your microphone off, because I was very respectful to you. Now, I'm speaking, and I'm
 I would ask you to respect the same way I respected you. And Fort Bliss is a good partner and will continue to be good partners with Fort Bliss. And the MOU helps us to be good partners and helps them to be able to do different things, which is protect our nation, protect our borders, and continue to be part of our community. There's 35,000 men and women that live in El Paso that proudly call El Paso their home, and El Paso is very proud of them. And I grew up on base.
 my mom then you know exactly what i'm talking about yes okay and quite frankly a lot of what you're talking about is not exactly the truth no it is the truth miss osmond thank you though for contradicting the great job and the
 And I think we have our your time's up. Thank you miss Osman But I am proud that Fort Bliss calls El Paso their home and I'm proud that we're great partners and great neighbors And we had a great evening on Saturday with Fort Bliss honoring the military So thank you for that and I didn't see you out there miss Osman It would have been great to be out there to celebrate and respect our military on Friday night It was Armed Forces Day. So thank you. There was a motion made by Mayor pro Tim Kennedy seconded by
 I'm not sure who seconded the consent agenda. Representative Hernandez to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. We now continue with the agenda on page number six, item number 18.
 Item number 18 is discussion in action to approve a resolution that City Council accepts the recommendation from the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and hereby approves the naming of the Multipurpose Recreation Center located at 9031 Viscount Boulevard within the city of El Paso, El Paso County, Texas as Michelle T. Ajamian Recreation Center. And this item was submitted by Representative Hernandez.
 Mayor may I be recognized? I'm sorry, Representative Adlandos. I was just still thinking about Fort Bliss, sorry. Oh no, you're okay. So I just wanted to provide a little bit of context to the process of the naming of the multi-purpose center.
 Currently, it has various amenities within the multipurpose center. It has an aquatic center. It's a therapeutic pool. It's one of the only therapeutic pools that the city has. It's an inventory pool.
 and lots of persons with disabilities including senior citizens they they take advantage of it because it is very helpful with their overall wellness and it does have bars inside the pool and it's just really a wonderful asset for that neighborhood
 And it has a basketball court, it has conference rooms, and the exterior has a community garden. And one of the reasons why the recreation center is so successful is because of the Neighborhood Association and their involvement, which is the Sylvester Neighborhood Association.
 And in that community, one of our wonderful leaders, her name is Michelle T. Ajaymian. She has always been a strong advocate, not only for the users, but for improving the overall center. She is also the daughter of the president and the vice president of the Silla Vista Neighborhood Association.
 It is through the Neighborhood Association, and they had worked with the residents in the neighborhood, and they had asked for that center to be named. It currently does not have a name, and a lot of people call it the MPC, but that word is kind of taken, that acronym. So there was a strong desire in light of the newly renovations of that site. We're really excited that it's getting ready to open.
 I'M ALSO PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THAT THE NAMING WILL BE AT NO COST TO THE TAXPAYER. THE GENEROUS SPONSORSHIP OF MARATHON PETROLEUM TO RENAME THAT IS UNDERWAY AND ALL OF THE SIGNAGE IS ON ORDER AND SO WE'RE REALLY THRILLED THAT THIS COMMUNITY EFFORT GARNERED SO MUCH SUPPORT. AND I'LL READ THE RESOLUTION INTO THE RECORD.
 You may remember Michelle. She has come several times to City Council. She is a strong advocate for disability rights. She has served on some of our accessibility organizations. She was a long-tenured member there.
 She passed away last year. She just celebrated her heavenly birthday last month in April. And their family really wants to not only honor her legacy, but they wanna continue to make sure that they are champions of disability rights. The Multipurpose Center is going to be the new home of our adults with disabilities.
 and that currently that program is housed out of the Valle Bajo Community Center but because of all of the amenities that this site offers they'll be relocating once it's open to the public which will be in June. There'll be a public ceremony and we invite the city council and the mayor to participate as well as the public.
 The Ejamian family is not here. Unfortunately, they became very ill. And so they are watching online. So hello to the Ejamian family online. And I'll read the resolution into the record now. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the city council of the city of El Paso.
 That City Council accepts the recommendation from the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and hereby approves the naming of the Multipurpose Recreation Center located at 9031 Vican Boulevard within the City of El Paso, El Paso County, Texas as Michelle T. Ajaymian Recreation Center.
 and that michelle i a jamien applicant or excuse me michael i jamien applicant father of michelle shall incur the customary costs associated with the naming of the park such as installing replacing signs with the park name and any other signs posted and affix it at to a facility any proposed signs shall be reviewed and agreed upon by both parks and recreation uh
 department and applicant and as I mentioned to you before Marathon will be covering those costs and so I'm very thrilled and honored to make a motion to approve Thank you. Yes, sir. We have miss Osmond that's signed up to speak on item 18. I
 Good morning again. Ms. Hernandez, I want to thank you for that. My uncle used to be on the board of that. I myself have used the facilities there along with my aunt. After I became disabled, I have not always been this way. My aunt was the very first non-geriatric full hip replacement in the nation when she was 15. Her husband was on the board.
 I'm very familiar with the facility. I'm very glad that it's finally being named. There have been upgrades to it. So this is actually a thank you for that. I'm not here to be argumentative always. Sometimes, you know what, those people who do good need to be called out for it as well as those who don't. So thank you. Thank you, ma'am.
 Yes, sir. There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares to approve the resolution on item 18. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 19. Item 19 is presentation of the Sociable City Assessment Action Plan by the Responsible Hospitality Institute with the Code Enforcement Bureau and the El Paso Police Department.
 good morning mayor and council steve alvarado code enforcement director with the el paso police department if you all can hear me um well here we are it's been about a year since we were directed to come back from council for your direction and look at uh recommendations that will be presented today on the sociable city um this acts action plan excuse me so
 Although it says action plan, there will be no actions taken. There will be full recommendations only today. So today with us we have members of our transformation team and coordinating team. I would ask if they could come and introduce themselves. They put a lot of hours into it, a lot of effort, and we're still moving forward. So please come and introduce yourselves. Good morning. Veronica Lopez, PD Code Enforcement. Good morning. Danny Soto, Code Manager. Good morning.
 Good morning, Chief. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Victor Salud, Executive Assistant Chief. Good morning, Lieutenant Milner, Westside Regional Command. Good morning. Good morning. Omar Esparza, Night Enforcement Team Supervisor. Good morning. Good morning. Steve Lopez, Westside Regional Command Center. Good morning, sir. Joe Gudenrath, Downtown Management District. With us today is just a small portion. We had over 115 participants in this project.
 many meetings up to 29 meetings both mostly in person and some online These meetings will continue. So this project doesn't stop here today We have a meeting tomorrow at the Municipal Service Center located at 79 68 San Paulo Drive in between Yarborough and Lafayette that will start at 1 o'clock tomorrow and that's at RHI summit with the participants But anyways, welcome to participate as well and moving forward June 26
 We will have another meeting with the bar owners, restaurant owners, property owners and the residents in our city to continue this process. TS, if you could bring up the presentation please. Thank you. And I'd like to introduce Ms. Jocelyn Kane with the Responsible Hospitality Institute. That is a consultant that we retain to look at this project. Jocelyn? Hello. How are you all today?
 Thanks for having me here. I am told I can't control this presentation, so I will just ask for the next slide. Oh, there is, so I can. Fantastic. This slide is here obviously because you want to know that this work is in alignment with your strategic goals, so there they are, to set the standard for a safe and secure city.
 and all of the things that go with that. We are a nonprofit. Again, my name's Jocelyn Kane. The Responsible Hospitality Institute is a mouthful, so we like to say RHI. We were founded in 1983.
 with this mission to assist business and communities to create safe and vibrant places so safety is really important obviously vibrancy is as well so we are great supporters of your city and your nightlife we are the leading american north american source of events and resources and consultations so thank you for bringing us to el paso
 We were brought here and while you have a very big city and lots of nightlife, oops, there we go. We needed to kind of narrow down a little bit so we really focused on the DMD as well as the Cincinnati area. But we believe that all of our work pertains citywide. So what we found, I think you can generalize.
 We did do as an aside and I'm not gonna go into detail with it today An analysis with city data that was provided to us on sort of storefronts to sort of get a sense right of where is the social venues where is your Nightlife and sociability spaces and We were able to sort of get like data drives right lots of change so this is just a little bit of it that shows you and
 kind of the social venues take up quite a bit of that storefront area in the Cincinnati study area and those borders that we chose. And then in the downtown as well, right, quite a lot of that storefront area is social spaces. When we look at those two together, we can see, right, an occupancy, and that is 
 ostensibly right every venue for that's two capacity and so we see however that the majority of your venues are in the downtown and a quarter of them are in cincinnati but we do hear a lot about the problems right in cincinnati and the issues and the safety issues um so we wanted to dig in because the numbers don't really aren't matching right the narrative
 So this is really helpful and again there's more data, a lot more data that the code has to work through this and to continue to look at data. Just to review, we came three times, this is my fourth time to do
 really largely a community engagement process. We can come to you and say we've done this for 40 years, like we know all the ways to fix El Paso, but we don't. We have to hear from your residents and we have to hear from your community and not just bars and cops, we have to hear from everybody. So we come and we do meetings and virtual meetings and on-site meetings and more meetings and follow-up meetings with people. So there's quite a lot that we did
 when we came, and I'm gonna go through, also we stayed out till close. And hopefully you guys have been out till close relatively recently. And if you haven't, it's really important to go out into your social venues, even if your better days are behind you in terms of late nights. We have to go out and see what's really happening. So we were out there.
 We did ride alongs, we just hung out, we went to Cincinnati and we stayed till 3 a.m. And then we did tour the other clusters of nightlife in the city. This is a bunch of the participants, but I want you to also look at those
 you know, categories of how many other people are engaged in this work and in having a sociable city, everybody has to be included. So it's complicated, right? It takes a village. So how do we do this work? We put a framework around it and we create sort of building blocks and then we work downward from that.
 Governance is you all, super important, people who make policy and do enforcement. But we also want to look at planning for people. We want to look at safety, in particular indoors, inside venues and outside venues. And we want to look at what we consider like vibrancy. So we break it down even further into what we call these six core measures. So mobility, right? How do people come and go?
 from your social areas and what kind of issues are we seeing about like because they can't come and go easily, right? So we can talk about that. Like quality of life is what it sounds like. It's sound. And I won't say noise. I say sound. That's just my pet peeve because some people's sound is other people's noise and vice versa.
 Obviously we look at again public safety and venue safety as separate but working together and then we look at how is the public space used and then what are your venues doing and not doing that we think they should be doing. So the plan is this pretty document that hopefully you all got a copy of it's very heavy but it's got a lot of pictures so it's not super hard to read. It's also online for anybody who's watching in a couple of places so you can look it up and
 print it out, just read it. Just to start on the positive, I
 El Paso is fantastic. I'd never been here before, and now we've been here quite a few times. But what a wonderful place. Diversity of options and dining. Lots of Mexican food. Great. But all kinds of other food. Super progressive and inclusive. Love that. The TRA gave us numbers that there's 1,400 food-serving businesses that employ 32,000 people. I bet there's a lot more in your sociable spaces if we were to do a really robust study.
 growth market we see in daytime, not just nighttime. So when we talk about sociability, we don't constantly want to talk about nightlife. We want to talk about daylife as well and events and things that happen in the day. And then you guys are really rebounding. We heard earlier about your hotel capacities, like your stays are going up and your downtown has rebounded quite a bit. So that's amazing post-COVID.
 Again, I'm just going to dive into these actions. I am aware you guys hopefully have seen some of this and read some of this, so I'm not going to spend a ton of time. But the actions are on the slides. The report has lots of implementation in it. So if you dig in and you really want to read how do we do these things, we really do spell out steps to take.
 as you want to pursue any of these actions. So the first one is to hire what we call a nighttime economy manager. You can call it a sociability economy manager. You can call it whatever you want to, but it's somebody from within the government who's not an enforcement person, right, who's not public safety per se, to...
 be the person who can liaise with all of those different folks that we saw on that previous slide to create change to come to policy to figure out what the problem is to dig in right to go through the emotional stuff and get to the heart of the matter We also suggest that you enhance your TABC license review and I'll just go through these relatively quickly That you elevate what you already have which is a local alcohol license we found
 Right, that there's not so many mechanisms to communicate to businesses what you expect of them from early on as well as while they're in operation. So we feel like that is a place that this could really happen. And then being more proactive and upfront about.
 businesses that are opening not waiting till they open stumbling on them or having a complaint and then going oh you didn't know this you didn't know this you didn't know this we need to see about the systems as they come to your city to open where are those touch points where you can really build sort of concierge right type service I hope I'm not are you all good you follow me
 governance in the social economy again enhancing collaboration between tabc venues in the city everybody works in silos that's just the way government is but we can try to work to break those silos down and everyone is going to the same place where venues want to thrive they want to make money you want them to be safe you want them to be making community better not taking away from it so
 working together as a group on a regular basis again we're gonna talk about this some more revising your noise ordinance or sound ordinance is my
 you know, word choice, to mitigate sound proactively. Again, not to wait until you've got problems and complaints, but to proactively be clear and consistent about what your expectations are and your enforcement. And then I know this is on the agenda, right? Revise the outdoor amplified sound ordinance. Those are different, right? The noise ordinance and the amplified sound ordinance are two different things. Sometimes people lump them together, but they're not.
 So to look at those loopholes and expand the scope. So again, you've got tools in your toolbox. Mobility actions, really quickly, right? Create a rideshare hub so that people know, right, how to get home safely, to stop driving. The car is a very consistent...
 you know, thing here in El Paso. We want to get people out of their vehicles if they're not in shape to drive them. We heard quite a bit, and these actions again come from these meetings. They didn't come from us. They came from the people who live here and work here and use these spaces. To increase the use of the Mesa Street Garage, which is there and in proximity to Cincinnati area, but not used as much as it could be.
 And to strengthen parking enforcement to deter patrons from parking in Kern where we have you know, we continue to hear complaints and
 OTHER ISSUES OF EXPANDING NOTIFICATION. IN PARTICULAR RESIDENTS WERE CLEAR THAT THEY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW MORE IN ADVANCE, RIGHT, ABOUT ALCOHOL LICENSING AND SOUND ORDINANCE, LIKE APPLICATIONS THAT COME THAT MAY IN FACT IMPACT THEM AND HOPEFULLY ALSO MAYBE TO SUPPORT THEM AS WELL AS WEIGH IN ON THEIR CONCERNS. AND THEN COORDINATE MORE FREQUENT TRASH PICKUPS. THIS IS NOT ROCKET SCIENCE.
 enhancing public safety and I think we've got lots of police brass here to talk about the creation of a specialized hospitality unit this is already happening here which is so exciting to create community policing appropriate community policing for the social clusters not just downtown and Cincinnati of course but all of your social clusters
 to establish quarterly forums and facilitate safety and venue communication. That means talk to the folks that are serving alcohol and creating your social economy. You have to stay in communication, and particularly with the police being the folks out there at night, on a regular basis just have communication, whatever it looks like.
 continue the connectivity you have between the city and Fort Bliss because Fort Bliss does provide patrons to your city's nightlife and social spaces but they also need to know what is happening with those folks right under their command
 Creating a protocol for police for bar checks that is consistent and again that can be communicated in advance so that everybody knows What happens if it's your turn to get a bar check right? What is gonna happen not just
 to not consistently do the same thing and then have operators just confused about what is happening and why you're in my venue. And then, if possible, to create a no loitering ordinance. In the report, it talks about the scoping of that in terms of being very narrow to facilitate that closing time egress because people standing around sort of because the party was
 outside waiting for the party inside to come outside is a problem. So if you can do something like that in a narrow way, typically it doesn't get challenged legally. Venue safety
 pertains to what can the venues do? What can the venues do around their own safety personnel? So we did not see sort of baseline safety standards. We saw very inconsistent use of security when we went venue to venue because we were critically looking, right, for this. So we want to elevate that job of being a security officer, not say it's a
 you know the door guy because that's not very professional uh we want to like give them right they are the first point of contact and they communicate what is the way you should act inside this venue they need to be communicating however they do it that this is a safe place and we care about our patrons and everybody needs to act as such or right there you won't be able to stay and then
 Again, sexual violence prevention programs for venues. There's lots of, we do a women's safety focus group when we come to a city. So we did get a lot of feedback from women specifically about how they feel out in your nightlife. That's not to say there is sexual violence going on in El Paso. That is not what I mean. Just having prevention programs and awareness for venues is really important.
 The nightlife operators themselves, I met with them twice, if not three times. I met with quite a few bar owners and restaurant owners to talk to them about the importance of this item, which is to create an El Paso Nightlife Association. I believe they need a voice.
 not individually coming to you or calling your offices, but together. They need to put their agenda forward and say what it is they need so that you can decide whether you can meet some of those things or meet in the middle.
 Promote social venues to visitors some more. So, engage visit and all the destination marketing organizations here to not just go to the hotel and the hotel bar, but really push them into all of the parts of your social economy.
 And then facilitate some recreational activities for youth because we did hear in some of our groups that kids who can't get into these nightlife establishments are just hanging around and they can cause problems. So they need options in the evening hours because they're not just going to stay home.
 Public space is what we consider the right of way, the sidewalk, so balance event vibrancy with safety needs. And that really means not just saying yes to every event that comes, but making sure the events that you permit and have here, that there's enough resources in your safety personnel to make sure they're safe and really positive environments.
 and you know think about that because we see this quite a bit around the country where people are using event events outdoor events to bring their downtowns back but they're not minding the fact that you still need police and fire and coat you need support services to make those events safe and then strategic lighting and parking garage improvements there are like some sort of
 like dark spots, like dead spots that make people sort of stop and turn around when they could keep going to see something else. So to enhance that pedestrian experience. And I know Joe's always looking for probably ways to do that and funding to do that downtown. So that is a lot of talking. Again, the report is hopefully in your hands and up there in a couple of places. And then this, I don't know, Steve, you want to
 Jump in on this. This is all you. I also just want to say this was such a great coordinating team. Your code and your police and everyone we worked with was amazing. Like, we don't  that's not  I don't say that to everybody at all. They were engaged, and they remain engaged, and I think there's going to be some really cool stuff. So thanks so much. Thank you, Jocelyn. Appreciate that.
 So a lot of information to process by all means. Of course, just as a reminder, you know, there's no action taken, no voting today. We look towards you for recommendations, guidance on how you want us to proceed with this project. And again, this project will continue with multiple meetings
 inviting everybody to the table, public, bar owners, Texas Restaurant Association, DMD, everybody is welcome. So these are some of the staff recommendations. First one is to enhance the sound ordinance. That'd be an overall look at it, see where we can improve what can be done. That'll take some time working with our awesome legal team who has been a wonderful participant in this project as well.
 Expand the notification area for residents. So by that we mean currently if a liquor license comes in for a bar restaurant Whatever may be even a circle K or some some type of fast market Residents within 150 feet have the ability to protest the permit you need 25% of that area so if there's four houses one person has to protest and and
 basically may be declined at that point. So we're asking maybe expand that area to the full 300 feet so everybody 300 feet get notified but 150 feet have the ability to appeal or protest the license.
 Again, a nighttime economy ambassador, manager, mayor, whatever we would like to term that person. Create a ride share hub. We're already working on this already. We're looking at creating a ride share hub in the Cincinnati area. So specifically people can just go catch their Uber instead of wandering the streets, stopping traffic, going into traffic, because we want that as well.
 something that we recommended we take action on create a Specialized hospitality unit that's kind of being done already, but we're looking towards long-term placement of that team
 Also, created administrative civil citation process. Currently we issue notices of violations. As code officers, we're not peace officers, so we do not issue Class C citations. Only law enforcement officers can do that. This is an alternative. These are just tools, recommendations that we're providing right now. Some of the actions that we did take already within code enforcement that didn't require council approval was to a notification system.
 any license renewal our new application so the powers that be police department code enforcement knows that a new liquor license is going in at this location it may be a bar or maybe something you know gas station something along that convenience store
 That's yeah that's right. Thank you. Next slide. So from report to action already underway TABC all the license renewal on premise. That was the email. One Stop Shop was critical on this. Thanks to Philip and his team Tony for making this happen. Brenda Cantu was instrumental so that allows us the notification that a new liquor license has coming into a certain address. So we know beforehand what we're finding before was.
 coming across a bar that's opening and nobody knew from law enforcement perspective or fire marshals that this was coming actually fire marshals did get a plan check on that so they had some notification.
 Fort Bliss has extended an open invitation for the cities to attend for all the newcomers. So PDA is working with them to do presentations. I think they're looking at a video presentation as well. Hey welcome to our city. These are the places to go enjoy yourself but this is how we should be you know participating and you know getting along with the neighborhood if you will.
 Also, we also had a cross-functional team, police, code, fire, health, TABC, DMD. We want to continue that. Like I said, this doesn't stop here today. Tomorrow we have the RHI Summit. And then June 26th we're going to have continued meetings at the Blue Flame Building downtown on the 17th floor. For all the participants, the public is welcome to attend that as well.
 That was the scheduled meeting there. The hub, the rideshare hub that's been proposed, vetted, and of course near term actions and near sound ordinance revisions and council guidance as previously stated. We look towards you for guidance and direction and we'll take it from there. At this time I'll open it up to any questions that you may have. Thank you.
 Great presentation. Thank you for this. You can see all the work you've done and all the thoughts and how you've, you know, given us a lot of food for thought to look at. So I thank you for that. Can you expand a little bit on the Fort Bliss partnerships? I think that's really, really important to us. Certainly. Lieutenant Miller? Yes. Thank you.
 Lieutenant Milner is an appointed contact for. Good morning. Good morning. Your question was? The Fort Bliss partnership. Can you explain the partnership and how we're going to move forward with it?
 So we've been speaking with Fort Bliss, we've been holding quarterly meetings with Fort Bliss. Fort Bliss actually works with us in a lot of the social venues. Every weekend they've been instrumental, they've been out there. Those issues that come up in the entertainment, or excuse me, social venues, they don't require an arrest. Then Fort Bliss has been instrumental in taking those soldiers out of the area, and so we've been meeting with them quarterly.
 is there any charts to the city as they work with us to come out here and work with us
 Are they charging us? No. No, sir. It's called a partnership? Partnership. Right. Yes. And we have an ongoing partnership with them. And this is DOD police and military police. And they drive the area every weekend. That's great. Yes, sir. That's really good to hear. It's been very, very good for them to work with us because they're able to do things that we cannot enforce. Thank you very much. Yes, sir. Representative Furrow. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you very much for the presentation and thank you all and your team for visiting with us on our briefing with our office. It was very informative. A couple of questions for you. I really appreciate that this is a living document and you're giving the opportunity not only to Council,
 the city manager, city attorney, but also to the stakeholders to continue to have input and continue to shape it into what we want or anticipate in the future. Were you comfortable, just a couple of questions, and you don't have to be specific, but were you comfortable with the participation from the community and the stakeholders up to this point? It's a great question, Representative Fierro.
 I would like to see more participation we were comfortable we had a great participation very diverse different perspectives different conversations which we all learn from and we want to continue this we hope that more bar owners more property owners and more residents come out so we can continue this conversation it was a great turnout I'm not disappointed at all but
 I'm always a person of perspective. We could always do better. I can always do better. So we'll continue this and strive for more participation. Thank you so much. And I like to take this opportunity to challenge the community, the restaurants, the bar owners to participate and to shake the trees up, really get in there, have their voices heard
 I'm sure as you were visiting the different locations, different bars, you were met with some negativity. I'm sure it wasn't all positive and sparklers and cheers. Can you share some of the negative comments or input you've got from, received from the restaurants and bars?
 Yes of course. We're not out to get anybody. I want to make that clear. We're not here to shut down any business. We want the business community to thrive as well as our residents. So we're looking for that common ground where we could all just coexist. A lot of times the bars they feel that we are after them targeting them and just trying to get them in a citation. If they're under the decibel limit of 70.0 we just keep on going. You know we're not here to cite anybody.
 But we do issue sites. I'm not going to deny that. But and we'll continue to do it. We're out there Wednesday through Saturday nights till 2 a.m. on Friday nights Friday and Saturday nights. So we want to continue this participation. Part of these meetings what I envision
 with the bars residents owners community participation is having you know presentations okay this is code this is how we use our sound meters this is how we calibrate it every night we calibrate our sound meters so if you're under so we were hoping that maybe they'll do some self policing get their own meters and maybe the doorman could say hey we're at 72 it's lowered a little bit so we don't get a violation so and that's what I envision I'm hoping to get to
 that point at some time in the future. As you're making these visits, have you received any input that you've implemented into the plan? Have the bar owners, restaurant owners, come up with ideas that they have in place that can help other bar owners and restaurants? Thank you, Lieutenant. Thank you, Lieutenant.
 Yes sir. So on that. Yes we we've had we began meetings. So many of the things that RHI is proposing we're already doing those things. And so some of the bar owners did meet with us and ask us a little bit about different ways of providing training to their staff safety for the patrons. We can go into pat downs and looking through property. Well to look at purses pat downs so forth.
 So yes, a lot of those things are already being implemented. Thank you, Lieutenant. Just a couple more questions, and I know that I'm getting, I probably used at least two minutes of my 10 minute time, so I need to speed up a little bit. Can you share, just in closing,
 As we're moving forward, can you share the data that you're receiving? For example, the new licenses, the bar licenses that are being requested through the city and through TABC, can you share them with council as they come up to give us a heads up that they're going to potentially open in our district? And then as we move forward, other data that you're coming across, have you seen 
 the complaints drop, have you seen them increase? Those are all, that's information I think could be very helpful to us as a council. Certainly, as far as the first question, Representative Fierro, sharing the data, that's already in process, so we had a couple of representatives say can we separate it by district, and I found out we can do that, so there's a ticket in place with our IT department to make that happen. So if you receive emails about a new convenience store coming in, it's gonna be a LALC number,
 That's that's the acronym they use for a liquor license. You'll be seeing that shortly hopefully within the next few weeks or so that'll become a jury you know box so you know what's coming in.
 Previous trends from 2019 to 2023 we had multiple teams from a code enforcement perspective going out so it would be a volunteer over time. So we had different officers going out so we sometimes get different results when you have different people. Since we've created the nighttime enforcement team in June of last year it's been the same team members very consistent.
 Same protocols are followed and also making relationships with all the bar owners. So we want to continue the relationship. So we'll have a team swap coming this June. We'll have a new nighttime enforcement team with new members coming on board, but they'll be assigned there for a year moving forward.
 THE CONSISTENCY IS WHAT'S IMPORTANT, BUILDING THOSE RELATIONSHIPS SO THEY'RE SEEING THE SAME FACES, THEY KNOW WHO TO CALL, SUPERVISOR OR SENIOR OR CODE OFFICER OR THE CODE OFFICER DIRECTLY. AND WE HOPE TO BRING THAT TO THE MEETINGS AS WELL. SO INTRODUCE, YOU KNOW, WE'RE NOT HERE TO GET YOU, WE'RE HERE TO HELP YOU, IF THAT MAKES SENSE. THANK YOU. AND LASTLY, MAYOR, WHEN YOU ALL CAME TO OUR COMMUNITY MEETING, THANK YOU VERY MUCH. IT WAS A CONFIDENCE.
 Great presentation. But one of the things you emphasized was our partnership with Fort Bliss and how the MPs or the military police were there to help, to guide, to 
 help with the young soldiers and to work with our community. Right sir. So if I could expand on that. When we did the town hall meetings what we were what we were trying to let you all know is that we do have a great working relationship with Fort Bliss. Fort Bliss right now is doing courtesy patrols.
 And that's them having some senior officers come out there at the social venues on the weekends just to make sure that they address anything before issues, before they become incidents. And then second, one of the things that we're already doing, and we're actually getting ready to begin briefings. Fort Bliss soldiers come in on a weekly basis, and they have the newcomers briefing, and we'd like to be part of that.
 Explain what the city of El Paso has to offer some of the nice places to go and those issues that we're seeing and Right shares. I mean everything that we're doing. We're going to be able to explain it to them. Thank you very much mayor I'm gonna defer my eight minutes to my next question. Thank you. Thank you for that you know one of the things as represent fair was talking it kind of and
 thought of one of the things we kept hearing was the base the noise the base on noise that you can do the meter and it won't show the decibels that's required to turn it down but it yet carries a lot further and bounces off the wall so we determine how to work with that so that is one of the recommendations mayor um currently we enforce the a um noise ordinance so
 treble mid-range bases along the sea level one of the recommendations in this report is to include a sea enforcement Once we're given the direction we'll get the research We'll find out what that number should be and then we'll come back to you and present it at that time But that is one of the recommendations for the base as base travels different from the other Frequencies a and there's also a Z rating as well. Thank you for that because I know that's been something that gets me below the radar Basically as you would say
 Sure, creating a vibration Canales followed by Representative, I saw little Thank You mayor Yeah, I've read very carefully through the through the report. There are a lot of really excellent recommendations that our H is put together and the entire team have put together And again, it's a it's a thick it's a thick report 90 90 plus page 93 pages and
 So there's a lot of information to digest and an action plan that I think, again, not an action plan, it's a set of recommendations that I think we can develop into a really effective action plan. So thank you for everybody who worked really hard on it and everybody from the community who turned out to the meetings, who provided their input and worked on this plan.
 I will say that I feel like there is one piece that is missing. I'm looking back at the award of the solicitation when the council first awarded this to RHI, and one of the things that was included in that was recommendations for noise remediation and standards. And I don't necessarily feel that we have gotten back the proposed standards.
 By that I mean numbers in a sound ordinance. I understand that now that falls on us there are not recommendations for noise ordinance adjustments it recommends that we make adjustments but doesn't give us the recommended adjustments and so I understand that's on us. Thank you to Mr. Alvarado I asked him if I could borrow a decibel reader.
 How's that working, sir? And it's working great. So I've had it for the last few days. I plan to go around and take a lot of ambient readings in preparation for hopefully quickly coming back with an implementation plan for a lot of the recommendations from RHI, but also potentially based on what the readings show. And I do want to base it on RHI.
 readings and a scientific process. Sure. Recommendations for a potential adjustment to the noise ordinance. I've been doing a lot of reading about noise ordinances in both major cities across the country and similarly sized and positioned cities across the country. You know, I think there are some easy ones to look at that aren't necessarily super comparable, but even in large cities where a lot of noise is probably expected.
 The levels are significantly lower or at least somewhat lower than what we allow here. In New York City the noise limit is 65 decibels during the day and 55 at night. In L.A. it's 50 during the day and 40 at night. In Chicago it's 55 during the day and 50 at night. And then again I looked at other similarly sized to us
 In Tucson, for example, 70 decibels what we have today, but only until 10 p.m. and then 62 after 10 p.m. Colorado Springs, 55 during the day and 50 at night. Albuquerque, also similar. I believe it's 55 during the day and 50 at night. We have a 70 decibel limit across the board. It puts El Paso,
 right near the top of of what's permissible in municipalities across the country. And I think that has a lot to do with some of the strife that we've seen between residents and you know social establishments and this kind of social clusters that have emerged across the city a lot of them in really close proximity to two residential properties.
 A lot of that is in my district just by the quirk of our districts. You know I have Cincinnati area the entirety of the Mesa corridor I have downtown and I have half of five points. These are a lot of the places where these these conflicts are happening and I do think.
 Not nothing nothing crazy nothing overly done but I think there are sensible reductions or changes to the decibel limits that we could we could implement that will make sense and again I plan to go out and maybe I'll be wrong. I'll do my readings and I won't see that but I do want to do a pretty comprehensive survey of at least the areas in my district. It looked like you wanted to respond.
 I just do because I felt like, so I think it's like the very end of the report, like 86, 87, there was like a whole appendix to try to, because it's a complicated thing, but that there is no magic numbers. And what I want you to think about from my perspective is not what other cities' numbers look like, but what is it you're trying to preserve? What are the goals you're trying to reach? And then,
 What is it that in particular right is the nuisance you're trying to abate as opposed to suggesting that all of El Paso should be under the same number. I just want you to be mindful that like so Austin's 85. Let me say and then also where they have
 places of music and vibrancy. They wanna protect and preserve those. And to empower folks with a number across the city is a dangerous way to move so that you might think about like more finely tuning how you use the sound ordinance for the particular goals, that's all.
 Yeah and I actually really love the idea of variable limits depending on the different types of approximate zoning districts. Yeah and if you can work with the enforcement folks so that this becomes something consistent and easy enough because that's the other piece of this it's one thing to have a.
 law and then it's another what does it look like an implementation so that you can move together towards can you Implemented if we do it this way is this gonna be harder right and and again from this space of no one's right And no one's wrong, but the compromises are in the center and everyone's a little mad But no one's a winner and a loser in this game because we all have to live together And these are right our cities and our venues and our neighborhoods. I
 Yeah, of course, and I agree with you. I still do feel that, again, 70 puts us right at the top, near the top of the range. I'm looking, you know, the CDC, the EPA, the Hearing Health Foundation, they all list 70 as the upper limit for safe hearing.
 safe decibel readings for people's hearing. I think pegging our upper limit to the very upper limit of what's considered safe for people's hearing is not necessarily the best practice. But again, I want to make sure that what we propose is reasonable. I think it
 There are some of the social clusters that function much better than others now and we need to look at why those ones are causing much fewer problems than some of the ones where we see a lot more of the problems and again a lot more of the citations ultimately being being issued there as well. So again I plan to come back quickly. I took two weeks probably isn't enough time but.
 I'm going to work on this to make sure that we come back with a with a clear direction for for staff with an implementation plan for a lot of what's in the in the book here but also potentially a change and again I think we'll have to workshop it as a as a council in that meeting and make sure that we come up with something that's reasonable for everybody. So thank you again for all the hard work and for RHI for being here many times over the last few months. I thought we had a really excellent
 community meeting with with people in my district and residents were there and bar owners were there and other folks too. It was really productive so it was good to see that kind of engagement. Thanks.
 Thank you representative. Just to build off of the tiered system that's one of the recommendations in this action plan is to depending on the proximity to residential motels hotels whatever it may be maybe the sound decibel limit is different. If you're 500 feet away or if you're in industrial zone maybe it's different at that time but we look towards counsel for guidance on that matter. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Thank you, and Representative Canales, you know, it is important to go out there and understand what's going on, and I had the opportunity to go out there and
 Start around midnight stay out there till about 2 in the morning and kind of see exactly what was going on and toward the Cincinnati area and then I went out to the downtown area So it's important to be out there and understand what y'all are doing and how it's working. So I agree with you It's hands-on and not secondhand information. It's a lot. It's very important. So thank you for that Thank you mayor
 I appreciate all the work that went into this. And I know we met and we kind of went in different tangents.
 during our meeting and so now that I've gotten an opportunity to completely read the report, I had a few questions and kind of wanted to pick your brain on those, including the consultants, if you want to come up at any time that you think there's an answer you might have. But one thing that I was looking at was
 revising the noise ordinance and doing the violations more as an administrative thing like a parking ticket. And so kind of how do you envision that, let's say somebody gets five of these administrative violations and they don't pay them or then they get 10, because you said it's a bigger success rate
 That they'll have to pay more as more kind of hang on or pile on I'm sorry And so I kind of wanted to get that perspective on certainly so I could give you from experience coming from California It's pretty much a given there. It just depends out of the ordinance going to be written So first violation typically in San Antonio. It's done this way, too. I
 Typically in California it was $100 the first violation, $200 second violation, third violation and everything after that is $500 each violation per day. After 30 days if it's not paid the violation fine doubles. So 100 becomes 200, 200 becomes 400, well we all know the math 500 becomes a thousand.
 It goes against a person, so it's a civil action. So if you cite Steve Alvarado, it's going after me. It's not going after the business in itself.
 And I have the opportunity to appeal that will be written into the ordinance if we do move forward with it depending on council guidance. So if I do want to appeal I pay the bond money up front so I'm going to pay a hundred dollar fine up front that goes to a third party third party hearing officer who is retained by city and we also process all these citations to a third party.
 a citation processing center that we used in California. They charge us a certain amount per citation. So there's a whole process built into it.
 Each day is a new fine each day is a new violation and it currently exists now so we give a notice of violation each and every day you know so sometimes I've seen where you know 11 o'clock we issue a citation for noise violations and we come back at 1 o'clock 1 30 in the morning they're still in violation that's a separate violation believe it or not so it's a new day so that's how we envision it if we do move forward.
 But these are some of the things that are pretty commonly used in California City of San Antonio also uses it in their method This
 system is simpler it's quicker and it doesn't include a court system that requires attorneys or individuals who are considered witnesses. Right. The way it works now is burdensome to everybody.
 And what you're really trying to do is change behavior. This is not about fines or making money. This is about do the right thing, because we don't really want to mess with this. But it's nimble, way more nimble than citations that pile up that go to a judge who has other things to do or looks at them as a whole. The more quickly you bring a venue to attention, if you will,
 The more they see, you see them. And then they tell their friends, like, this is not a joke, this is real. They respect each other, right? And they listen to each other, even if they're working on trust with the city. Quickly is really important. So having them adjudicate it quickly is really important, if that makes sense. Yeah, it does.
 With the nighttime association, I guess part of this, I kind of wanted to understand what kind of outreach she did to bar owners to make it to these almost 30 meetings that happened in the last months. Well, the coordinating team did a really good job and I think Joe Goodenrath helped quite a bit in trying to get the list of everyone we could get. And then I did two meetings specifically excluding Citi.
 I didn't want the city at these meetings with these borrowers because I wanted a really honest conversation, right? I didn't want any fear in there about what if I say this, what if I say that. And that is those two meetings, I think, I don't know, I talked to 30, 40, I mean, I talked to quite a few folks who have also multiple locations. So one person doesn't mean one venue. It could mean four.
 And try to be clear that we're not talking about creating a whole new association with dues or anything like that. Just simply organize yourself in some way, whether it's a Facebook group, could be that simple. To not just also like push back against things, but really again towards our agenda. Do we want to raise the level of bar service? Do we want to raise the level of security service? Do we want to get something from the city? Do we want to go, right?
 It's a little rabble-rousing in some way. It's a little bit of like, be an advocate for yourself. Don't be a victim. But again, I think we reached out, and we used the Texas Restaurant Association as well. Don Larios was part of our transformation team.
 So, you know, we did as much as we could in terms of trying to get people again without fear that the city was going to be there to retaliate in some way to come and engage this conversation and stay together. And I think, I don't know, Joe, are you going to get the downtown operators together again? Because we did one specifically right within DMD.
 So, I mean, that's what this is, just organizing, right? And were they open to the self-organizing on creating this association? I think so. I mean, again, like, they have to understand if they don't have a voice, then they lose. And if you're not at the table, you're on the menu. And that is how we have phrased it. And that's what happens a lot. There has to be trust building and communication with the city or else the city is just a gotcha.
 entity if that's not good for anybody so yeah I think so I think that leadership is really a big deal and if somebody doesn't step up to say yeah I got the time I could figure out how to be a leader and it doesn't really work so amongst them and maybe again if DMD is inclined as a neutral party I mean the other thing is if you think about hiring sort of a nighttime economy manager or a
 Nightmare or whatever you want to call it ambassador that could also be a part of their work is to Try to write Have quarterly meetings or whatever, but they're not wearing a badge There's someone who's sort of neutral to see who's rising to the top in terms of leadership these guys are my favorite people to work with but they're like radically independent as operators of venues and
 They only do is spend time in their venue and try to figure out how to make it work and they barely ever go to Their neighbors venues or like across town. They're not joiners. It's like herding cats someone needs to write to like get organize them and then a leader will evolve and
 Yeah, and I kind of have the same thought on the nighttime economic manager being a liaison between whatever Association may form and I think self-organized is a good thing Yeah, but I think one of the other things that I wasn't completely clear on was that there were advantages to not having them at the city and
 But then there was also disadvantage of having them at the DMD just because it's downtown and this would be citywide. So what could be a good proposal that kind of meets everything moving forward? Or is that the million dollar question?
 I'm not exactly sure I understand that question. Like a citywide association or? So except the nighttime manager would not, if there was pros and cons to having them work for the city, there were pros and cons to being at the DMD. So what is a good solution that kind of comes together in the middle? I had this job, right? I did that job for 15 years for the city of San Francisco.
 So my opinion and what I've seen and we've done studies on lots of cities that put them in different places is that inside a city manager's office, inside a more neutral but higher level city job is a better place for them because they need to be able to pick up a phone when they need fire stats or they need something maybe out of the box.
 sewer or like I don't know whatever and get a phone call back if you put them in a public safety space that doesn't work very well because they're not trusted right as being not just safety concerned and then you're right if it's the only issue right is funding so putting it in the DMD or having the DMD be part of it was just like it's a baby step because not all the cities have like the luxury and you're gonna go into your budget cycle soon enough
 to put a position like this I advocate for the purposes I think you understand of neutrality as well as a level of authority to put it in a place that right is a outside of a safety agency but inside the city government and I guess okay okay can I make one comment on that real quick sir
 When we looked at this overall plan, and I had staff take what is a very comprehensive plan and put it into something more actionable in terms of priorities, one of the things that resonated with me the most, I think, in looking at the actions was what we're having a conversation about right now, and that is call the individual what you want, whether it's a nighttime economy manager, whether it's an ombudsperson,
 When we've done this in the city and other areas, and we've created this individual, like we've done ombudspersons and planning and inspections, and it really reaped us a lot of benefits in working with
 know areas where we were having some problems within the development community and actually saw measurable improvements I agree that that this is probably one of the bigger actions that I want to take from this plan to put this in place because I think then you're doing a couple of things you're establishing a point of trust within the within these social settings and someone that's really focused on it but you're also creating an expectations and standards
 Well, and so you actually have somebody there that's that's focused on doing that. So, you know, I think it's it's a really important step It's something from a budget standpoint that I think that you know, we'll we will Prioritize and make recommendations as we come forward. I don't think that's a real heavy lift and looking at the actions that Mr. Alvarado and his team have extracted. I think we can we can certainly focus our attention on those and
 As well as some of the other feedback that we'll get from you on the council. Thank you Thank you very much mayor Mr. Alvarado ma'am. Thank you very much for your presentation and speaking right now call it the night manager the mayor And whatever what of actual authority would that person have? I
 The authority you give them. I think ultimately it isn't really about, like, again, it's not an enforcement rule by any stretch, nor is it even compliance. It's more to liaise because cities are siloed, right? And because if you have a complaint or a problem that comes to you in your office and then you go to one agency and they go, oh, it's there, and then it's there, it avoids 
 It's basically bringing people together to get to do engagement. If they come from a, like, right under city management or something like that, I mean, the question isn't really, like, what kind of hammer can they pull, right? Like, what?
 Authority is what you give them as authority, but it isn't the issue. The issue is really having the right conversations with the right people and quickly. Does that make sense? Does that answer your question? To me, not really. But let me move on, ma'am, because I'm limited in my time. Okay. Sorry. Okay. So to me, having been a police officer 28 years...
 a lieutenant LT on scene. Perhaps you'll have a senior sergeant supervisor on scene. If TABC, of course, TABC does their own thing. And of course, in conjunction with everything that's happening. But to me, if you have an LT, that person should be the ranking officer, the person that makes the final decisions. Every police officer, every peace officer who's assigned whatever
 Part of that Cincinnati Entertainment District he or she has a full authority to affect arrests Issue citations stop possible activity that's happening there So if are we trying to just yes or no, are we trying to take that away from them? No, okay thank you, and so to me it's kind of like a duplication of effort and
 I don't see the I know Colonel Weston you mentioned certain things right now, but You're there to do what you need to do. Okay, so well sir, I'd like to clarify that just from from how I'm viewing it from the standpoint. This is a this is not an enforcement person this is a person that can coordinate to get people to do the right thing and
 It's a customer service related role. It's allowing us to get better visibility of potentially different problem areas, different challenges that businesses might even be having from a resource standpoint. So it's a totally different role from a law enforcement type role. It's much more focused on clarifying standards, expectations, and customer service. Okay. Thank you very much for that clarification. However, in a nutshell, what are the working hours for this person? Okay.
 So we need to define the role what the duties and responsibilities are to be for this person First we start there. I agree with city managers Assessment is that this person is going to be if I have a code enforcement issues at Steve's bar. I'm gonna call this Ombudsman ambassador, whatever we Mayor thank you mayor. I
 Manager nightmare not nightmare night mayor night mayor. Yes Whatever this person's title is called. What will you have that in that conversation if you will? So hey, I'm having problems at this location Please give them a call let them know that you know They need to cease whatever the violation is and let's set up a meeting to follow up with them to discuss these concerns that we keep getting okay, and the reason I'm asking that question is I
 You need this person boots on the ground. Yes. You don't need them stuck in an office Monday through Friday, 8 to 4. No, not day shift. That person needs to understand, hey, they're going to be working until 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning, perhaps even until 6 o'clock or later. It's going to impact that quality of life if that person is married, has a family, and other things. But they need to be aware of what the
 job description is going to be moving on have you seen a increase or decrease in security officers here at any of the locations there bars restaurants let me defer to PD since they're out there the boots on the ground lieutenant Milner please quickly well I mean I got ten minutes I got ten minutes Thank You lieutenant
 Sir, as far as security, many bar owners have been trying to beef up security and so forth. However, we still see that there needs to be training for those, you want to call them bouncers, security, or just the doorman like she said. So we have seen a decrease in a lot of the violent crime, and that is partly because we are there.
 At the scene and so as to your previous question PD does not need to be the agency that's always called and so this nighttime manager mayor as a Liaison is a really good thing because oftentimes we get called and it's a code enforcement health department Fire-martial issue so many times we don't need to be there. I
 Okay. Thank you. Yes, I appreciate that information. And so mr Alvarado earlier you mentioned that there's gonna be future meetings if you could have that your office share with that with us as City Council members Absolutely, sir. And my last thing I noticed you do have this presentation on the city website for the El Paso Police Department Do you will be you? be doing a Spanish version of
 That's a great question. I will work with our team to see if we can get that translated into Spanish. I really feel that you do need one. I know it's a lot of documents to be translated but we live in the city of El Paso so I would say yes. Yes, sir. And that concludes my questions. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Salgado. Thank you, Mayor. I was kind of thinking off of what Rep Molina's questions were.
 In terms of something that I didn't really see in here was best practices on getting violence in bars or in the bar areas mitigated. And I'm kind of hearing that more police presence has helped mitigate that. But in any of this study, did that come up at all? Like these are the hot spots where the violence is always happening and this is what we want to do instead or 
 Absolutely, sir. So we like we did the town hall meetings for all city council representatives and their associations. We have seen a
 decline but again it's because of police presence and the military constantly helping us out and being there but did I answer your question yeah I guess is that the only practice to do we didn't get any other better practices or best practices that came out of this study so out of this study and like I said and since we've been out there boots on the ground for the last couple of years because we've identified hot spots where data-driven agency
 Because we've identified those hot spots, we've been out there, we've been going out in advance before the bars open to make sure that we're educating people. We've been communicating with them on several levels to see if they're going to have a special event, if we need to beef up our security. So, yes, there has been communication.
 Many discussions. Okay. Yes, sir. And in terms of this nighttime blank, whatever it's gonna be called I'm kind of hearing from you and your previous response to rep Molina that this is kind of helping you get freed from Being at all these things because you could be doing other things that are critical things that the police should be doing. So
 So critical events I guess. I did get an opportunity to go to Dallas and Austin and I was able to speak with several nighttime managers various cities Sacramento so forth and this person not being authoritative not having the uniform that is often intimidating to some people their liaison and they can get things going on all sides being neutral.
 And so I don't feel like it would be taking authority from me because when it's my opportunity, I'm gonna do whatever it is that I need to enforce regardless. But it would allow you to go address like emergencies rather than going to a bar for a bar call that maybe the fire marshals need to be. Absolutely. So that would be correct to say? Yes, absolutely.
 Okay and then. I'm going to just jump in really, really fast. Page 78 starts some really specific things you can and resources for you so I want to make sure that you go back when you have a minute to look at we have given you web links
 best venue best practices guides opening guides right how to run barn like there's tons of resources in here and it's a lot so uh I just want you to see that and there's copper star certification programs there's really a lot the venues can do to up their game and we've given you all of that in here yes thank you
 I also saw, I don't know who this question is for, but I know that probably at least for the last two decades there's been efforts to put a bridge over Mesa in the Cincinnati area and I saw that suggestion in this. And this may be a big tech stock question, right? But I know in my district we are getting rid of some bridges in the future because people aren't really using the bridges anymore and there's,
 other technology, putting lights on the road and stuff like that, that are helping kids cross Alameda, for example, right? So did those conversations happen with TxDOT and a bridge was recommended or this is just a suggestion that came out of this?
 It was a conversation we had internally through this process. TxDOT was not part of that conversation but those are several recommendations as people had concerns crossing Mesa at night time. We talked about the lights we talked about the bridge but it's something we can look into if
 I think that would be good to have their perspective on it because ultimately Mesa is theirs and it's going to be difficult if they're not on board or they have other suggestions for safety. So one of the other safety suggestions was ride share and putting it in a strategic location
 pedestrian foot traffic is able to get to that location and we mitigate pedestrian fatalities and things like that. Yes sir. So that's part of the ride share safety. And the last thing I have, I'm sorry for taking up so much time. I did not mean to have this many questions, but I'm thinking about what was said earlier about noise levels depending on where they're at and I think that that's really appropriate. And I didn't see the
 street area above Grant considered in this, not the Five Points area, but after you cross the train tracks north, and there's a lot of residential there, and there's bars, like the Kiki's area has a few bars and stuff like that.
 And they're taking up a lot of space in the neighborhoods and stuff that is is impacting my constituents So I feel that when we're thinking about noise levels Depending on where we also kind of need to think about what parking and what matters can be addressed in that and that's something that I Also didn't see in here and again representative. This is gonna be citywide applicable. So whatever the
 It's determined if it's a tiered system depending on the proximity to residential then it will be applicable citywide. So Cincinnati DMD five points, Saragossa it will be citywide. You sure? Thank you sir. We do have public comment. Yes Mayor we do have Ms. Patricia Osmond. So I did read through this. Thank you for the area.
 During that walkthrough that happened, Mr. Rick Thoreau, while we were out there in front of my house, actually witnessed some drug deals in the parking lot of the Higinkis. So yeah, there are a lot of issues when you go up past the Bohemian Block, which are fight points. But part of what I didn't see addressed in here, and it is part of the safety issue because
 I have sent all of y'all information in the past in regards to concerns that are happening in bars regarding prostitution. Okay? You've got a lot of bars here in town that are entertaining and having events with BDSM prostitutes. And basically that is just sexual assault prostitution where they are recruitment and solicitation events. Okay? Okay.
 So you get these people in these bars all riled up with the events that they're putting on, and then you let them out into the community, okay? And not everybody that's being sexually assaulted by these people are consenting. Quite frankly, a lot of the issues that are happening throughout all these bars, and since you did open the window in regards to Fort Bliss, I'm going to state. If we did the numbers properly, because...
 It seems from what I've heard, it seems as though a lot of what's going on, whether it's Fort Bliss or whatever, it's keeping statistics, safety statistics off. Some of these incidents off the safety statistics. Are we really a safe city? I seriously doubt because our numbers have been underreported for a very long time.
 But I'd like to find out what sort of procedures are going to be in place in both the hospitality and these restaurants for training, so that they can mitigate if prostitutes are working out of their establishment for stronger fines, if they are. Because we shouldn't have a thing called the angel shot, where women have to go up to the bartender to ask for this so that they could be safely escorted out because some guy 
 We have too many women that end up dead in our community, assaulted, found in the desert, not found at all. But also as far as Fort Bliss, yes, if we did the numbers as to citizens going on Fort Bliss, drunk driving and killing the enlisted and their family as versus the other way around, I don't think that's a really good partnership because we have too many soldiers, and BRAC was not a good thing for El Paso.
 We have too many soldiers coming into the community, drunk driving, shooting at bars, getting too drunk and shooting at bars, killing our citizens. So, yeah, something does need to be done. Thank you, ma'am. Representative Hernandez. Sorry, I keep pushing the wrong one. Mr. Alvarado, thank you for the presentation, for everyone's hard work, and to the consultants and law enforcement. Thank you.
 I REVIEWED THE STUDY. I THINK IT'S DEFINITELY A GOOD FIRST STEP. THERE IS LOW HANGING FRUIT THAT WE CAN IMMEDIATELY ADDRESS WITHIN DEPARTMENTS. I'M NOT SURE IF YOU NEED TO MAKE ANY TITLE CHANGES OR ORDINANCE CHANGES. HOWEVER, FROM THE PLANNING COMPONENT, I REALLY DO BELIEVE THAT WE NEED TO START CONSIDERING AND HAD THIS CONVERSATION ON MY BRIEFING WITH YOU ALL.
 looking at placing overlays over the social venue clusters and in those overlays to require a higher standard of Not only pedestrian access but the recommendations of ride shares putting an emphasis on safe driving as a result of our nightlife and
 Our infrastructure is currently not set up like that in the four or five different clusters that you have throughout the city, not including downtown. I do believe downtown should be held to a different standard, that is why I support it.
 FOR THE CARVEOUT TO THE NOISE ORDINANCE BECAUSE HOW ARE YOU GOING TO GET THE BALLPARK TO COMPLY UNDER THE NOISE ORDINANCE. SO I HAVE SERIOUS CONCERNS ABOUT NOISE AND IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA. HOWEVER IN THE OTHER AREAS THAT ARE VERY IN CLOSE PROXIMITY TO RESIDENTS, IF YOU WERE TO PLACE AN OVERLAY, THESE PLANNING OVERLAYS SIMILARLY TO HOW YOU DO A SMART CODE OVERLAY AND ANY NEW ESTABLISHMENT THAT OPENS.
 If we can require them to put together planning and infrastructure requirements like a dedicated space if you're abutting a street, a dedicated space for ride shares, and other ideas that are here in the program, I think that is where the city will have the most teeth and enforcement opportunities is with new development, how do you change the overall culture and behavior and the development of that space?
 Now, I know there's some caveats in our code that if a bar closes and a new bar opens and then there's like a period of time where they can jump in and not have to be grandfathered in, if you will.
 BUT THOSE ARE OUR SELF-IMPOSED RULES. WE CAN GO BACK AND WE CAN RECONSIDER THOSE. JUST LIKE HOW WE REQUIRE LANDSCAPE ON NEW DEVELOPMENT AT THE CORE OF THE CITY AND ANY NEW DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS, WE COULD ALSO REQUIRE A HIGHER LEVEL OF PLANNING FOR THAT SPECIFIC ESTABLISHMENT OR RESTAURANT.
 I'm also very concerned with our high numbers of drunk driving. We see all the videos on social media. They're leaving either house parties or social venues, and it is resulting to deaths. I had had a conversation a couple weeks ago with some of our finance folks to try to determine how can we set aside dollars so that we can actually implement some of these recommendations in this study.
 I don't want just a study to sit on a shelf. We do that too many times with our planning documents. Really would love for actionable, implemented policies and funding to back that up.
 Because I believe it's unacceptable to be drafting and doing mandatory overtime for our police officers at these social clusters when there are high priority one calls that need to be a priority in our city. And so I know that everyone has a priority in the city. I just get concerned when you're putting multimillion dollars in.
 OF LAW ENFORCEMENT WITHOUT THE UNDERSTANDING OF THE SOCIAL COMPONENT WHICH IS THE BEHAVIOR. YOU CAN'T JUST ALWAYS HAVE ENFORCEMENT. YOU NEED TO HAVE PROACTIVE MEASURES AND THAT STARTS FROM THE PLANNING PROCESS OF ALLOWING TO ISSUE A NEW CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY TO A NEW ESTABLISHMENT. THE DENSITY. IF OTHER CITIES ARE ABLE TO DO OVERLAYS FOR DENSITY FOR SHORT TERM RENTALS AND THAT HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED IN EVERY OTHER COMMUNITY BUT EL PASO.
 then we can have a conversation about density and the high number of clusters of social venues that are opening by right, right next to another establishment that is attributing to high levels of noise, nuisance, and now unfortunately, irresponsible driving on our roadways. I would like for us to also consider those overlays for density requirements to have a distance between one business opening to another business.
 That is how we change the overall planning and development of these social venue clusters citywide. We don't go retroactively and hurt business, but when there is a new establishment opening, it should trigger a very thorough TABC liquor involvement, public process involvement, and of course having our inspectors in our planning department view the site to ensure it complies, and it's going to help save lives.
 Ultimately, that is how I'd like to see this planning document move forward, bring us back some recommendations on how to change our planning codes, how to establish a new overlay, and how to reduce the density of the number of these social venues opening up right next to each other. I am also concerned with one area of my district, which is on airway. We have real concerns about traffic and not having enough parking spaces.
 GO BACK, LOOK AT THE CODE FOR PARKING TO HAVE THAT MANY BARS RIGHT NEXT TO EACH OTHER. BECAUSE AS A CONSEQUENCE, NOW THEY'RE PARKING ACROSS AIRWAY AT A CURVE INTO ANOTHER SHOPPING CENTER AND PEDESTRIANS ARE CROSSING THE STREET. THERE'S NOT ENOUGH LIGHTING. THERE'S NO PEDESTRIAN SAFETY ACCESS. I HAVE TAKEN THE STREETS DEPARTMENT OUT THERE. YOU HAVE BARS IN THAT AREA WHO ARE ASKING FOR MORE PEDESTRIAN IMPROVEMENTS AND HOW CONCERNED THEY ARE WITH PEDESTRIAN CROSSING AIRWAY.
 That is where I think we have the most opportunity to make a change here is by looking at our internal planning and parking requirements for these establishments. Overall, I think, like I said earlier, this is a good first step. And I'm really appreciative of all the work that the department and all of the community stakeholders have put into this. Thank you.
 Thank You representative for you miss appreciate that given the direction we will circle back and work with our planning division traffic engineering to look at into the overlays and also traffic concerns along that line once it comes to that point thank you sir that's prime that's it yes sir thank you so you wanted to move on to item 35 35 item item 35
 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the submission of an application to the US Federal Railroad Administration, consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvements competition, requesting funds in the amount of $22,809,600 with a $2,138,400 or 7.5% match required from the city for the Zaragoza Rail Great Separation Project. Move to approve.
 We do have public comment on this item from Commissioner Ilana Olguin. I thought I was going to have to come up and convince you and beg and plead so instead I'll just say thank you very much for your consideration. Ms. Pryor there's a motion and a second. Yes the motion was made by Representative Rivera seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 35 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session.
 And that motion passes unanimously. Welcome to the chambers, Representative O'Geen, and we'll validate your parking. Thank you very much. I know you guys do that for us at the county, so thank you. I know. I'm trying to change that. Thank you, Mayor, thank you, Council. Thank you, ma'am. I don't wanna go to 20, because that's gonna take more than 11 minutes, so if we could go to first readings. Yes, sir. These are the first, the introduction of ordinances, items 21 to 24.
 there is a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative piero to approve the first reading of ordinances these are items 21 to 24 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously next item the next item is number 25
 Item 25 is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign an agreement for professional services between the city of El Paso and Consor engineers LLC for a project known as engineering and design services for the wrestler Boulevard extension project. Move to approve. There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez seconded by Representative Pierro to approve item number 25. On that motion call for the vote and the voting session.
 That motion passes unanimously miss Pryor and I noticed that an item 21 if we miss Osman Would you like to speak on that? I can reconsider that item if you'd like All right, can we reconsider just item 21, please Second there's a motion in a second to reconsider the introduction of the ordinance on item 21 all in favor anyone opposed
 The motion passes. Item 21 is an introduction of an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a contract of sale with Nolts Life Inc., a Colorado corporation, for the sale of approximately 17 acres of property located at the northeast corner of Cohen Avenue and Gateway Boulevard North in El Paso, Texas, 79924. Go ahead, ma'am.
 And like I said, I'm not here to always argue but I did have some questions I noticed when this was announced the private public partnership a few weeks back It was never stated that the property was going to be for sale. I don't recall that Was that when y'all did the press conference was it stated that it was going to be for sale? No, she'll explain that to you because it's part of the package. Okay, but in when y'all did the press conference at that time and
 Because everybody was really happy that y'all switched from that MPC and the issue at Union Depot.
 To northeast that really does need revitalization. Let me clarify one project has nothing to do with no, I understand that okay, I understand that but When y'all did do the press conference after executive session and then y'all did the press conference that day I don't recall at any point anybody stating that the property was going to be sold and when I read this agenda It seems as though that's what we're doing. That's what the city is doing, right? Shall explain that to you
 Karina Brescola, Economic and International Development. So as I believe it was in the public presentation, it's in the posted backup for the term sheet that was approved on April 23rd. I mentioned at the press conference part of the public-private partnership and the incentive package is the conveyance of city-owned property. That is what this introductory ordinance is for. So we'll be conveying  it's going to be approximately 17 acres. The final determination will be based on the parking and traffic study so that we have the final boundaries and layout of that.
 So it's conveyance of the plan. And that's when I talked about that Senator Blanco and Representative Ordaz went to the state legislators and got the state to allow us to be able to do
 convey land to be able to do a deal like this and they're the ones that brought it forward in one in the Senate one in this and the state and they led the charge and were able to do that and that's where and I know that I thank them for their leadership because without that we wouldn't been able to do this So this will no longer be city land?
 Correct, it will be sold and it will be held by notes live There's extensive clawback provisions in the contract of sale to return the property to restrict the uses to what was approved in the incentive agreement And then again boundaries are under final confirmation of the survey. Well, it's not exactly be sold because it's part of the full Yes, ma'am, yes, thank you, man With that do we have motion in a second?
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro, to approve the introduction of the ordinance for item 21. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 26.
 Item 26 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign an agreement for professional services between the city of El Paso and Consular Engineers LLC for a project known as Northeast Advanced Manufacturing Development Phase One Design Bill Owners Representative Bridging Documents. Move to approve. There is a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linaj, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item number 26.
 That motion call for the vote and the voting session and that motion passes unanimously Item number 27 is a public hearing on an ordinance granting special permit to allow for infill development with reductions To minimum lot area and minimum average lot width at 52 0 for Sun Valley Drive. Thank you very much mayor. So This item was introduced several weeks ago and they were gonna put a a
 duplex on this property.
 I had some concerns number one. I don't believe it was follows the character exit characteristics of this entire neighborhood and So putting a duplex there where mostly have single-family homes to me was not really acceptable at that time a gentleman I believe mr. Samora I did ask if he could provide the information on how many other duplexes were there within a two-mile radius and Still have not received that information at all
 Okay. Anyway subsequent to that I did go to make a site visit there at 52 04 Sun Valley and whoa To my surprise There's already a duplex fully constructed and this is before special permits are allowed So this item went before the City Planning Commission has approved but I have a problem with how a
 Let's go back. This builder, this developer, this owner obviously had to go to the city planning and inspections and file his plan. Is that correct? And seek permits, pay for those permits.
 There's a file someplace. And I'm sure in this age of technology, if an inspector went out there, he would probably access all that information from an iPad, tablet, cell phone, whatever other electronic device. And surely he's going to say, you know what, this is happening here. This is a duplex, but it doesn't have the special permits.
 And to allow it to be fully constructed without the special permits, I have a serious problem with that. Okay? So I continued. And like I said, I didn't get the information on the duplexes. So I continued in that area. And I found another duplex. This duplex is at 5100 Kodiak.
 Now, I'm very familiar with that area there. This house, or I should say this land on Kodiak had been vacant for many years. Way before I was a city councilman, whoever built that property, that duplex, I'm sure they followed all the requirements. It wasn't my purview to say yes or no or how it came out to be in city council, but that's something else different.
 It's just very different for me to understand how is it that when someone applies, they have to do those plans, they have to seek permits, and then yet the foundation is laid, the plumbing is there, electrical is there, the HVAC is there, but...
 The inspectors that go out, surely they know that, hey, this does not meet code because they need special permits to establish the width for a duplex in this land. I'd like an answer. Good morning, sir. Mayor, it's afternoon already. 11.59. Okay. I'm looking at the clock, sir, but thank you, though, for the input. Okay. Good morning. Phillip at Two-Way Planning and Inspections.
 So there are two things here that we need to clarify. I think one of the best policy that the city council has is the infill development policy which allows diversity of housing. So the reason we're here is because the events, the sequence of events that took place. So things happened the way they were not supposed to happen. That's the reason we're here. The duplex itself is a permitted use in that zone district.
 THE ONLY REASON THAT THIS CASE IS BEFORE YOU IS BECAUSE OF THE LOT SIZE THAT THEY DIDN'T MEET. SO IF THEY HAD MADE THE LOT SIZE, THEY WOULDN'T BE HERE BEFORE YOU. THEY WOULD HAVE GONE AND GOT THE, AND RECEIVED THE BILL AND PERMIT APPROVAL, SUBMITTED BILL AND PLANS, COMPLETED THE INSPECTIONS AND GET THE CO AND IT WILL BE DONE. IN THIS CASE, THE SEQUENCE OF EVENT WAS WRONG.
 So he submitted a building permit that allowed him to build a single-family housing for that property.
 Then he kind of discovered that, you know, the owner said, you know what, I would like to have a duplex. This zone district does allow me to have a duplex. So he started, you know, putting a demising wall between, you know, in the middle of the structure. That's when city inspector caught him and said, you know, you can't do that because your plan does show that you're here to build a single family home. So we stopped it. And that's been stopped for almost a year now.
 until he came in and we decided that we'll allow him to process. He submitted an application for a special permit to reduce the lot size. So we allowed him to submit that application and that application is the one that is before you today. So again, the issue we have today is the sequencing.
 He jumped the gun, he decided that he was permitted to do that, so he put the demising welder and that's the reason we're here. But the policy that you have in place to allow diversity of housing is a very good policy and that's what we were following. Okay, but I'm not questioning the policy. Also can IT, if you could show the different photographs that are on the backup as well.
 And so to me, it's those photos, I took them. Like I said, I did the site visit. And it was just very surprising. Yes, you only receive one letter in opposition of it, but to me, it's like, it just changes everything, okay? It just absolutely changes everything in this neighborhood. And yes, there is one more house on Kodiak, but that's something that we're not even really talk too much about it. But I found that house on Kodiak. No one else found that house. And so,
 Is there any other repercussions to this person, this applicant, that can say, hey, is there a fine because he didn't follow policy? Is there some type of abatement that says, hey, you did not follow policy? And I don't know if this is the first time he's ever built a house or not. I don't know. I don't even know the gentleman. I don't know the owners. I don't know anything like that. But it's in my district. And so to me, I'm fighting for that one person. Correct. Thank you.
 Again, so the consequences are this property itself, this structure has not received a CO. So this structure has been vacant for almost a year now.
 to get through this process of special permit approval. So that's one. The other one is that his plan that we approved, so when we do the inspections again, we'll have to charge him for that. The law does not allow us to triple fee or do anything because he built it with permit. If he hadn't built it with permit, then we'll triple fee him. And so if you're going to fine this gentleman, isn't it better to fine him and get that money before we approve it?
 To find him. Well the inspections he still has to pay for the inspections He hasn't paid for the inspections because we have not allowed for the inspections on this property Until this process we give grant a special permission and then what happens if he doesn't well He has to we won't have his CEO on that property. He can't occupy the property. Okay. All right. Thank you very much, mr Okay. Thank you, sir representative Canales
 Thank you, Mir. I just had a couple questions. It looks like the special permit is only for the minimum lot size and lot width, correct? So not setbacks? No. Okay. How much of a reduction do they need for the minimum lot size and width? It's about 1,000 square feet. 1,000 square feet. Yeah, 10 feet on the wall. Sorry, 1,000 square feet, minimum lot size, and then what about the lot width?
 about 10 feet lot width reduction. Are there any, are the surrounding lots also on special permits for reduced lot width and size? Sure, Rode Garcia Planning and Inspections. So Mr. Molinar is correct, there aren't other existing duplexes. However, in very close proximity to this property, there are lots that have the size, that have the width, the depth, that could simply very easily convert to a duplex simply with a building permit.
 Yeah, I'm just looking at both the photos and the aerial. It looks like some of the neighboring properties have very small setbacks, and they look like they're maybe less lower width than that's because of the single-family use as a smaller required lot size? Yes.
 Yes, yes, it does require smaller. However, again, there are especially those cul-de-sac lots There's other Lots that would meet the minimum requirements of mr At the was stated the use is not the issue that's permitted by right and in the art for it's just the dimensional standards Just the dimensions. Okay. Do you by chance? I'm sorry if it's in the backup know the
 Lot size the square footage of the lot. So it's a thousand about a thousand square foot reduction. What is the Okay, yeah 60 requires 70 foot wide it's about 60 foot wide again 100% in line with what? Council looked at in terms of the overall Infill policy that was approved last year. I
 The letter of opposition, was that from one of the adjacent neighbors or somewhere else? Across the street. Across. It is important to note over 50 notices went out to over 50 property owners. We did get that one comment. Okay. But they're not on the same side of the street, so they wouldn't be necessarily directly impacted by the lot. In fact, some valley is a major arterial. Okay. So, yeah, it's on the other side of some valley. Okay. That's all my questions. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you very much. So is there a motion at all? Either way? I'll make a motion to deny. The applicant is a special permit. So. Second. We have a motion and a second to deny. The motion was made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Acevedo, and this is to deny the special permit. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, or mayor, we have a tie? No. Thank you. In the voting session?
 And the motion to deny fails. Representatives Acevedo, Molinar, Salcido voting aye. Representatives Kennedy, Rivera, Canales voting aye. That motion fails. Second. There is no motion at this point. Are you making the motion? There is no motion at this point. There is no motion at this point. Motion approved. There is a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the special permit.
 On that motion call. Mayor I'd like to speak about this motion. Pardon me? I requested to speak about this motion. Go ahead sir. Thank you Mayor. Yeah I just want to be clear again I think staff put it fairly clearly but a duplex is allowed in this zoning district already by right. The applicant received the building permits correct. So the building permit for the duplex is still contingent on the special permit today.
 Okay, so they built they constructed the duplex on a permit that allowed them to only build a single-family home, right? Yes, sir And despite that we're not able to triple fee because they are Within an allowed zoning district despite building without the correct permit has it do with the with the building code regulations? Mr. Canales they built it with a permit. The only thing they did was to put a wall while in the process of inspections and
 So the single-family structure was built with a permit. The permit was issued to them by the city. So the only reason we're here again is the sequence of events because they went ahead of themselves and started putting a demise on wall and started constructing a duplex without the proper approval of a special permit.
 So now the duplex is there. In order to allow the duplex to continue to exist will mean that we have to have a council approval of that special permit. If you deny it, then the wall needs to be taken down in the middle and make it a single family home. Okay. Understood. I was under the impression that they already had been issued the building permit. Not for the duplex.
 Yeah, they submitted but that permit hasn't been issued until council approves that special permit. Right, but they constructed without, they constructed the dividing wall to make it a duplex without obtaining that permit first. And that was discovered by the inspector and then subsequently the CO's been held for almost a year. So Representative Molnar is correct.
 You know that wasn't what the end they came in with the permit for construction of a single-family home Which was which was approved and then in the process when they put the the wall in to make it a duplex they were not in compliance at that time until it was discovered and
 Through a long process now over the course of about a year correct I'm going back and forth they have to make that the room Remediate by doing certain things to meet the requirements for a duplex and that's what the approval is But but he's correct. They didn't do it appropriately from the beginning. Gotcha, right? And again, it's just the lot the lot with and minimum lot size requirements don't correct they they're not in compliance because the Improvement is now a duplex. Okay, and that case I'll actually withdraw my motion. I
 Representative Rivera, did you still want to speak, sir? Huh? Okay. Representative Molinar. Thank you very much, Mayor. So to me it's like this. The person filed a plan for a single-family home, period. Okay, grant him that. He can move forward. But at some point, who builds a single-family home with two driveways, two front entrances, knowing that I don't want to say he's,
 He did something not right, I'm gonna say in my sole opinion. And that same area, once again, because I know that area, at the 5400 block of Edmonton, 5400 block of Edmonton, there is a single family home with two front doors. I know that owner. I've even asked her, I've been to her house, I said,
 who built your house? And of course, whatever she did, you know, she said in the late 1950s, but that house has two front doors, but it's a single family home. And she lived there and has lived there for practically all of her adult life. So I could see if the gentleman did that and wanted two front doors. Okay, no big deal. That's what his choice. But to me, this is initially a duplex. He built a duplex and he should have known better.
 We have a motion and a second, correct? The motion was to approve was withdrawn, sir. Withdrawn? Yes, sir. Okay, so we have no motion. Motion fails due to no motion. Correct. Thank you, we'll go to call to the public, please. Thank you. That brings us to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving the citizens
 of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum,
 that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting profane threatening or abusive language public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning please note that during call to the public the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda however council may propose a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda this afternoon we have
 four people that signed up to speak. The first person is Elizabeth Crawford. Topic is International Day of the Missing Child and the one third generation gone. Good afternoon Ms. Crawford star 6 2 and mute your telephone. SPEAKER 6 Good afternoon. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. I would like to speak about.
 National Missing Children's Day. This month it's honored on May 25th. It said that in so-called Generation X,
 very possibly one out of three of that generation is missing, not due to kidnapping, but due to abortion. I would argue that in subsequent generations that may even be higher, possibly even closer to 50% when we consider the abortion pill that's being used, the morning after pill that in some cases can cause a very early abortion.
 One of the most interesting places I've gotten to serve in our nation is Jackson, Mississippi. There's a desolation in that city, a gloom, a heaviness. The city has a long history of racial tension, but more, there's more to it than that. There's a hardness there. In my months there, it dawned on me one day, where are all the kids?
 there is definitely an absence of children there very few children as i gradually got to know the people there and had more conversations and they started to trust me in spite of my white skin i realized what was going on they did not have a hidden abortion center on the outskirts of town they had a bright pink abortion center strategically located by a white owner in the heart of a primarily black city the owner who we had an opportunity to converse with on occasion
 Ms. Diana Dersis, a white lady from Alabama who was considered by many to be an abortion hero.
 I'm thankful to say that the Pink House, which was at the center of the Dobbs case overturning Roe v. Wade, is now closed in Jackson, Mississippi. The Pink House and Jackson are gone, but the scars are not. I'm sad to say, as many of you may be aware, it has reopened its doors in Las Cruces, New Mexico. They moved to New Mexico to find, quote, a more welcoming environment. And instead of Black Americans, another minority group to target Hispanic Americans and no doubt Hispanic migrants.
 In spite of all the darkness of hearts and desolation in the city of Jackson, there is something awesome going on there. Christ is building his church in a way I've never seen anywhere else. Many, many young people, college-age young adults, are coming to know Christ and knowing a beautiful transformation of life. While I was in Jackson, I was invited each week to church meetings and Bible studies by the kids there. In the midst of a city with racial tensions so thick you could cut it with a knife,
 I watch black and white students loving on each other and together enthusiastically being a light of the gospel in a city marked to a large extent by desolation and hatred. A number of those young people have scars from abortion. I heard stories, but by God's grace. Thank you, Ms. Crawford. You've reached the three-minute limit. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Ron Como. Mr. Como's topic is Animal Services and Animal Services Advisory Committee.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Cuomo. Good afternoon, ma'am. Well, I guess we'll start off by saying this is a mythical shelter and a mythical ASAC committee. Let me just read this. This speech on public issues occupies the highest rung of the hierarchy of the First Amendment values and is entitled to special protection.
 When animal lives are at stake, so I would like for somebody to Explain to the mythical ASAC committee that they can't stop animal advocates from speaking it called to the public and they can't block them The next thing I'd like to discuss with our mythical shelter is as we've been told for years that we are running under the no-kill equation
 No kill equation does not support any form any type anything of any type of managed intake Period not maybe not if the finder to foster program Which has been a major failure for the city of El Paso is part of this limited intake Which was acknowledged by the people in charge of the shelter. We are following processes finder to foster which should have been removed a long time ago when I talked to
 Going into a different subject. I asked about the number of strays that went up missing for finder to foster in our mythical Asac meeting the mythical director said that he didn't remember how many strays he lost I got to ask you just did this program. You just figured out how many you lost do we have a health issue where we have no memory or Do we just not know how to tell the truth? Okay, and that's a problem the other thing we I
 I apologize. I'm just four years next month I've been doing this. Four years of trying to get the shelter fixed. Four years of incompetent running of our make-believe shelter. But that kind of goes along with our make-believe director. We talked about how in the shelter reports we discussed the number of owner euthanasias
 And how in 1922 we had a total of 10 for the year in 23 We had more than that every month and I was told well it works out the number of strays that disappear in this mythical shelter Has increased an increase I've been told it works out. Well, I'm glad I didn't hold my breath because I'd be dead the shelter in this Mythical city has been run improperly It has been run incompetently
 until we get a competent qualified director personal attack yeah it sure is on a mythical shelter it's not appropriate sir it's a mythical shelter hey Ron yeah I know that you did that on purpose and we talked pardon me we've talked and all of a sudden I know that your time's up I'll talk to you but we've asked you not to do this and you felt that was okay because you weren't gonna stop and that's not proper sir and you know that
 Well, neither is what he's doing. I know that, sir, but you and I meet every week or every other week, and for you to do what you just did was not proper, sir, to attack somebody the way you did. Okay, what about the 800- Sir, sir, sir, we're done talking, sir. Yeah, you're right. Thank you.
 Next speaker is Steven Stromer. Mr. Stromer's topic is we need a six state conference on water usage Due to severe drought in El Paso and to thank Council for route 74 he will be followed by Patricia Osmond. Good afternoon. Mr. Stromer. Hey, thank you all for the bus shelter for the route 74 George Cedar at Pelicano
 I'm asking you to have a six-state conference on water drought, water drought in the state of Texas. I do not know if any of you know this, Mayor, Sir, Honorable. They are running dry in the Rio Grande Valley for citrus. There is a considerable drought.
 thought that we will run out of water for the citrus industry. The sugarcane industry is going to stop. In Texas, first time in 51 years, it was on the Texas Standard from KUT Austin. I am asking that we have a conference on water use. I know it's a very touchy subject, but it is our lifeblood.
 We must look at this. North Texas, the cotton industry, the cotton is shriveling up. It's a special type. It was in the Wall Street Journal this year. We have a very serious problem in the state. I really believe, I know this is tough. We had a man from the county one time came in absolutely shrill over water usage waste in our community from Sierra Blanca.
 It's now or never. Otherwise, we're going to be losing. We won't have, if we continue this spoiled child way of using water, we are going to be losing a lot. Our life system, it affects every last one of us. It's important. It can't wait year after year after year. It would be historic.
 And why not bring it up here? Why not say it to our representatives? Why not? We are using, for example, the car washes. Car wash, do we have to do it every week? But we want to. That's the difference. We want to. And where does that stuff go? So I'm asking, I don't know if it will ever come, but...
 We couldn't have a Northeast, Joe, without water. You have to have it. So I don't see El Paso Water Utility as a great big dragon. I believe in them. I know maybe we can think about this. Thank you for hearing me. Thank you, sir, for your time. And the final speaker is Patricia Osman. Ms. Osman's topic is Ethics Violations.
 Lies by individuals paid by tax dollars as well as solicitations and other city issues miss Osman I'll caution you to refrain from personal attacks and you'll have three minutes I'm gonna go ahead and read this So that we don't waste time. I'm gonna tell you I have traveled across this country driven cross it back and forth more than three times by rail flight I've been to almost every state in this nation and
 And when I tell people from where I'm from, half of them wonder, they're asking about the immigrants. The other ones are, oh, you speak English? Some of them think we're Mexico. All right? So that's the impression a lot of people across the U.S. If you haven't traveled as much across this nation as I have, maybe you don't know the impression. We really do have a cross.
 The thing is, is that even East Texas looks at us as a drug and migrant hub, hence why only leaving our area are there Border Patrol checkpoints, not in the rest of Texas. But when Juarez, our sister city's own mayor's home, is being raided by federales and our own city officials.
 are investigated by the FBI, city paid individuals put lies on the record for the public to witness the brazenness. It's proof of why our city is seen by the rest of the nation and people in other countries as a hub for crime and no different than Mexico.
 And I'm gonna tell you, I believe in the migrants. Not those who are walking thousands of miles to get here for a better life, but the elite rich migrants that have come into our city and corrupted it by purchasing property and people. That is the issue. But this is the thing. You know what? Thanks to Ms. Crawford in her responses every week in how these meetings are addressed and opened.
 THOSE FORCED FAKED RELIGIOUS BELIEFS UPON EVERYBODY IN THIS ROOM. IN THE COURSE OF FREEDOM OF RELIGION, I'M WONDERING, CAN I ASK EVERY CALL ON EVERY PALERO AND BRUJERA IN THIS CITY TO CLEANSE ALL THE DEMONS OUT OF THE PEOPLE THAT WORK FOR THE CITY AND GET PAID? BECAUSE QUITE FRANKLY, SOMETHING NEEDS TO BE DONE.
 Or should I hex and curse with my dying breath all of your descendants? Because quite frankly, your current actions in greed are making their world inevitable that it doesn't succeed. But quite frankly, your actions, what would be the point for me to do that? You're doing it for them anyway. Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Thank you, ma'am. Would you like to...
 Continue on the agenda. I would like to do animal services now, please. Yes, sir. That's on page number 7. Yes, sir. Item number 20 on page 7 is a presentation and discussion on El Paso Animal Services Medical Operations. IT, if you'll please bring up the presentation for item 20 so it can be presented. Okay.
 All right. Good afternoon council. I am Dr. Chacon and I am here to give an overview on the animal services medical department as well as a distemper update. OK. I am joined by my veterinary technician Mr. Wesley Walker who will be presenting alongside me. So let's begin.
 They'll bring it up. Okay. Yeah. So we'll start off by how our medical team is composed. So it's myself, a vet tech supervisor, two senior techs, and 11 veterinary technicians who are my eyes and ears. That's how we manage 800 plus animals. Okay. Yeah.
 So they have a wide array of experience some have come from the large animal sector others have come from specialty centers emergency clinics we've got Pima graduates and those that have worked their way up within the within the shelter itself. So I'm going to pass it along to Mr. Walker who will talk about our surgeries.
 Good afternoon. My name is Wesley Walker. I've been at the shelter nine years, veterinary technician. I eat, sleep, and breathe the shelter. God willing, I will draw my last breath there, and I won't ever retire. But moving along. So surgeries.
 Excellent. So surgical procedures. Recently this past September we did finally open up the low cost, no cost spay neuter clinic for the public down at our Socorro facility. That is a daunting endeavor for one veterinarian who has to divide his time between the shelter and that location. So currently we do it every Monday and we're booked out months in advance.
 It's flat fee, $50, includes this spay-neuter, vaccines, rabies, and the corresponding medication. Since opening in September, Dr. Chacon has performed 860 procedures for publicly owned animals via this booking. So that's a lot. And that's not including what he's done at the shelter.
 At the shelter, we've currently expanded our surgery operations to include special procedures such as femoral head ostectomies, which is a new skill set that he has learned through learning from and cooperating with other veterinarians who have rolled through the shelter, some of which out of state, some of which are next door neighbor at the Humane Society.
 To kind of recap surgery procedures at the shelter in 2023 We have knocked out 10,555 total surgical procedures that includes general spay neuter and special procedures amputations femoral head, ostectomy z' and nucleation x' and tropion repairs Anything and everything that we can do to try to help people
 animals that can be helped, our veterinarian and our contract and volunteer veterinarians are doing currently. 2020, for 2023, Dr. Chacon alone performed 5,413 of those procedures. Year to date, 2024, we're looking at 3,385 total surgical procedures, of which Dr. Chacon himself has performed 1,761. So the sky's the limit for 2024.
 Other common treatments that we address at the shelter, GI upset, parasitic infections. They're common here. Fleas, ticks, you name it, roundworms, tapeworms, hookworms. It's pretty common here in the desert southwest. We also deal with upper respiratory infections in both cats and dogs. Examples of impact. So this is oatmeal.
 Oatmeal is a Husky Shepherd Cross that arrived with severe laceration wounds to the forelimbs. Pretty bad. Very underweight. Dr. Chacon performed the surgical repairs. Oatmeal was on the road to recovery, and actually oatmeal is out in foster right now. Foster to adopt. Banjo.
 Far left photo on death's door arrived with a severe infection and swelling to the face. Second photo there is his intake photo with some loving care, antibiotic treatment. And there's Banjo on the far right. Made a full recovery and adopted. He's left the shelter.
 Volunteers, Dr. Chacon had mentioned that we do get Pima graduates, but we do get Pima students. We get El Dorado High School Vet Science students, Pebble Hills, Ysleta, Clint, all of those hopeful veterinary science students, we partner with those school districts and they spend time here at the shelter. They assist in surgery, they assist us in tending to the animals in our care.
 Having that sheer amount of student volunteer help is priceless and they're an invaluable asset to the shelter and at the same time they're learning a lot of the valuable tools and skills needed to get them where they need to be.
 recently, well, two years running. We've been awarded education empowerment by the SISD Partners in Education for our partnership with Pebble Hills High School Vet Science students. And in 2018 as well, 2023, we got the Business Partner of the Year Award. So our cooperation with our local school districts,
 The fruits of that are paying off with the amount of students that are coming into the shelter to get that experience with us. And now this is very near and dear to my heart, our resources are expanding at the shelter. With your help in approving our budgets each year, we're now able to allocate our resources to acquire new materials and equipment that will allow us to better perform our duties and serve the animals at the shelter.
 A lot of these items you think are commonplace, but we've been lacking them for years. As long as I've been there since 2015, we've been just treating and triaging animals based on symptoms, just treating what we can see. We recently acquired through an IDEX agreement a hematology analyzer. We can now look at blood chemistry to get a deeper picture of what's going on with an animal internally.
 And we now have a set of three brooders and incubators, which we can place respiratory compromised patients for 20, 30 minute breathing sessions to help them breathe better and help them recover. So a lot of our patients, puppies, kittens, felines, small dogs have access to this. And we're seeing great improvement in the quality of care that they're receiving.
 Community CAP program. Right now everything is in flux at the shelter given all the construction with the HVAC renovation, but once everything stabilizes we're looking to expand our resources with Community CAP program by expanding mass trapping with
 access to contract and relief veterinarians donating their time to us, accommodating community cat surgery days at the shelter for our local community cat advocacy groups. So promoting that community cat involvement with the public, hopefully we can get those more of those volunteer trappers to bring those cats into us, get them sterilized and released in a more timely fashion.
 Currently we have mass trapping surgery days at the school road two to three times a month. We're looking to expand that with veterinarian help and that's the most important thing is getting that veterinary help. So I'm going to kick that back to Dr. Chacon.
 All right we're going to move back to disease management. So this is a simplified chart showing the presence of panleukopenia and parvo the past few months. You can see sort of a downward trend in both of those. In April last month we had zero panleukopenia cases which was great. Unfortunately with kitten season arising we're
 It hit late this year, but it did hit us. Those panleukopenia cases have gone up, which is not shown here. Okay, key components of disease management. So first thing first, before an animal even steps foot in the shelter, they are immediately vaccinated. So they're not fully protected, but it provides partial immunity. It's not until a week after the second vaccination that they would be fully protected. Okay.
 Any animal with suspicion of infectious disease is immediately isolated and tested for. The third one here is the one that the shelter struggles with the most and always has struggled with, which is overcrowding. So I'm going to get back to this point later on in the presentation, but that is the key component that we'll focus on.
 Foster homes for the most vulnerable so elderly dogs and cats puppies kittens those where their immune system isn't up to par. We try to get them out as soon as we can to prevent them from from acquiring these diseases. And of course this sanitation and biosecurity all staff are to wear gloves when handling animals. We have strict disinfection protocols in each area and in those high risk areas we even wear full on suits. OK.
 All right, so I want everyone to take a moment and look at this distemper chart that we have here. This is very important. So I'll describe the chart in a second, but as you can see, there is a very large peak there starting around January.
 So on the horizontal X axis that represents time going back from May to May of last year to present time. Okay. And on the Y vertical axis we have the amount of disease.
 So the orange bars represent upper respiratory infections. The purple line represents distemper infections. Now, if you remember the relationship between upper respiratory infections and distemper infections, is that distemper will usually present as an upper respiratory infection. So in other words, any animal with coughing, sneezing, nasal discharge,
 needs to be isolated and tested to roll out to Stemper. Okay. So the big question is well how did this happen. So what what changed what what was different around that January time to cause this this big spike.
 And that is when we began to operate beyond our capacity. Okay, we had switched from managed intake to open intake. And what we had to do, we had to fit in two dogs per run at the main shelter.
 and alongside an inadequate intake facility as well as an inadequate isolation facility, that has led to a highly dense population and a prime environment for infectious disease.
 So remember this shelter was built as a kill shelter in 2004 and it was never designed to hold 800 plus animals which currently to date we have 818 I believe. So since transitioning to a no kill shelter there's always been one thing that we have always struggled with for six seven years from 2016 to 2022.
 and that was properly controlling infectious disease. It wasn't until 2023 where we started testing for distemper and using managed intake where we were able to keep disease very low, and it worked quite well when we operate it within our capacity.
 So how do we fix this issue once again? I think you know what I'm alluding to is basically using the methods available to us, such as managed intake when needed, and that is what I'm proposing. How do we know this intake model is effective? Well, we used it from May to December and those levels were extremely low, very, very low. So we have the data to show that.
 And another example is dogs next door here at the Times building. They are housed one dog per run per kennel. So when you do that you significantly reduce the risk of transmission between each dogs. And as a result there is little to no distemper at the Times compared to the main shelter. Because we're operating within our capacity at the Times building.
 So I'm going to throw out some hypotheticals. So what if we don't take any big action to try and correct course we stay at these levels we continue as is what are the consequences. Well the first consequence is the high cost of testing. So at these current levels we're projected to need about three hundred and fifty to four hundred thousand dollars per year.
 OK. If we compare that to the levels of last year we would roughly need about twenty five to fifty thousand dollars per year. Another consequence is we lose adopters and fosters because they come to the shelter to adopt a young healthy puppy and if that puppy falls ill to distemper and dies it's quite a traumatizing experience for them. And will they come back to adopt from us maybe maybe not.
 We will lose rescues and transports. If we end up sending a distemper dog out of state, will they continue to do business with us? Probably not. So that will further harm our reputation. And of course all the many more animals that would have to be euthanized for distemper or those that fall ill to upper respiratory infections but we don't have space for isolation.
 So we need a system that works for us. That is why managed intake is is a method that we need to be able to utilize if disease is high. Okay. And that's my professional recommendation to city council and to city management in order to avoid rising disease and to avoid another shutdown. Okay.
 And I also like to quickly address the community in terms of letting them know what we can do or what animal services can do in terms of protecting their own pets from these infectious diseases. And what we've done is we've plotted the location of the distemper positive dogs that we suspect got it from the environment and not from within the shelter itself. And what we're able to do is target those underserved communities with vaccination clinics. Right?
 Last year, we vaccinated 2,500 owned pets. This past, in April, we did a vaccine clinic, over 500 pets, and we're doing another one next month, okay? So the long-term plan is community immunity, right? As all these infectious diseases are fully preventable if we vaccinate our pets, okay?
 Alright, that concludes our presentation. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Thank you all for what you do I know that it's not easy at all times, but those pictures were great that But open they look pretty cool But now thank you all. I appreciate it. No no represent canalis I know you're here the representative for City Council on animal services. Thank you for that and with that Miss prime
 Yes, sir. That brings us to item number 28. This is on page 10 item 28 Is a public hearing of an ordinance amending title 5 chapter 5.0 3 amplified sound permit section 5.0 3.0 1 0 compliance required to remove the downtown management district exemption and to amend section 5.0 3.0 2 0 definitions to amend the definition of a residential property motion to approve second
 Is there any public comment? Yes sir we do have public comment from Mr. Guttenrath Thank you I know we've changed him and I leave so I know he's gonna agree with us Right Joe? Good afternoon I was gonna say why wouldn't the mayor be the first night mayor come January I know that's what I'm saying Good afternoon Joe Guttenrath executive director of the downtown management district
 I think this was alluded to earlier as a loophole in the outdoor amplification permit. The reason we came here five years ago to ask for this is because the noise ordinance as well as the permit itself does recognize that there are times, places,
 where outdoor amplification should be allowable. The noise ordinance identifies high school stadiums and then the outdoor amplification permit does allow any business to come and apply for the opportunity of outdoor amplification between 10 and 12.
 We came here because we believe downtown El Paso should be one of those areas where amplification under the 70 decibel limit between 10 and 12 should be considered acceptable. It was kind of referred to earlier as almost a tiered system. I think we're kind of along the same lines there. And then with that consideration, we also believe that downtown businesses should be allowed to have outdoor amplification below 70 decibels.
 between 10 and 12 without requiring the cost and action of a permit and then on the other side the downtown management District does recognize the need for regulations Does need to recognize that we do have some actors in the community who will exceed whatever authority or opportunity is given to them and so we do support
 The penalties in accordance with the law against those businesses that do exceed the 70 decibels and exceed the 12 a.m. curfew, even with a permit or without the permit in the case that we were operating. Unfortunately, what we were asking for at that time seemed to make a lot of sense to me but turned into a loophole.
 I don't know how to correct that and I think that's what you're considering here today. But again, we look at the downtown Management district our downtown area, especially the center of the city as an area where where nightlife social activity Is very important and we also recognize that we cannot we have to balance those entities So as you consider this I hope that
 whatever action you take that we can address those problem locations those problem bars those problem venues that are being a disruption to the other community without putting an undue burden on other small businesses again I appreciate your help earlier with the with the RHI study and I appreciate your consideration of this today thank you
 Thank you and I think this ordinance is really important that we do this because we've had quite a bit of talk with
 People that have invested millions and millions of dollars in downtown and we keep talking about downtown and we talking about investments and People are leaving downtown and they don't want to stay downtown because at 3 4 in the morning They can't people are checking out and the surveys have been very I mean they brought me I can't tell you how many service so it's important that would listen and that we make sure that We ask people to invest in our community that we become proactive and make sure that we do
 We do do the right thing because, you know, we talk about hotel stays. We talk about night stays. We talk about being number one. That can go away in a hurry if we're not proactive and we turn our back on something like this. Representative Fiora. Thank you, Mayor. I'm not sure whose item this is. Oh, there you go. No, not them. The expert. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor. Representatives Tony LaCruz, Planning and Inspections. Mr. LaCruz, a question for you.
 The gentleman mentioned undue burdens on small businesses or businesses. Do we have a definition of that? Not to the best of my knowledge, sir. Okay. The second thing is with this loophole that we have now, how are we holding the businesses, the bad actors, as they were described, accountable? And how successful have we been?
 So overall, and I'll probably need Steve Alvarado's help on this one, overall the PD code enforcement team is responding to any of the nuisance violations in downtown. I'm sure that they can give you different properties with large numbers of enforcement cases on those. So those would be filed under the noise nuisance Title IX.
 A notice of violation is issued by one of Steve's Enforcement officers those notices of violation in turn are filed with the Municipal Court that notices a violation Do they affect their liquor licenses in any shape manner form? No, sir. Not to the best of my knowledge
 And wouldn't that be the way to really get somebody to listen or to follow or stop being a bad actor? That would require a coordination with TABC to see if that's a appropriate mechanism for them to revoke such a license. Or suspend. Correct. So this would be step one into getting the bad actors
 to be good actors? Well, part of the component of Title V is that also it does allow to impose higher penalties. So where Title IX allows them to do a $500 per event, I guess, per citation, the Title V will actually go, can go up to $2,000. With putting this into moving forward with this,
 removing the the yes thank you room it's because Philip walked in distracted me by removing the distraction doesn't that's this give the city code enforcement law enforcement
 More opportunity to to get people in line to start moving together to be to be good neighbors It does provide additional enforcement capabilities Like I said, the title 5 does allow for up to 2,000 a $2,000 violation Of course, that's up to the Municipal Court judge versus a $500 with violation for title 9 I'm not sure you all need more opportunities. So I think you got plenty right now. Don't you mr. Alvarado? I
 i'm sorry sir he said that gives you more opportunities i think you got plenty don't you we have plenty they're still applicable to the 70.0 you don't need any more thank you representative canales thank you mayor um i i wasn't in office when the last revision was made to the outdoor amplification permit ordinance but i i'd be lying if i said that i i thought it was the best solution then and
 also five years ago when the when the Ordinance was first created and the DMD was first exempted but I I've been okay in in the inter intervening time to kind of let it ride and see how the interactions have happened between the hospitality businesses downtown and Everybody else and I think we've seen a lot of conflict between bars and
 I don't want to unfairly pick on bars right businesses with amplified sound and other businesses with downtown residents with other with with hotels for example. And so I think that this is the common sense change then. I don't you know I understand actually I'll quote it from here I think I'm looking still at the sociable city plan that was presented to us earlier.
 And they call out specifically that they understand the downtown businesses desire to continue to promote nightlife in the downtown area. And I completely understand that. But I do think that we have to find the right balance. And I don't think it's an undue burden.
 to require an outdoor amplified sound permit. And again, I want to clarify, this is only to continue to amplify sound outdoors between the hours of 10 p.m. and midnight. You know, I think during those hours, it makes sense that we have a better idea of
 where businesses will be amplifying the sound, the locations of their speakers and any sound mitigation that they have, and their entire sound management plan. I think it makes sense for the city to understand where that sound will be coming from and what it will look like between 10 PM and midnight. Again, we'll keep looking at it. If we make this change and it causes a problem that we didn't anticipate,
 I mean, I can come in now. I'll personally be open to revisiting this as that time comes up. But I do think that right now, knowing what we know and seeing what's happened downtown over the last five years and then since the last revision a few years ago,
 It makes sense to adopt this change for the moment. So thank you for the work that's gone into it I know we gave you direction not too long ago and you've turned it around very quickly So thank you to you all and to miss Neiman and the legal department. You all have turned this around quickly for us. Thanks Thank you sir without much prime
 Yes sir and we also received a statement from Angie and Guido which I've shared with council there was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve item 28 public comment has been taken on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representative Hernandez not present
 Ms. Pratt, I think we, and Ms. Hossman, I think we skipped you on item 20. Would you like to speak on that? There was no action, so we don't read. There's a few things that I do want to bring up on what I was listening to that seem rather off on 20. Okay.
 Pardon me. I said there was a few things in his presentation that I would like to speak on. It seems somewhat off. You know unfortunately they're gone but you can make comment and then we can refer it back to him. That's fine. I would like to make comments so that you all actually consider it. I'm going to wing it apparently because I can't find my notes.
 But was disturbing although he's but if y'all didn't catch that I might my second fiance was an accountant and I almost became a CPA is What his statistics weren't stating is that you know what less less intake and that less distemper No, what it's stating is that if you have more intake you're going to see the disease that's out in the community and how it's affecting and that is what we need to know and
 That's a safety concern to make sure that there is more intake, and we do see those high levels because that is a concern for all citizens, everybody who has their own private pets, because of those strays that are out there. That is what's telling us is that the strays that are being left on the street are very high in disease, and you only discover that when you bring them in. So we need to make sure that our own pets,
 our own responsible pet owners, we're walking around, whatever, taking our pets for walks, that we know that there are high levels, not just leave them out, don't, oh, we need to, we're gonna falsify the statistics, reduce those numbers by not bringing them in and knowing what the actual disease is out in the community is what that presentation stated, which is completely wrong. And as far as the strays,
 Especially the cats. Okay another safety concern that I have brought up to mr. Acevedo is I really do hope that there's more of a plan more more more funding to More free spay and neuter funding. Okay, not just low-cost but free and
 Okay, because quite frankly if you get on any of the social media next door and some other ones You've got somebody that's that's considered the evil man of Campbell Street because he's brutalizing cats You've got cats that are being dismembered in Body parts on the west side and you have the same thing that's happening in central You have people in our district too if you see that that the at least six poisoned cats recently
 And that is not just an animal issue, that is a safety human issue because there are psychotics out there. Any criminal justice person who has done the studies will tell you that the first person, the first trigger to find out of some psycho that's going to mass murder is were they killing pets. So you've got people out in our community doing that. That is not just a pet issue, that is a human safety issue in our city that you all and nobody is addressing.
 So yes, more needs to be done. Please. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. And I apologize for skipping you on that. Thank you.
 Yes, sir. That brings us to item 31 and this is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the submission of an application to the U.S. Department of Energy, local government energy program, community sparking investment in transformative energy requesting funds in the amount of $3 million with a 5% match of $160,000 from the city for the Paso del Norte port of entry microgrid project.
 There is a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 31. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representatives Kennedy and Hernandez not present.
 Item 32 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the submission of an application to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Clean Ports Program, climate and air quality planning competition requesting funds in the amount of $3 million with no match required from the city for the Isleta International Port of Entry and Santa Fe Rail Yard Project Development Study. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares,
 to approve item 32. hold on one second i'm sorry uh representative uh canalis mayor can we just see the hear the quick presentation on this item go ahead was everyone briefed on this i'm sorry did you brief everybody on this not on this one in particular sir okay thank you now
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Council, Omar Martinez for the record, with strategic and legislative affairs. I also have with me Dr. Santiago, who works with UTEP and the Aspire NSF Research Center, who are our partners in this application and are helping us write the technical components of the application.
 I'll go over the specific details on what the scope of work is and why this is a great opportunity for the city. As was mentioned in the resolution language, there is no match required from the city. This program does require coordination with the MPO and also...
 The council auction required today will be for a preliminary submission, and if awarded, we will come back to City Council to discuss a contract with the EPA for implementation. We're also hosting this project in partnership with BNSF Rail, who are working, we're negotiating the language on a letter of support.
 And so the EPA Clean Ports Program focuses on emissions reduction. And so as you've heard in conversations like on the Preliminary Climate Action Plan, the federal government is very interested in electrification and making infrastructure improvements so that we target the causes of emissions, emissions emissions.
 whether it's through transportation, whether it's through energy use and buildings, improvements, things like that. And so in this opportunity in particular, the EPA designated the Santa Fe Rail Yard that is located in downtown El Paso right next to the El Paso del Norte Port of Entry.
 and as the only eligible project for this funding opportunity. So it's pretty much tailor-made for us. And it does require participation from the property owner, in this case PNSA of Rail, which we're already working on. If Council approves, the application deadline is on May 28th.
 And so we're going to talk a little about partnerships. As I said, UTEP is our primary partner. And we have Dr. Santiago. There's going to be a couple of slides that she'll go over. ASPIRE, NSF Engineering Research Center, is our technical consultant as well. And then we are considering Texas A&M Transportation Institute as another technical consultant. We normally use Texas A&M for our benefit cost analyses in all of our projects. Other partners include MPO and TxDOT.
 and then the state delegation should this planning work be successful and we're going to award it. As part of the state legislative brighter process, we're hoping to request money for implementation. So to build what this program would have done designing. We're also working with Ciudad Juarez and the Fideicomiso de Puentes Fronterizos de Chihuahua to make sure that there's coordination on both sides of the border.
 So now I'm going to pass the presentation over to Dr. Santiago, who's going to talk about the NSF Engineering Research Center and their extensive partnerships with the city. It's more than one project. They're working with us on multiple projects.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and distinguished council members. I'm on Santiago. I'm associate professor of civil engineering at UTEP, and also co-director of the Aspire Engineering Research Center, which is for advancing sustainable power and roadway electrification. Aspire is headquarter at Utah State University, but of course, UTEP is a key partner because I'm here as well. We have 10 affiliated university and over 60 industry partners,
 and with partners that you know of, that Ford and others that are garnering efforts towards electrification and electric vehicles.
 I'm not going to talk too much about the center other than we have the technical capability of our 400 members, faculty, staff. We participate in actual pilots across the nation. We have collaborations with the Central Florida Expressway for a boardway electrification project.
 the inland port at Utah for another electrification project with UPS with electrified fleets from Provo to Logan. That's in progress in Indiana as well. So we do have research projects, but we also have what we call beyond research projects in applied research like this one that we're proposing to collaborate with the city. Next. Thank you.
 And equity is one of those components that is important to us and in this specific project what we're seeking is to enhance port operations with environmental sustainability and also reduce emissions, build a foundation towards zero emissions operations and reduce emissions of mobile sources near port.
 near the ports and specifically engaging disadvantaged communities and we'll be working with communities like Chihuahuita Park and Segundo Barrio in these efforts and I'll leave it at that because I know I'm holding you from lunch But if you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer. Thanks
 Thank you. The one thing I do want to add is Dr. Santiago's team, their technical assistance, they do a lot of the electrification mathematics and they bring technology transfer from other regions. It leads to money savings. We don't have to hire consultants to develop some of the more difficult grant projects because they help us figure out the technical side of these.
 So the scope of work involves again developing technical documents to expand and increase resiliency at the East letter port of entry and Increase efficiency at the Santa Fe rail yard Ultimate the goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions of both ports the end result are documents that then we use they're fully designed by engineers to then request funding for construction and
 And so UTEP's lead is going to be on creating an inventory of those assets that can be electrified, so replaced from diesel engines, to be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on the Chiwaweta neighborhood, because as you know, it's surrounded by the Isleta Port and by the BNSF rail yard. And then up to the west is also El Paso Water Treatment Plant, which means they are in a very unique situation where they have pollution
 emissions all around them and then benefit cost analysis I said before this is a Technical document that's required for us to be able to apply for construction and implementation So what you see here is the estimated budget no cost share is required and the if I've approved by council We would intend to sub
 grant UTEP $1.4 million to develop their technical components. The city would keep the remainder to focus on the Isleta Port of Entry expansion tasks. The application on this one, the deadline is really tight. If approved by council, we would submit this project by May 28th, we've already coordinated everything else to be able to submit, and then once submit, we do our usual, we advocate on DC on our trips to make sure that, well, two.
 Get a better chance that make sure that we get funded we would know by the end of this year if we receive the funding or not and so again that the Action required is authorization to submit the application and then authorize a city manager to sign the documents We need to get the application in if awarded will bring it back to City Council Happy to answer any questions Yes, sir. There was a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by alternate mayor pro Tim only not to approve item number 32 and
 On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. Thank you very much.
 is number 33 and this is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the mayor to sign an interlocal agreement between the city of El Paso and Texas Department of Motor Vehicles to allow the municipal court to transmit vehicle information regarding outstanding arrest warrants to the Texas Department of Motor Vehicles for statewide flagging and holds. Motion to approve. Second. A motion and a second. Yes, a motion was made by Representative. And we have Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor.
 I want to say I know we had a couple of weeks ago the conversation about not the same program, a very similar program in Omnibase. Omnibase of course creates driver's license renewal holds for folks who owe fines or fees to the municipal court. And this program creates a vehicle registration hold in partnership with the county.
 you know, routed through the county and doesn't allow people who owe fines or fees to re-register their vehicles. I have a lot of the same concerns with this program that I have with the other. And what I truly have yet to see is data that shows the effectiveness of this program. I don't want to sound like a broken record repeating the things I said last time
 But there is data available from other cities that we can compare against that show that there's not a real difference in collection rate between the cities that have this type of scofflaw program and the cities that don't. And so what I would really like to see is some sort of analysis performed on our own data to see if folks who are receiving a scofflaw registration hold are indeed
 paying more of their fines and fees. It doesn't seem like they are or at least the data doesn't prove out to me what I've seen of the data doesn't prove that out to me. And so basically I am very convinced of the potential drawbacks. I think the drawbacks are very obvious to see. It can make it very difficult for someone who needs to get to work to earn the money to pay the fines and fees if they're not able to drive.
 But I'm not convinced of, I can see the drawbacks clearly, but I'm not convinced necessarily of the positives. And it makes it hard to make a decision. I'm not saying in any way that I'm beyond convincing here, but I need to see the justification of continuing the program. I don't want to say yes and approve something blindly when there are clear drawbacks and not proven out positives. And so it would be my preference that we,
 hold off on renewal of the program, that we do a much more in-depth look at whether or not this is beneficial, whether our data shows that it's been beneficial over the past many years that we've participated in this. But again, without that, I won't be able to support it today. I may get there if we're able to do more of an analysis. Again, I think we owe it to our citizens who are having these restrictions placed on them,
 to figure out if this is actually helpful or if it's purely punitive without actually seeing the benefits that we hope it creates in terms of payment and getting people back out on the road I'll limit my comments there but I just want to make sure that it's clear I don't think that we have the data to prove that this works thank you mayor
 Sorry. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. So I really appreciate you meeting with me on this one and I know we've had several meetings and I know there's disagreement and I think that we have handled it.
 in a better way and we're building that relationship to have that understanding that we can agree to disagree on this matter and I think overall on this one, I do see it very similar to the other program, OmniBase, just in a different setup, right? And I think where I'm coming at it from
 is that I'm not really seeing significance in the data that has been presented. For example, on this one on slide 10 in the backup, there's less than 50% that have been closed thanks to the SCOF log being implemented. So I don't see...
 how that is coming to fruition with that data, right? And that's why I've been trying to make this a data,
 data-like informed decision with OmniBase, and I see this very similarly where I think this has been, so we've been so used to it. We've had it for 20 years now where it's become this thing where we've always done it this way, so why are we going to change it now? This is just another tool that we have and having a lot of different tools,
 is really great because then we could go to the next tool. But sometimes if the tools are not necessarily working and we're not evaluating how those tools can be improved, whether it be with data or really analyzing to say,
 We have reached the definition of insanity doing something over and over again expecting a different result and that's kind of where I feel that we have really gotten to this point here where we're just kind of doing it every single time just because this is what we always do without actually taking a step back and seeing how we can improve things to get people to call the municipal court right and omni-based example or do something else to kind of figure this out.
 As we continue these conversations, I mean, I feel that we have started that and we had some good conversations on how we can move forward with possibly other tools, looking at it different ways. So I really do appreciate you accepting that and we'll set up more meetings to discuss this, but I'm not going to support this today. Thank you. Thank you for that.
 Thank you. Representative Fierro. Thank you, Mayor. First and foremost, I think we owe it to the citizens who are paying their citations on time to vote for this today. And there's a motion and a second, Mayor. Thank you. There's a motion and a second. Ms. Prime? Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 33. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And that motion passes. Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Piero, Rivera voting aye. Representatives Acevedo, Canales voting nay. Representatives Hernandez, Salcido not present. That brings us to the final item. This is number 34 and this is presentation, discussion and action on the City of El Paso's legislative agenda for the 89th regular session of the Texas State Legislature.
 Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon mayor and council ian vulgarly strategic and legislative affairs, right? So I'm here to talk to you about the first phase of our legislative agenda process I want to take a moment to thank council I was able to meet with every one of you individually to get some feedback on this what's in the presentation today is the
 priorities that we've been able to gather from over 19 departments And so more than we've been able to talk to in the past pretty comprehensive list, but we're hoping to grow it and
 This is phase one. What we'd like to do is take some time between today and mid-July to have further discussions with council to capture some council priorities. So what I'm showing you today is mostly for the sake of allowing my team to go out and meet with our delegation and start working on some of those funding priorities that we've discussed. So with that let me jump into this.
 So as I mentioned this is a process we we've moved very quickly to try to get some priorities to our State delegation so that we can have those discussions so that we can start writing writers We've identified some key areas, but we anticipate that we'll be coming back to council and over the course of a
 The next couple of months we'll be hearing more from the state in terms of what their priorities are We've heard from the lieutenant governor and from the Speaker of the House what the charges are and now We've had a chance to look through some of those and
 To see what kind of impact we can anticipate for the city The first section I'll highlight are just some hot topics We know that the border is going to continue to be a political topic at the state Operation Lone Star is likely to continue to be funded We've seen what that impact is for us we have
 had both this migration situation to deal with, but also the slowdowns at the border. One of the opportunities that we're going to be looking at in terms of funding are security for our border crossings that would actually allow that traffic to speed up.
 We're also looking at energy grid resilience. The state has made energy, the grid, a very important part of the next session. Two areas caught our attention. One is the Texas Energy Fund, which will be providing grants and loans for projects that do generation, transmission, and distribution.
 both within ERCOT and outside of ERCOT. The program for within ERCOT has launched. We're anticipating the outside of ERCOT program will launch in the next couple months. And that could create a lot of opportunities for our community to go after more generation. Hopefully in a kind of generation that we can all be on board with. We're taking a look at potential preemption threats coming out of the state.
 taxes are going to be a big topic again this year. The charge coming out of the Senate is to eliminate property taxes. We don't anticipate that will happen but we have to monitor the situation. We whatever property tax elimination proposals come out could create issues for us at the city. The other area that we're keeping an eye on is ARPA.
 The charges coming out of the Senate are to take a look at programs like the universal basic income programs out of Austin, Houston. But there's also a provision in there to take a look at how cities, how these programs align with state policy. And that's very concerning to us. So we'll continue to monitor whether the state is looking to get involved and whether municipalities can go after federal grants or not.
 We're also tracking resource opportunities. Texas has a major mental health problem, funding problem in particular. And so both the House and the Senate are going to be looking at providing more funding. And we need to be aggressive about going after that funding. Transportation is a big opportunity for us this go-around as well. There's going to be $500 million set aside for ports of entry. We fought hard for that. There's no guarantee we'll see $1 of it if we don't go out and advocate for it.
 So what we've done is we've taken a look at some of these resource opportunities and we've looked at what we're doing what our needs are at the department level and we've grouped them into three areas that we see as major funding opportunities for us if we go aggressive. And those three funding areas are infrastructure public health and safety and workforce. I mentioned the port.
 Of entry funding so that will be a major focus for us on the riders front. There's going to be increased There's always funding that we can go after more aggressively on flood prevention and stormwater They we've traditionally gotten some funding out of the act for military installations. We'll go after that again and broadband access under public health and safety and
 We are anticipating very expensive the impact of the new rulings coming out of the EPA on forever chemicals. So we'll be asking for funding particularly on both equipment replacement and disposal. There's more money that we're going to go after for emergency management as I mentioned with the operation Lone Star we're going to need whatever assistance that we can get.
 On workforce, we've had a strong focus on advanced manufacturing. We haven't gone after as much money at the state as we could, so we see that as a major opportunity and we also see an opportunity to go after existing workforce money, but specifically for municipalities. And then just a little primer on riders.
 You've seen our team go after appropriations at the federal level pretty aggressively. So this is the state equivalent. It's a different process. We have to identify an agency at the state where the money would pass through and we have to work with our state delegation just to get our foot in the door.
 Representative District 6 certainly give us a lot of insight into that process. We've gotten one writer in the last five years I believe for the ITS technology for report and we really need to be more aggressive as a city and we plan to be more aggressive as a city for going after these.
 Just to give you a sense of the timeline. So once we once we complete this process we'll start talking to our delegation but we're also going to start talking to those agencies where we've identified a number of groups that our departments work with around the state. We'll try to form partnerships with them we'll try to identify partners within other cities delegations to go after some of our priorities.
 That work will continue throughout from now until the start of the session. When the session starts, we're going to probably partner again with a community nonprofit to go to Austin.
 Show a strong force from the city Make sure that they know that El Paso is going to be asking for more support this go-around But we'd like that we'd like to organize with our council going more frequently than just once we really need to be seen very regularly at commissions we need to be seen regularly testifying in front of a
 House committees Senate committees we need to be a constant presence in order to get some of our funding priorities through and in order to fight some of the policy issues that have really plagued us in the past. So we were originally going to ask for a resolution. We'd actually like to hold that off until we have that opportunity to integrate council priorities instead. I'd like to read a motion into the record for council to consider just one moment.
 That would be a motion to direct the city manager or designee to deliver the initial city of El Paso legislative agenda and priorities For the 89th legislative session to the El Paso State delegation Okay, didn't hear you turn on your mic please There's no one on the queue
 That's correct, Mayor. The motion was made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Salcido. I'll hear the second. And the motion is to direct the city manager or designee to deliver the initial City of El Paso legislative agenda and priorities for the 89th legislative session to the El Paso State Delegation. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. Thank you.
 Thank you, and I look forward to watching you all as you go forward, and I know this is probably one of the earliest I've seen I start working on an agenda which was really good and You know even though they don't go in the session till January I look forward to being very prepared for next year, so thank you all for that There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting all in favor aye
 Anyone opposed aye and the regular City Council meeting for Tuesday May 21st 2024 is adjourned at 1 31 p.m Attempting to fund these permanently I