Ms. Prime, we do have a quorum and it's 9 o'clock. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, everyone. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, May 23, 2023. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding inside council chambers, along with Representative Kennedy, Mayor Potemonello, Alternate Mayor Potemolinello, and Representative Fierro. Representative Salcido is running a few minutes late.
 And Representative Hernandez is arriving at the dais. It is 9.01 a.m. Now, will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting? Arise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain Robert Hemphill, Jr. Nice to see you, sir. Good to see you. Good morning to the Honorable Mayor, Mr. Oscar Lisa, who's also a Hall of Famer, member of the City Council members.
 and department heads and friends of the city of El Paso, please bow your heads at this time. Father of mercy and justice, thank you on behalf of all who are gathered here today for this city council meeting. The scripture tells us, and it says the following, behold how good and pleasant it is for us to dwell together in unity. Thank you for our leadership, and as they work together as a team, holy one,
 You're known by many names. You're known as the spirit of life, the spirit of love, spirit of community, and the spirit of justice. We ask your blessings on the people who have been called to lead the city in which we live and work and play. We pray for wisdom. We pray for strength, for courage to do what is right and good for all citizens. May we put the interests of others above our own.
 And may we act with love for the common good. May we be good neighbors, recognizing your image in every person here. And this we ask in your holy name, in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning, Dr. Lang. Will you lead us in the pledge, sir? Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
 And for the record, Representative Rivera just arrived, and Representative Canales will be arriving soon. Thank you all. And I do want to thank everyone for being here. I know that we have some great proclamations, and we have some students here that are here so we can congratulate you all on your great accomplishments. You know, it's always nice to have people
 the youth here, the people that really are the future of our country. And, you know, when I look around and I see them here, I really get excited knowing that our future is bright and will continue to be bright as, you know, we run for office and we continue to make sure that...
 We represent our community and make sure that our community and public safety is our number one priority. But also education becomes our number one priority. Education becomes number one because I'd love to see every one of you all up here someday leading council, leading our city, leading our state. Maybe one of you all will be president of the United States.
 And so I get very excited to be able to stand here and sit here and watch you all as you come up here. And we congratulate you all. So, you know, I always say I want a moment of silence. But today I don't want a moment of silence. I want a moment of gratitude for the future of our community. And I want to again thank you all for being here. And with that, let's think of something good. And let's pray for good. Let's pray that...
 We have a wonderful and a beautiful day and continue to prosper. So if we just think about a good thought and maybe we can transmit it amongst all of us. Thank you. Thank you all. And, you know, I never come prepared to speak in the morning. I come and I look around and whatever fills my heart is what I talk about. And you guys really warmed my heart today. So thank you. May God bless you and may God bless El Paso.
 With that, Ms. Prine. Thank you, Mayor. That leads us to the Mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, El Paso's 10th Anniversary Day. Representative Piro. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you for the honor of allowing me to read this. Dr. Lang, welcome. Our way on is Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, El Paso.
 became an independent university within the Texas Tech University system on May 18, 2013, with the goal of improving lives and empowering generations through accessible health education and world-class patient care. Whereas today the university's four schools train tomorrow's borderplex healthcare leaders,
 the Gail Hunt School of Nursing, the L. Frederick Francis Graduate School of Biomedical Science, the Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, and the Woody L. Hunt School of Dental Medicine, while also partnering with local hospitals and university providing vital opportunities for medical residencies, clinical rotation, and postgraduate job placements. Whereas a contribution of $634.4 million annually to the local economy,
 By removing barriers of healthcare, growing our healthcare leaders through initiative education, conducting cutting edge research on impacting Hispanics and residents of the U.S.-Mexican border. Whereas Texas Tech Health Science Center El Paso has transformed the lives of 2,135 graduates and continues its impact role.
 of changing the lives trajectory of families in our community. Texas Tech University Science Center El Paso celebrating 10 years of service to El Paso and West Texas will remain steadfast in its mission of improving access to healthcare, inspiring future generations of physicians, dentists, nurses, and researchers.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council, the city of El Paso, that May 18, 2023, shall be known as Texas Tech University Health Science Center El Paso's 10th anniversary day. Congratulations, Dr. Lamb, with your team. Good morning, Dr. Lang, and it's what an honor to see you here. And I remember the first day I got to meet you when you first came here in November.
 What an honor that you've made a huge difference, not only in Texas Tech and a lot of lives of a lot of students and administration, but to our community. And I thank you for that because, as a rule, every time I see you, you've got a big old smile, and I thank you for that. So welcome to City Council, sir. Thank you. With your indulgence, I'd like for my team to stand. I've got several of the deans here and vice presidents and communications and marketing. Definitely.
 Because what I'm going to say, I say on behalf of the entire university. First of all, I want to thank you, Mayor Leaser. I want to thank all members of the city council for your continued support of Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center in El Paso. Your leadership and dedication to building a bright future for our community has allowed our university to provide local residents and West Texans with transformational health education here in El Paso.
 an opportunity that wasn't available 10 years ago. As you've mentioned, Representative Fierro, we've touched the lives of patients and their families through world-class healthcare, through community-based prevention programs, and also through innovative research that affects our community. Today, over 2,100 alumni are now our physicians and nurses and researchers, and soon will be our dentists here in the area, and they'll be joined by 855 students that we currently have as well.
 Together with our community supporters and with your assistance, we're meeting the health care disparities in the border flex By increasing access to health care by growing our own People that will provide for the future of our community for generations to come in the past 10 years We've achieved many milestones I'll just mention two one is the establishment of the Woody L. Hunt School of Dental Medicine and the Francis School of Biomedical Sciences and I think together we are
 along with you have showed the nation what resilience is and what it means to be El Paso strong during this historic month in our universities history we're very grateful to be part of this border plex community and we look forward to our next decade of impact again my heartfelt appreciation to you and on behalf of my entire universe University for your support and your continued encouragement in our mission and those we serve
 So thank you very much. Thank you. Now, to make sure you remember this day, Daphne, where are you? So we'd like to present you with the same T-shirt. Here's to the next decade. I thought you were going to give us a free stress test. That was the speech, sir. Mayor, I hope there's a petite large in that pile there. Okay, we'll leave them up there. I'll let you guys pick. Thank you.
 thank you again dr lang and you know as you just pointed out none of us can become great leaders without a great support team and i can see your support team so congratulations thank you very much thank you and if this morning's honorees will please remain in council chambers city council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once all the ceremonial items have been completed the next proclamation is internal audit awareness month representative kennedy present whereas
 Internal auditing is a vital part of strengthening organizations and protecting stakeholders of both the public and private sectors. And whereas internal auditing helps identify and manage the organization's risks and ensure policies, procedures, and controls are in place and working appropriately...
 And whereas internal auditing is an increasingly sophisticated and complex activity requiring specialized knowledge, training, and education, and whereas internal auditing is an established profession with a globally recognized code of ethics and internal standards for the professional practice of internal auditing,
 and whereas the Institute of Internal Auditors, the internal audit professions most widely recognized advocate, educator, and provider of standards, guidance, and certifications, celebrates its 82nd anniversary in 2023, and whereas historically the global internal audit profession promotes awareness about its value during the month of May each year, and whereas the contribution of internal auditors
 is to the success of organizations and global economy at large deserves our recognition and commendations, whereas we congratulate the Institute of Internal Auditors on its 82nd anniversary and the IIA El Paso Chapter on its 44th anniversary. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that the month of May shall be known as Internal Auditor Awareness Month, signed by our Mayor, Oscar Leeser.
 Well, I Edmondo Calderon chief internal auditor for the city of El Paso for the record. I wasn't going to present today We're waiting for Michael Lama from the county auditor's office, but I think he got caught in traffic So I'll do the best I can
 Thank you very much for the proclamation on behalf of the El Paso chapters of the Institute of Internal Auditors. We're very grateful for the honor and I'm really happy to report that the profession of internal auditing here in El Paso and Las Cruces is in good hands. As you can see behind me I have my staff here and some of the younger auditors on the staff are awesome. I just want to tell you the future of auditing within our
 our communities in good hands. Just wanna mention some of the agencies or some of the companies and governments that have internal audit functions within El Paso and Las Cruces. Of course, the city of El Paso, the county of El Paso, EPISD, Isleta Independent School District, Socorro Independent School District, the city of Socorro,
 State age various state agencies they they have auditors located here in El Paso Very numerous too many numerous students to state higher Educations well represented with UTEP Texas Tech and El Paso Community College have internal audit functions our corporate our
 partners here are we have some Westar Bank Helen or Troy here in El Paso have internal audit functions And then we got some financial institutions in addition GCU government employees credit union and evolved federal credit union so you can see there's auditors embedded throughout El Paso and Las Cruces, so thank you very much for this recognition. Thank you sir, and I know that I had the opportunity to
 be interviewed by when they did a peer-to-peer audit of the city. And where was the auditor from? Baltimore, Howard County, which is Baltimore, Maryland. And they were so impressed with the process, procedures, and the way you all do your job. And it was the first time I've had the opportunity to do that. So they walked out telling us what a great job your whole team does. So congratulations on that. Okay, thank you very much.
 And thank you all. Will you do me a favor and introduce your team to us, please? Okay. Let's see. I'll start from here. One of our younger auditors, Kay Gamboa, right behind her is John Muncion, recent UTEP grads. Just to let you know, UTEP's putting out a very good product. Mike Montiel, he's been with me about 25 years.
 Behind, back in the back is Darryl Olson. He's our veteran auditor. By the way, he used to be my student when I was teaching at UTEP. Miguel Ortega right here. Then behind him is Esmeralda Herrera, another recent UTEP graduate that we just hired. Liz De La O, which is my secret weapon in the office. She's been with me over 22 years. And then Sergio Carrillo.
 is another young and rising auditor within our office. But thank you, guys. I was going to say that you guys do a difficult job because it's hard to have a job that people think it's a great way when you don't call them. But your dedication to making the city of El Paso better is appreciated by all of us and helps us stay on our toes and come up with better processes and procedures. And I want to thank every one of you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. The final proclamation is Young Women's STEAM Research and Preparatory Academy Day. Thank you, Ms. Prime. So proclamation of the City of El Paso, Texas, where as the Young Women's STEAM Research and Preparatory Academy is an all-inclusive, first all-girls in the El Paso Independent School District and the first single gender new tech network academy in the nation, which opened its doors during the 2017-2018 school year, and this year they have their first graduating class.
 And whereas many of the students have been at the academy since the seventh grade, spending six years of their young academic career building a strong sisterhood and special relationships with the faculty and the staff at YWA. And their first graduating class consists of 27 strong young women leaders who are trailblazers and who have helped set the traditions that will be their legacy for years to come.
 And whereas the focus of the young women's academy is on science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics and service learning. And their students are engaged in a curriculum that accentuates the female perspective, providing the tools needed to create change within the local community and in our global society. And the El Paso Independent School District recognizes that minority women are underrepresented
 underrepresented in the STEM field and created a place for Young Women's STEAM Academy to cultivate females to provide opportunities that bridge the gender and minority-majority gap in the field of STEM. And whereas the Young Women's Academy is a full post-secondary preparatory academy that provides pre-advanced placement, advanced placement, and dual credit enrollment courses beginning students freshman year and their focus on social emotional learning
 and project-based learning helps to develop a deep commitment to social justice and effecting change in a world that is challenged by environmental, political, and social issues. And they accomplish this commitment by having access to a premier college preparatory curriculum with distinguished arts, athletics, and community service programs.
 And whereas students will graduate with two endorsements focused on STEM and arts and humanities programs of study. And they are leaving the academy with a strong STEM academic foundation, resilient social emotional upbringing, and a well-rounded background focused on literature and arts. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that May 23, 2023 shall be known as Young Women's STEAM Research and Preparatory Academy Day. Congratulations, y'all. Thank you.
 Good morning councilman Oscar mayor Oscar Leeser. Thank you all for acknowledging and recognizing this proclamation for Young Women's Academy. This is our sixth year that we opened our doors. We opened our doors in 2017 2018 to two groups of students sixth grade and seventh grade and many
 of the young women that you see in the stand sitting behind me were part of that first class. So we have grown together for six years and along with their parents and we really have become a family supporting our students to achieve their dreams anything that they their goals what they their future careers.
 anything they want to do we know they can do it and they've had that support from us. We are a pipeline for STEAM which is science technology engineering arts and mathematics with a heavy emphasis on the arts. I believe that's where our students shine that's where they feel included and that's where their creativity just blossoms. So we are proud of our students
 27 graduates but very strong committed dedicated young woman who are going to be president of the United States. Yes.
 Our students are driven they're passionate and not just for self but for their community. So we look forward to opportunities where we can contribute and support you and your projects anytime our doors are always open. I would like to introduce one of our students Lajar Zahra. She is one of our top contenders and top of her class and she has a few words to say. Good morning everyone. Good morning Council President.
 Members, it is such a privilege to be speaking to you all today, to be speaking on behalf of the class of 2023. We're all here with me on behalf of my peers and my friends, my teachers and my mentors, my school and my community, because that's what the Young Women STEAM Research Preparatory Academy is. It is a community, a diverse, flourishing community of young women that I'm so lucky to be part of.
 because YWA provides opportunities that allow leadership and creativity of those within it to soar. I've been asked to talk about my time at YWA as an example, and I mean here I've been able to through the guidance of my teachers, I've been able to give a TED talk, work for Congresswoman Escobar's congressional campaign, and attend Rice next fall with a full ride scholarship. YWA provides
 YWA provides that kind of support and it's there with you every step of the way to greatness and excellence. Our renowned art program whose reputation precedes itself throughout the city is evidence of that. The class of 2023's near 2 million scholarship total is evidence of that. And our community where you can count on being accepted and encouraged is evidence of that. And all the confident young women in their graduation gowns here today are all evidence of that.
 I can say with 100% certainty that these women will go on to lead and create and challenge and solve problems in STEAM, science, technology, engineering, art, and math, the way we have been taught in this school. These women and myself, through the knowledge and strength we have gained here at our time at YWA and our time as warriors, will be an asset and a light to anywhere our paths take us.
 Now, I know that those paths might stray from El Paso, but fortunately, YWA is here to stay. And I know that every successive class from here on out will amplify these strengths and this knowledge, and it will be a light and an asset to the city as well. Thank you so much. I would like to introduce Mr. Mark Paz. He's the assistant superintendent for secondary schools.
 Thank you for the recognition today, Mayor Leeser and council members. EPISD is 140 years of pioneering education here in our region. And this is a prime example of that pioneering. These young women six years ago took on a challenge and a journey to be part of something different, something unique, something unlike anything offered academically in our region. And so to see these 27 graduates walk across the stage.
 on June 13th at 1.30 in MacGuffin Auditorium at UTEP will be one of those moments where we all will just take a deep breath and be excited to see how our future has evolved, how our education has evolved. These pioneering young women are a true example of empowered women ready to do anything they put their minds to. So we're excited for this opportunity and recognition today, but more importantly, we invite you to our ceremony to recognize the inaugural class of Young Women's STEAM Academy. Thank you. Thank you.
 Now we, I know we have all the students here. Will you all please come up, come on up and we'd love for them to introduce themselves to us. Yes, okay. Introduce? Yes, ma'am. Hi, my name is Kirsten Moran and I'll be attending NMSU to study animal sciences. Congratulations. Hello, I'm Solange Diaz and I will be part of the University Politecnico in Catalonia,
 Hi my name is Akali Agasca I'll be attending UTEP to study epidemiology. Hi I'm Ximena Cordero and I'll be attending UTEP majoring in communications and minoring in computer science. My name is Genevieve Espinoza and I'll be attending UTEP majoring in sports I mean sorry business marketing. My name is Adeline Ontiveros and I will be attending the University of New Mexico on a full-ride scholarship to study mechanical engineering.
 My name is Nancy Cruz. I'll be attending EPCC for two years for nursing assistants. I'm Lex Navarro. I'll be attending UTEP as a Terry Scholar, double majoring in business marketing and computer science. Hello, my name is Bailey Kukula. This year I will be taking a gap year, but hopefully I can attend UTSA where I'll study archaeology. Hi, my name is Amarisa Espinosa. I will be attending the University of El Paso here, and I will be studying film.
 Hi, my name is Victoria McMillan. I'll be going to Xavier University to study pre-med pharmacy. Hi, my name is Andrea Tellez and I will be studying at UTEP and I will pursue a major in psychology. My name is Alessa Martinez. I'll be going to UTEP on a full ride majoring in nursing. My name is Angela Salcido and I'm training to go to the Navy. My name is Sofia Tovar. I'll be attending UTEP on a full ride to study aerospace engineering with a minor in atmospheric physics.
 My name is Ana and I'll be going to EPCC for two years to study biological science. Hello, my name is Angelina Alvarez and I will be a part of the El Paso County Sheriffs. Hello, my name is Ariana Carpenter and I will be attending Florida Institute of Technology to study astrobiology. Hello, my name is Sarah Alvarez and I will be attending UTEP to major in communications.
 Hello I am Melissa Hyman and I will be attending EPCC for two years and then going to Colorado to study environmental science in the University of Colorado Denver. Hello, my name is Glenda Bueno. I will be attending UTEP and studying environmental science. Hello, my name is Miriam Mordaz. I will be attending the University of Texas at Arlington and study marketing. Hello, my name is Jennifer Tucker and I'll be attending the University of Health Science and Pharmacy with a partial scholarship majoring in pharmaceutical science.
 Hello I'm Hannah Connor and I'll be attending UT Austin this fall with the impact scholars scholarship. So these are my daughters. Every single student who comes to my school is considered my daughter. I wanted it would be I would remiss not introducing two of our faculty members who have been with us from the beginning. Miss Sarai Palisade and Miss Rebecca Guerrero and taking the picture stand up Miss Connor. This is Miss Naomi Connor.
 who is an art teacher with us and also supports us with student activities. We are a small campus but mighty campus and thank you so much for this honor today. Thank you, congratulations everyone. Congratulations ladies. And I did figure out who's gonna be president but I'm gonna keep it to myself. Okay, thank you for that. Thank you. For the record, Representative Salcido and Canales have also arrived to the meeting. Mayor, would you like to do the consent agenda?
 So we're moving a lot of items up in order, but that's fine. The consent agenda? Yes, ma'am. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Temp.
 Yeah, I do. We want to pull item six out. Is that correct, Representative Hernandez? We have that. It's on the revisions. Yes, sir. We'll do that after council items, right? So page four, item six, move to the regular agenda per Representative Hernandez. Page eight, item 28, move to the forefront per Representative Fierro.
 Page 8, item 38, revise and move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Molinar. And that revision is to add Representative Kennedy as a co-sponsor. Page 9, item 32, move item before item 31 per Representative Kennedy. And then page 9, item 34, revise per Representative Anello. And that revision is to add Representative Salcido as a co-sponsor to the item.
 And I think we want to move item 29 also for Representative Hernandez. Yes, Mayor. Item 6, we have Riverside High School students here, and we'd like for them to be part of the resolution proclamations, as well as item number 29. And then...
 separate from that in no particular order it can come later I would like to move item number nine from the consent agenda to the regular agenda I just have a couple questions for our legal team so the revisions are to move 28 30 and 32 per to the front and 29 28 30 28 20 yeah so they're just 28 29 30 32 they're in the same order that they are on the agenda number 42 will not be moved
 With that, do we have a second? Mayor, we do have public comment on items 10 and 11. Item 10 is a resolution that the mayor be authorized to sign a first amendment operational policy agreement with a metropolitan planning organization. And we have Mr. Harrison Plurk that would like to speak. Good morning. You have three minutes.
 Good morning. Mayor and Council Harrison Florida assistant director for El Paso MPO. If I had realized this was going to be on the consent agenda, then I wouldn't have bothered signing up. But I just wanted to thank Mr. Cortinas and the city attorney's office and everybody else on staff who worked with us on updating the operational agreement between the MPO and the city. This is going to make it a lot easier for us to
 understand the role of both organizations the city being the fiscal agent for the MPO. We think it's going to make for a more efficient relationship moving forward. So I encourage you all to approve. Thank you. Thank you. Good to see you. And for item 11 this is a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign the First Amendment to the operating and maintenance agreement with the Chamber of Commerce. And we have Miss Lisa Turner that signed up to speak on this item. Good morning you have three minutes.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. I was just curious. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Did they pass that idiotic bill to take your powers away of local government? Okay. Based upon that, you can't enter into any kind of agreement such as this because you will be burdening businesses with having to hire accountants to deal and account for this money.
 The state took that power away from you, therefore you cannot do this anymore. It now falls into the state's hands. And unfortunately, they allowed anybody that wants to walk in off the street to have standing to sue you. They've just made a huge mess. And quite frankly, no.
 Our budget is going to be fat because there's a lot of things that we can't even spend any money on anymore. No 380s, no tax abatements, no sales tax rebates. Can't do that because that has to be accounted for. You can't put regulations on companies to account for such stuff under the law. So it's really curious. I can't wait to see how this pans out. Thank you. I think, Mr. Turner, I think this reads that –
 In consideration of the El Paso Chamber of Commerce, it's investing approximately $250,000. They're investing the money. It's not part of our budget. We're not giving them $250,000. They're actually investing $250,000 to upgrade the star on the mountain. You've entered into an agreement with them, even those. So we can take the money, but we're getting into an agreement so they can pay it. It's not coming out of the general fund. Correct, Mr. Gonzalez? Yes.
 My whole concern is why I brought it up is the silliness of what they've done in Austin, what it's going to do to you, how it's going to impact 380 agreements, property tax rebates, that whole nine yards, the whole economic development thing that we do here at the city level, that's in the state's hands now, not yours. Well, that's what I'm saying. They're investing. We're not taking it out of the general fund. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Thank you.
 and with that we got a motion in a second yes sir the motion was made by mayor prote manalo seconded by representative rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion call for the vote representative salsido thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to item number 28. before we move forward i do want to recognize one of the pioneers of texas tech school of medicine and i think it's important to
 Say hello to him, Dr. Manny De La Rosa. He's here, and he did an incredible job, and he was one of the pioneers. And one of the main reasons Texas Tech is in El Paso. And I've been a big fan of yours, as you know, and a good friend. So I just want to recognize you, and thank you for being here, and congratulations. And based on what you did, you can look around and be proud of your accomplishments. Thank you, Dr. De La Rosa. Thank you.
 Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Item 28 is discussion in action to recognize June 2, 2023 to be National Gun Violence Awareness Day. This was submitted by Representative Piero. Thank you, Mayor. Welcome, Mindy. Ms. Huebnos, welcome very much. Thank you for bringing this to our attention. Thank you for serving on the Women's Commission for us, and thank you for being a resident of District 6.
 You know, and how timely this resolution is, on the eve of the deadliest school shooting in Texas history, in a country where there are more guns than residents, I'm honored to read this resolution.
 Whereas every day more than 120 Americans are killed by gun violence and more than 200 are shot and wounded, with an average of more than 17,000 gun homicides every year. Whereas a city across the nation, including cities of El Paso, are working
 to end the senseless violence with evidence-based solutions. And whereas gun violence prevention is more important than ever as we see the increase in firearm homicides, non-fatal shootings across the country, increased calls to domestic violence hotlines, and increased...
 in city gun violence. Whereas National Gun Violence Awareness Day falls on June 2, 2023, marking the beginning of Wear Orange Weekend, a time to honor the lives lost to gun violence and advocate for sensible gun laws. Whereas in January 2013, High School Law School,
 Heidi N. Pendleton was tragically shot and killed at age 15, and on June 2nd, 2023, to recognize the 26th birthday
 People across the United States will recognize National Gun Violence Awareness Day and wear orange in tribute and other victims of gun violence and the loved ones that were victims. Now therefore be it resolved that the City of El Paso declare the first Friday in June, June 2, 2023, to be National Gun Violence Awareness Day and all citizens are encouraged to wear orange in their local communities. Thank you for bringing this to our attention.
 Good morning, ma'am. Good morning. My name is Mindy Loevanos. I am a volunteer with El Paso County Moms Demand Action. I also serve as a Texas state lead for Be Smart, which is an educational program that promotes the secure storage of firearms. And most importantly, I'm a mother of four. Wear Orange is dedicated to honoring the lives of people in the United States affected by gun violence and elevating the voices of those demanding an end to gun violence.
 2022 was another deadly year for America's gun violence epidemic, and in the first half of 2023, the impacts of this public health crisis have continued to devastate communities and families across the country. But as incidents of gun violence have grown, so too has the moment to stop it. We continue to educate, raise awareness, organize, advocate, and rally for safer communities. Thank you.
 We wear orange to demand a future free from gun violence Orange symbolizes the value of each person's life and we wear it to honor those killed Wounded or impacted by gun violence and to call for an end to this crisis this year We invite everyone to wear orange on June 2nd together We will remember the millions of lives taken or impacted by gun violence and demand action in their honor. Thank you. Thank you May I make a motion to approve? Ms. Prime, we have a motion and a second
 Sorry, who was the second? Representative Salcedo. Thank you. And we do have public comment also, Mayor, from Ms. Turner on this item. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Good morning. Everybody wants to do something about this. They want to treat the symptoms that will not solve the problem. The problem is not a gun. The problem are the people. The problem is the lack of opportunity. The problem is poverty.
 When you are a child growing up in a barrio or a slum out in rural areas, the only people you see with anything are those who commit crimes. That's the path you will follow. We have a deeper problem. Both sides of the issue don't care. They get money coming in to fund them. Candidates get money.
 to fund themselves. Organizations get money coming in so they can go out and speak, but nobody wants to get at the root cause. What is causing somebody to want to take another's life? You can take a gun from somebody who wants to kill 100 people. Did you change their mind? No. They still want to kill 100 people. They're just going to find a different way to do it. We have to figure out how to fix it at the base level. It's like...
 Right now, it's like I go check my oil. It looks milky. I change the oil. Fifty miles later, I check the oil. It's milky. I keep doing this. Even though I know I have a cracked block leaking water into the oil in my car, I keep treating the symptom by changing the oil. I don't fix the problem.
 The problem is people. The problem is lack of opportunity. The problem is simply poverty. The problem is a lack of opportunity to be something other than a criminal. And until we deal with those issues, the killings will continue whether you like it or not. You can pass all the resolutions you want.
 But I want to see my representatives at all levels of government to actually do something to address the issue. Don't treat the symptom, fix the problem. Don't be running around here changing your oil every 50 miles because you've got water coming from a cracked block into your oil system. Treat the problem. I mean, quit, because it upsets me because I see money coming in on both sides and I
 One's protecting guns ones wants to take guns But nobody wants to solve the problem because it's hard work and you don't get on TV by doing it and you can't Thank you. Thank you. There was a motion made by Representative Fierro seconded by representative Salcido to approve the resolution on item 28 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously and
 The next item is 29 and this is discussion in action to approve a resolution recognizing and commending Mr. Anthony Carter, wrestling coach at Hanks High School for his accomplished tenure, for his contributions to Hanks High School, to high school wrestling and to wish him well in his retirement after three decades of coaching. This item was submitted by Representative Hernandez.
 Hi Coach Carter if you could please join us at the podium. I also want to thank Adrian who's part of our city clerk who's nominated you for your tireless and hard work. I believe you were a wrestler before in Hanks High School so thank you for
 that nomination and I'll read this as you approach the podium. Whereas a long time El Paso and mainstay in the competitive high school world of wrestling, Coach Anthony Carter has led the Hanks High School Wrestling Program for more than three decades.
 And whereas Coach Carter began coaching at Hanks during 1990-91 season, but it wasn't until 1999-2000 when girls wrestling was sanctioned by the University Interscholastic League, in which he took the reins of the Hanks girls wrestling program, leading the girls wrestling program to six straight state titles from 2014-2019.
 And whereas in 2008 Coach Carter was inducted into the Texas Wrestling Hall of Fame and locally has been recognized by the El Paso Times as Coach of the Year over 10 times. And whereas the National Federation of State High School Associations, the governing body for all U.S. high school athletics, named Coach Carter the 2016 National Coach of the Year for Boys Wrestling, making him the only high school coach in the state of Texas to win this honor for the 2015 and 2016 school year.
 And in addition, Carter was also named the 2015-16 Coach of the Year by the Texas Girls Coaches Association for the 4A, 5A, 6A, UIL divisions combined. And Raz, Coach Carter has been an inspiration, motivator, helping wrestlers to gain confidence and reach their full potential. He has been behind 30 state champions.
 with his wrestlers going on to collegiate sport with over 30 wrestlers taking their talent to over 15 different colleges. And whereas Coach Carter has been the force behind Hank's wrestling, mentoring so many students, and outside the mats, and after 30 years, he will retire. Not only leaving behind a legacy of champions, but also of thousands of practices, of the lessons of losing and trying again, and the grind it takes to be a good athlete and a better teammate.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City Council recognizes Coach Anthony Carter for his accomplished tenure as a wrestling coach, for his contributions to Hanks High School, to high school wrestling, and to all the students privileged to have been trained by him, and even in retirement, he will always be referred to as Coach. Congratulations. Thank you. Good morning, Coach. Good morning.
 I didn't know anything about this, so I have no words to say, but thank you. I've just been extremely blessed. I've been surrounded by fantastic people, and, you know, I'm just overwhelmed by all of this, so just thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Coach. And, you know, you can –
 you can say you don't have anything to say but for the last three decades your actions speak a lot louder than words so congratulations for dedication to the children in our community and like I said your actions spoke a lot ordered louder than any words you could say today thank you I appreciate it thank you I move to approve go ahead representative Zubetta thank you thank you coach Carter that's first of all thank you representative Hernandez this is
 Long overdue, this gentleman, my son had the privilege to be one of those kids that you coached. And during that time in watching you and the way you carried yourself, you were a true mentor to those kids who have become, as you say, fine gentlemen in our community and other communities as well. And you've sent them to several universities. Thank you.
 And that's all because of your dedication to your work. I just want to congratulate you again, congratulate Representative Hernandez for placing this item on the agenda. And like I said, long overdue, sir. And I can't believe you're going to retire because you said that before and you came back. But keep coming back. We'll see what the big man upstairs has in store for me. We'll see. Thank you so much, sir. I move to approve. Thank you. Thank you.
 There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, followed by Representative Rivera to approve item 29. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 30 is discussion and action on a resolution that declares El Paso the Veterans Capital of the USA. This item was submitted by Representatives Molinar and Kennedy.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. This time, County Judge and Colonel Brady, please come to the front. Okay. And any one of you who are veterans, please come up. I would really appreciate that very much. Thank you very much.
 Resolution, whereas the City of El Paso welcomes all veterans from all over our nation to celebrate and honor their bravery, service, courage, and sacrifices. And whereas the history that Fort Bliss' 1st Armored Division and the City of El Paso share has unified our community with the same mission of supporting our veteran community and their families. Whereas the City of El Paso is the home of approximately 165,000 service members and military families.
 Whereas veterans participate and make a direct economic impact in our community of six billion dollars each year. And whereas the city of El Paso is ranked seventh nationwide in best cities for veterans, homebuyers, and established a rental assistance program in 2020 to assist veterans and reduce the number of homeless veterans in the city of El Paso.
 Whereas it is an honor for the city of El Paso to continue working with Fort Bliss' First Armored Division who synchronize resources to provide a good quality of life to men and women that serve our country and their families. And whereas our veterans and their families are strong voters, engaged in the community and always willing to lend a hand to those in need.
 And whereas the City of El Paso is named as one of only five communities across the nation as a 2023 Great American Defense Communities by the Association of Defense Communities. And whereas the City of El Paso has increased its support by hiring a Chief Military Officer and developing initiatives that serves and honors the veteran community.
 Whereas an informative website hosted by the City of El Paso was created to provide valuable information and assist veterans and their families. And whereas the Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee was formed to serve and offer services to the city's large veteran population. And whereas a monthly video program is produced known as Sun City Bliss.
 to inform the veteran military community of the services, activities, and events of the city and Fort Bliss provides. And whereas the City of El Paso holds an annual Veterans Luncheon for over 700 veteran employees. And...
 Whereas in 2015, the El Paso City Council approved the implementation of the policy Veteran Employment Incentive, which includes a bonus rebate for companies that hire veterans and host veteran job fairs. And whereas Fort Bliss' First Armored Division and the City of El Paso established a partnership that launched the Bridge Fellowship that assists military members to transition into successful post-military careers.
 And whereas the city of El Paso installed a monument at Cleveland Square to honor the brave men of Company U who fought in World War II. And whereas the voice, sacrifice, and service to our veterans in our community is highly valued and recognized by the city of El Paso
 and whereas the city of El Paso fully supports the county of El Paso as the Veterans' capital of the United States of America, where every day in the city of El Paso is Veterans' Day. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the city of El Paso that every day in El Paso is Veterans' Day. Move to approve. Yes. The missing element. Good morning.
 Well, Your Honor, Mayor, and a great friend, and thank you, Representative Molinar, and Representative Kennedy, thank you so much for this, and Paul Albright, who has been such a factor of getting the city and the county to work together. I just want to say that this started back in 2019. We did a resolution to recognize or begin the journey about being the Veterans Capital of the United States of America.
 And one of the first features that we had was a beautiful, and I hope that all of you get to see, we have a beautiful wall of fame for our veterans. And what it is, it's all the branches, the beautiful symbols of all the branches, as well as the nine missions, because we're trying to figure out how do we get
 veterans to come together. And there's organizations and we thought General Medlock and myself sat down and he recommended that it would be by missions. And I think it's a beautiful gesture. And where it comes from is that we have some of the most incredible veterans that you can imagine here living with us, but the disproportionate amount of veterans that have died in our wars is just unbelievable.
 And so one of the pillars was to recognize these incredible veterans. And the other pillar is to bring that awareness to the entire community to make sure that we take care of veterans.
 In other words, we cannot be the veterans of the United States of America and decide that there's gaps or that there's individuals that don't get treated properly or that we still have veterans in Juarez that are not able to come back that fought in our wars. We have to do this. This has to be that awareness to bring that energy to make sure that we do that. I'm inspired. You know, my brother was the first fatality in the Vietnam War.
 He was a helicopter pilot and I'm inspired because I was always thinking about him coming back and how would we treat him on coming back. So we have some incredible things that we're trying to accomplish, but one of them is really to unite the community. Having the Veterans Capitol of the United States of America here is like giving our veterans sort of like the colors of a school or the mascot of a school that brings them all together.
 and that we get recognized not only here but throughout the country and be able to get them recognized as well as continue this plight of making sure our veterans are taken care of. So I thank you very much for this coming together. There's an economic factor. I think there's gonna be a lot of loyalty of veterans coming through El Paso that are gonna wanna find out. We've done tremendous research. This is not something we just came up with. We have tremendous research
 to support the idea that we are the veterans capital of the United States of America. I can tell you, and the mayor knows, that one of the best things I've ever sensed is to reach out to the President of the United States of America and say, welcome to the veterans capital of the United States. And I think that was something that...
 Long time coming, but here we are. I'd like to, we have some incredible speakers today. I've got Colonel Brady that's going to be speaking, and I've got our ambassador, David Garcia, and then Linda Mace will be talking about something incredible, because we have to continue to have pillars that we know that no one is ever going to challenge or even think about us not being the veterans capital of the United States of America. First of all, Colonel Brady. Thank you.
 Thank you, Judge. Judge, thank you. You know, Colonel Brady, one of the things that's important that before you speak that I think we talk about that Fort Bliss and El Paso is one community. And El Paso is Fort Bliss and Fort Bliss is El Paso. And there's no doubt, but the biggest compliment anybody can ever make to our community is
 is when a veteran decides to retire when a veteran decides she's been all over the world mr albright will tell you the same thing we've had this conversation they have the opportunity to retire anywhere and they pick el paso and that's the biggest compliment any community could ever have because it's the way we treat
 are active men and women in the military. And they want to become veterans in the community that respected them while they were in active duty, and will continue to respect them when they're veterans. So we have over 50,000 veterans, and that number will continue to grow because of the great job we do as a community, the city and the county together. So I want to, again, thank you. I know that, I think before you, I'd like you to tell people where you're from.
 Where you started? Where I started. Yeah, where are you from? Well, I'm from Las Cruces, but I'm a part of it. So, you know, when we think of the region, you know, I had stakes in El Paso. So I was last year in 1992 in the council chambers, recognized as a leader in the scouting organization, Yucca Council. And so this is like coming home, right?
 and i'm a product of a veteran who decided to plant his home here uh because of the community and so that's what we're recognizing judge or you know judge thank you for your your words and mayor same thing um it's a hard act to follow both of you you've said so many great things about uh what we're trying to recognize today
 And so, you know, the only thing to add to it, your talking point of Fort Bliss is El Paso and El Paso is Fort Bliss, you know, driving deeper into that is about stewardship that we look out and we look at our communities. And when I see El Paso, I'm thinking about what benefits El Paso.
 when El Paso and see Fort Bliss they're saying the same thing and we work together as judge was trying to say that and mayor you you as well that when veterans decide to leave the army that they decide to come here and so this history of El Paso and Fort Bliss is steep goes back centuries right several decades and
 What we're doing right now is recognizing and re-energizing that, and having a chief military officer for the city is helping us kind of
 amplify efforts to look for opportunities to work together. And that's one thing of the Association of Defense Communities, it's a theme, is that we work better together. And that's one thing, I'm speaking on behalf of General Eisenhower, that we could keep that in mind, that when we think about opportunities for each other, if we work together, we can achieve so much more. Thank you very much. Thank you. You know, General Eisenhower is such a,
 so strong to make sure that El Paso and Fort Bliss continue to work together. I was honored, yes, this Saturday to be a co-grand marshal at the Armadillo's parade on Fort Bliss, and that was such an honor that he would ask me to be out there and be the co-grand marshal of the parade, and that's how we feel that El Paso and Fort Bliss is one. So I was very thankful for him. And then we got to—
 I gave him the key to the city for El Paso, and he gave me the key to the city in Fort Bliss. And then I looked at them, and they're identical. You can interchange them, and they'll open each door. And that was the part that was really important. Thank you so much for this opportunity to speak. Thank you. Mi amigo, buenos dias. Buenos dias, senor. Como esta? I wore my best suit just for you. First of all, I want to thank God for his mercy, his blessings, giving us the opportunity to come here
 and join our city council. I wanna thank Northeast Representative Joe Mullinar, Mr. Kennedy, for your support on this resolution, which is very important. This today is a historical moment when the city and the county can come together and work as a team, because if you work as a hand
 Nothing gets done, but when you work as a fist, you get a bigger punch and things get done. These things that are being passed out to you, a token of the appreciation coming from the office of the county judge, and the judge, I think you're going to go ahead and give that one to the mayor. But I just want to thank everybody, and I want to thank my veteran brothers and sisters, our agencies. I want to thank our military officers, staff.
 Lay's on here, Mr. Albright and Mr. Jacobs. Let me cut that. I don't want to screw that up. But anyway...
 I want to thank them because they're truly involved within the veteran community, and they play a big part in the veteran capital. I want to thank Mr. Tommy Gonzalez also for supporting us through the years, and also you should be getting one of them too, and your county clerk. But God bless everybody, and mi amigo, doing a great job. Thank you. Yes.
 Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, city council members. Thank you so much for this opportunity. As a veteran advocate, I'm not a veteran, but I am an advocate. I have helped the judge with his, since he had this vision, coming from a Gold Star family. My mother was the widow of Sergeant Roberto Ituarte. We were successful as a family and friends getting a school named after him in the SISD.
 And so our next mission to continue the mission of recognizing veterans, we are working together with the county and I hope to have the city join on board on a Gold Star Families Memorial to be built there at Flags Across America adjacent to the Vietnam Wall. Something very special that we've been working on since the inception of the Vietnam Wall.
 And we'd love to that be a part for you all to be a part of that as well. So thank you for this opportunity. Veterans Capital USA is something it's a tremendous honor and it goes a long way with recognizing the all the sacrifices that not only veterans have made but their families. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 Once again, thank you, Representative Mayer. Thank you for this great opportunity. I know we're going to have an amazing bond together and make sure we do the right thing for our veterans. Once again, thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you. Colonel Albright, I mean Command Sergeant Major Albright. I'm thinking of Colonel Weston and Colonel.
 Gonzales, but will you um, can you can you approach the podium please? And you know, I want to thank you for the hard work And I know that every day you work really hard to make sure that the city and the county continue to work together It was said that it's about time. We've been doing this forever now it becomes official, but we've been working together We couldn't be the capital of
 of the world for veterans if we hadn't been working together. We wouldn't have over 50,000 veterans making sure that El Paso was their home. And you're one of those veterans that I'm talking about, sir. And I think it's important to know that we've been working on this for a long, long time. Now it's become official. Now we're partners. We'll continue to be, but we were partners long before, I think long before I was born.
 because you know fort bliss has been so important in our veterans and i just want to thank you for the job you do for the city and your staff and also your service to our country and our community and i i i want to hear from you how important this has been of a mission when i got to meet you when you're in the military and you shared a picture that you didn't have a beard then but you shared a picture when you were the command sergeant major here at fort bliss with me
 And now you're our partner and you're the person that we look forward, we look to, to continue to unite this. Command Sergeant Major Albright. Well, thank you, Mayor, and thank you, members of council, and to our county judge, too. You know, we do have a great partnership. I can't do any of this without the people standing behind me. And those that couldn't even make it in that sent their regrets to us as well. They said, I'm so sorry, I have something else going, I can't make it.
 It really is a collective effort for everything that we're doing. The support that we get from the city staff and the city manager is just absolutely amazing. And everything that we do, we don't think of it as work. It's a purpose and it's a passion. And we look at it as it's the right thing to do. It's not because we need to do it. It's because it's the right thing to do.
 You know, when you look at the partnership with Fort Bliss that we have, it is amazing. It has gone back, you know, 100 years, you know, almost. So that partnership is gonna continue to get stronger. It's gonna get better. You know, we're starting a campaign called Better at Bliss.
 Better at Bliss is going to go out nationally to all of the service members so that they recognize that that Fort Bliss in El Paso is where you want to be this is where you're going to be taken care of your your sons and your daughters as they're going to school are going to be taken care of in school as you transition out you're going to be taken care of and then we're continuing the narrative that not only is better at bliss but the narrative
 of El Paso's sons and daughters that join the armed forces. Wherever you go in the world, you have a place to come home here and we're gonna take care of you. We're gonna make sure that you transition correctly. We're gonna make sure that you get taken care of, that we take care of you from everything from mental to financial to physical health, to whatever that you need.
 We're here to support you. And when we say support, it's in the terms of actions and not just words. We will continue to find the gaps in services. We'll continue to find and synchronize the resources that are needed to take care of all of our veterans and all of our military families. So I thank you for all of your support once again. Thank you. Thank you all. And, Judge, thank you for, like I said, now it's official. Thank you all.
 And I know that everyone came up here, but all the veterans that are in this room, please stand up, all our veterans. Thank you all for your service to our country, but to our city also. Thank you, and may God bless everyone. Representative Kennedy, who was a Vietnam veteran and a helicopter pilot. I wanted to say that I was born in Minneapolis, but the Army took me home because I came here with the Army.
 And I found my permanent home here. And so when you talked about people in the military retiring, I thought you were urging me to retire. But hopefully that's not what you meant. There are so many people you run into on your day-to-day basis, and then when you end up talking to them, you found out they came here because of the military, and they decided to stay. So I'm one of those. Like I say, I was born in Minneapolis, but the Army took me home when it took me to El Paso. So thank you to the Army. The President Thank you.
 We could probably spend another five hours and we wouldn't run out of things to say about our veterans and the men and women that committed to our country. So thank you all. Mayor, we do have public comment from Ms. Turner on this item. Yes, ma'am. We also have Delirious Montanez, but I don't see her in the queue. Judge, I'd like you to know I've challenged other veterans to try to measure up to our community. So I don't know how that's going to go. So one of them is in Clarksville, Tennessee. What is that?
 I don't know, but I do. Representative Kennedy, I ask the Army to either send me to Fort Campbell or Hawaii. I got Fort Bliss. I got all the sand but no water. Oh, thank you. All the sand but no water. Thank you. There is a motion made by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares seconded by Representative Kennedy to approve the resolution on item 30. On that motion, call for the vote. The voting session is open. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 The final item that was moved to the forefront is item 32 and this is discussion in action on a resolution declaring May 23rd Veterans at breakfast day this item was submitted by representative Kennedy two things. I love veterans and this all this means Is that representative Kennedy is buying breakfast for everybody? Here's well make sure that's what that means Thank you mayor
 Whereas in May of 2010, United States Army First Sergeant Retired Dan Webb formed Veterans at Breakfast with the cooperation of the New Clock Restaurant located at 8409 Dyer in northeast El Paso.
 huevos con chorizo, by the way. Whereas Dan Webb formed Veterans at Breakfast to provide a comfortable, relaxing atmosphere where like-minded veterans from all military services, military occupations, and ranks could come together, enjoy a cup of coffee in a social setting while working together in support of our veterans' community. Whereas the mission of Veterans at Breakfast is to provide comfortable atmosphere for veterans, regardless of their branch of service, to gather, socialize, network, discuss issues,
 receive informational updates, and raise community awareness of issues affecting veterans. Whereas Veterans at Breakfast charges no registration fee, no membership fee, nor a formal commitment to be a member, but welcomes veterans to meet, share experiences and information, and capitalize on networking opportunities. And whereas Veterans at Breakfast supports our community by conducting food drives during Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays, a candy drive during Easter,
 which is the largest veterans community effort in support of El Paso's children, and a summer cookout which brings Fort Bliss units and soldiers together with El Paso veterans to share a free meal and enjoy socializing, mentorship, and networking. It also provides food and clothing to El Paso's homeless, whereas Veterans at Breakfast recognizes veterans' birthdays and newcomers to our veterans community, recognizes sick and shut-in veterans, family members, and departed loved ones,
 also has a Veteran of the Year Award which recognizes individual veterans who have supported our veteran community. Whereas Veterans at Breakfast works with the El Paso Veterans and Riders Association, the Veterans One Stop Center, and other veteran organizations in support of our veterans and community, the collaboration has resulted in the distribution of over 200,000 pounds of food and other necessities for our veterans, Fort Bliss, El Paso, and surrounding communities.
 And finally, whereas Dan Webb, the President and Founder, Monty Montgomery, Public Affairs, Gene Yellick, Treasurer, along with its members, invite all to the monthly breakfast held the last Thursday of each month except December starting at 830. That's 0830 for you in the military.
 and 830 for the civilian types resolved by the City of Council of the City of El Paso the City of El Paso proudly honors and recognizes the significant contribution from veterans at breakfast to our community and May 23rd shall be known as veterans at breakfast day signed by our mayor Oscar Lisa good morning sir good see you sir morning everybody represent Pharaoh good working with you we had a bad weekend didn't we you know
 We have served our country. When you guys, our elected officials, take the time to work with us to support our fellow veterans, that is something that cannot be matched and is very deeply appreciated. Veterans of Breakfast, when I started the VRA, helped me get formed, worked with me, patiently puts up with me. Dan is a saint in some ways. They're just amazing and their impact on our community has been so positive. But they're a team player. They work with us. They support the other groups.
 Representative Kenney, I thank you for allowing me to present this through you, this recognition. It's our first time working together. I appreciate you. Thank you for your service. Representative Molinar, thank you for your service. All right. Dan, you're up. Thank you. Thank you so much, Mayor and Representative. So we are so honored on behalf of Veterans at Breakfast to be able to be presented this resolution this morning.
 If you have not been out to Veterans at Breakfast, I trust that you come out and you will indeed come back. We are loving and welcome a veteran organization like none other. So I invite you to come out. We meet this Thursday, by the way, at 830 at Post 58 on Vulcan Avenue.
 I cannot say enough about veterans that have not already been said, so I'm not going to say too much about veterans. It's just that we're glad to be a part of this community and be a part of what we deserve and what we have earned in this community. El Paso has been good to us and has been good to me. I'm a little guy from Alabama.
 And I tell you, I knew I was going to retire here, and I stayed here, and I wouldn't go no other place but El Paso. And I just want to say one other thing. There's a representative that sat among you. His name is Joe Molinar. He was one of my cooks, believe it or not, years ago. He used to meet in my kitchen every meeting, and we'll cook up the eggs and everything. And so we're still there. We started off with one individual.
 I started off with one individual, and we at times have over 100 people that attend our Monday breakfasts. We wanna thank you for giving us this opportunity. Thank you so much. Thank you. I know there's some veterans that have walked up here. If you all could introduce yourselves, I would appreciate that. Holly. Holly Hollyfield, thank you so much. Without this man, I can't do anything. Richard Britton, retired US Army. Thank you. Dorothy Sissy Bird, civilian.
 And I say that because, you know, we do have civilians that do help out with veterans at breakfast because we believe in our military community. Thank you all. Do I need to make a move to approve? We have a motion and a second. He's looking at me. I'm just here, Dan, to honor.
 Such an amazing man, part of our advisory board and just has done so much for us and a big part of the Veterans Capital of the USA. Dan not only is a veteran but as a person you're just an amazing person and along with Darrell here on this side equally thank you very much for all you do and that energy that you have to assist the community. Thank you. Thank you. Motion and a second. Yes sir we also have public comment from Ms. Turner.
 Again, good morning, Mayor and Council. In my official capacity as the Chairwoman of the Transgender and Diverse Veterans of America, guys, if you need anything, all you have to do is call me, okay? That goes for any veterans organization. We're here to serve our veterans. You put that uniform on, we're family. Your brother, your sister, it goes for your family, too. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Representative Mullinoy?
 Thank you very much, Mayor. Yes, veterans at breakfast. I was a cook there for a long time, way before I was a city representative out in Diana. And it was an honor and a pleasure to see so many people come together for the community, so many veterans come together. And it didn't matter who you are. We fed you. We talked to you. We listened to you. We made sure good things were happening. So, Representative Kinney, thank you very much for sponsoring this item.
 There is a motion made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the resolution on item 32. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, there's item number six. I believe there are some students here that are also here to take photos with Council. May we take item six next? Thank you. Item six is a resolution renaming Vocational Drive to Opportunity Drive.
 thank you mayor hi i'm maribel if you could bring the riverside slitta students to the forefront and if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers council will take photos with you momentarily thank you there is a there is a resolution on behalf of the usleta independent school district they have requested to change the name of vocational drive to opportunity drive
 this is part of my district as well I've attended the vocational high school program and I've always wondered why does the street name vocational but I think it really is appropriate that we align our efforts in our street name and align them with the sletta mrs. Ginn would you share a few thoughts on this item and
 Yes, ma'am. Good morning, mayor Leaser and city council members. My name is Maribel Guillen. I am the principal at Riverside High School and also at the career center at Riverside High School. And so we're here today to ask and thank you for consideration to rename vocational drive as Representative Hernandez mentioned.
 Education, in the education world, it's always evolving and changing. And so back when I was a student at Riverside High School, we referred to programs such as cosmetology and culinary and so forth as vocational programs.
 And so fast forward now to 2023, we don't refer to those programs as vocational anymore. We refer to them as career and technical education. And so there is a big shift now in the education world where we have students that are interested in,
 in different careers. And so in high school it's our responsibility to give them the tools necessary to explore those talents and so for example at the career center at Riverside High School we host all
 of the Isleta Independent School District High Schools. And they come and they study things such as culinary arts, cosmetology, gaming, cybersecurity, electrical trades. And so we have 10 different programs.
 And I'm very proud of our district. We are now getting a brand new building. It's in the works. And so with the new building and the new programs, this is the reason why we feel that the street behind Riverside High School in the lower valley is used to refer to as vocational drive, that we move with the times and with the new building
 and that we rename it Opportunity Lane. And very interesting is the fact that the name was proposed and voted on by our students. And so really sometimes as educators, we need to remember that our students are also very capable of coming up with even better ideas than the adults. And so when we brought this forth, our students got together, brainstormed a bunch of ideas,
 and then they came up with the final vote which was Opportunity Lane. And this new building that's opening up is exactly what it's gonna be. It's gonna be opportunity for students that wanna open their own businesses, that want to study these very well paid jobs nowadays. And so they're gonna have the building and now we feel the street needs to...
 you know, kind of evolve with the times. So today with me, we have a representation of all of the East Latter Independent School District High Schools. We also have our associate superintendent with us, which is Sylvia Rendon, and she was instrumental as well in making sure our building gets put together, assistant principal in charge of the career center, Mr. Ben Melendez, and then who's a veteran?
 And then David Castro, who is the counselor in charge at the Career Center. So this is us, and we want to thank you for your time and just kind of give you a little bit of background as to why we would like to propose this change in the name. Thank you. Will everyone introduce themselves real quick, please? Hi, my name is Daniela Lopez. I'm from Riverside High School, and I'm in the architecture program.
 Good morning. My name is Elani Rocobo. I'm from Beller High School as a senior, and I'm in the Cybersecurity program. Good morning. My name is Renevian Weva. I go to Eastwood High School, and I'm studying Cosmetology. Good morning. My name is Mackenzie Weber, and I'm a senior at Eastwood. I also attend the Welding program at Riverside High School. Hello. My name is Destiny Perez. I am in Culinary Arts, and I attend Riverside High School.
 I'm Martín Alvarado, I attend Riverside High School and I'm in Audio-Video Production. Hi, my name is Andrea Flores and I attend the Valle High School and I'm in the Cosmetology Program. Good morning, my name is Kenneth Guerrero, I attend Isleta High School and I'm a part of the Real Estate Program. Hi, my name is Jorge Salazar and I am from Bel Air High School and I am in the Game Design Program. Hi, my name is Romina Perez Aguilar, I'm a junior at Eastwood High School and I'm in the Culinary Arts Program.
 So these are our students and this is Ms. Rendon. She is our associate superintendent of high school.
 Thank you. Thank you for that change. And I know Board Trustee Mr. Postillo sends his regrets. He really wanted to be here today. But absolutely, I think this is a wonderful idea. The school is set for unlimited possibilities. I hear that there are new programs now and the program and all of the friends I've made in the program are lifelong friends who all continued in engineering and architectural pathways. And so congratulations to your efforts.
 and thank you for bringing this to our attention and I would be glad to make a motion in support of the name change from Vocational Drive to Opportunity Drive. There's a motion and a second, Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir, the motion was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the resolution on item six. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Congratulations. Thank you.
 You know, one last thing I'm going to say with congratulations to everyone, and thank you for everyone for being here. When the veterans were all here and the judge talking about the veterans and reminded me of my father who's a veteran,
 World War II veteran that passed away about six years ago, but he was always very proud to wear his hat. And I remember when I first got elected and we did Veterans Day, I had the honor of having him here and taking this picture with all of us. So it brought back some great memories and, of course, some great people that continue to serve our country. Thank you. And I'm glad to see all the students are here to see.
 how this community loves and feels for their veterans. It's something really important in how we feel for Fort Bliss and how we're one community. So it was great to have all the students here that really represent the future of our city and our country, but also to see how we feel that the people that protect and defend our borders and make sure that we have the right to be elected officials and we have the right to have a voice. So thank you again. May God bless everyone.
 Thank you. Is there a motion to recess? Motion to recess. There's a motion and a second to recess. Is the city council meeting all in favor? Anyone opposed? And the meeting is in recess at 1031 a.m. in order to take photos with this morning's honorees. Council members, if I could get your attention real quick. We're going to go ahead and start with Texas Tech University in terms of the photographs, followed by the veterans organizations, the items for the veterans organizations. We're going to do this.
 out in the lobby area. The Young Women's STEAM Research Group, if I could get your photograph outside in the entrance of the building itself as well as the students here from the vocational, a.k.a. future opportunity, if I could get you guys to meet me outside, we're going to take group photos out there. And then, of course, we're also going to take photographs with the internal auditor.
 There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 11.04 a.m. If you want to continue with the council items.
 The next council item is number 31, and this is discussion in action to approve a resolution that the City of El Paso accepts the recognition as a great American defense community, authorizes that the city's chief military officer facilitate the placement of banners along Airway Boulevard, and that the City Council of El Paso declares that the expenditure of District 3 discretionary funds...
 to support the placement of recognition banners along Airway Boulevard leading to the El Paso International Airport, serves the public purpose of honoring service members and supporting the Fort Bliss vision and economic development efforts. This item was submitted by Representative Hernandez. Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor.
 The city of El Paso has this wonderful recognition and they're preparing for a visit based on this recognition this June. And so I've been working with the chief military officer on how we can appropriately honor our community. Most importantly, when those tourists and those honorees come to our community to provide this award, we want to make sure that we give them the first best impression, which is the corridor along.
 airway from the airport down to I-10.
 And so we're excited to help sponsor some of those initiatives and I'll read the resolution into the record. Whereas El Paso, Texas is the home to Fort Bliss, which is the second largest military installation in the U.S., is the single largest employer in the region, and is home to more than 2.5 million people. Whereas a substantial part of El Paso's outreach strategy is guided by the landmark El Paso Veterans Needs Assessment that was launched in 2020, which shares the story of military life beyond installation fence lines,
 and it's imperative to the one community mission. And whereas the city's military and veteran affairs department sets a high standard with an impressive collection of outreach programs designed to meet the needs of military veterans and their families, and whereas the City of El Paso and Fort Bliss partner to create Sun City Bliss,
 WHICH PROVIDES UPDATES, RESOURCES AND CITY HAPPENINGS TO VETERANS, MILITARY FAMILIES AND RESIDENTS IN THE EL PASO REGION AND AIRS ON THE CITY'S SOCIAL MEDIA, CITY TV AND FOR PLUS PLATFORMS AND WHEREAS THE ASSOCIATION OF DEFENSE COMMUNITIES IS A 300 PLUS MEMBER ORGANIZATION DEDICATED TO BUILDING STRONG COMMUNITIES THAT SUPPORT AMERICA'S MILITARY AND EVERY DEFENSE COMMUNITY STATE IN THE NATION AND WHEREAS THE ASSOCIATION OF DEFENSE COMMUNITIES HOSTS THE GREAT AMERICAN DEFENSE COMMUNITIES GADC PROGRAM WHICH RECOGNIZES
 AND CELEBRATES COMMUNITIES WITH AN EXCEPTIONAL COMMITMENT TO IMPROVING THE LIVES OF SERVICE MEMBERS, VETERANS AND THEIR FAMILIES. AND WITH GREAT HONOR, THE ASSOCIATION OF DEFENSE COMMUNITIES HAS RECOGNIZED THE CITY OF EL PASO, TEXAS, AS ONE OF ITS 2023 GREAT AMERICAN DEFENSE COMMUNITIES. AND CITY REPRESENTATIVE CASANDRA HERNANDEZ WISHES TO PROMOTE THIS HONORABLE DISTINCTION BY ALLOCATING $1,000 TO SUPPORT THE PLACEMENT OF RECOGNITION BANNERS ALONG AIRWAY BOULEVARD LEADING TO THE EL PASO INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by City Council and the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso proudly accepts the recognition as a great American defense community, authorizes the city's chief military officer to facilitate the placement of banners.
 Along airway Boulevard and that the City Council of El Paso declares that expenditure of district 3 discretionary funds and an amount not to exceed $1,000 to support the placement of recognition banners along airway Boulevard Leading to the El Paso International Airport serves the public purpose of honoring service members and supporting the for police vision and economic development efforts further City managers authorized to execute any related agreements amendments to such agreements and documents necessary to carry out the purpose of this resolution And I make a motion to approve second. I
 Thank you and then the only other comment I make and CSM Albright is not here at this moment but he will extend an invitation out to city council and what those additional events will be and so this is part of those efforts. Thank you we have a motion and a second. Yes there is a motion made by Representative Hernandez seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 31 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is 33 and this is a presentation and discussion by the El Paso Harm Reduction Alliance on the importance of citywide Narcan distribution, how the city can further implement harm reduction strategies and testimony from community stakeholders. Mayor, would you like to take 33 and 34 together? Representative McHurton? Would you like to take 33 and 34 together?
 Yes, ma'am. Thank you for that. Thank you. Item 34 is discussion in action to approve a resolution for the city to enhance harm reduction strategies to help mitigate the opiate crisis in our community. These items were submitted by Mayor Pro Tem Anello and Representatives Canales and Salcido. Thank you. And I would like to ask the Harm Reduction Alliance to come up and introduce themselves before they begin their presentation. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Luis Garza. I'm the chief medical officer for Project Vida Health Center. Thank you, Dr. Garza, for being here. Good morning, council members and mayor. My name is Jamie Bailey. I am a woman in long-term recovery, and I serve as one of the chairs for the El Paso Harm Reduction Alliance, as well as a peer recovery support specialist with Project Vida. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Christopher Bailey and I am the project coordinator for Project Vida. I'm also the lead chair and the convener for the El Paso Recovery Oriented Systems of Care, which is a coalition of service providers for substance use disorder as well as stakeholders in our community.
 Good morning. My name is Christine Zimmerly, and I'm one of the project coordinators for Project Punto de Partida Proyecto Sanaremos, a harm reduction center in northeast El Paso. And I'm a woman in long-term recovery from substance use disorder, which means that I have overcome my problematic relationship with substances, and I'm one of the chairs of the Harm Reduction Alliance. Good morning.
 Good morning, Council. Thank you for having us. I am Adan Dominguez. I am the Program Director for Recovery Alliance for the drop-in centers that are in Northeast, San Aremos, and Central El Paso, Punto de Partida. And I, too, am a person in long-term recovery. Thank you for having us. Thank you.
 Hello my name is Maricela Tavares. I am part of the Harm Reduction Alliance and I work for Project Punto de Partida. I am a peer recovery support specialist and I am outreach lead. Thank you. Good morning mayor and council. My name is Paul Enriquez. I'm also in long term recovery. I am a recovery support peer specialist for Punto de Partida and also a member of the Harm Reduction Alliance. Thank you.
 Good morning everybody. My name is Ray Fontano. I'm a peer recovery support specialist with the integrated outreach for the unhomed program. I also am a member in long term recovery. Thank you. Good morning everybody. My name is Katie O'Brien I'm a peer recovery support specialist at this project San Ramos location. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning everybody. I am also a peer support recovery specialist. I am also the.
 Chair of the Reentry Peer Advisory Council and a person in recovery myself. Thank you. Thank you. Chad, if I didn't say that. Council, my name is Gilbert Shepard. I'm in long-term recovery. I like to just call myself a recovery coach, and we're on the front lines out there in El Paso. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Taylor Freeman. I am a woman in long-term recovery, and I am a peer support recovery support specialist with Project Vita. Thank you. Hi, my name is Tina Ortega. I work with Alliance of Border Collaboratives under the Project HOPE project, and I'm in charge of outreach. Thank you. Mayor, Council, my name's Lonnie Spooner, and I'm a man in recovery. Thank you, sir. With that, I would like to invite you to start your presentation.
 Thank you. Good morning members of city council and fellow citizens of El Paso. Again my name is Luis Garas, I'm the chief medical officer for Project Vida Health Center. And I am here today to talk to you about an issue that affects so many of our fellow El Pasoans, which is substance use disorder. As all you know, substance use disorder is a significant public health problem in our community. It affects people of all races, age, socioeconomic backgrounds.
 The good news is that there are proven programs and treatments that can help people recover from these disorders and regain control of their lives. However, to make these programs effective, we need your support. Research has shown that the most effective substance use disorder programs are those that provide a comprehensive range of services, including counseling, medication-assisted treatment, and support for families and loved ones.
 Unfortunately, most of these programs are underfunded and struggle to provide the services that people need. In addition to funding for substance use disorder programs, we also need your support for other critical initiatives in harm reduction. Narcan is a medication that can reverse opioid overdose and save lives. We need funding to make Narcan more widely available to first responders and especially to community members.
 Decriminalizing fentanyl testing strips is another important step in the fight against substance use disorder. These strips can help people determine whether the drugs that they are using contain fentanyl, a deadly opioid that has caused a surge in overdoses in recent years. And finally, we need support for safe syringe programs, which provide clean needles and other harm reduction supplies to people who use injection drugs.
 These programs have shown to reduce the spread of infection like HIV and hepatitis C, as well as connect people to health services and substance use disorder treatments. As Chief Medical Officer for Project VITA, I see firsthand the positive impact that these initiatives can have on individuals and their families. They not only save lives, but also reduce healthcare costs and improve community safety.
 I urge you to consider the importance of funding for these programs as you make decisions about the city's budget. We cannot afford to let our friends and neighbors suffer in silence. We need to take action to provide the support and resources they need to recover and lead healthy, productive lives. Thank you for your time and attention, and I look forward to working with you to make El Paso healthier and a more vibrant community. Thank you. Thank you, Doctor.
 I'm here on behalf of the El Paso Harm Reduction Alliance to present on funding for Narcan and support for harm reduction here in El Paso. As an alliance, our mission is to provide a space to advocate for the human rights of people with substance use disorders and to promote the principles of harm reduction to improve quality of life for individuals and their communities.
 Overdose death is now the leading cause of injury death for US adults, with 170 Americans dying every day from overdose. Of these overdose deaths, almost 68% involve a prescription or illicit opioid. There are some concerning statistics on opioid use in our country. Every 19 minutes, someone dies from the misuse of prescription drugs.
 Every year, more people die from a prescription overdose than car accidents. Half of all Americans are on prescription drugs, and on average, each person has about five different prescriptions. Overdose has become the leading cause of unintentional deaths in our country. Drug overdose has even superseded deaths caused by motor vehicle accidents.
 Multiple organizations listed here have said that opioid use disorder is the epidemic of our generation. It is believed that our generation will be the first to have a shorter lifespan as a result of this. The advocacy group Families Against Fentanyl examined CDC data and determined that fentanyl has now become the leading cause of death for people ages 18 to 45 in 2019 and 2020.
 Overdoses cause more deaths in the United States annually than guns, suicide, homicide, and car crashes, according to a bipartisan congressional report published in February of last year. Two-thirds of the nation's overdose deaths between June 2020 and May 2021 involve synthetic opioids like fentanyl.
 According to an article published in the National Library of Medicine, from 2019 to 2022 nationally, we have lost more people to opioid overdose than both sides did during the 10 years of the Vietnam conflict. Locally here in El Paso, 97 people died by opioid overdose in 2021.
 This was according to data that the medical examiner provided in January of 2022, and there were still some pending deaths that were waiting to get reported on. We know that this number is vastly underreported as well.
 That was nearly twice the number of opioid overdoses than there were in 2018. This is part of a deadly nationwide trend of skyrocketing overdose deaths, and that number is only growing as a result of new substances like xylosine. Fentanyl caused most of these deaths. There are four different opioids listed here as having caused these drug-related deaths in El Paso. They include fentanyl, heroin, morphine.
 and methadone. As Dr. Garza mentioned, Narcan is a life-saving medication. It comes in an injectable form and is often referred to by its generic name, which is naloxone. It is also available as a Narcan nasal spray.
 Narcan reverses overdoses by reversing the respiratory suppression that is a side effect of opioids. Once that respiratory depression has occurred, it only takes four to six minutes for brain death to occur. National EMS response time is seven minutes. So even under the best circumstances, when 911 is called, a person can still experience a fatal overdose from brain death.
 Narcan is an opioid antagonist and it pushes the opioids off the opioid receptor in the body. It attaches there and remains there for 30 to 90 minutes, not allowing the opioids to reattach and the individual wakes up and a life is saved. It's like getting the wrong key stuck in a lock. I often get asked why we're able to carry and administer Narcan here in Texas without a prescription.
 In answer to this question, there was a statewide standing order that went into effect following the passing of Texas Senate Bill 1462 in 2015. This legislation said that Texans who carry and administer Narcan in good faith in an attempt to save a life are protected from criminal and civil liability as well as professional disciplinary action for those who are licensed health care providers.
 In March of this year, the FDA approved Narcan nasal spray for over-the-counter, non-prescription use, the first naloxone product approved for use without a prescription.
 FDA Commissioner Robert Khalif stated that the FDA remained committed to addressing the evolving complexities of the overdose crisis. As part of this work, the agency has used its regulatory authority to facilitate greater access to naloxone by encouraging the development and approving an over-the-counter naloxone product to address the dire public health need.
 Approval of over-the-counter naloxone nasal spray will help improve access to naloxone, increase the number of locations where it's available, and help reduce opioid overdose deaths throughout the country.
 Subchapter E of Chapter 483 Texas Health and Safety Code permits any person or organization acting under a standing order issued by the prescriber authorized by law to prescribe an opioid antagonist to store and distribute naloxone to any person at risk, which is really any person using substances,
 of experiencing an opioid-related drug overdose or to a family member, friend, or other person in a position to assist a person at risk of experiencing an opioid-related drug overdose, as long as the person or organization acting under a standing order does not seek or receive compensation for these actions.
 This provision acts to permit such groups such as nonprofits, drug treatment centers, and other harm reduction organizations to distribute naloxone to those who might be able to use it to save lives. The law also permits any person to possess naloxone even if the person does not have a prescription for it.
 The law permits any person who acts in good faith and with reasonable care to administer naloxone to another person who the person believes is suffering an opioid-related overdose. Anyone who does so is immune from criminal prosecution, civil liability, and sanctioned under professional licensing statutes. I'll turn it over to my colleague, Christopher. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Council. My name is Christopher Bailey. I'm a man in long-term recovery. What that means to me is that I haven't had cause to touch a drop of alcohol or a drug since August 7th of 1997. I started using when I was eight years old. Thank you. I started using drugs when I was eight years old. I was just a kid. And I can tell you that it wasn't long before I picked up my first opioid.
 And the first opioid I picked up was out of a medicine bottle in my grandmother's medicine cabinet. We were both at risk for overdose. Both of us were. The key factor in this and what I'd like to do before we continue on with this presentation is to take you back to the invocation that we had this morning. One of the things the gentleman said when he prayed for all of us is that when we look in the face of another human being, we are looking back at the face of our creator.
 And I will tell you that I will go one step further to say that what you do unto the least of me, you do unto me. For far too long, substance use disorder and addiction has been stigmatized as being a moral problem, that we are bad people trying to be good, when in fact, most of us are sick people who are getting well. The simple fact of the matter is that we need some help in order to do that, in order to help individuals do that. And it is a far cry from...
 in order to do that to have the city's buy-in to be able to achieve that and that's why we're here today in the presentation of this problem i'm not an individual because i am in recovery who likes to just come up with a problem and complain we do have solutions if you look at this chart this information came by an open records request from the el paso fire department and according to this information as of 2022 you can see the increase of narcan deployments
 in first responder interactions with individuals. The trend line is very telling. Narcan is increasing, and opioid uses are increasing as are overdoses. We know that there is settlement money that is coming both to the city and the county from lawsuits against pharmaceutical companies that began this opioid epidemic to begin with. We implore the city of El Paso
 Mayor and Council to allow some of this money, not all of it, but some of it, to go towards funding the supply of Narcan to be distributed throughout the various shelters, outreach organizations, resource centers, and local government agencies that can therefore be given to those in need throughout our community. In any capacity when we're waging a war against an addiction, it is the proper deployment of tools that achieves the victory.
 Narcan is the life-saving medication used to reverse overdoses caused by opiates. Heroin, vitinil, and Vicodin are just some examples. In 2021, 107,000 people died from opioid overdose in the United States. 97 of those deaths were in El Paso alone. And I can communicate to you that if I look around this room, there's not one person in this room whose life has not been touched by addiction in some form or another.
 This is not including the deaths that often go unreported or pending verification. And the reason why we say that, at least in the state of Texas, is that we have 11 medical examiners to supply death certificates for over 234 counties in Texas. As a result of that, most of those go to justices of the peace who do not have the money in their coffers to pay for tox reports. And so most overdoses, fatal overdoses, go unreported.
 Since March of 2022, the nonprofit opioid crisis center Punto de Partida has given out at least 240 doses with a retail cost of $16,920 of Narcan to police officers who have sought the life-saving medicine due to lack of resources. In 2021, 531 Narcan kits were used by the El Paso Fire Department alone.
 Narcan helps to prevent fatal overdoses and it saves lives. While I think it seems obvious why it's important for traditional first responders such as law enforcement, the fire department, and EMS to carry Narcan, what about Narcan community members? Why should the Narcan, I'm sorry, what about community members and outreach members? Why should they carry Narcan? Okay.
 There's actually a very good reason for this. Over the past several decades, more than 250,000 people have experienced an opioid overdose. 77% of those occurred outside of a medical setting and outside of first responder interaction. Every second of response time matters, as my colleague mentioned earlier. When someone's not breathing, seven minutes means the world. Opioid-induced respiratory depression can lead to permanent brain damage, and
 in as little as four minutes, and death can occur in as little as four to six minutes. Consider this and the fact that the US national average EMS response times takes about seven minutes, meaning that the time from calling 911 to help arriving can take up to seven minutes, if not more. For individuals living in a rural setting, this response time can be up to 14 minutes. So again, when someone isn't breathing, every second matters.
 This highlights the importance of community members having access to Narcan so that they can administer that first lifesaving dose while they wait for EMS to arrive on scene. And I would remind council that we had a lot of individuals come up for proclamations and to be recognized students veterans children all of whom could have been at risk for this overdose either accidental or through a night gone wrong. They may not have made it up to this podium today.
 Also consider that 80% of overdose reversals are not performed by EMS or law enforcement. They're done by people just like you who may be community members, peers, or family members of someone in need of help. Further, one-half to two-thirds of people who use heroin have experienced at least one non-fatal overdose. And once someone has experienced an overdose, it's much more likely to happen again, and it's much more likely that it will be fatal.
 And 80% of people who use drugs have observed an overdose, at least 80%. This is just one more reason why we should all carry Narcan and why we need the city to help fund Narcan. There is a multi-pronged solution to the opioid crisis. First, decreasing the number of opioids being prescribed to the minimum needed after painful procedures such as surgery or dental work is critical.
 It's also important that we look for other alternatives to pain management. For example, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories such as Motrin, which can be oftentimes more effective in managing chronic pain than opioids. Properly disposing of prescription opioids no longer needed is also important. There are many prescription take-back days one can participate to get rid of unneeded opioids. And I'll remind you where I got my first dose.
 Another solution is access to evidence-based treatment. Fortunately, when talking about opioid use disorder, there are several FDA medications available that can significantly improve recovery successes. These medications include methadone, buprenorphine, also known as suboxone or subutex, or naltrexone, Vivitrol. Unfortunately, this isn't true for many other types of substance use disorders. One thing that's important to note
 though, is that prescribers should avoid discontinuing, discontinued prescribing of opioids to dependent individuals without ensuring they have access to treatment services. While we want to limit the number of prescription opioids in our community and prevent individuals from developing a problem with them, it's also dangerous and frankly unethical to cut someone off who has become physically dependent.
 without providing access to treatment services. And for those that have been cut off by doctors, I would ask you to investigate and imagine where they get their pain relief from. Doing so may force individuals who have become dependent to look for other and possibly illicit opioid sources which can increase their risk for overdose.
 Co-prescribing of life-saving medications like naloxone and Narcan with all prescription opioids is also very important and should become best practice. Many states are now requiring prescribers of opioids to co-prescribe Narcan with every opioid prescription to ensure anyone at risk for overdose can have access to it, which is truly anyone taking opioids.
 Community-wide access to Narcan and harm reduction supplies is a must. This doesn't mean just law enforcement, EMS, or fire, but also friends, family members, and significant others of people who use opioids. We also need access to FTS or fentanyl testing strips and the ability to carry and use them without fear of criminal prosecution.
 I can tell you in the state of Texas our outreach workers that hand out Fentanyl testing strips, they risk their freedom or at least being cited if not arrested for carrying Fentanyl testing strips because they're currently outlawed and against the law. A study involving a community-based Fentanyl testing strip distribution program in North Carolina found that 81 percent of those with access to Fentanyl testing strips routinely tested their drugs before use.
 Those with a positive test result were five times more likely to change their drug use behavior to reduce the risk of overdose. Amidst a growing opioid overdose epidemic, we know that fentanyl testing strips save hardworking Texas money, save countless lives, and therefore we ask for your support to find a way to decriminalize them here in El Paso. I also would be remiss if I did not mention safe syringe programs. We are also petitioning the city.
 and elected officials to support safe syringe programs, or what are commonly known as SSPs, in order to reduce overdose deaths and the spread of infectious diseases, including HIV and hepatitis C in our communities. These diseases are not just confined to communities of use.
 SSPs deliver life-saving services to people who are unable or unwilling to stop injecting drugs so they and their families can remain disease-free. SSPs are evidence-based, cost-effective, and have demonstrated great success in both disease and overdose prevention, and are proven effective in getting people with substance use disorders into care and into treatment, all without increasing crime and illicit drug use in jurisdictions where they operate.
 Safe syringe programs are associated with a 58% reduction in the incidence of HIV infection among people who inject drugs. This is a key fact. Other cities in Texas, like San Antonio, have successfully implemented such programs using federal funding. A bill that would have allowed needle exchange programs in Texas' largest counties passed the State House of Representatives in 2021, but was not taken up by the Senate.
 Safe syringe programs are intended to prevent the costly downstream results of drug use. HIV, HCV, Hep C, abscesses and other illnesses among a population that rarely has health insurance, by distributing sterile syringes and properly disposing of used syringes, we're able to help prevent these diseases and therefore the burden for emergency medicine in regard to hospital use.
 Every dollar invested in SSPs has a return of $7 in HIV and HCV treatment. Non-fatal overdose care in ERs and ICUs cost Texas approximately $20 billion annually. In addition to saving money, safe syringe programs also encourage positive and healthy changes amongst participants. In fact, participants are five times more likely to enter substance use treatment
 such as medication-assisted treatment, like methadone, suboxone, and Vivitrol, and safe syringe programs benefit people and communities economically from both an economic and public health standpoint. Working together, we can help prevent deaths from overdose in El Paso. We can prevent more broken hearts. We can prevent broken families. We can promote a cost-effective and compassionate approach to care. We can keep our communities safe.
 Thank you for your time, council. Can we take public comment on item 33, please, Ms. Pryor? Yes, ma'am, you want comment on only item 33, correct? Okay, the first person that signed up to speak, aside from the presenters, is Paul Enriquez. You can tell us all. I can add you to the list, sir. Paul Enriquez? Good morning, you have three minutes. Thank you. As a recovery support peer specialist, I have participants in their active addiction. Many of them are using fentanyl,
 I took testimony last week from one participant who's actually in a treatment center. When he overdosed back in April of this year, he was at home. He told me, I was trying to quit fentanyl for the last five years and it felt like there was no way out. I felt like I was going to be an addict forever and I was just tired of disappointing my family. I kind of gave up on myself. I had overdosed plenty of times. It's just this last time was intentional. I was just done with life. I didn't want to live life anymore. That's what led to the overdose.
 I asked him was Narcan used to bring you back. He said yes his mother had used Narcan on him. When I asked him what his thoughts were on being administer Narcan he thought he told me it saves lives. I'm not going to lie. It was a really bad feeling and a really bad process after I was hit with the Narcan and that's when my mom took me to my first NA meeting. That was the first time I heard anything about recovery. I didn't know that was an option. So she didn't hit me with the Narcan I would definitely I definitely would have died and I wouldn't be here today working on my recovery.
 I asked my participant do you think you would have approached police or called the police if you knew someone that that overdosed. His response was I don't talk to cops. I don't talk to cops. I didn't know cops carried Narcan. So maybe so maybe I would have asked them since I'm not using now. But while I was in my active addiction I definitely would not have asked them. Working at Punto de Partida since June of last year we've had incidents of overdose in the office.
 One such instance was a gentleman overdosing outside our office and we were not aware. The paramedics were called. When they arrived on the scene, they did not have Narcan, so they came into our office and asked us. This is just one instance of many where paramedics and police officers are not being supplied with Narcan.
 Last year in October of 2022 I had an EPISD teacher call our office and ask us if we would be able to provide her husband with Narcan. She she sent her husband to our office to provide Narcan for them. They were going to be chaperoning a school trip and wanted to be wanted to be prepared in case any of the kids had overdosed. This teacher told me that she knows kids as young as 13 and 14 who are using fentanyl and she was very grateful that we were able to provide the Narcan for this trip.
 Thank you. You my time. Thank you. The next speaker is Maricela Tavares followed by Gilbert Shepard Chad horn and Katie O'Brien good morning. You have three minutes. Hello I work for project Mundo Departida. I am a recovery coach and outreach lead We are an opioid crisis center. By the way, we do outreach three days a week three to four hours each day we get to see firsthand what fentanyl is doing to our community and
 In the months of March, April, and this month combined, we have had 63 fentanyl reported overdoses. Nine of them did not survive. The fentanyl crisis keeps getting worse every day. Right now in our office, we have two boxes of Narcan left. We don't know what we are going to tell our community when they ask us for Narcan, and we have none for them. If you all can help us with Narcan or funds for Narcan, our community would really appreciate it.
 Lives are on the line here. This is a life and death situation. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Gilbert Shepard, followed by Chad Horn. Good morning. You have three minutes. Hi, I'm Gilbert Shepard. I'm a longtime user of heroin, but I'm also a veteran. I'm a captain from the Army. And so I got hit by a car in Shreveport, Louisiana, and I was given morphine and everything. But let me tell you, when I got back to El Paso, I became a heroin addict, and it took a long time for me to get off of it.
 But today as I work as a recovery coach, I've seen some miracles happen on the streets of El Paso. And it's because of Narcan. Never heard of it, but I've seen people turn blue and right here in their office. And if it wasn't for Narcan, they'd be dead right now. And their ages really get to me because I'm 65 and these kids are 30, 25. They never had a chance. And I can remember as a heroin addict, I was always lucky.
 You know what I mean? I never thought it would happen to me. I didn't think I'd ever overdose. I think I'm lucky every time I take a hit. I remember that. But sometimes when you're not lucky, it's a good thing to have a friend around. And nowadays, it's a good thing to have a friend around who's got Narcan in his pocket. And that's why I'm up here today, to just let this council know that if we can fund Narcan, we can save lives. And that's very important to me, and it's very important to our community.
 And that's all I really have to say. My name is Gilbert, and thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Chad Horne, followed by Katie O'Brien. Good morning, you have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning. I really didn't prepare for this correctly, but I do feel like I was meant to be here today. I've struggled with addiction since I was 17. My mom was an addict, and I fell into it because that's really all I knew. I used intravenously.
 and by the grace of God I don't have any diseases. Heard something shared earlier about driving around while your oil is leaking doesn't make any sense and refilling it with oil every 50 miles doesn't make any sense but if you don't fill it with oil the car is not going to work and I believe well if we do hand out Narcan that doesn't mean that they're going to get clean the next day and they're not going to flip their life around but it gives them the chance to and it is a miracle that I'm not dead the things that I've been through.
 Now I'm at a point in my life where I am before all of you wonderful people, and I'm in a position to advocate for people like me. I was terrified, and I was lost, and I'm now in a position where I get to work with the court system to help people who are getting out and to help them know that recovery is a real thing, and it's a lot easier to hear from somebody who's been through it, and that is why I believe harm reduction is very important. It gives the opportunity to
 for people who are scared of police and scared of authority to still have a chance to find hope and to find their own recovery. And I definitely do appreciate your guys' time and you guys willing to work with us on an issue that hits so close to home to me. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Katie O'Brien, followed by Christine Zimmerly. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning again. Last Friday, I was able to save a life
 A woman came into our location and she was in distraught and said that there was a person overdosing in the parking lot. When I as I went she the guy the gentleman was blue. He did not have a pulse. I had to administer four doses of Narcan and we did call 911. And if I would if we did not have this Narcan we would not have been able to save this life. The gentleman would have died in our parking lot. He would have.
 This this Narcan is so important to not only to our organization but our community. That's all I have to say. Thank you Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Christine Zimmerly followed by Adam Dominguez so I've worked as a peer recovery support specialist since 2019 and I've worked in harm reduction centers since I started as a peer recovery support specialist and
 and I lost my first peer to opioid overdose in 2019. And the most difficult thing about that was that this person's partner called me on the phone and asked me for Narcan, but I was in central El Paso and they were in Horizon. And the opioid crisis only continues to get worse.
 In January of 2022, I had a family member overdose, required Narcan to be administered six times, and after they woke up in the hospital, finally they decided to seek recovery. We don't know when someone will seek a change when they are sick and using, but what we do know is that if we don't keep them alive, they won't have the chance.
 77% of opioid overdose deaths occur outside of a medical setting. And that is why the El Paso Harm Reduction Alliance is working hard to train community members and partners how to administer Narcan. I work in the center where Ms. O'Brien talked about. I was there when the overdose happened and we ran out of Narcan that day.
 We did find some from another facility, but we are very low. We have one box right now remaining in our center, and people come to us for Narcan every day. I love El Paso. I love this community. I'm here to advocate for El Pasoans' lives. Please help me. Thank you. Thank you.
 Our next speaker is Adan Dominguez, followed by Lonnie Spooner and Omar Carmona. Good morning. Good morning, council. My name is Adan Dominguez. I have the honor and blessing to be the director for the Opioid Crisis Centers. We were funded about four years ago as the opioid answer to the El Paso's answer to the opioid crisis.
 Recovery Alliance, the agency I work for, is a recovery community organization. It's unique in the sense that all of our employees have lived experience with
 with some kind of substance use disorder. And so we are very familiar with the progress of this addiction. And I wanted to address the stigma that hasn't been mentioned before. There's a pre-contemplative stage where it frustrates a lot of people because there's no telling if there's going to be a decision to go into recovery
 But we work in the cracks and crevices of that area where we provide education and support to those individuals through an empathetic approach. And it is evidence-based. We are funded by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration and through state agencies. We've amassed about $2 million in the last few years in creating these programs that introduce harm reduction into the –
 the model of a treatment, we're not a treatment facility, but we go into the cracks and crevices to educate the community. We've done education programs in libraries, in schools, and universities, and we try to educate people as far as the progress of the addiction, the denial stage, where many people don't make it out of, but we offer hope through education and awareness,
 We are the little guys. I consider ourselves in the model we get overlooked for funding opportunities And yet we have saved You know our two programs alone the San Adam was and punto de partida have saved about a thousand I mean a hundred lives in just the last three months and
 So the shortage of Narcan could not come at the worst time for our community. We do outreach to the community at least three times a week and distribute Narcan freely to people who may need them and educate them on how to use it.
 And our sources for the Narcan that we distributed dried up because of the COVID funds that were available that made these freely available. So we ask that we don't get overlooked as a recovery community organization in the funding scheme and the distribution of funds.
 And by the way, I also am the director for the board of directors for the El Paso Coalition for the Homeless. So these are populations that often get overlooked and under-minimized in value. So I ask and beseech this council to take us into consideration. Thank you for your time. The next speaker is Lonnie Spooner, followed by Omar Carmona. Good morning. You have three minutes. Ladies and gentlemen. Nice to see you again, sir. In the past month,
 I've lost two friends and two associates and nearly lost another associate to a penile overdose. The last friend who recovered, there was Narcan available. It's really bad. We got kids. I run into youngsters at least 16, 17 already using, smoking it, and they're already hooked on it.
 You see them on the street panhandling so they can get another pill. These pills are $5 a piece. There's an even stronger batch out there that's deadlier. And heroin addicts have already told me they don't even want to come in contact with it. It's so strong. It's really bad.
 Programs like Punto de Partida, they help out with Narcam. I myself, I don't use fentanyl, but I have a lot of associates and friends and people I consider family who have been affected by this fentanyl thing. But the part that gets me is the younger guys, you know, getting hooked on it. And there was one young guy we call Wilson, and he was...
 I believe he was a 19 to 20-year-old young man, and he never made it. The fentanyl wasn't available. By the time the paramedics arrived, he was already dead. I've had associates who have OD'd four times, and I advise them get help. You can lead a horse to water. We cannot make a horse drink. So the best thing, you know,
 It's what's available to save lives. This thing's bad out there. It's really bad, and it's getting worse. And it's stronger stuff hitting the streets at the moment I speak right now. If there is no action, this thing's going to go out of control. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
 The next speaker is Omar Carmona. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, honorable Mayor Leaser. Good morning, honorable counsel. My name is Omar Carmona. I am a local criminal defense lawyer at the CLM law firm. For the last 16 years, I've been able to represent many juveniles and adolescents in this community. I am one of the lawyers that's eligible to receive court appointments at the juvenile probation department. And I have seen firsthand the dangers that drugs are causing, especially these opioids,
 our schools. When Mr. Bailey was speaking earlier he had mentioned that he started using narcotics at eight years old and I saw some eyes light up. Unfortunately I'm not as surprised anymore. What's vital to this community, the future of this community, is education and prevention. Initiatives like Narcan, safe syringe programs are vital. I am seeing firsthand
 how lives are spiraling out of control at such a young age. It seems like as El Pasoans, almost on a daily basis, we are talking about kids with automatic weapons, a lot of cash on the streets. Our law enforcement is doing everything they can to prevent this, but they are also spread very thin. So I ask that the city consider these initiatives and appreciate just how vital they are. Thank you.
 The next statement was submitted to be read into the record by the El Paso Harm Reduction Alliance and it reads, Dear Mayor and Council Members, I am writing to express my enthusiastic support of El Paso City funding for the life-saving medication Narcan to be distributed at least to the City's first responders, if not throughout various shelters, harm reduction outreach organizations, resource centers, and local government agencies. Narcan is a life-saving medicine used to reverse an overdose caused by opiates.
 Based on data provided by El Paso's medical examiner on January 26, 2022, in 2021, 107,000 people died from opioid overdose in the United States. 97 of those deaths occurred in El Paso. These deaths do not include those that often go unreported or which were pending verification. Narcan retails at around $141 per dose. Since March of 2022, a local nonprofit opioid
 Crisis Center has given out at least 240 doses of Narcan with a retail cost of $16,920 of Narcan to El Paso police officers who have sought the life-saving medicine due to lack of resources.
 531 narcan kits were used by the el paso fire department alone the number increased to 645 in 2022. each of these doses used represents a life saved we know that narcan helps to prevent fatal overdoses and saves lives the results from this funding will contribute a great deal towards helping to save lives in el paso i look forward to city council members supporting this worthwhile endeavor and helping improve the health of our community
 Sincerely, Alliance of Border Collaboratives, Project Vida, Endeavors, Punto de Partida Recovery Alliance, Fernando Gonzalez, UT Health Science Center, San Antonio Project Vida,
 Mariah Alvarez, UTEP Students for Public Health President of SPH, Rigoberto Delgado, PhD, MBA, UT Health, Mary Allen Hernandez, Border Substance Abuse Counsel, John W. Martin, Deputy Director, the Opportunity Center, Camille Castillo, Executive Director of El Paso Coalition for the Homeless, Ivan Tapia, ACPS Aliviane, and Charles Garcia, Trinity Center Homeward Bound Inc., Chief Executive Officer.
 That concludes public comment on item 33. Thank you, Ms. Prine.
 Pro Tem followed by Thank You mayor thank you to everybody who is here today for for giving the presentation for sharing your stories Since I put this item up the agenda came out on Thursday I've heard from a lot of media and they keep asking the question. Why are we doing this now? And you know, I've shared with all of them the story about how I had a relative who passed away from an overdose two summers ago, but hearing the
 the speakers today, I was reminded of the very first opioid overdose that I experienced in my life 21 years ago. And I keep thinking that if 21 years ago, when I was 17 years old, at the funeral for my childhood friend, if you had told me that there was something that you could provide people to prevent this, I would be shocked that we were even having this conversation today, right? Shocked at the conversations happening at the state level, that there would be any kind of limitations on something like this, but I digress.
 The real reason that we're even able to have this conversation today, if we're being fully honest, is that we have been, I guess, awarded a large sum of money through the opioid lawsuits that have happened nationwide. Each community received money. And we have received, I believe, Ms. Neiman, it's $384,000. And that's huge for us, right? That really gives us the ability to do this.
 in a way that we would have never been able to do before. We had these conversations during COVID with the influx of ARPA funds really allowed us to address issues that we've never been able to address before. And I think it's really important that we as a council, and if you go through this resolution and you see the things that it talks about, and I'll get into them a little bit more in depth,
 It's our responsibility of this council to make sure that we are allocating those monies appropriately and that we are coming up with a plan for the future. Because $384,000 is a lot of money when it comes to funding something that we don't have in existence but that money runs out and if we don't plan now
 it's going to be wasted dollars right and so I want to talk a little bit about the groups that were here today and then the work that we've done so many of you on council know that I don't like to to write any kind of legislation without community groups that it impacts I'm really happy that I've been able to work with the harm reduction alliance that they reached out to me I think that
 their organization in general is a reflection of that. Peer support is extremely important. These are the individuals who know what is needed, that are on the ground, that understand what the outcome should be. But I also, you know, spent a lot of time talking to Chief D'Agostino about what the plans are. And a lot of what you see in this resolution is, you know, was already planned by the police and fire departments, planned by the city. A little bit goes a little bit further. And we can talk about that, but
 This was not something that was just written without the guidance of both the community and staff. And so I do want to talk a little bit about the database portion here. I know Chief and I had spoken about that. It's a little, it is I think something in the resolution that will be the hardest thing to do. We heard from members of the public on how important data is. We as a council are very data driven.
 And it is extremely important that we are working our hardest to get that data for community members for this community To understand what the issue is. These are things that have been talked about at the state I know that I had shared with chief Degasino that Austin had launched their program Last week and kind of shared a contact with him. What I didn't tell him is as after sharing that with him The staff member from Austin said this is going to be a learning experience I we don't have
 all of the answers, we're not launching this knowing it's gonna be 100%, but we're doing it because it's what we need to do and it's the right thing to do, and I think that's really how we should be looking at this.
 I've heard a lot about, you know, is this going to solve the problem? No, it's not. And quite frankly, it's not within the council's purview or authority or knowledge to be able to take on this larger issue of fentanyl and overdoses and the opioid crisis. But we do have this tool in front of us.
 And it's the only tool that we have, and it is extremely important that we are putting it to the best use that we can. We've heard amazing stories from community members today about the individuals that they help or that they have tried to help. And if this policy can save one life...
 It's extremely important that we are putting this forward, that we are approving this, that we are giving the direction to the community, that it is important to us to be there as assistants, as many of the individuals spoke today are because they've experienced that. You may not, you know, for council up here, you may not have experienced this in your life. You may not know anybody who has had an addiction or has passed away from addiction. Okay.
 but your neighbors do, the people in this room do, your constituents do, and it's extremely important that we move forward to protect them.
 I want to talk a lot. I think there were some great things that were spoken about. I think Mr. Chris Bailey and his presentation his slides talked about the outreach It's really important that we with the health department with our police department with our fire department are making sure we're getting out outreach For prevention and access to treatment. I think those are extremely important things in this resolution. It's not enough that
 Just to provide in our camp but to really point people in the directions in any way that we can And I don't think that this action ends today, you know Hopefully this will pass but I think we've heard from the the community that there's a lot more that we need to do right testing strips The decriminalization of testing strips. We heard from the governor that that was a priority of his unfortunately It's being held up at the Senate for politics. This is not an issue that should be revolving around politics We should be doing everything we can
 to be making sure that individuals have access to those testing strips and are not afraid to get access to those testing strips. I just want to give one more shout out to everyone that spoke today, to the Harm Reduction Alliance. They've done a lot of work on this. They do this work every day. Making sure that those partnerships continue past today, that we are – there's language in this resolution that talks about when.
 Narcan is going to expire, coming up with a plan which happens, what happens to those doses, where they are going, you know, I think it's really important. I didn't hear anyone from the group mention it today, but I think it's extremely important to know that the individuals that you heard speaking today have been supplying our own officers, our own EMS officers, with Narcan over the last few years, and it is important that we recognize
 those partnerships that they created, and we pay into that, in a way, for lack of better terms, that we become a full-circle partnership. I also want to give a shout-out to Rene Kledeski, who used to work for El Paso Matters. There was a four-part in-depth story in El Paso Matters about a year ago that really highlighted, I think...
 something else that's really important and hasn't been talked about today and it is the willingness and the eagerness of the people that work at the city of El Paso, the police officers, the EMS of wanting to have these resources, of reaching out to non-profits for these resources, reaching out to their superiors saying we need this, we recognize that this is a gap in our service and having that information that was presented in El Paso matters I think was invaluable for moving forward today and so I just wanted to acknowledge that.
 mayor and with that i will pass it on to my colleagues thank you thank you for that representative and i think you know you talked about the money we have and we talked about the need for narcon i think that i'd love to see where we were so proactive that we didn't ever we didn't need any more that we spent that money to be able to educate people
 And to go out there and make sure that no one eight years old again, you're right. When Mr. Carmona said that our eyes opened up when you told us you're eight years old. So I know we need Narcon. And I know that it's short supply because of obviously it's being used quite handily that I'm hoping we can have a.
 overabundance of it because no one's using it any longer because we're spending our money to Educate and make sure that we go into the schools We talked where we need to talk and make sure that we become proactive with Narcon We're becoming reactive right now and I want to be proactive so we never have to use it again and that's really important that we go to that level and use our money for both aspects of it and
 And I look forward to seeing where you guys come back in a year or so and go, hey, by the way, you know anybody that needs any Narcon? We've got no use for it any longer. That would be the thing that I'd love to see you guys come tell us. So let's get proactive and let's get out there and make sure that we don't see the youth in our community be affected by something that is very deadly. Representative Canales.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'll be really brief because I think it's a really simple decision to make today. Thank you again to the Harm Reduction Alliance, everybody that we heard from. It's incredibly valuable to have you here today to hear about the important work you're doing and hopefully to be able to support the work going forward.
 having naloxone or an arcane readily available and accessible to people across the community is so important.
 It will save lives as we've heard from speaker after speaker today And yes, we need it deployed with our first responders, but also in our city facilities for example in recreation centers in Parks facilities and public facing offices the more widely it's available in the community the closer it is to people who need it and
 Since the conversation about today's action first began, the city manager and staff really jumped into action and have been working hard to make this happen. It was one of the first things that I discussed with the city manager when I took office, and thank you to deputy city managers, Mr. Ohm and Mr. D'Agostino. They've worked really hard to make sure that we have the capacity to help with this.
 I hope this is just a first step that we take as a city government in supporting the broad range of vital harm reduction Strategies that really will help El Pasoans to be healthier and safer And I hope we can continue to support you all in the important work that you do every day Because it's so important for us here in El Paso. Thank you mayor. Thank you Celso thank you mayor
 And good afternoon, buenas tardes. I just want to thank you all that came out and shared your personal testimony. That took a lot of courage. I want to thank Mayor Pichette for putting this item on the agenda and Representative Canales for sponsoring it as well. I always want to say that I like to work proactively always on anything, and this is no different. This item is pretty straightforward. It saves lives.
 I will say that I don't condone the use of opioids or any drug for that matter, but what I do support is saving lives. And that is what we really wanna do here. We wanna make sure that we're bringing awareness, education and prevention. There's a few stats that really shocked me and it was before the pandemic, the use of fentanyl was about 5% used and from the ages of 18 to 45. After the pandemic, it rose to 95%.
 You know, we have actually an opioid pandemic right now. So we need to be addressing it as such as no different than the pandemic we addressed just recently. Our beautiful community rises to the occasion. We need to rise to this one. You know, I understand the addiction. I grew up with a father that was an alcoholic and it was a disease. I understood that was a disease. He tried so hard to leave it and you know, he didn't. He passed away when he was 50.
 So I know how hard it is. You know, it's not the will that you want to leave the drug. It's the drug is just a lot stronger. And it takes a lot of support from the community, from your family to really help you all. Right. And so we want to be a community partner to you all, to everybody that that has an addiction to help you all overcome it. And so we want to be able to provide solutions for that.
 So, you know, this graph really just kind of shows you the leading cause of death between 18 to 45 years old. Fentanyl has been the largest. I mean, look at it. Like diabetes, cancer to heart disease, car accidents, homicide, COVID-19, suicide. Right?
 We need to really address this as a community. We need to work together. We need to find ways that we aid and help. And it's tough. I want to commend you all that it takes a lot, one day at a time, when you fall off. I know that you just get back on, right? And you need that support. And so,
 I'm no doctor, but from what I've read and understood, the way that the drug Narcan works, it basically overcomes the actual fentanyl. And so it really takes over and it saves your life because your heart is like reducing in speed. So that's interesting to just even understand that a drug can overcome another drug. But more importantly, you live another day. So we just...
 Need to help you once you know another day. How do we get you to the next day and and moving on forward? Our beautiful community always raises to the occasion. This is no different supporting this item today Is supporting saving lives in El Paso, so I'm here to support it I want to thank you all when I think my colleagues for this item and and looking forward to to working with you all With this addiction. Thank you Could I say a few words?
 Yes, sir, please. So talking about the award that we got and the funding that we came in. Chief DiAgostino. Sorry. I know you all are looking over here. We're at DiAgostino, Deputy City Manager. He's also former Chief of the Fire Department. Go ahead, Chief. Thank you, sir.
 And so I want to talk about the funding. And so the vast majority of the funding was identified for educational purposes. So that's exactly where we want to take it is to educate everybody on the effects of fentanyl and opioids and how Narcan can help, but also that there's programs available for people to get treatment. And so that's the primary focus of the funding. Working with the city manager, we've been identifying where we could put Narcan into city facilities. Right now we're looking at it.
 Co locating them with our a DS. So we want to make sure that we have a DS and all of our facilities. We're making sure that's getting outfitted and then we want to actually have an arcane within those same units. It's the same storage cabinet. It'll save some money. It'll allow the city to go farther with its dollars. With that, we're also looking at expanding to to our public transportation system as well.
 And so that would be offering, having those kits on board a bus so if somebody needed it, somebody had an overdose while on public transportation, they'd have that readily available. As far as our first responders, we are, that is a baseline now, all first responders when they go out, they have that.
 Narcan on them and so all the fire trucks and ambulances as well as our police squad vehicles as they go out patrol vehicles As they're going out on a daily basis They're making sure they pick up their Narcan from a controlled environment and taking it out in the car with them for their tour Thank you. Thank you, sir
 I didn't unmute myself, sorry. Thank you, Chief, for that. I also, I wanna recognize other partnerships. I know Emergence Health Network has also applied for SAMHSA grants to be able to supply the city and the police officers with more Narcan. So I think there are a lot of options that we've been doing and we need to be exploring, but I just wanted to ask Ms. Pryne, I'm gonna make a motion to approve,
 But I would also I know that we took public comment just on item 33 I know there are some duplications of signups for 34, but I just want to give Individuals the opportunity to speak if they they had something additional or different to say on item 34 Thank you second the motion. Is there anyone that spoke on item 33 that would like to add additional comments for 34 is so Please come up to the podium and state your name and you'll have three minutes. I
 Thank you. I'm Christopher Bailey man in long term recovery. I really want to communicate the impact of not just looking at leveraging funding for this. El Paso is rich in so many different resources. We not only have a community that is built on the idea of fronterismo where a neighbor helps neighbor but we have partnerships established where we're able to leverage those things.
 The key factor here is that we are laying on the radar of the city that this epidemic is here and it is going to get worse. And the amount of Narcan and education, while I understand education, we work in the school systems. And I can tell you that prevention in the school systems, really, the drug problem is already there. It's already there. So what are you preventing? What are you preventing?
 In this capacity what we need to work on is having honest discussions not just within school systems but at the community at large with regard to the nature of this epidemic and teaching every household how they can get Narcan into their homes and how to utilize Narcan more importantly. Because it may not be a 16 year old kid in their room in front of a PlayStation. It could be somebody's 80 year old mother. These aren't just individuals that walk in the streets. These are people that live in homes.
 These are people that hold jobs. They pay taxes. These are individuals that are on prescription medication. If you remember the presentation, a full 70% of overdoses happen with, not just with illicit drugs, but with prescription medications. These come with a label with a doctor's name on it. And the fact of the matter is, is that when people are cut off, which is now the protocol, without a direction to services, without a direction to treatment options, without a direction
 to partnerships in the community. What they have, they have no choice but to look for illicit sources for the alleviation of their pain. My suggestion to the city strongly is to consider at least carving out some of this money to get into the hands of the individuals that have direct contact with communities of use. As was pointed out earlier, when it comes to emergency services,
 Well, it's only 20 percent of overdoses are reported by emergency services first responders a full 80 Happen with community members. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bailey. You asked me probably the easiest question i'll hear today What are we preventing the death of a child to understand? That if it's there we want to let them know it's there and to stay away from it And I can tell you that preventing the life of a child is something that
 i want to make sure we prevent so that was probably the easiest question hopefully i'll ever have in my life thank you good afternoon you have three minutes thank you i i agree that education is very important and one of the things that the el paso harm reduction alliance does is provide education on overdose prevention and our cat administration we have trained
 the El Paso Psychiatric Center, the El Paso Public Health Department. We have been tasked with training all of region 19, educators, teachers, administration. We've been invited to Clint ISD next month to train them. We have been asked to train Horizon PD.
 We have done many community overdose prevention trainings. We cap them at 100 and we meet our capacity every time. We are providing education and we do this free of charge. We need funding for Narcan. Without the Narcan, people will die. And the problem is only going to get worse because of the introduction of drugs like xylosine.
 And it's not only people that are actively using opioids or fentanyl. Our country's drug supply is extremely tainted. We're finding fentanyl even in cannabis. So kids in high school that are experimenting with things like cannabis are annoyingly using fentanyl, which is why we also need drugs.
 your support in decriminalizing fentanyl testing strips here in El Paso. I agree that prevention and education are very important, vitally important, and we are working on that, but we do need your help and support in providing funding for Narcan. The fact that Punto de Partida and Proyecto Sanaremos only have two doses left when they have saved over a hundred lives in the last three months is very scary to me.
 It's very scary. I have been to too many funerals of too many people that have died. And I implore you to please help us to continue to save lives. And we will do our part in educating and helping with prevention.
 training and educating children I coach in the school districts as well I provide services to high school and middle school students but we need your help as well thank you thank you and you know I do want to tell you we do hear you all loud and clear and we do need to be partners because we thank you for wanting to be our partner we thank you for wanting to reach out and we thank you for letting us know we knew this and we know this
 but to be up here took a lot of courage on some of y'all, and we thank you for that, and we will be your partners. We thank you for that. Thank you, Mayor. That's what we wanted to hear. We are saving lives at our level, and I don't hear the funding scheme that the city is laying out includes our portion of the services that we're providing.
 We're providing as nonprofits who are directly in the streets, in the communities, educating and providing the Narcan. I'm hearing a lot of first responders already having it, and we've already discussed how by the time the first responders arrive, it's really already not a prevention, it's a reaction.
 So we're reaching out as the nonprofits that are in the cracks in the premises
 educating and preventing the lives, getting the Narcan in the hands prior to the incident happening so that it's readily available before the 911 call does. And so that's what we do and so I'm just asking that the city consider that portion of the scheme in addressing the opioid crisis. Thank you all for your time and hard decisions. Thank you for being here. But we're all here to save lives, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Dominguez. Good afternoon again, Mr. Horne, you only have three minutes.
 I wanted to, when Chris pointed out that prevention in schools is a difficult thing, I think at least the way I view it is, I mean, I heard don't do drugs. I never really believed I was going to do the harder drugs when I was in school. But I made that choice. And, yeah, I made that choice. And that's on me. But really the only community I feel like that could have brought me out of that was the one that I'm currently a part of.
 which is the harm reduction and the peer support. And hearing somebody who's been in my shoes and who has been homeless and who has been in a place of hopelessness and despair where it seems like using needles is my only decision, not even my only decision but the right one, I think that's why harm reduction and peer support is so vital. And prevention is a – I don't even know how you would tackle that
 But I know that harm reduction is what brought me out of my addiction. And peer support is what brought me out of kind of that isolation that I chose to take part of. And I think that that's what he was trying to say, and I hope I'm not out of line with that. But that's how I view the topic. And I do greatly appreciate working with all you guys. It's beyond my wildest dreams. It feels good to be a part of a community again. So thank you guys so much. Thank you, Chuck.
 With that we have representative Rivera Thank You mayor Can I just do me a favor and speak into the microphone? Yes, sir I'd like to ask Deputy to the you know a question here when I when I had a the meeting with El Paso harm reduction lines, so I'm sorry. Yeah reduction lines the conversation was held with the PD and fire and they had a
 Mentioned somehow getting these these Narcans to to to them sir Do you have any idea what the process what the stage is right now? Yes And so the the initial thought is how do we expand the availability of Narcan within city properties and city purview? And so that looks at putting them on the buses as well as city facilities, especially parks and libraries facilities We have a lot of community involvement
 And so with that, they're working on a plan now on what's our rotation base, because we know they have a shelf life, so we want to make sure we're taking them and restocking it in early –
 time frame and their life span so we can give them out to those who have a direct contact with people who might need it. And this way it doesn't just expire on the shelf. So that's the plan that they're identifying right now. We don't have that all worked out, but the team is working diligently to figure out what that rotation is going to look like. So that's the biggest issue right now is figuring out when they expire then
 So yes, they are tracking of all the expiration dates, so we're not allowing them to sit there. But we wanna just set that trigger. So if it's a 24-month drug, maybe the trigger's at 18 months. And so every year and a half, we rotate it out so that it gets out to the community and given out from a different venue. And so that's kinda what they're looking at, but they haven't determined what that ideal number's gonna be. Okay, and just asking this, what's the percentage of the funding that was received here?
 Going to education and then how much is it going to purchasing more Narcan for our first responders? The vast majority was education and very little to actually purchasing the product, but I don't have those numbers in front of me. Okay. Thank you mayor
 thank you mayor i wanted to clarify a few things i want to read a part of the resolution um it says now therefore be it resolved by the council of the city of el paso the city council supports the city manager and current efforts to address the escalating public health crisis caused by drug overdose drug overdoses and addiction and encourages greater interdepartmental coordination and regional coordination with public safety health care service providers as well as the el paso harm reduction alliance
 It mentions the community partners, El Paso Harm Reduction Alliance, Mental Health Consortium several times in this resolution. And I think it's really important to mention because with the passage of this, we'll require that partnership when it comes to strategies, when it comes to –
 the disbursement of drugs. So we are not working in a silo, we are working together. Chief, I know you mentioned you and I had talked about it, I didn't want to speak for you because I know it wasn't official. There has been conversations internally about how we can get Narcan out to community members.
 We really want to see more of those conversations happening together which is will be done with the passage of this. And I also I know that I started the conversation talking about the three hundred eighty four thousand dollars because I do think it was really important in starting this conversation as a city.
 but I think you know just want to be very clear to counsel this resolution does not just live within that three hundred eighty four thousand dollars it is a document of the city meaning that there will over time be required funding outside of that source and that's what I said I think it's very important that we start proactively having those conversations before we run out of that money and then don't have a plan right this this is not entirely tied to those dollars it is a
 a document outside of that but i do think that that funding is an important part of this conversation as it wasn't entirely nationwide recognition that there are individuals who are responsible for the situation that we live in and you know should also be responsible for helping us through that and so with that mayor i will call the question i appreciate you doing that thank you
 The motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by Representative Canales to approve the resolution on item 34. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, may we move to call to the public? I would appreciate that. Thank you, and thank you all for being here, and we look forward to continuing to work with you all because together we won't fail. So thank you.
 We now go to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council. May we ask the members of the public that are not participating and call to the public to please exit the chambers.
 All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda however Council may propose any topic commented on
 be brought forth on a future agenda. This afternoon we have nine members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Melissa Harcrow. Ms. Harcrow's topic is Women Veterans Day Events. Ms. Harcrow, star six, please, to unmute your telephone, and you'll have three minutes. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, everyone. I just wanted to put out another reminder to the public and to council about the Women Veterans Day events that are scheduled next month. First, we have on June 9th the Women Veterans Conference.
 We are asking for only women veterans to attend this event. It's going to be at the VFW Post 812. That's at 2400 Davis Seaman Road. It's free to attend, free lunch, free business clothing giveaway. We'll have a silent auction. And the next event will be June 11th.
 It's going to be a fun run walk called Take a Walk in Her Boots that is open to the public. It is a $35 registration fee, but it comes with an exclusive T-shirt designed by Viva La Mocha just for Women Veterans Day. And it's from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. at Old Glory Memorial. Thank you.
 Viva La Mocha has also been very generous to create some additional merchandise for our event. And they have that available on their website at VivaLaMocha.com.
 And the Women Veterans Brunch is also on June 11th from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. That's going to be at Economy Wholesale Grocers at 411 North Saragossa. It is free to attend. There is going to be a free brunch. And for anyone who's interested in participating, they can contact myself at 915-867-6255.
 or Alexis McCray at 915-383-5180. And I did send out the flyers and the information and thank you to those of you who have been sharing the event with your constituents. And I ask that we continue to do that. Please share with all your
 communication platform so we can get the word out and we can celebrate these events, especially with Memorial Day coming up. We have had 177 women killed in multiple conflicts since the Iraq War.
 and we really would love for everyone to join us in honoring their service. Thank you so much for your time. Have a great one. Bye-bye. Thank you. Ms. Prime, I'm going to recess for 10 minutes. I want to make sure the people that are here can speak to us. We give them the courtesy of being here. And we've lost half the council, and I want to be respectful.
 So I'm going to take a 10-minute recess to make sure everybody gets back up here. Yes, Mayor. Thank you. The regular city council meeting is in recess at 1237 p.m. for 10 minutes. Yes, sir. Is there a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1247 p.m. We're on call to the public. The next person that signed up to speak is Elizabeth Crawford.
 I don't see her in the queue. We'll move on to Marilyn Ortiz. I don't see her in the queue. Ron Como, speaking regarding animal services. Ron. Mr. Como, he will be followed by Efrain Saucedo and Steven Strummer. Yes, IT will need the Elmo, please. Oh, yes, I have some pictures I'd like to show City Council. So today we're going to do another show and tell.
 This is Betty and that's her dog. Her dog got loose. Actually, both her dogs got loose. She posted on lost and found pages and she went out to go find her dogs. A woman saw her dogs running in a field in northeast El Paso. What she thought was lucky was there was an ACO officer in the 7-Eleven next to the field. So she went over and pointed at the strays and went. The ACO officer told her they're not injured, they're not aggressive, we're not picking them up.
 It took a while for her to find the lost and found post, and she proceeded to notify Betty where her dogs were last seen. When she got there, one was dead. Thank you, El Paso Animal Services, for ruining another family. We hear they're only picking up injured and aggressive strays. This picture, this dog sat on the side of the road for five hours because they wouldn't pick the dog up.
 Where was the injured dog being picked up when El Paso Animal Services was notified? The owner had to go find her dog because somebody called her and told her I went to a location with my chip reader because I Was going to try and find the owners because El Paso Animal Services didn't go pick up the injured dog We have discussed over and over of the dangers of community members bringing strays into their homes This dog was an owner's dog. I
 he found a stray he took it home because community sheltering is so wonderful his dog's dead because he brought it into his home and had no idea this dog had behavioral triggers our community is not trainers they are not vets stop treating them that way thank you again for failing el paso animal services this woman took her dog for a walk isn't that a nice thing to do city of el paso put a leash on your puppy go take her for a walk
 This is what happened to this young lady. She went for a walk with her dog got attacked by strays How many strays are we gonna leave on the street? I have a serious question Where is the money going? They're doing half the work and getting paid more money. What are we doing folks? Stop ignoring the community members. Thank you. Mr. Como. The next speaker is a plane South Sado his topic is make city representatives and mayor healthier and
 He will be followed by Stephen Strummer, Lisa Turner, and Arnulfo Hernandez. Good afternoon, Mr. Saucedo. You have three minutes. I'm going to need like an hour. How are you doing? How are you? I'm doing great, and yourself? Good, thank you. Okay, I want to congratulate my CEO rep and also Mr. Chris Canales. You guys are doing a beautiful job. I check on you, okay?
 So keep on doing the well-done job. And also my city rep, Isabel Sancido. Now I'm hearing a lot of the fentanyl or whatever. That's very easy to take care of it. What you need to do, not you, ourselves, take the stress out of the person in that state. It doesn't cost a penny. When I have more time, I'm going to tell you how to do it.
 Now, I'm going to ask you one question to all of you, and then I'm going to tell you what kind of diseases you have, and if you don't take care of them, you're going to die from those diseases. Okay, listen, pay attention or put attention very carefully. When you are sleeping, do you wake up with any noise or you don't wake up? Who wakes up with a noise like this? Nobody? Nobody?
 You wake up, man, okay. You have the accelerated system. If you don't take care of yourself, you're probably gonna die from cancer. Okay, simple as that. Let me tell you something you didn't tell me. You get real mad like this, right? I'm not lying. You get mad like this. But you control your self, okay? Now, the people who don't wake up at night, they have the passive system.
 They can eat anything. Congratulate them. I congratulate them because you take care of yourself. You're going to be like me. I say the system, but I know how to control my cells. See, you can see me? Efrain Saucedo. I'm 72 years old. No inflammation at all? At all. Okay, I'm here to help you.
 And I congratulate all of you guys because we have to start with us so we can be a better city. And El Paso is going to be the capital of the world. Thank you. No, I thank you. See you in two weeks. God bless you guys. In two weeks. Call me, call me, and you'll be free of any kind of disease. Thank you. That's very easy. The next speaker is Stephen Strummer.
 Mr. Strummer's topic is American flag poem. He will be followed by Lisa Turner, Arnulfo Hernandez, and Marilyn Ortiz. Good afternoon, Mr. Strummer. You have three minutes, sir. How are you, sir? Our beloved, precious American flag. It's an honor of Memorial Day. It's about our hideous, dirty flag up on the Glory Road Transfer Center, which I do not like.
 It is not, not, not a dirty rag. It is instead the American flag. And if you think my words untrue, it's fought in World War I and II. And yes, it's been on battles far. It's seen the blood and tattered scars. Yet it's not, not, not a dirty rag. It is instead the...
 the American flag. The red means blood, of valor who? On naval ships, of lives of who? Of San Juan Hill, the Mekong too. We need to honor their service who? Grenada, Europe, lands afar. It has tatters, it's been scarred, yet it's not, not, not a dirty rag. It is of greatest import.
 our American flag. The blood of courage, which will not cease, of valor and bravery, which will increase. It's fought against the mighty foes. I thought to tell you, what did you know? Korea in the frozen earth, upon great life it's given worth. At Pearl Harbor, far for me, served great feats. I'm telling thee,
 It is not, not, not a dirty rag of greatest import on American flag. I thank you for your evening. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Lisa Turner. Miss Turner's topic is women veterans. She will be followed by Arnulfo Hernandez, Marilyn Ortiz. Good afternoon, Miss Turner. Miss Turner. It was afternoon already. Women veterans. I'm active in our El Paso women's veterans.
 Anything that you all can do to help us would be greatly appreciated. The PACT Act, while it's great, pretty much left women out. So we got together, came up with a list of conditions affected by burn pits and what they put into burn pits to burn and sent it up locally to our DAB and our two congressional reps, and hopefully it will move up the chain. Another issue we have as women veterans is you have a lot of single women.
 They can't get into the VA simply because they're working a full-time job and they have kids. And the VA closes and they don't have access to care. I don't know how we can fix it. I don't know if there's anything you all can do to step in to fix it. But it's an area that we need to look at for our women veterans. June is...
 It's gonna be Women's Veterans Month, so y'all come out and walk or run or whatever it is. All I can do is roll them up. I'm good for maybe 50 feet, but after that, it's too dangerous for me to even be standing. And I can only do that in heels. I can't do that in flat shoes. I'll fall, it's strange. But anything y'all can do to help us, we would greatly appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner. The next speaker is Arnulfo Hernandez. Mr. Hernandez's topic is the streetcar study.
 He will be followed by Marilyn Ortiz and Ms. Sheck. Good afternoon, Mr. Hernandez. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. Mayor, City Council, about a month or so ago, the City Council tasked the city staff to compile data on streetcar operation and costs. Actually, the item was put on the agenda by Mayor Oscar Leeser.
 Um to have the city manager reduce the schedule and have it operate during special events Um mayor lee sir Put it out that streetcars turn out to be mostly empty and the taxpayers money is going to waste It costs about three thousand dollars three three million dollars to operate the trolley system Mayor we out we as a taxpayer appreciate your concern for the taxpayer money
 But I would hope that the city staff comes back with a more amplified definition of cost, not just dollars and cents, but the cost on human usage of the streetcars, specifically the folks that Mr. Canales spoke about, the students that use it to go to UTEP, the folks that live south of UTEP.
 Paisano that need to come down to the site to see their doctors or get around they don't have a car or if they have a car They're Impaired to such extent. They can't use the car. It becomes a mode of transportation for them So it's not just about dollars and cents. It's also about the cost on the folks that used the event I would hope that in terms of coming back with ideas that they would come up and expand and
 the operation of the trolley cars in so-called spurs that can bring and increase their ridership to...
 To the streetcars that you also consider staff that is considered perhaps a spur from the Montana area Over to the Bowman Hospital and the new VA clinic that's going to be developed or constructed within I guess 2020 by 2025 since Fort Bliss is is the largest employer in the city and
 They have a great number of folks that work in those localities That would increase their ridership May release so that year after we are lucky that we have at least in about a month or so a new interim mayor who is steeped in how Ford bliss works and perhaps through grants through the state and federal monies we can create those spurs and
 to serve the veterans and the spur perhaps on 6th Street the railroad ties are still there rails that run all the way to Bowie High School that can increase the ridership from folks south of Paisano and I would hope that thank you Mr. Hernandez thank you thank you very much sir the next speaker is Marilyn Ortiz Ms. Ortiz star six please to unmute your telephone
 Ms. Ortiz's topic is Pride Month and Memorial Day. Good afternoon, Ms. Ortiz. You have three minutes. Ms. Ortiz, go ahead.
 thank you good afternoon mayor brotem councilmen councilwomen thank you concerned citizens yes we're proud of our our veterans and rightly so that are some that have lost arms or legs or blinded or horribly burned in defense of our freedoms but the word pride has been twisted
 to tolerate, even to encourage sexual sin, sexual rebellion, the kind of stuff that God hates. It's wonderful that these local organizations are counseling about and fighting against illegal drugs and also counseling about and warning against overprescribed drugs, over-the-counter drugs, and drug overdoses. God bless those with prior abuses that have overcome drugs
 their abuse and abused their experiences, their experience to humbly counsel others to recovery. And I think God is just pleased with our humility more than with our pride. This is a wonderful demonstration of the humility that God loves. And there's no higher authority than the word of God.
 Most people recognize John 3, 16, for God to love the world, that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. But if you go down, if you just skip down 20 verses, the Bible also says, whoever believes in the son, Jesus says this, whoever believes in the son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the son shall not see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.
 In Genesis 6, we see an example of man's wickedness and prideful rebellion. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was evil. Thank you. Was only evil continually. So he sent a big flood and we now only know his family, know his wife, his three sons and their wives, and the paired creatures, the beasts and the livestock.
 and the birds only those people survived the flood of the earth but he promised a rainbow he proclaimed the rainbow to be a covenant between himself and all flesh that is on the earth that's the significance of the rainbow so when we see the pro when we see the re the bow when you see the bow in the clouds God says I will remember my covenant that's between me and you and every living creature of all flesh God seeks us
 God counseled us to embrace humility more than pride. In Matthew 18, we see Jesus was heading toward Jerusalem, and here's a defiable argument about it. Thank you, Ms. Ortiz. You've reached the three-minute limit, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. God bless you. Is there a suspension of the rules of order to allow Ms. Sheck to sign up to speak after the sign-up period? Yes, absolutely. I think Ms. Sheck said she signed up, but you just didn't see it. Come on up, Ms. Sheck. Okay.
 Ms. Scheck's topic is usually right or wrong, save America. I'm not sure if that's the same topic for this afternoon. Good afternoon, Ms. Scheck. Be good. Thank you. May God bless you, every one of you. And this is the love of God, country. Thank you.
 and to save America. Mr. Mayor, in 2017, at your first term, I gave you two hardcover books. This is the first one I give to you as a witness that I wrote the truth. And I am nervous because I do not take three minutes. My three minutes was up in February.
 when I had a lady sing Ave Maria. So if you take a lunch break, I ask you, please, every one of you as an elder to make a sacrifice and let me give you this gift because this takes more than three minutes to explain. This is for all of the council.
 Every one of them because Four Bliss is one heart, one soul, and this belongs into the city council. I stole three tulips in 1945 from a Nazi house, villa, and I gave to my American-tool soldier who rescued me, lilacs, and the three stolen tulips. They were red.
 And I want to explain it to you in your lunchtime. El Paso owes me 12 minutes when I could not speak my three minutes because they were not allowed to speak under Wilson rules. And I don't want to give El Paso a black eye, and I explain it to you at your lunchtime. If you accept me, I invite myself.
 And this is what I would like to hear, and this explains why. And if you don't can read it, please let my city representative number three read it. Please, this is right now for all of you. If you accept her and me for lunch, we can work out something.
 Your three minutes are almost up, but we can remember we had an hour about a month ago in my office And you're always more than welcome to come Please let this read now to you and I'll look at it after we get done with your three minutes. I'll go look at it. Okay, okay But I got a hurry make sure they don't eat my sandwich, and then I'll come right back out It's your day
 This is your take and I have it attached to a little doggy in honor of my journey Thank You miss check The next statement was submitted by Raul Escobedo and it's signed by Agustin Galicia and it reads please have city clerk read during City Council meeting public comment and
 And it says, lately there has been a narrative regarding Sun Metro that needs some clarification. That narrative is that someone or someones at the city resolved Sun Metro's deficit situation. At first it was whispered and quietly acknowledged. Now however the administration is basically taking credit for fixing the situation without divulging the whole story. During the March 28th budget preparation presentation the OMB director presented a slight of financial transformations.
 which included Sun Metro's $27 million turnaround, inferring some impetus had occurred. At next council meeting, the City Manager stated that the $37 million deficit was caused in part because of prior management's inability to say no to project requests. This is concerning in fact that OMB and CM staffs would differ so greatly on an important amount and that year-on-cafers were more in the range of $22 million.
 Additionally, no one on council caught the discrepancy or ignored a $10 million variance in figures. Reality is that there were no significant cost reductions implemented, no significant recommendations from cross-functional teams or black belt teams, no magic bullet. The deficit was resolved by two factors. The increase of annual sales tax revenue, approximately $10 million annually in Sun Metro's case, and more importantly, the infusion of $70 million of FTA CARES funding, grant funding due to COVID-19.
 funding that had few restrictions, unlike the city's COVID funding and could be used for salaries, operation, maintenance, and even capital, even if not directly COVID-related. Additionally, no grant match was required, in essence, a cash infusion for Sun Metro, which is in large part why Sun Metro now has a capital plan, not because of any strategic planning. Unfortunately, previous council talked about spending over half the capital funding to renovate the Union Depot because it's historical and people...
 have attended quinceaneras and weddings there. As with many city decisions regarding Sun Metro, this provides no benefit at all to Sun Metro, something only Rep. Anello picked up on. To his credit, CFO Cortinas did mention at last meeting that the infusion of federal funds helped resolve the deficit. However, he must have felt compelled to fit the narrative and added that no other efficiencies had been implemented. Canceling routes and then reimplementing them is not a strategy nor should one get credit for adding service.
 Council should ask for the list of efficiencies implemented. Finally, there was indeed a cream of the crop cross-functional team sent to Sun Metro about four years ago which reported back to Colonel Weston that they found no significant operational or managerial deficiencies or significant room for improvement, a narrative I assume not shared with Mayor and Council.
 My understanding is that a similar conclusion was provided in their first draft by current consultants, which were asked to go back to the drawing board and dig deeper because it does not match the narrative of mismanagement and inefficiency. Thank you, Ms. Pryor. Thank you. I reached the three minutes, but, Council, I did share this via email with all of you. Mayor, that concludes call to the public this afternoon. Thank you. Can we recess for 30 minutes?
 Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1.14 p.m. for 30 minutes. Is there a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1.48 p.m. All right. What's the next item, Ms. Pryne? I'm set.
 The next item is 35, but Representative Salcido's not here. All right, we'll skip that one. Okay. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 36 to 40. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor Potemolinar, to approve the introduction of ordinances. These are items 36 to 40. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor, this is Carla Neiman over here.
 Item number 20. Voting session is open. You said that. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez, Salcido, Fierro, Canal is not present for the vote. Mayor, if I could ask, we do have bond counsel here from out of town on item number 53. If we could move his item up sooner rather than later. He does have a plane to catch. Go ahead. He's the last item on the agenda. Just go ahead. Let me get with Mayor Pro Temp.
 What item? I'm sorry. Item number 53, Laura. Okay. Item 53 is discussion and action to approve a resolution approving amendments to the articles of incorporation into the bylaws of the City of El Paso Health Facilities Development Corporation and containing other provisions relating to the subject. With Norton Rose-Sulbright, Bond Council of the City. You look like the guy who was on Team Show yesterday. Yes, sir.
 This item is actually an existing corporation of the city. It was first formed in 1981. This item is amending the articles so that the board of directors of that corporation will now be reflective of the city council. So it won't be a subset or a different group. And then on a going forward basis, the city has received a request from BINVID, Senior Services,
 To amend some existing loan documents that were issued through this conduit issuer and so in a subsequent meeting We bring those before you but the first step would be just to go ahead and have the board reflect the City Council So you have an existing? Corporation the board currently the articles of incorporation currently say the board of directors are six members and
 So that's really kind of not consistent with the number of city council members. So these articles are now making it nine members, and it will be all the members of the city council. Ms. Pryor? Yes, the motion was made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Mayor Pro Temanello, to approve the resolution on Item 53. On that motion, call for the vote. Council, this is on Item 53. The voting session is open. Representative Salcido? Thank you. And the voting session? Thank you.
 The motion passes unanimously. I hope you have a safe flight home, sir. Thank you, sir. For your 15 seconds of fame today. Not present.
 Mayor, would you like to return to the council items? We'd like to return to Representative Salcedo's item number 35. Thank you, sir. Item 35 is discussion in action to direct the city manager to identify budget adjustments to reduce the property tax rate for the next fiscal year 2024, such as but not limited to no new revenue or by reducing $0.04 per $100 of property value to further ease the burden on the taxpayers and what's left of the property.
 while still maintaining a high level of all city services and present the recommendations at the first proposed budget meeting. And go ahead, ma'am. Thank you, Mayor. So I put this item on the agenda so that my colleagues and I can start