good morning everyone it's uh miss prime yes sir good morning this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday may 24th 2022 present in council chambers our mayor liser mayor pro tam shortsvine representative representative molinar representative salcido representative rivera representative lizabra representative hernandez is joining virtually this morning
 of Rodriguez will arrive a little later. It is now 9.02. Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by police, fire, and ministry coordinator for the sheriff's chaplain, Sam Ferroni. Chaplain, you're on mute, sir. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for allowing me to be here this morning. It's always an honor to be with you.
 So if you'd like to join me in that prayer, I invite you to bow your heads. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the gift of this day, a day of life, a day of opportunity, another day to seek you and honor you. I want to thank you for my mayor, his leadership, and his love for this city. I ask you to give him strength and encouragement as he fulfills his duties and faces the challenges thereof.
 May he have your peace and wisdom as he leads this meeting today. I thank you and I pray for our representatives, that they too will be blessed with wisdom and insight as the agenda is considered today. May the decision makers of our city, regarding the future of our city, have a constant awareness of what is right and what is best and what honors you. Please watch over all of the men and women
 Thank you, sir. May God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. And we have a full house. Thank you for everyone being here.
 I think today is a day that we can look back and be thankful for everything that we have in life and everything that's been given to us and everything we've earned and everything we've worked for, and be thankful for the future and for the men and women in the military that are out there that protect our borders and give us the opportunity to be here every day. And again, I want to thank the people of the Army.
 Everyone from being here, Chaplain, thank you for those nice words. And with that, I'd like to have a moment of silence to thank everyone who protects us and gives us the opportunity today. Thank you. May God bless America and may God bless El Paso. Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the Mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Kayla Gomez-State. Is Kayla in the house? Please come to the front. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Molina. I'm reading this on behalf of Representative Cassandra Fernandez. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas today we recognize El Pasoan Kayla Gomez, a decorated boxer and member of the USA Olympic team and number one in the nation in her junior division weight class, and whereas Kayla, the third generation of female boxer,
 and her family. She began boxing at the age of nine, guided by her boxing coaches, Mother Crystal Aceves and Grandmother Cindy Aceves. Whereas Kayla has risen through the ranks, she won the female flyweight gold medal
 at the Junior Pan American Games in Cali, Colombia, in December 2021, hold the 2021 WBC Amateur Title Belt and was chosen as a 2021 USA Boxing Youth Female Boxer
 of the year and whereas Kayla is currently the top ranked flyweight boxer not only in the United States but in the world and whereas the city of El Paso is behind Kayla in her goal to compete in the 2024 Olympics in Paris and recognizes her for her incredible hard work
 dedication and accomplishments inside the ring locally and nationally now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of el paso that may 24 2022 shall be known as kayla gomez day signed the honorable mayor oscar lisa kayla good morning and congratulations on your on your great accomplishments and you know that this council in the city is very proud of you representative nandas
 Hi, good morning Kayla. We want to just let you know that we're incredibly proud of you. Continue to do a great job to represent this community. We value you and we honor the fact that you're a young woman in our community. We need to do more to recognize your accomplishments and we hope that this is a small gesture to achieve that. Again, you're considered Miss El Paso. We really are proud of all of your achievements. Great job. Thank you. Ms. Pryor?
 Yes, sir. The next proclamation is Young Women's Leadership Academy. Thank you. We'll take pictures after all the proclamations are read. Mayor. Does that sound to you better? Thank you, Mayor. Obviously, today is Young Ladies Day today. I'm so proud to present this. First of all, I'm sorry, I apologize. Could I have Ms. Villalobos and her staff member come up to the podium, please? Going from one extreme to the other, I am
 I am proud to present this proclamation, as you will all hear. This involves the first academy, correct, for the YISD, and it's entitled the Young Women's Leadership Academy. So with that, if you could just hold on a second, let me read this to you, a proclamation from the city of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the Young Women's Leadership Academy opened in 2016 with the goal of preparing young El Paso women
 from diverse backgrounds to attend and graduate from college to commit a healthy and well-balanced lifestyle to lead with courage and compassion and whereas the young women's leadership academy is a partner school with the young women's preparatory network a statewide network of 10 all girls public schools with the mission of supporting single gender college preparatory public education in texas
 and beyond, giving young women the academic and leadership skills to achieve success in college and in life, and whereas the Young Women's Leadership Academy exemplifies the benefits of all girls' schools.
 According to the National Coalition for Girls' Schools, students at girls' schools have higher aspirations and greater motivation than their female peers at co-educational schools. Ninety-nine percent of students at girls' schools in the U.S. expect to earn a four-year degree, and more than two-thirds expect to earn a graduated professional degree.
 And whereas the faculty, staff, and community partners of the Young Women's Leadership Academy and Young Women's Preparatory Network have exhibited outstanding dedication to pioneering all girls' public education in El Paso and supporting the Young Women Leadership Academy students. And whereas these seniors, I might add the first class, these seniors have demonstrated outstanding commitment
 To core values of college readiness, leadership, wellness, 100% of the senior class of 2022 will graduate with 100%, having been accepted to a four-year university. The senior class has earned over 11.5 million in merit-based scholarships. And whereas all 42 students are graduating in the inaugural class of 2022 from the Young Women,
 Women's Leadership Academy, Go Transformers. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that this month of May shall be known as the Young Women's Leadership Academy Month. Yes. Ms. Villalobos. Check all my speaking points. The real work that we do at the Young Women's Leadership Academy. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, I have an additional thing. IT, can you bring it up, please, while I read it?
 While they're bringing it up, I just want to congratulate you and all the girls, and you're correct. The youth has always been the future of our city and our country, and I couldn't be more proud to say that our future looks very bright, and with great honor, it gave me honor to sign that proclamation in recognition, not only of you all, but the future of our community. Thank you all. And with that, I also, from the district office,
 be tonight will be in the start of the mountain will be officially lit for the young women's leadership academy it's uh and i'm going to present you with the documentation and it's in honor of the class of 2022. thank you so much thank you
 Hi everyone, I wanna thank city council for this wonderful honor. I'm a representative from the Young Women's Preparatory Network, we are a statewide organization, and we are so proud of the Young Women's Leadership Academy here in El Paso for being pioneers and bringing this all girls public free education to our community. These girls have been pioneers. They started out with us in seventh grade, and they've really stayed dedicated to the vision of really being focused on their academics. A lot of these girls have taken AP courses and are already
 number of college credits and we're excited that they are maintaining our national and statewide trends of 100% of our graduates across the network do graduate from high school and 100% of the four-year university. We are excited that they're going to be representing us in universities all across the country.
 they've gotten into some really prestigious schools. And I also want to thank Melinda Villalobos, our principal, for being a pioneer in starting this school, believing in the vision, and really ensuring that we are providing an excellent opportunity for all girls regardless of their background, believing that our girls can really achieve all of their dreams. So I want to thank her for her visionary leadership within our organization as well. Thank you. Thank you again, congratulations. Mayor, in this time to leave out, I'd like to also recognize
 Let's not leave out faculty and staff at the Young Women's Leadership Academy who are tasked with making sure that the kids achieve what they are set to achieve. So thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you, Representative Rivera. And with that, Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir. The next proclamation is Colonel Kerry Weston Daly. Mayor Pro Temp.
 So I think out of all the proclamations I've had an opportunity to help craft and read, this is probably pretty high up there. And for those that don't know in the public, we have a lot of veterans that work on behalf of the city of El Paso, including our city manager and many other positions. But I'll tell you, out of the 6,000 employees that we have at the city of El Paso, we only have one colonel.
 And that is you, Colonel Kerry Weston. So proclamation on the city of El Paso, Texas, whereas we are here today to recognize and honor retired Colonel Kerry Weston for his distinguished eight years of service to the city of El Paso as a senior deputy city manager, and whereas Colonel Weston joined the city of El Paso in January 2014, following three years with the Borderplex Alliance and the El Paso Regional Economic Development Corporation,
 as Vice President of Business Development for the Defense and Clean Technology Sectors, responsible for attracting new industry to the region, and whereas Colonel Weston has been a dedicated Senior Deputy City Manager and has become a valuable asset to the City of El Paso with his experience and commitment to our community, and whereas Colonel Weston served 25 years of active duty in the Army in a variety of critical command and staff positions. Thank you for your service.
 And whereas Colonel Weston's occupational specialty was air defense operations, culminating in a four-year assignment as the director of the Air Defense Artillery Test Directorate, the ADATD.
 U.S. Army Operational Test Command at Fort Bliss, Texas. As Director of 88TD, Weston led a team of 200 military, Department of the Army civilian and contract personnel in the design, coordination, execution of operational tests and field experiments to support weapon system acquisition for the Army and joint forces.
 And whereas Colonel Weston continually honors his Midwestern roots and his home of El Paso, Texas, being one of the nicest, most honorable men you will ever meet, whether on land or on waterways. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that May 24, 2022, shall forever be known as Colonel Kerry Weston Day, signed by our honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. You know, Colonel, I've known you before you even came to come to the city and...
 I was very glad that you were able to see what good you could do. But one of the things that amazes me is I'm looking at you right now. First of all, your love for your family. You and I always had that discussion of how you love your wife and love your grandkids and your daughters, and that's always been a big priority of yours and will continue to be a priority of yours. But one of the things that I want to do is thank you for always being –
 very rational and very understanding and willing to be out there and work with us and and i think you know as i'm saying this uh mrs weston saying yes because that's who you are so i want to thank you for you know when mayor pro temp said that thank you for serving your country one thing that i know today that you're still serving your country and you never will stop so thank you for that thank you very much mayor thank you to the city council for this recognition i can't think of
 25 years of being a civil where I feel such a sense of gratitude. My thanks to the entire city council. You make the tough decisions each and every day. That's really transformed our city over several years. I also want to thank our city manager for his leadership and then certainly all of my colleagues at the city.
 who work very hard day in and day out to execute our strategic plan. Any success that may be attributed to me over the last eight years is really directly because of them. So thank you very much again for the recognition. I appreciate it. Thank you. You know one thing I've noticed too, Colonel, when you came, it's been really good for you to be with the city because when you came, you had gray hair, you leave without gray hair. Yeah, none. That's great. So that's really, it's worked out well for you. One sec, Colonel Weston.
 Representative Molinar would like to say something. Colonel, from one veteran to another veteran, thank you. Job well done, well deserved. I know you're leaving for the right reasons, so thank you again. On behalf of my family, thank you. Thank you, sir.
 and members if we could call a recess to allow for the photographs to be taken i will ask um if we could first take um the first proclamation photograph behind me and the second one would be colonel wesson's proclamation also behind me and then i'm going to ask the girls because you're such a huge group of girls i'm going to take you outside and i'm going to set you up outside while they take these photographs and then we'll take your photograph
 Thank you. May we have a motion to recess? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the meeting is in recess at 922 a.m. If we can continue. May we have a motion to reconvene the meeting? Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 934. We now go to the consent agenda. There's some omissions. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time. Okay.
 Proposed revisions for the May 24th meeting as of May 24th, 2022. Page 3, item 4 postponed for two weeks per Representative Lozargo. Page 8, item 21 postponed two weeks per Representative Rivera. Page 11, item 28 moved to the forefront of the agenda per economic and international development. Page 12, item 31 moved to be taken at 1030 a.m. per economic and international development.
 Page 12, item 32, move item to be taken at 10.30 per Economic and International Development. Page 12, item 33, delete per representative of Zaga. Page 14, item EX6, delete per capital improvement department as well. And also I would like to also postpone item 24 for two weeks as well to be brief. Is there any other additions at this point, council? All right.
 Those are all of the proposed revisions, Mayor.
 item 28 that was moved to the forefront. Yes ma'am. Thank you. Item 28. Thank you. Is a presentation and discussion by Project Arriba on their combined mid-year and annual status of activities during the fiscal year, use of grant funds, and progress in the performance measures required under the Chapter 380, Excerpt from the Board of Trustees.
 Good morning, City Council. This is Jessica Córdova, Economic and International Development. At this time, I would like to introduce Mr. Román Ortiz. He's the President and CEO for Project Arriba, who will be sharing his screen and presenting the report. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. It was a great pleasure to see all those nice proclamations, and thank you, Jessica, for the introduction. Hey, Román, it's great to see you not at a restaurant. Thank you.
 I know we tend to go and eat some Baja tacos there. Nice to see you, sir. You too, sir. I'm going to try to share my screen. I'm sorry, IT, if you don't mind bringing up the presentation. Thank you very much. Okay, very quickly, we can go to the next screen, please. Yes.
 Again, we just want to thank the City Council and the Mayor for your continued and purposeful support of this organization. Project Arriba and the City of El Paso have been partners now for 22 years and we've done
 impact two things. One is we're going to showcase how we ended our year three, which ended in August of last year, and then also how we're doing currently on our mid-year, year four of our five-year project.
 The city of El Paso, as you well know, has invested 300,000 for year three and 300,000 for year four, in which we leveraged other federal, state, and local dollars to promote much needed job training in this region. We are on track with all contract performance measures and our graduates are equipped with the knowledge and the skills needed for today's El Paso market. Next slide.
 In general, just a quick kind of snapshot of where we're at with the five-year contract. We have served 537 El Pasoans. We've persisted 84% of the 537 continuing into college.
 We have completed 287 of those individuals, and of those that have completed, their average wages are now $51,500. Just to give you a quick snapshot of where they were before. Before training, their average wages were about $7,500. So we truly believe that investing in human capital produces such a substantial return on investment. Next slide.
 For year three, we had a goal to access 465 participants by the end of August, 2021. Our actual activity is we surpassed that goal. We brought in 497 participants, which is 106% of our goal completed. And of the 497 participants, 88% were at or below the poverty levels. Next slide.
 Again, for the access under year three breakdown, just a demographic there of the 497 people, 83% of them are female, 51% have dependent children. Their average age is 30. They're predominantly Hispanic and 31% received food stamps. Next slide.
 For current year, right now we're in the sixth month of our current year, our goal is to case manage 565 individuals by the end of August of 2022. As of April 30th, we have case managed 537 participants. So we're 95% of our goal completed, and we do anticipate meeting or exceeding our goal by the end of August. Next slide. Thank you.
 We continue to work with our ESL to living wage partnerships at the community college. This was a pilot program really started with the city of El Paso and we've had some good success in being able to move people out of the ESL programs and into living wage jobs. Next slide.
 Our persistence for year three, our goal is to maintain 80% academic retention rate year to year. Our activity, our actual activity is that we have maintained a 91% academic retention rate for year three. And really the reason why we're able to keep people during pandemic times.
 and during other major crisis and issues is because our participants have case managers that they have the ability to talk to them and be able to have someone at the ready to be able to help them with any anxiety as well as being able to help navigate them through the college curriculums. Next slide.
 For year four, our goal is to maintain 80% academic retention rate and currently right now where we're at, we're at a 90% academic retention rate. Next slide.
 Our goal for year three was to graduate at least 180 individuals by the close of August 31st. Our actual activity, we graduated 236 participants in a high demand occupation at the community college, University of Texas at El Paso, and Texas Tech School of Nursing. This is 131 percent of our goal completed. Next slide.
 Of those people that completed the 236, they're all essential workers. You can see there the breakdown by career field of the types of jobs that they're getting in our El Paso community, primarily in the registered nursing BSN program, as well as in the ADN program. Next slide.
 For year four, our goal is to graduate 60 individuals by the close of August. Right now we're at 31 participants who have graduated. This was as the close of August. We have a graduating class that has just finished in May and the next one that will finish in August and we feel that we'll be able to meet the goal of 60 graduates by August 31st of this year.
 I do want to make to mention to the mayor and city council that we are we are going to have our first in-person graduation and we're very excited. We'll be having that on June the 9th and our very own city representative Cassandra Hernandez is going to be our keynote speaker for the evening. And we look forward. You are more than invited. We will send you all an email on the invitation, but we look forward to seeing the city there as well. Next slide.
 For year three, our job placement goal was to job place 150 individuals at $14 or more an hour. Our actual activity is that we job place 206 individuals with jobs of over $23 an hour. This is 137% of our goal completed. Next slide.
 For year four, our goal is to graduate 50 graduates. Right now we have 30 graduates that have been job placed at hourly wages of $26 and 70 cents. And this is 60% of our goal completed. Next slide. Just a quick financial overview for 2020 and 2021. Next slide.
 For 2020, we had 1.7 million in revenues, including a million in grant revenue, 662,000 in unrestricted contributions, and 1,200 in other revenues. We had 15, we had 1.5 million in expenses. Our program expenses and how they're broken down, 85 cents of every dollar is used for program services, followed by 12% for admin and 3% for fundraising.
 We spent $745,000 directly on our participants and $819,000 in other indirect costs. Next slide. Of the $300,000 in year three that was invested by the city of El Paso, we spent almost 80,000 in tuition, 33,000 in books, 20,000 in school materials, 11,000 in childcare, and 156,000 in case management and client service costs related to serving these participants.
 Next slide, please. Our financial overview for 2021, we raised $1.6 million in revenues, including $898,000 in grant revenue and $680,000 in unrestricted contributions, $96,000 from the Paycheck Protection Program loan forgiveness, and $462,000 in other revenue.
 In 2021, 84 cents of every dollar went to program services followed by 13% admin and 3% fundraising. We spent 694,000 directly on participants and 821,000 in indirect costs. Next slide, please. For year four, we have currently spent as of April close, $249,206 of the 300,000 that has been allotted.
 We have broken that down by 77,000 in tuition, 28,000 in books, 26,000 in school materials, almost 11,000 in childcare, and 105,000 in case management. Next slide, please.
 A criteria for our grant is that we would have matching funds that meets or surpasses what the City of El Paso invests. For year three, we had matching funds of $383,247 in state and federal grants and $285,000 in new or increased private investments.
 So for year three, we matched $668,000 of the $300,000 that was required by the contract. So we exceeded that goal. Next slide, please. You will see there that in year three of the federal and state funding, $383,000 is made up of the Texas Adult Career Education Grant Program.
 And as far as private funds, it was an investment from Bank of America of $290,000, and $275,000 was included as matched, as well as the El Paso Electric. Next slide. Thank you.
 For year four, we had matching funds of 464,000 in state and federal grants and 58,000 in new or increased private funding. So we've already surpassed our goal for matching funds in year four of 523,000. Next slide. And you can see there the breakdown of the federal and state funds, as well as the private funds in which we were able to match those dollars. Next slide.
 So this brings me to the end of my presentation. Again, thank you for all of your support throughout the years. Our great work is only possible through the generosity of our investors and partners like the City of El Paso. And so on behalf of the participants, Board of Directors, and staff of Project EREVA, we thank you for your continued support. Thank you, sir. Thank you. We now go to page 5 to item number 11.
 and this is discussion in action on a resolution commending the members of the el paso democratic party and city of el paso's destination el paso team for successfully securing that el paso hosts the 2024 texas democratic convention in the summer of 2024. before we get do you want to comment um representative hernandez
 Um, that's well, she read the next item. Is that okay? Mrs. Prine? Go ahead. Please go ahead. I just I just wanted to thank Roman. I think under his leadership, I've seen significant growth and the investments and private investments using the city's leverage of dollars. I recognize that that's a very difficult task and you have demonstrated tremendous support from the community with philanthropy and your leadership. Your the results within Project Arriva are undeniable.
 We are helping our most vulnerable members of our community find a talent and upscale their employment and their wages are growing. And that's really a model that we can all be proud of. So congratulations to the organization and to all of the graduates who are going through the program. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, ma'am. And before we do get started, I do want to welcome Mayor Cook to the chambers.
 Mayor Cook actually was the first mayor to have a meeting here, was the first mayor to sit behind this chair. So thank you for coming into the chambers, and thank you for warming up the seat. And I also want to welcome former representative and city employee and now board member, Ms. Emma Acosta. Welcome. And with that, Ms. Prine.
 Yes, sir. We're on item 11 on a resolution commending the members of the El Paso Democratic Party in the city of El Paso's destination El Paso team for successfully securing that El Paso hosts the 2024 Texas Democratic Convention in the summer of 2024 Thank you before I start I'd also like to recognize mr. Jim Sher who's in the crowd as well alderman for district 1
 really yeah he was an alderman for district one when my parents first moved in 77. i'm sorry alderman alderman alderman oh that's right alderman the youngest alderman ever in the history of the city of el paso when i was running for office he came and told me that he was the youngest ever in the history of el paso and he also did tell me he was the smartest to ever serve so
 He was a genius, and you know that. He was very young, very successful, and thank you again for your leadership. Thank you.
 are there uh any other former elected officials currently in the audience yeah i know we'd be out of uh people out there go ahead miss thank you everybody thank you sir i placed this item on the agenda because on march 26 2022 destination el paso led by miss brooke underwood and el paso democratic party led by uh chairwoman dora oaxaca traveled to houston to
 to compete against San Antonio and help demonstrate while El Paso was the only choice to host the next statewide convention. We won by a super majority of 61 votes. This is the first time that in 20 years, the El Paso area will host this kind of convention and couldn't be more proud and excited to showcase our beautiful city in summer of 2024.
 Ms. Prime, could you read that resolution for me, please? Yes, sir. The resolution reads, whereas it has been 20 years since the last Texas Democratic Convention was held in El Paso. The El Paso community has changed significantly since then and has received national attention. The city of El Paso is the first organization across all sectors to earn the Texas award
 for performance excellence for two consecutive years in 2019 and 2020. El Paso has also won the All-America City Award three times in 2018, 2020, and 2021 and has been named an AAC finalist four additional years in a row, and whereas El Paso has preserved and is still known to be one of the safest cities throughout the nation.
 El Paso has also undergone significant downtown revitalization efforts and our city is thriving. We welcome the opportunity to showcase the growth of our region and all that El Paso has to offer.
 And whereas we have a new generation of voters who are eager for change, El Paso truly knows the importance of progress, the importance of diversity, and we believe our community can help to lead the way in healing the soul of our beloved country. And whereas the process to secure the 2024 Texas Democratic Party State Convention began more than a year ago by
 by a delegation made up of members of the El Paso Democratic Party led by Chairwoman Dora Oaxaca and the City of El Paso's Destination El Paso team, and whereas a sustainable environment can be achieved on the community level through education and outreach efforts to help our communities and democracy thrive by working together for the common good, and whereas
 team, which includes Chair Dora Oaxaca, Emma Acosta, Isela Castanon-Williams, Michael Apodaca, and Destination El Paso's Brooke Underwood, Jose Garcia, and Valerie Garcia, all traveled to Houston to compete against San Antonio and to help demonstrate why El Paso was the only choice to host the next statewide convention and won by a super majority of 61 votes.
 And whereas from the State Democratic Executive Committee of 84 individuals, El Paso was awarded this prestigious convention on Saturday, March 26, 2022. And whereas this convention will be one of the first of its kind on the U.S.-Texas border in over 20 years in a presidential year. Congratulations to the El Paso Democratic Party and Destination El Paso and other community leaders in El Paso.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved that the City Council of the City of El Paso, number one, recognizes El Paso to host the 2024 Texas Democratic Convention in a presidential year the summer of 2024.
 And number two, commence the members of the El Paso Democratic Party and City of El Paso's Destination El Paso team for securing a statewide convention. And number three, respectfully request that the city clerk will make an executed copy of this resolution available to El Paso County Democratic Party Chairwoman Dora Oaxaca and Destination El Paso Executive Director Brooke Underwood. Signed by the City of El Paso, Mayor Oscar Aliso.
 Thank you, Ms. Prime. Thank you, Ms. Prime. And with that, I make a motion to approve and would also like to ask Ms. Underwood and Ms. Oaxaca and their teams to come up and accept the recognition from council. Second. Good morning, Ms. Underwood. Pleasure to see you again. Likewise. I was going to say the same thing. It's always a pleasure. I'm glad you brought Mr. Underwood this time. Back up.
 Justin, how are you? It's not every day you receive a prestigious award from the city council, so I wanted to be sure that the husband was here to see that the many hours spent at the office or traveling or working with such great partners like Chairwoman Oaxaca was well worth it.
 I am speechless and that's quite rare for me, but I do want to again thank you all for your support. I thank you for the trust that you put in the Destination El Paso team and myself, but also I want to thank great leadership on the city side. I have the pleasure of working very closely with
 our city deputy city manager, Tracy Jerome, and always have her backup and support in any endeavor. So I really appreciate that. It makes my job easier to do. I also want to thank my family and for their support. And then the dream team that we assembled with Chairman Oaxaca, of course, Emma Acosta, and then Isela Castanon-Williams. So again, I appreciate it so much. I'm without words and grateful. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. I want to congratulate you, the Council, for making those bold decisions.
 fearless decisions to take forward this city. We wouldn't be here if it wasn't because you have been the solid drivers of a transformation that is happening in our city. And I wanna thank the city leadership, Mr. Gonzalez, his team, definitely Destination El Paso, Ms. Underwood for having the same values of being courageous
 to believe and to be the ambassador on almost a daily basis to bring these type of conventions. I want to say that it was impossible if we wouldn't have evolved so much since seven years ago when you all put together a very...
 forward transformational strategic plan that gained us this type of victory. And I'm telling you because 20 years ago when the convention was last year, when the convention was here 20 years ago, a lot of folks left and they didn't realize how valuable and how much El Paso had changed. The hotel that they were staying, there was no hot water.
 You know, the HVAC broke down. There was a lot of things that happened 20 years ago that we needed to challenge when we went up there, not only to convince everyone, but to show and prove evidence of how far we've come along and how many amenities, how much growth, how many hotels now we have, the placita, just amazing.
 amazing synergy, amazing tangible projects that have come to fruition because of you and because of city leadership. Like Mr. Gonzalez, his team, and I don't wanna be redundant on this, but I just wanna thank you. This award is proof of your work, and I thank you and congratulate you. Mary, can we take a picture of them?
 representative of that i would like for get a picture after the vote after the vote wait i'm not used to you on that side come over here your seat's open your seats right there no no no
 I have very competent city representative. Thank you so much. I just want to thank each and every one of you for the support that you provided to Destination El Paso. Brooke Underwood was really a trooper out there. We have never worked so, I have never worked so hard for something in my life. If you had told me you're gonna be working more, I would not have believed you. This was not an endeavor that happened overnight. It was an endeavor that took us a year.
 And once we got there, we were competing against San Antonio. And lo and behold, you know, with everything that we have provided concerning our city and the leadership that it took to get us here, I mean, we convinced them that El Paso was the destination. And so everyone voted, and it was unanimous, and it was a super majority. So I want to thank each and every one of you because each and every one of you was also responsible for this. So thank you so much.
 Thank you, Mr. Kostka. Good morning, and I too would like to thank each and every one of you for your leadership. As we worked to put this packet together, it became very obvious that so much work that you all have done has been very fruitful, and it was much easier to put a packet together that was –
 uh convincing to the state democratic party that would bring us this convention again i want to thank all of you for your leadership because some of the programs that you all have put into place for example the 600 000 that you commit every year to
 providing support for special needs improvements in the community was a major factor in our showing the state that we are committed to inclusion and to providing for everyone that visits our city. So thank you all again. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Acosta, in my regards to Ismael, I hope he's doing well. I am. Yeah, well give him my badge please.
 Mayor, I wanted to speak. And also, I'm sorry, go ahead. Go ahead. Pardon me? I just wanted to say thank you so much for all your hard work. It is really great to see that the strong advocate, not only was it a strong group, but it's a strong women group that really pushed for our city, and I definitely appreciate all your hard work. I know it wasn't easy. You're all competing against San Antonio. However, El Paso, our beautiful city, is...
 I'm being biased, but it is a better city than San Antonio. And I think that we just, all the hard work that the city leadership has done and where we're at today, what we could offer to show this beautiful city and be able to let them see how much it's grown and it will continue to grow. So I wanted to say thank you so much for your all's leadership here, leadership of the city, Mr. Gonzalez, everybody all just very grateful. And just to kind of just close this off, you know, how much of economic,
 impact will this have for our city so just to remind everyone that this isn't a downtown convention only because of the size of this organization it will press into the far reaches of the city and bring about eight million dollars to our community over a three-day period which is remarkable absolutely and that that definitely takes with forward-thinking leadership so
 I want to thank you all. Representative Sacido, and to your point, this convention is in a presidential year as well. So we want to thank you again, but we also want to make sure that we have enough hotel room
 and because it may attract not only residents from Texas but also from other states so we need to be fully prepared in two years thank you summer date has not been selected but I'm sure as soon as we know we'll share it with you with the community with the business community with the hotel motel and I can tell you right now
 you know, they are excited because not only them, but it's going to bring money across all over the county. And I can tell you that there's going to be heads in beds from Tornillo to Canotillo. So thank you. Representative Schwartzwein, Oklahoma Pro-Town. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry, these microphones are less sensitive. Can you all hear me okay? Thank you, Representative Rivera. Thank you.
 So, again, I think this is an amazing opportunity. I think it shouldn't be remiss that this is during a presidential year. This is something that, again, is something we've been talking about, wanting to see these kind of major conventions. The fact that we have this, the fact that we have the AIA Texas with 3,000 people coming through just shows that the vision of being more competitive with convention center hotel space is not there.
 with making those strategic investments in the public sector with the streetcar with other improvements is really starting to to bear fruit which is beneficial to our community because now we have an opportunity to have from these conventions thousands of new newly formed ambassadors to el paso who are going to go back to their hometowns and talk about what an amazing trip they had in el paso how amazing the food is how amazing the people were um
 and how vibrant and lovely our downtown is as well. Just so I'm clear, most of the activities will be based around the convention center, is that correct? Because of the size of the convention and its impact, we will have to utilize all the meeting space, including our theaters in downtown El Paso. So we will have to maximize the entire convention center, the Plaza Theater, the Abraham Chavez Theater, all of the space at the Paso Del Norte and surrounding hotels.
 Yes, and also Southwest University Park is also on the list to be utilized for the general session. We could see anywhere between 10,000 and 14,000 individuals come over the course of this three-day period. Wow.
 I mean, I think obviously we're going to be having people, as you said, from Canetillo to Tornillo. They'll be there. It's a wonderful rhyme scheme there, Chair Oaxaca-Rivera with the Tornillo to Canetillo, so thank you for that as well.
 I just would hope to make sure that we arrange, I know that we've had some discussions with some Metro already about that convention center programming would fully utilize an extended streetcar schedule. Hopefully by the time that this will be going on, the streetcar will be running regular hours.
 as well in the morning as well but I think we just need to make sure that that there's running there's ten hotels again that within a thousand a thousand feet of a streetcar stop when you talk about something that makes us attractive to bringing these large conventions having that kind of access to efficient quality public transportation is part of that that puzzle as well
 We also truly believe that there's a number of different departments throughout the city and the county that will play a major role. And I mentioned during a presentation I made maybe a month ago about creating a task force that we've actually already identified, and that involves individuals from CID and police department, but also Sun Metro will play a critical role. So that task force will be critical and begin meeting on a semi-regular basis leading up to the event in 2024.
 And I think it's great as well. I mean, you know, I'd be remiss to say, you know, we're looking at 2024 for this convention there. It's really a missed opportunity that we don't have more space available for downtown. If we had a multipurpose center that wasn't derailed.
 by short-sighted vision for our community, we would be right now at a position to be able to have a multi-purpose center with thousands of additional seats that would really create a larger convention center campus synergy between our convention center
 and our multi-purpose center which voters approved for over 70% in 2012. So that's a real shame that we're having to scramble with Southwest University Park, the Abraham Chavez Plaza Theater, when again with courageous leadership we would be looking at having that possibly open right now. Again, to complement and augment what we already, the space we already have at the convention center.
 Representative Swarczak, great point because this was a challenge. We did it. We did it with all the investments right now, but this is just scratching the surface of what can be done. It took us a year, but definitely a convention center, a multipurpose convention center, definitely would help Destination El Paso, and I'm speaking because you're not...
 You're not always going to have this partnership between an organization and Destination El Paso. This is like once in a lifetime. Usually the burden is all on Destination El Paso and for them to go out and be able to bring those conventions. So I urge you to make it easier.
 And by doing that is by giving them all the tools to be able to elevate not only downtown but the city as a whole. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Thank you.
 i also uh also want to say too that you know again our convention center is what it is i mean we know that there's there but but this multi-purpose center is a way to create an enlarged convention center campus that really can bring in different facilities that can be programmed reorganized at different times as well really part of a larger strategic vision for our community and we're seeing that investment
 um you know come in through the private sector as well we have another uh convention center hotel space that we're going to be awarding if council approves it a 380 agreement for a hundred more beds at least for for downtown el paso i mean we're seeing the we're seeing that synergy between the public and private sector and we really owe it to our constituents our community to continue that i just really quick before you have a chance to say did want to acknowledge that we have a a former candidate for
 Texas State Senator Maxie Sherriff, they just entered the building as well. So thank you, Maxie, for being here too. Thank you. And to that point, we do need more hotel space. I mean, I urge council to ask the tough questions, make those bold decisions, and keep growing El Paso the way you have been doing it. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I know that Ms. Underwood has said that last time she was here that we talked about expanding our convention center needs to be expanded as we need more workspace, more rooms, more breakout areas. And, you know, and I know that we're looking at that because the convention center was first built in 1970. Mr. Scherer, 76? Down 73? 78? So I know that we 68.
 Wow. And it was built on that it was going to be stage one and stage two, and we've never gotten to two. So it's really important that we get there. So I know Ms. Underwood has talked about that, and I know that –
 I look forward to somewhere someday down the road being able to do that. Mayor, I think, again, I think Ms. Underwood talked specifically about the need for us going through with the multipurpose center, which, again, acts as convention center space. It's a totally different project, as I'm saying. It absolutely complements our convention center. Right. It's a different project that I'm talking about that we want to look at.
 So I do, I know, like I said, Ms. Underwood has brought that up and it's really important for us. Mr. Costa. Mayor, again, thank you all for everything that you've done for El Paso and for supporting our efforts. And I don't know what the protocol is anymore, but can we take a picture with Mayor? Yeah, we're going to do that right now as soon as we get done talking. I've taken pictures with you when I served with you, but I've never taken a picture when I haven't served with you. Ha, ha, ha.
 Mayor, I mean, Brett, sir? Thank you, thank you. And I know everything's been said about it. Council, if you could please vote. One more thing, sir, one more thing before we go. Peter, we need to vote. Mayor Pro Temps, sorry. Yeah. But before we do, I'd like to say something real quick. I know we've honored this team for many reasons.
 But right now, I'd like to recognize an individual who has shared his life with El Paso for so long. And I want Mr. Underwood to stand up so we can applaud him. Stand up. Thank you, sir. You've got a great partner there who's not afraid to delve into the depths of challenges for El Paso. And, of course, Mr. Underwood.
 So I felt a little bit of it with sharing my wife there, but I know what you went through, so congratulations there. Ms. Prine, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. There was a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the resolution on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. I know. I actually had to go to work this morning.
 Council, if you can return to the dais, we need to recess for mass transit, and then we need to go to the items 31 and 32 in order to meet the 1030 press conference. May we have a motion to recess for mass transit? There's a motion and a second to recess to convene the mass transit department board meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The regular city council meeting is in recess at 1018 a.m.
 Good morning, this is a meeting of the Mass Transit Department Board for Tuesday, May 24th, 2022. Present in council chambers is Board Chair Leiser, Board Members Shorthvine, Anello, Molinar, Salcido, Rivera, Lizárraga. Board Member Hernández is joining us virtually and Board Member Rodríguez has requested to be excused.
 That brings us to, it is 10.19 a.m. That brings us to call to the public. This morning we have Mr. Stephen Strummer that signed up to speak. His topic is bus routes, better service. At the mass transit centers throughout the city at present, hasn't been for the last two months. Anyone opposed? Yes.
 And the meeting is back in session at 1027 a.m. We now turn to page number 12. And this is for items 31 and 32 are related. Item 31.
 Is discussion in action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso, Texas and One Texas Tower, LLC and Hotel Dulcinea, LLC. Item 32 is discussion in action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a long-term lease between the City of El Paso, Texas and One Texas Tower, LLC. Motion approved.
 Good morning, members of the City Council. Elizabeth Triggs with Economic and International Development. So items 31 and 32 are related. They enable the redevelopment, rehabilitation and renovation of a historic building in downtown El Paso, commonly known as One Texas Tower. The building is located at 109 North Oregon Street, really in the heart of our urban core. And it's also the same building where Cafe Central is located. If I can please bring up the presentation.
 So the project will result in the addition of a new hotel to our downtown. The renovation involves the conversion of one Texas tower to a three-star 120-room Hampton Inn and Suites. There will be retail and restaurant space on the ground floor. Cafe Central does remain as part of this project.
 In addition, the project secures 1,200 rooms needed for convention attraction, which I think we just heard quite a bit about in a previous item. So very closely tied to the efforts that we're making through Destination El Paso and other community leaders.
 In addition, this project is a smart financial investment for the city. It leverages local incentive dollars with state dollars through the state's Convention Center Hotel Program, a program intended to help communities across Texas build up their ability to attract larger conventions.
 And then finally, it's a historic preservation project. It will, you see the rendering on the right here, it does preserve the facade of the property that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. This is a more than 110-year-old building with very prominent location next to the historic Plaza Hotel, near the historic Paso del Norte, and directly across the street from the Crest Building, which Council recently approved a performance-based incentive for.
 So, again, the location here is centrally located very near San Jacinto Plaza and very near other private public partnership investments as well as near new capital projects. So again, a good place at the core of our downtown area. So downtown revitalization is certainly key to our overall economic development strategy for our community as well as to downtown revitalization in general.
 This council has been incredibly supportive of projects that seek to restore historic buildings that are really what make our community unique. Of the 29 completed or active projects incentivized by council over the last 10 years, there are five historic renovations that have been completed and one, which was recently announced last month, that's currently in development.
 With the approval of this particular project, this will make the seventh of major historic renovation projects that the city council has participated in, in the form of performance-based incentives. All together, those historic renovations represent a very large investment in our downtown. With Texas Tower, that investment comes up to $224 million.
 Again, that's just from seven historic projects. So a huge investment on the part of the private sector and a huge investment on the part of city council. In addition, as I mentioned before, Texas Tower will be converted into a Hampton Inn and Suites.
 This project, along with the other historic hotel projects that we've undertaken, including the Plaza Hotel, Paso del Norte, Bassett Tower, and Stanton House, represent more than 720 guest rooms added to our downtown area in a very short time period, which is hugely important when we're trying to attract new conventions to our region. We heard just now that there's a significant number of people that we anticipate coming to El Paso,
 and we hope that every single hotel room in downtown will be filled up and understand that it'll spill over to outside of downtown as well and so this is a these are a few images of the project in its current condition you can see that the ground floor is occupied by cafe central but the majority of the rest of the building is vacant so with City Council's participation in the
 and we'll be able to bring this building that is otherwise underutilized back online, really contributing to the activity in the downtown area. You can also see on the last picture in the right that the building is located adjacent to the new parking garage, which was part of the public-private partnership for the redevelopment of the Plaza Hotel. So it's a really strategic location where there will be parking available to the visitors of that new hotel as well as to other surrounding hotels. Thank you.
 In terms of what the incentive looks like, the city through property tax rebates, hot tax rebates and a few others will contribute up to 2.186 million. Again this is in the form of rebates. They occur after the project is developed and after the developer has expended $18 million investment in the building itself. So again performance based.
 The property tax revenues, the hot tax revenues, all the rebates you see here are generated from the project itself. So this is not currently tax revenue that we're receiving.
 Again, this is representative of a very strong financial investment for the city. We're seeking to leverage our local dollars with the State Convention Center Hotel Program, which offers a 10-year rebate on the state's portion of HOT and sales tax that's generated off of the project. So again, performance-based.
 From the state, you can see that the incentive is larger than the city's incentive at about 3.2 million over a 10-year period. So when you look at those together, the city's share of the incentive makes up about 40% while the state makes up 60%.
 So really for every dollar that the city puts into this particular project, the state will be putting in $1.50. So again, very, very smart, good opportunity. This project does represent the fourth project downtown that takes advantage of this program.
 And so we've talked a little bit about the benefit of the project from the perspective of historic preservation and what that does to increase visitors to our region. And then in addition, the fact that it will become a hotel, which helps us secure those conventions. But also again, a smart financial investment for the city. Over the 13 year agreement term, the city will recover.
 new tax revenue even with its contribution in the form of hot tax revenue. And that tax revenue is then put back into the community to support quality of life projects for our residents, but also to support other kinds of projects that bring in visitors from the outside. So it is definitely circular in nature and really helps grow.
 just grow the quality of life for this region as well as attract new outside spending power to the region. And then finally, through the city's investment in the project, significant dollars are generated for our other community taxing entities, which again goes back into our community.
 So just a recap of the benefits, the community benefits from the project. It increases guest rooms available in the downtown area, again increasing our ability to compete for convention events, which really represents outside spending dollars coming into our local economy. It contributes to the preservation of downtown's historic character. This is a very notable building downtown located right at the center of the urban core, so it'll be good to see it come back online and restored.
 Third, it results in net positive tax revenue for the city and other community taxing entities, revenue that is then put back into our community.
 It supports the use of surrounding downtown facilities. We saw it was located right next to the new parking garage facility, very close to San Jacinto Plaza, as well as the convention center facilities. In addition, it brings online and otherwise underutilized building, really activating the space around San Jacinto Plaza and throughout the Oregon corridor, and then finally diversifies the hotel market in downtown El Paso by offering yet another hotel for visitors to choose from.
 And so with that, today we're asking council to authorize the city manager to sign the Chapter 380 agreement and the related long-term lease. As a reminder, in order to participate in the State Convention Center Hotel Program, the city does need to own the land on which the project sits.
 And so as part of this project, the property owner will be conveying the land to the city and we will be leasing it back to the property owner for a period of 50 years. And that's what really makes it possible for us to participate in the State Convention Center Hotel Program. So again, asking council to approve that Chapter 380 agreement along with the long-term land lease. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Elizabeth, for being here and sharing this wonderful news with our community this morning. It really is exciting to hear.
 that the Renaissance in downtown El Paso continues. So I did have a question about, can you give me some kind of timeline about when this hotel will be finished? Sure, and the applicant is here to speak more to it, but per the 380 agreement, it should be complete by the end of 2025. Okay, and then the county did not participate? Not at this time. They have not participated at this time. Okay.
 Okay, thank you and congratulations to you and your team for all your hard work Thank You mr. Higgs and I want to again thank the the applicant for Again investing and believing in El Paso You know, this is not the first project both in terms of renovating existing structures as well as a new one We're gonna have other items coming up
 But what I want to really stress here, and I think it's it's an amazing thing is there is some folks that tend to Want to communicate and doubt the city's commitment towards historic preservation And the city again has once again shown a commitment towards historic preservation working with the private sector To again rehabilitate existing structures. You said it yourself. This is a hundred and ten year old building and
 that again is being brought back to life, that we're gonna be fully activating as a hotel. And when we just heard from our tourism bureau that we need more hotel space as well, and this is again another step. Our downtown revitalization is not going to, there isn't gonna be one project that all of a sudden, the rainbow turns on and gold coins fall from the sky and our downtown is perfect. It's an evolution, it's a process.
 and it takes commitment from a wide variety of partners and working together and we've seen that right we've seen our partners at the at the
 County Commissioners Court work to identify and create a new National Register district in Sibling, LaGuardia This City Council voted to send a letter in support I think it believe it was a unanimous letter of support in support of that project and we've seen also again the private sector Invest in these historic preservation projects whether it is the aloft hotel the Bassett Tower, which is a trust design building to the mills building
 to the Plaza Hotel, Conrad Hilton's first skyscraper, to the Paso del Norte Hotel. And now we have the Texas Tower to add to that list of key commitments, contributions, and dedication towards historic preservation and heritage tourism brought to life in our community. And that, again, is not to say what we've already seen with the streetcar, which, again, is a—
 much to the chagrin of some, that is a historic preservation project bringing back Art Deco design street cars into the 21st century utilizing sustainable and renewable all electric energy. So again, I think it's important that the public understands that again, this is not about talking about historic preservation, this is about acting towards it. And once
 this body has shown that commitment time and time again as well and again our our strategic vision this is not this is not mayor pro tem schwartzbein's vision of downtown this is what is in our strategic vision and goal is to look at increasing hotel space is looking at historic and heritage historic preservation and heritage tourism strategies as part of it so what we're talking about here today is not any one of our visions this is the vision of this council
 and it's one that that is important to recognize that this again working with the private sector with with some great partners have really established themselves at downtown and many ways have helped to kick off this this downtown Renaissance we're seeing again those investments come through today and we're seeing once again a true commitment to historic preservation for a beautiful community
 thank you and this with you and your team congratulations and the city manager's team but
 You know, Mr. Scherer, Elma, congratulations on the vision. You know, it takes a vision and it takes somebody to look at the future and how not what we're doing today but what's going to be for tomorrow for yourself and your family and our community. And you know, I know that I've had a few conversations with you and Elma and talked about the investment and how the investment will secure the future. So I want to thank you both.
 for being here but also for having the vision to make El Paso a better place to be in a better place to live thank you and with that we have a motion and it's no representative Rivera yes sir thank you thank you man thank you sir this takes great presentation and said and I think a mayor Potem said what everybody feels and how we support this downtown area again thank you as well
 And so this is our commitment to improve this area and make it a stop, a destination for others. And with that said, your efforts
 are tremendous your staff uh uh mayor's uh mayor and council and uh manager city uh tommy gonzalez and of course everyone involved in this your your accomplishments are just fantastic and i just wanted to thank you for that thank you sir representative um thank you mayor thank you just want to say thank you for the presentation and also just think um
 for the public and private investment you all are doing together. This kind of shows how if we work together, we can get a lot done. And just more than anything, thank you for the investment from the private sector to invest in our community, and I thank you for that. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, sir, there was a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Molinar, Rivera, and Schwarzwein to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Hernandez.
 Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. May we have a motion to recess for the press conference? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess a regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is in recess at 1044 a.m. Thank you, council. If you can join us upstairs in the main conference room. Item is number 12.
 Do we have a motion? Item number 12 is discussion and action to authorize District 1 City Representative Peter Schwarzwein to attend City Council meetings by video conference more than one regular meeting week in a row on July 21st and 22nd and July 5th and 6th. Do we have a motion? Motion approved. June 21st and 22nd and July 5th and 6th.
 Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item number 12. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez, you're on mute. Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, Representative Lizárraga, we're on item number 12. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 13, and this is an operational focus update from the Department of Aviation, which will provide a management update regarding the El Paso 5-megawatt solar farm project. Good morning. Shane Brooks, CIP Administrator for the airport on our solar farm project. This project falls in strategic alignment with Goals 1, 8, and it's included in our 30 by 30 initiative to create and implement an urban utility project.
 We also pulled this slide from the recent REACT presentation to Council on May 9th to show that it falls under pillar number two, increased solar generation at city-owned facilities. And you can see on the right, they've included this project as well as one megawatt behind the meter carport system. That project was recently listed on Congresswoman Escobar's list of projects for appropriation, so we're excited about that, as well as the microgrid project that we're doing in partnership with the GM and the Chamber. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone. Thank you, everyone.
 Since this is a partnership with El Paso Electric, we included their strategic alignment goals, which is goals one, build a trusted partnership with their customers and community. Goal three, leverage technology to drive efficiency and security. And goal four, lead in environmental sustainability.
 Quick project description, it is a solar farm that sits on 40 acres located in the airfield. It will consist of a ground-mounted solar PV system with 5 megawatt capacity and a 2 megawatt battery option. It will be the second largest solar installation in El Paso once it's constructed. The electricity generated will offset the airport's consumption as well as various other city facilities and it is a partnership between the city and El Paso Electric.
 This is a map that shows a location of the site. The area highlighted in it is the 40-acre solar farm site. It sits in between our commercial runway 8 right and our GA runway 8 left, and it's a really great use of the land there. Some of the benefits of this project are environmental, so it's a reduction in greenhouse gases, improved air quality, and we will receive renewable energy credits.
 There are economic benefits as well. The virtual power purchase agreement removes the burden of the capital cost investment from the city because of the size of the project and the amount of energy generated. El Paso Electric is going to have to do upgrades on their side of the system in order to accept that amount of energy. And those are the capital costs we're referring to. It is a ground-mounted single-axis tracking system, which are 25% more effective than the non-tracking systems. And then again,
 this scale are significantly less expensive than rooftop solar installations. And of course, we will receive budgetary certainty in our utility bills. The resilience component comes in the form of the battery. A battery on the system will strengthen the system around the airport and provide grid support in the event of a brownout or a blackout. The airport has a total demand of three megawatts, and so that's inclusive of the terminal, our cargo centers, the airfield lighting,
 and the Air Rescue and Fire Station. So the remaining two megawatts generated by the facility will be applied to other city departments. So some high-end users are City Hall, PD Headquarters, the Fire Department, Parks, Libraries, and Museums. The rate component, El Paso Electric and the city will work together to determine a competitive rate that works for both parties. And the rate will be a function of capital costs, operating maintenance costs, and then, of course, the virtual cost to PPE.
 From city protections and oversight, the issuance of this RFP does not obligate the city to move forward with the virtual power purchase agreement. Only a contract approved by city council will do so. The rate will have to be approved by the Public Utility Commission of Texas. And in the event that El Paso Electric defaults on its obligations under the contract, they will pay rent for the land that the facility sits on.
 I mentioned earlier this is a partnership between El Paso Electric and the city. El Paso Electric will own and maintain the installation. The airport and the city will both benefit from the renewable generation by signing into the and the VPPA allows for flexibility on the applicable city accounts because the facility is not attached to a particular building or facility. So that means like if PD headquarters were to move locations, their rate would follow them. And then the proposed term of this agreement is 30 years.
 So look back at the process timeline started in August of 2021 when El Paso Electric presented their renewable generation study that identified airport property as a potential solar farm site. So we began working together to look at sites for a large-scale solar installation. As the airport, we brought on a consultant to come
 complete a feasibility study and look at it from an FAA component. And the site did pass the glare analysis, so it presents no threat to pilots or air traffic control tower. Which brings us to today, where we're working together to issue the RFP.
 Once out, El Paso Electric plans to complete contract negotiations by spring of next year. Once we agree to a rate and a contract, we will bring that back to City Council for review and approval. Once you receive approval, we're anticipating a construction start of early 2024. That concludes the presentation. I'm happy to take any questions if you all have any. Now, this item is not posted for action at this point.
 That's correct, sir. It's an update. Okay, thank you. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. Appreciate this. And this is a great opportunity for our community, again, investing in some of offsetting some of the issues there relating to energy
 consumption by the city of El Paso you know the devil's in the details so I do have a couple questions about this virtual power purchase agreement what recourse does the city have if the because the rate at this point has not been set between El Paso Electric and the city of El Paso for that power purchase agreement correct correct correct we need the they need to be able to see the bids that they receive through the proposal process in order to determine a rate
 How long is the proposed length for this power purchase agreement? 30 years. 30 years. What recourse does the city have in accepting or not accepting the rate that is proposed after this RFP is done by El Paso Electric? We have all of them. If we can't come to an agreement, then both parties walk away.
 Okay. I think that that is a really big part, I think, when the idea of doing this kind of solar there would be something that the city of El Paso would do.
 would have control over that would connect directly to the to the airport that's not what we're doing here we're going to be building a solar farm quite frankly that El Paso Electric should have made the investment in in our community years ago but essentially they're going to be placing it on outpour land it does not connect directly to this city facility or others
 and it's something to again that we need to pay attention to as well as as this rolls out the the rate of this is is again something I think is really important to understand this this power purchase agreement and how it affects our city the other issue that I have relating to this is I don't know if you can go back to the map that's there
 So one of the things I think is really important with this project as well, this is five megawatts. What do we see the expandable capacity of our El Paso Airport land in relation to this? So there is area.
 the proposed site to expand, but we're also looking at other locations. Our 250-acre advanced manufacturing campus will have solar facilities. We're looking at our short-term parking lot that I mentioned will have solar facilities, and then we're also looking at our rental car center, putting the third deck on top of that and having it be solar panels. So how much more is expandable within this airport land here? It would be this area. It's a lot bigger than the other areas.
 We would have to look at the limits because I don't remember them off the top of my head, but we could definitely go east with it, following the same footprint and going east. Okay. Again, I think that's something that I'd also want to understand as well in these discussions with El Paso Electric. And then finally, whose decision was for the city of El Paso not to own the solar panels, but rather for El Paso Electric to own this utility, Scarrow Solar Farm? Proposed.
 It's really because of the size of the facility. It's such a large facility that we couldn't, we as the city, couldn't do it on our own. I mean, there's third parties that help to maintain and operate local solar companies in El Paso, Texas that could help manage these kind of facilities.
 So I'm trying to understand, again, we're doing something that doesn't connect to the airport that we don't necessarily have this control over either. If I may? Yeah, go ahead, Fernando. Hi, good morning City Council. This is Fernando Verjano, Sustainability Coordinator.
 Representative, there are statute limitations of what we can do in terms of solar. So we can do facilities connected, sorry, installations connected to our facilities below 2 megawatts. We cannot do by statute anything larger than that, and we cannot pursue larger facilities that are not connected to the grid. Okay.
 In addition to that, one of the things that we looked at, if you remember, part of the franchise agreement was for the city and Fast Electric was to also work on a solar farm at the airport, a solar project at the airport. We looked at this. What's not reflected on this map is the substation that directly feeds the airport is directly to the south.
 of this solar farm. And that's a big savings from an infrastructure standpoint because if we were to do this solar farm directly owned by the airport and operated by the airport, the infrastructure costs are bringing that power back to our main terminal area where our master meter is at. It will be very, very not cost effective for us to do that. So it really is from a
 capital investment standpoint, it's a really good location for it. And as Shane stated, we're looking at additional opportunities close to the terminal at short term at a rental car facility. And again, if the rental, if the rates don't don't pan out or are not favorable or not in agreement, we can certainly walk away.
 We also see this as a great opportunity for to incentivize potential developments at the airport and some of the aggressive things that we're working on such as the advanced manufacturing center and other development across global reach and potentially if if the city doesn't make use of this solar farm
 potentially making that available for those potential tenants as an additional incentive for them so they can capture energy credits as some of these companies are under that requirement to do so. And again, that's good. The only concern I have, again, is that that solar farm wouldn't be owned by the city of El Paso. So in terms of any sort of
 negotiations or incentives about wanting to utilize that solar field, that really isn't up to the control of the city, the economic development department. That's really up to control of El Paso Electric and how they deem to use this 5 megawatt solar farm that they're building, owning on our land. So again, I think that's there. Again, the RFP is one that's being done through El Paso Electric, correct?
 Correct, but we had a big part in the development of that. We reviewed and provided comments to ensure they address our concerns as part of that process so they could get that finalized and ready to go. So as part of that RFP, negotiate or anticipate a rate of return for partners? Yes.
 No, we just looked at the operational requirements and looking at potentially how the structure, the rate structure will be developed as a result of the pricing that we received from the RFP process. Okay. I know we have some members from El Paso Electric. I'm wondering, Jim, if you don't mind coming up and helping us understand a little bit more about what exactly is in this RFP. Good afternoon or morning? Good morning, Jim. Still morning, right? Good morning. Yes, sir.
 So I'm not familiar yet with the details on the RFP, but generally speaking, they lay out the requirements. They mentioned the single-access tracking and the size of the facility and potentially battery storage requirements.
 And then those are the bids that they receive from solar developers to say, okay, this is the cost. And from our perspective, then, ownership of it then goes to our recovery through the rate from the city in this case.
 Okay, so it hasn't been finalized at this point? Yeah. Okay. Not to my knowledge, no. All right, well, I just hope that we can. I think there has been a lot of work between the city and the company in developing this, and a lot of different options for doing it. I do think that the ability to have it on airport land and positioned where it is,
 and to take that power virtually into the system and then give the credit to the city accounts essentially for the power being delivered is a much lower cost option than, as the gentleman said, to try to interconnect that facility behind the meter is a pretty significant cost.
 I understand that. And, again, you know, devil's in the details. So the kind of – after the RFP, the proposed rate with the power purchase agreement is one that, you know, obviously we all have to be aware of. And then you have a choice then – you know, we all have a choice then between all of the bids that are offered, lowest cost facility and those type of things. So that's the beauty of a competitive RFP.
 I think the battery storage is one not to discredit either as an opportunity for that. I do am excited with the fact that when people come in to El Paso –
 to land not only they're going to see our beautiful mountains at sunset or the start but they're also going to see a large array of solar panels letting them know that they're in an active progressive 21st century city as well so I do think that this is a great partnership questions I bring up again are just to look at this sort of details more in there know that we have a partner in El Paso Electric
 and look forward to this as well so I think that it's good and again I know that the react has already had a brief and willing to this project I hope that we also keep them involved as there are eyes and ears from each of our City Council offices as well but again I think that this is a really great project I think again playing off of the industrial park that we have at the global reach corridor and other investments I think it's a great potential for further economic investment
 investment development for our communities so thank you again and your team for being here today thank you sir may we have your name for the record please James she's still with El Paso Electric thank you thank you for coming up thank you for having the knowledge all upstairs my questions are for city staff and follow up to some of representative Schwartzbein's questions the first thing there was mentioned that we are limited in the amount of I guess space or energy megawatts that we can generate and
 Yes. Fernando Berjano, representative. You mentioned that there's a statute that limits that. Is that a statute by the FAA or El Paso Electric? The PUCT, the commission in Texas. And what does that statute say exactly?
 Any installation that we want to do behind the meter connected to the facilities has to be below two megawatts in capacity. So being this project above those two megawatts, we need to partner up with the utility in order to make this happen.
 Okay, and so I guess that the key term there is behind the meter right and that's what they're regulating Thank you for that. And so my next question In regards representative Schwarzman had talked about the rate That I know that we haven't negotiated yet. And so if and when we negotiate that rate I
 Within the 30 years, does the El Paso Electric Company have the ability to renegotiate that rate with the city and at the PUC, or is it locked in for 30 years?
 So to that question, these types of contracts have many, many options. So there are contracts that have a fixed price for the whole term of the contract. And there is other contracts and agreements that have an escalator. Usually once you reach to either of those options, El Paso Electric will not be able to change the rates nor could the city.
 Okay, and so the contract is for 30 years. And then what are we looking at in the future, right, after that 30 years? Do we think that that – are we putting any language in the contract to look at an extension, right? Will that equipment –
 have been aged out in 15 years. What happens then? Is it aged out in 30 years? I just wanna understand because, you know, this is the beginning of a great solar project, but we know that this technology is not going away. It's just going to enhance. And so making sure that we're kind of secured within the 30 years of that contract, if this equipment becomes obsolete, you know, what are our options? And what kind of language are we putting in a contract to start that conversation?
 So these these types of installations have a lifespan usually around 30 years. That's why we made that agreement for that time. There is going to be provisions on the contract and the RFP about the commissioning of the panels. So most likely there are going to be more efficient panels in the future. But right now we're going to use what is available. So after those 30 years and we may
 We may want to extend the life of the installation if the generation is good enough or then the commissioning part will take place.
 Thank you. And so for clarification, I'm just going to kind of like fill that gap, right? My concern is that over 30 years, this the equipment that we install hopefully in the next couple of years will be obsolete and probably cost more to run than what is available at that time. And so I just want to make sure that if that's the case, the city is locked into a rate despite the fact that it may not be the most cost saving equipment available at the time. And by the answers I'm getting from you is yes, that is the case.
 that this contract will be locked in for 30 years with this equipment with this rate potentially with this rate
 Most likely, but like any other technology, advances happen. So right now, if we wait for a more efficient technology to be in the market, so we would be having the same problem in two, five, ten years. So that happens with HVAC systems or any other type of energy-consuming technology. Sure, we would have the option to switch that out, but we would also – I guess I'm just concerned that we wouldn't have the option to kind of remain the status quo if that's what the city chose. Yes.
 If you were to have a power purchase agreement on your rooftop solar, somebody, a third party, would install the solar on your roof and you would agree to pay, say, $10 a month or whatever
 Yeah, no, I just don't want the electric company to turn around in 20 years and say it's costing us more to run this equipment because it's now obsolete. So that's just what I want to make sure that we are locking that in when we have that conversation. And, you know, the city council in 20 years might say the equipment's obsolete. We want to, you know, revamp the equipment and sign a longer contract. I just want to make sure that we're going to have those options and be secure for whatever the council and the city staff at the time decide.
 but don't want to create an agreement where, you know, we can essentially be priced out because the rate can change. So thank you. I appreciate your answers. Thank you, Representative Vanilla. You know, a question I have is this equipment that's going to be put out, when El Paso Electric comes back and says that they need reimbursement for costs for operation for equipment, will this be part of the ask for this equipment? Sure.
 Yes, sir. All those costs are going to be included on the RFP, so the respondents to the RFP have to consider that and then come out with a price, and all those costs are included. Yes, sir. So they'll bring those back to, through the ratepayer at the end for reimbursement of equipment? No, I'm sorry. Matthew Behrens has been doing council briefings with me for the past week, but unfortunately he fell ill today. They will not turn
 the right here they're covering the capital that's good news thank you for that uh represent rivetta thank you sir i just have one question if this works out for um mayor pro tem and repinella pretty much covered the contract or you know the financial part of it if this works out for everybody so to speak uh are there plans for any future other future farms just like this throughout the city in your city facilities
 We are actively working with Fernando as part of the...
 the utility plan that we presented to City Council looking at specifically a public safety bond and some of the projects that we got working underway there to be able to address and add renewable energy to those projects through solar or additional power purchase agreements at those locations specific to city facilities. As Shane mentioned, we're also looking aggressively here at the airport, at
 the solar farm, potentially doing the solar car canopy at short term from the terminal as well as the rental car facility as additional options for solar. And then about continue to evaluate additional solar areas as part of our airfield where we would be able to lease out to a passive electric for additional solar capabilities for them to use as part of their grid system not associated with the airport as well.
 That's something that we continue to have discussions and pursue in conjunction with our sustainability coordinator. Thank you. And then with the recent tiers that we did there on a Boeing, will those facilities be provided with this? Which facilities? The areas of Boeing that we took a boat on and we passed a while back where facilities on Boeing would be, were gonna be like in a tiers area?
 Oh yes, so that right now would not be as it stands right now this 5 megawatt capacity will be the initial approach will be for the city facilities. If for whatever reason the city facilities don't work at a rate that's acceptable to the city we certainly make that option available to potential tenants that would potentially include the development as you stated.
 That's something that we can, that we can, that we will look at as an additional option for our tenants at the airport. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Redd. And with that, Ms. Pryor? Yes, Mayor, that brings us to item number 14 on the agenda, and this is presentation and discussion of the financial impacts of COVID-19 on the public safety bond program. Good morning, Mayor and Council. This is Jerry DiMero with the Capital Improvement Department. IT, if you can bring up my presentation, please.
 Thank you. So the public safety program, like all of our capital programs, has been impacted by significant supply chain disruptions and escalation in construction costs. I'm here today to tell you what I can quantify at this moment, where we have been impacted. Next slide, please.
 We'll first go over the bond overview, the projects that were approved in the bond, the program status, and then we'll review the quantifiable impacts. Next slide, please. So as you know, November 2019, the voters approved issuance of $413 million of general obligation bonds for new public facilities.
 to put police and fire resources in growing areas, to perform major maintenance and renovation of the facilities, to improve working conditions for the city employees, and to have a joint training academy to accommodate future classes and improve training efficiencies. Next slide, please.
 So the police department funding was for the Eastside Regional Command Center, which I'm happy to say is currently under construction and looking to be ready to occupy in 2024. The Public Safety Training Academy. The training academy is being done through a design-build approach, and we are on our way to qualifying a short list team for design builders to pursue the project. Police headquarters, we are taking a design-build approach there as well.
 The Central Regional Command, we are still trying to identify a property where that is going to go, and we will renovate four regional command centers. Next slide, please. This is the forecasted cash flow and the delivery schedule. So Eastside Regional Command is 2024, Central Regional Command fleet, and the Pebble Hills Regional Command Center would be all 2024, for example. Next slide, please.
 For the fire department, there's a new station 36 on the Trans Mountain campus of the Providence Hospital that is currently under construction. Station 38 is going to be located on the campus of the Eastside Regional Command Center, and that is currently in design. Special teams station, that is to be located at the location of the Tillman Building, which is to be demolished. And three stations will be consolidated, fire station 1, 9, and 11.
 Station 40 is sometime in the future. The location has not yet been determined. The training facility, I mentioned that for police, it's the same for fire. Fire headquarters will be at the campus of the training facility and logistics center. So that is also design-build, and station renovations are underway. Next slide, please. This is the forecasted cash flow for the fire capital program.
 You can see we'll have some facilities brought online in 2024 and we'll be doing renovations through 2028 with fire station 40 being delivered at that time. Next slide please. Eastside Regional Command, I mentioned it's under construction. Central Regional Command, where property acquisition is ongoing and the architect contract has been awarded. Police Headquarters, that is to be located at the Cohen site. Project will be completed via design build.
 and the Police Academy property acquisition has been completed and we have defined the requirements necessary for the Academy and are soliciting for a design-build team. Next slide, please. Many of the COVID impacts you've seen this slide before are due to staffing, turnover and training, external staffing, consultants, timing and we've had some quality issues, construction, timing, quality materials delay, industry trends on materials and labor,
 And the cost impact for labor and materials, we tried to do proper budgeting and completing projects has freed up some contingency and has allowed us to absorb some price increases, but readjustments and recalibration will be required as we move forward. Next slide, please.
 So this is a graph illustrating the increase in construction prices between 2015 and 2021. You see a very sharp increase in 2021. You also see kind of a decrease around 2019 when we actually originally bid this or scoped the bond program. Next slide. These are the increases in various construction materials. Steel has gone up 127%.
 Asphalt felts and coatings, 12%. Diesel fuel, a big driver, 55%. So you can see that the industry is reporting this nationwide. Next slide, please. So the increase to the police capital program, our bond estimate was $28.9 million for the Eastside Regional Command Center. The engineers estimate at bidding was $30.4, and the construction cost is $31.8.
 The PDHQ, the bond estimate was 67.7. We do not have an engineer's estimate as of yet, but based on escalation of around 25%, we believe the construction cost is going to be in the neighborhood of $85 million. The Central Regional Command, the bond cost was $16.9 million. We're estimating the construction cost to be $21.4 million.
 The Academy was estimated at 19.9. The Engineer's Estimate is at 36.6. And the construction cost is believed to be 36.6. Renovations, the renovations for police facilities was 35.9 million. It has not yet been completed, so we're looking at an escalation in the 25% range of 44.9 million. Next slide. So just some impacts. The Engineer's Estimate for the Eastside Regional Command Center
 was approximately $464 a square foot. The construction bid was $606 per square foot, an increase of 23%. The way we are mitigating some of that is
 The fire station 38 shares the campus of the Eastside Regional Command Center. Thereby, funding associated with fire station 38 is needed because the current contractor for the Eastside Regional Command Center is putting in utility infrastructure, he's putting in the parking that will be shared, he's putting in the emergency generator that will service both facilities, and he's putting in a fueling station. With that contribution to cover some of those costs for the fire department, we are able to
 have sufficient funding for construction of the command center. PDHQ, the project is in pre-design phase. We assume construction will be 25% over the bond.
 Our current HQ is 100,000 square feet. We anticipate that significant space efficiencies can be gained by reducing the building square footage, and we're working with the police department to define the requirements and ensure that that can be done. The Central Regional Command, we're estimating construction will be 25% over the bond estimate. Next slide, please.
 For the academy, the bond construction cost was 15.7. The current estimate to meet state training requirements, with the exception of an emergency vehicle operations track, is 26.6, an increase of 40 percent. Mitigation, we are planning to reallocate 10 million in funding from HQ to complete the project to meet state requirements and phase in requested amenities such as the auditorium, the swimming pool, the behavioral sciences, the driving pads, and the high-speed track.
 Included in the plan is a one-acre Hogan's Alley, which is basically a mock city street, and 400 parking spaces as opposed to the desired 1,000. And there will be shared gymnasium, weight room, large and medium classrooms, and outdoor cover pavilion. The project for renovations is in pre-design, and we're unable to assess the project impacts at this time. Next slide, please.
 Proposed Police Academy amenities, there'll be two large 120-person classrooms that can be divided, three medium 50-person classrooms, offices and cubicles for 56 persons, and support spaces. There will be an indoor shooting range. It'll be 25 lanes at 50 yards apiece.
 Behavioral sciences and simulations will be incorporated into various structures within Hogan's Alley. Hogan's Alley will be a bank, an apartment, a residence, a gas station, and a convenience store and office. The gym, weight room, and lockers will be shared with fire, the mat room, the boxing ring, the weight room, and the cardiovascular training. Separate locker rooms for fire and police. Next slide, please. Hogan's Alley will be one acre separated by streetscape environment. Eight structures with behavioral science elements will be integrated.
 Parking will be shared, 400 spaces for the facility. You share the driving pad. It's a concrete pad designed to accommodate fire trucks. Its size is 500 by 275 to allow slow driving exercises, but it will not allow for high speed pursuit training. Next slide. There'll be a shared running track, standard quarter mile dirt track for the turf infield. There'll be an obstacle course, type one and type two, incorporated in the inner turf area of the track.
 There will be shared outdoor covered areas, one simple canopy structure only, two covered outdoor classrooms with adjoining restrooms and AV capability at the shooting range structure. Future elements include the emergency vehicle operations track for high-speed driving and pursuits, the aquatic pool, and the auditorium. Next slide, please.
 The quantifiable impacts that we've identified for the police department are approximately 50 million. This represents a 23% decrease in available funding for the police department capital program. Now shifting to fire. Next slide please. Progress to date on fire. Fire station 36 is under construction and to be completed in late 2023. 38 design is underway, expected to be completed in the fall of 22. Construction will be 22 to 24.
 Special team station design is underway. Construction will be winter 2023 to early 2025 and fire station 40 will be 2027 to 2029. Next slide. Fire department headquarters, the programming is underway. We are soliciting for the design build teams, the public safety training facility and logistics center co-located with fire at the same time as co-located with fire HQ, same time and pending activities. Next slide.
 Station renovations, building assessments have been complete on all the stations. We are planning five renovations per year. Design has been completed for FS 10, 19, 20, 21, 25 and 26. You have approved construction of Fire Station 10 and 19. Fire Station 20 began in December and construction on Fire Station 21, 25, 26 is to begin sometime this summer. And design for the next five stations began in January of this year. Next slide. Next slide please.
 I'm not seeing that, there it is, okay, thank you. So Fire Station 36, the engineer's estimate was $506 a square foot. The construction bid was $740 per square foot, a 32% increase. Fire Station 38, the estimate for construction was $464 per square foot. The current estimate is $585, an increase of 21%. The costs are likely to increase as the design advances. The special unit station, which consolidates Fire Station 1, 9, and 11,
 This construction budget is $12.5 million. Meeting fire department requirements requires $17.5 million or 28% more funding. Next slide. Next slide please. Fire Station 36, it was consensus of the fire department and the city engineer to transfer necessary funding, $505,000 from Fire Station 40. The Fire Station 38 options, transfer funds from renovations program or from FS 40 dependent on final impact costs.
 Special unit station, staff recommended room size reductions to remain within the budget, and I'll show those on the next slide, or alternatively, use available funding set aside for renovation of poor fire station one as that building will be demolished following construction. Next slide. These are some of the room size reductions. Some of these the fire department agreed to, some of them they did not as they would limit the ability to consolidate the stations. Next slide.
 The training academy we reduced and the logistics center we reduced the number of maintenance and storage bays for vehicle maintenance from the 40 requested to 20. The renovations, the original estimates were based on building estimates and accommodated fire department requests to demolish and reconstruct fire station 17, 19 and 22.
 leadership directed to only renovate these stations at a much lower cost. In addition, fire stations 9, 11, and 12 will not be renovated, so funding is available from those sources to cover future shortfalls. Fire station 40 planned for construction in 2028, mitigation to be determined as the project advances through design. Next slide, please. So the quantifiable financial impacts for the fire department are $41.1 million. That's a shortfall of 22% in available funding. Next slide, please.
 Total public safety quantifiable impacts are $91 million, or a 24% decrease in available funding for public safety capital program. Next slide. And that is my presentation. I'm happy to take any questions you may have. Members of Council, Senator Rodriguez, I wanted to, City Manager asked us to put this presentation in front of you so that you could see the impacts
 You're starting to see those of you that are in the MPO continue to see an escalation in pricing and cost. And we're going to be making recommendations to Council as we need to recalibrate and readjust the budgets of some of these projects. As part of the budget resolution, the City Manager is authorized to move up to $1 million per project in or out.
 But anything additional to that will be coming forward to Council as we make recommendations for water construction contracts. We all make those decisions, but we wanted to get this information to understand where we're at the discussions with both PD chief as well as the fire department chief. We were making that because you know we're recording very closely with them city manager asked us to make sure that we do the new facilities.
 to make sure that we get those done right, because this is our first and one opportunity to make sure that we build the new ones correctly. With the understanding that facility maintenance will continue to be an ongoing pressure point, or if you will, a demand for us to invest in those facilities as we push ahead, and really to understand from a program standpoint what are going to be our options to fund that shortfall in this public bond, as well as to continue to find solutions for...
 facility maintenance as we move forward. So again, thank you for your time this morning and we'll be happy to answer any questions. Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks. One question I know that Fire Station 36 on Trans Mountain and Ressler, is this being impacted at this point with these changes in the market? It was impacted. It came in about 505,000 over.
 the engineers estimate so we are transferring 505 000 from fire station 40 which isn't going to be built for some time into that project to ensure it's completed the way it was designed how does this impact the proposed improvements to the different regional command centers excluding the new regional command center on the far east side as of now we're assuming it's going to be a 25 percent decrease in available funding for renovations okay and
 Will it impact the timeline and schedule? I know that the Westside Regional Command Center, I think, is scheduled for 2026. There's others as well. At this time, it doesn't look like it will impact the timeline, but rather how far those dollars go. Correct. And the Westside Regional is our newest command center, and it doesn't need as much renovation as some of the other stations do. And by newest, you mean 1996? Yes, sir. Got it.
 a lot of investment in public safety in our community in those decades after, as we're all catching up to now. So the other question that I have relates towards the joint training facility located off of Martin Luther King. I know that you were looking at
 what might be included, cost efficiencies. Do we have an idea about the overall footprint of that facility and its orientation to the neighborhood, to the proposed 1,200 acres of natural open space and trails as well as its proximity to MLK? I don't know if you have a map or anything you can describe. The footprint we're looking at is basically fronting on MLK
 the property where the roundhouse trailhead is. So it be located there. We've committed to allow public use of parking when the academy is not in session. So in the evenings or on the weekends, probably more than anything, active outdoor users, cyclists, hikers could park there and then go and utilize the trails.
 That is our intent, yes, sir. Okay. It's a great benefit. I think the design that can do that, I think, also adds more value to our community as well and probably also will help to also further negate any impact it might have to any of the surrounding neighborhoods. As we know, it's across the street from 2,300 acres of,
 of land that is currently under development and will continue to grow District 4 into the next 10 to 15 years. So there eventually will be houses all around it, but what's great about that is that you're going to have this state-of-the-art training facility for our boys in blue and our firefighters, as well as preserving the land in between the Franklin Mountain State Park and that surrounding area and neighborhoods as well, all the way up to MLK. So it's a really great win-win situation
 Thank you again for all your work. I don't have any other questions at this time, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. And we have another question, so I just want to thank you all. And I think it's very evident that this council and prior councils have made public safety a priority and will continue to do that. So thank you all.
 and with that time is prime yes mayor may we go to call to the public it's 12 o'clock yes ma'am thank you the el paso city council is the local government body charged with serving the citizens of the city and these meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge the city council meetings are public meetings under the texas open meetings act
 public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council all persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity
 which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during the call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic...
 brought forth be posted on a future agenda for the record representative rodriguez has arrived at the meeting at 11 34. council may we have a suspension of the rules to allow miss molly shek to sign up after this the deadline yes go ahead there's a motion in a second to allow me to sign up after the deadline all in favor
 Anyone opposed? The motion passes. We have 12 members of the public that signed up. The first person is Mark Salazar.
 Mr. Salazar's topic is Company E Memorial. He will be followed by Alberto Rivas, Norma de la Rosa, Stacy Schultz. Good morning, Mr. Salazar. You'll have three minutes, sir. Good morning, sir. Thank you very much. Good morning, Mayor Leaser. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Leaser, city council members and city staff. I'm here as a family member of Company E veteran. My father was Gabriel Salazar.
 Company E was a unique company in that it was composed of young men from El Paso who were almost 100% Mexican-Americans at its initiation.
 They went to the National Guard and they ended up going into Italy and going through several battles and finally came home.
 They sought recognition, had a lot of difficulty seeking recognition. Eventually, you had the Chapin High School was built, and also this excellent book, Patriots from the Barrio, by Dave Gutierrez, that contains a lot of firsthand accounts. And my dad was one of those who contributed to the book. And you had the memorial that was built over at Delta Park,
 We're concerned because we just barely heard about the unveiling of this Delta Park, haven't seen any news articles or anything about it. We also were concerned because somebody was saying that some of the names might be left out. So we're very concerned. We're here to speak on behalf of our relatives and we want all of them to be recognized as a part of Company E.
 the memorial that Delta says in honor to the Mexican-American men of Company E, 141st Infantry, 36th Division. There's no – that monument was initially planned to be moved over here to downtown to a more prominent location, and it was too hard to do. Then they were talking about making a replica. Okay.
 as part of the, to be included in the Mack Center, and then it developed into a statue, a beautiful statue that's going to be built. We don't want any controversy. We don't want anybody to be unhappy with this beautiful statue that's going to be built, and we want it to be a beautiful tribute to all the men of Company E.
 Thank you very much. Oh, I'd like to thank Representative Anello. She has arranged, she is working on a meeting with Mr. Fife for our families to meet with him and learn more about the plans and the names that will be on the monument. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Alberto Rivas, followed by Norma de la Rosa. Mr. Rivas' topic is also Company E Memorial. Good afternoon, sir.
 Good afternoon, Your Honor, Mayor and Council. I'm here to address the same issue. I just want to remind you that under your last administration, Mayor, my father, who was also a member of Company E, was given the key to the city, which we still probably put on our den wall. Okay.
 I'm addressing our understanding of what's taking place with this monument, and I wanted to address a point of why we think a mistake might be being made here. I've addressed this with, well, I put together a little thing. The men of Company E, it seems, still face discrimination and prejudice. 80 years after the fact, in the city of their birth,
 Ironically, possibly by the new monument the city will unveil to honor them. The monument, as we understand how it's taking place from what we've heard, only recognizes those Company E soldiers who were deployed overseas as the men of Company E, which is what I think they're identifying this monument as.
 those who remained stateside for other duties. Now, this was a problem that also came up when they dedicated the memorial at Chapin High School. It's unfortunate, given the intent to recognize this Hispanic band of brothers who served and gave company its identity. As company e-member, Angel Ponce, who was a childhood friend of my father, once told me when I wanted to ask him about
 someone who did such and such a thing during the war. I was looking for war stories from him and he just bluntly replied to me that it's wrong for anyone to brag that they took some pillbox single-handedly or knocked out a machine gun nest single-handedly. He used to hear that a lot, I guess, because everyone, he said, had their job to do and they did it. All of them signed the blank check, which all military sign when they enlist.
 payable in the amount up to and including the cost of their life to the nation. No soldiers alone, when many back his effort, training him, preparing him, supporting him, like Sergeant Luna, who was also not deployed, who was the one who trained company. No spearhead functions without its shaft. And the mistaken prejudice to create a caste distinction among soldiers is simply wrongheaded, and it's against
 their military esprit de corps. I mean, should we now only thank veterans for their service once we discriminate the value of their service, the importance of what they did? So just to sum up, let's not let a history deficient monument, which it will be if it goes through like we're thinking it might. Thank you, Mr. Rivas. We need to represent El Paso and the Museum of Art and the MAC, it's gonna be in front of that. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Norma De La Rosa.
 Ms. De La Rosa's topic is also Company E Memorial. She will be followed by Stacy Schultz, Ron Como, Efrain Saucedo. Good afternoon, Ms. De La Rosa. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Leaser, City Council. My name is Norma Luna de la Rosa, a retired teacher of 40 years and the very proud granddaughter of First Sergeant Lorenzo M. Luna, an original member of Company E. This company of very brave men, no, boys, all Hispanic, all poor, and from the South Side, answered the call to duty to serve their country, and they served it well.
 No one here can even imagine what they went through, living in a time of segregation when Mexicans were not wanted. They endured much, and yet they proved their heroism with flying colors, never hesitating to serve and protect their country. I am deeply concerned that there are people within this community, within city government, and even the U.S. Army, who really do not know the whole story of Company E and the men that made up that company.
 This new memorial that is being placed in Cleveland Square, I will say, is long overdue, but no one, absolutely no one who worked on this project contacted any of the descendants of these men, consulted with them about what this memorial was going to be, and as of now, not one of us has received any information or invitation to attend the ceremony, of which we aren't even sure what date that is.
 I was contacted by a gentleman who gave me some insight as to what the memorial will hold. I was told that there would be names, but it would be the names of only those men who went to war overseas and fought in the Rapido, and that my grandfather's name would not be one of them.
 If that were the case, there would be a good number of the original members who did not go overseas to war for various reasons. One did not question the Army why or why not. They just followed orders. But just because they did not go fight overseas, they still served their country and they served it well. My grandfather would have been the first one to go if he could have. But the Army told him he couldn't go because he was too old and had five children at home.
 But he did continue to serve as he was sent to New Guinea for the duration of the war. And if you could ask any of his men, he trained them and he trained them hard. And they will tell you, because of him, they were ready and prepared to do their job.
 If the City of El Paso is going to honor the legacy of Company E, which is long overdue and has been ignored for too long, then this city needs to honor the courage and fortitude of the original 154 all-Hispanic, all-native El Paso boys, who served their country despite what they had to endure. Build this memorial to their legacy and don't diminish their honor by putting names of others who were not part of our community and this original company.
 This is an all Hispanic company, a brotherhood who were led by First Lieutenant John L Chapin, and this memorial must reflect that. Don't ruin their memory by adding names of others who were not part of our culture.
 Those who joined the company much, much later experienced the horrors of war, but they did not experience or have to endure what our fathers, brothers, grandfathers did from even people in El Paso simply because they were Mexican. The next speaker is Stacy Schultz. Stacy Schultz. I don't see her in the queue, and I don't see her coming forward. We'll go with Ron Como, followed by Efrain Saucedo and Georgia Paul.
 Mr. Como's topic is need for a new animal shelter. Good afternoon. Mr. Como you have three minutes, sir Today I'm going to continue our conversation about the lack of space at our shelter I brought this long so you all can see I'd like to start out with the fact that there is only two years Or one year in four my first four months of the year that we achieved 90% live release rate or above and it was 2019 now that being said
 Ending Shelter Counts or Shelter Reports. 131 19 10 54 131 22 25 42 228 19 976 228 22 2542 331 19 13 11 33 31 22 is 2605.
 430-19, 1899, 430-22, 2894. We are finally picking up strays that were left on the streets. You cannot put 24 eggs in a 12-egg crate. Mr. Leeser, you cannot put 1,200 cars in a parking lot designed for 450.
 It's time we set up a new facility. We've got all these schools that are shut down. We need to use them. We need to develop a new and improved shelter, a clean shelter, one with all the things that we need, doctor's cares, storage, quarantine areas. We're running into an issue with parvo distemper. We all know it. Everybody knows it. We just sent 44 dogs to Maine. We've already lost nine.
 We need to change. Sorry, I'm so tired of this. I don't want to come here. Guys, we need to fix the problem. We created it. We left unaltered dogs on the streets for two years. The average female produces eight puppies. We can all do the math. We haven't even touched the amount of strays that are on our streets today.
 and our shelter is extremely overcrowded and they're doing the best they can to house them. Let's give them the tools they need to be successful. How hard is that? We've got the money. We've had the money. Let's fix this, please. I don't want to come here anymore. I've got things to do with strays and rescues and transport and foster. I don't need to be here. It's time, folks. Step up.
 Fix our shelter problem. We need it yesterday, not tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Como. The next speaker is Efrain Saucedo, followed by Georgia Paul, Steven Strummer, Jason Jones. Mr. Saucedo's topic is concerns with El Paso Police Department. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Yeah, good afternoon. Good afternoon. First of all, I want answers for you guys for the three minutes.
 You, your time, not mine, please. And I told you one time that I was popular and very, very popular in my community for people. Okay, now, I want the answers. And I've been trying for the last Thursday to get one-on-one with a city manager. They told me they were gonna call me. I wanna format with him and shame and all the ones who were to extend his contract.
 They should resign. Simple as that. So use your three minutes and give me the three more minutes because the secretary or whoever is in charge of the office or the city manager, they never call me. So I want my answers. You got my report from the police department, and I'm getting tired and sick. And if you don't do nothing, I want to put a lawsuit
 in my city because I love my city and I want to save as much money as I can to my city for my poor people because, you know, we are paying more taxes than anyone here in the state of Texas. Simple as that. I'm very popular and I can tell you three of my companies that I have done, I run the full bank for 20 years, 20 years. I have more than...
 7,000 people, from 7 to 10,000 people, and nobody suffered from hunger in 20 years. I left there three months. They were selling the cheese, the bar cheeses in Juarez, and they canceled the program in three months, simple as that. So use your three minutes and give me three more minutes. I want the answers. For the police, it has been more than a month, probably two months.
 And I want one-on-one with the city manager with a format. With a format. I hope he knows what it is. So I want the answers. Thank you, Mr. Saucedo. No, no. Mr. Saucedo, your time is up, sir. You did have three minutes, sir. Your time is up. We must move on to the next speaker. Thank you, sir. Okay, I'll wait until you guys finish. If I have to wait eight or ten hours, I'll be waiting for you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. You have a good day. And I'm a very popular, popular guy here in El Paso, Texas, for my poor people. Thank you, sir. They eat or they pay the taxes. And what is the time to do? Thank you. Getting all the people going to live across the border. The next speaker is Georgia Paul. I'll wait for you. I will. Georgia Paul. Thank you. I don't see Ms. Paul in the queue or coming forward. We'll move on to Stephen Strummer.
 Followed by Jason Jones, Michael Castro, Colt DeMorris, Wally Sheck. Mr. Strummer's topic is My Fervent Belief in Honoring Vets on Memorial Day. Good afternoon, Mr. Strummer. You'll have three minutes, sir. I did not know if we were having a Veterans Day parade. To me, where I went to school, it was the penultimate day of the year. No exception. You went, you were deadbeat.
 I don't come from a family like that. I don't come from a patriotic family. I miss that. I miss that learning patriotism. I wrote our former president, then President Donald Trump, the only time about patriotism. I believe, quite seriously, a whole generation does not know patriotism. It is a major crisis. This was a day of cheering, of celebration.
 thanking God for those that served. And I loved learning it. You didn't come in blue jeans to Memorial Day. You came in a worsted wool suit. This was where I went to college. I had to learn. And I'm hoping and hoping that our generation will learn to love those that served. I mean, seriously, love them with every part of our being.
 Wasn't a day for candy carts at the parade. Uh-uh, no. He was honoring wreaths, cheering them. No sport team could come close to those absurd. And that's what I'm praying for, to communicate to you. And I miss that. I feel my, those that are younger, really don't understand that. If you haven't been taught that by your family, that it's missing. It's hurting our country.
 I really believe that too. I love it on the Northeast. You know, we've been known to have a huge flag. You know on Dyer? No? Okay. But I'd like to see that downtown. I want to see that. I want to see that on the West Side. You all, I think, maybe...
 finally see what I'm talking about. It's important to learn patriotism. But thanks for hearing me, and happy Wednesday. Thank you, Mr. Stromer. The next speaker is Jason Jones, followed by Michael Castro, Colt DeMorris, Wally Sheck. Mr. Jones' topic is gringo theory bar nuisance. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Yes, we need IT to turn on the Elmo, please.
 Good morning, everybody. Good morning, sir. My name is Jason Jones. I've been here a number of times talking about gringo theory bar, the base issues. I've had to research so much on my own. And one of the things I've realized recently was the difference between DBA and DBC. Who here understands the difference between DBA and DBC? Anybody understand the difference between DBA and DBC?
 DBA is what the city currently uses. We were told that DBA, well, a captain at the Pebble Hills Precinct told me, DBA's used because it tones out road noise.
 Well, I checked road noise, the frequency. Well, DBA and DBC intersect, and that's what I'm trying to show you guys with this. DBA and DBC intersect, they will give you the exact same noise reading on traffic noise. But what DBA does do, it drowns out the female voice, it tones out female voice, which is only at 255 hertz,
 at the high end, it tones out the male voice, which goes all the way down as deep as 80 hertz, and it tones out almost the entirety of bass, sub-bass. So when you have a bar and a police come and they do a noise meter reading, it's, oh, it's only 55 decibels, but the bass is really loud. I had this firsthand many times. But when you take a decibel reader like this,
 change it to C weight jumps up to 75, 80 decibels. And that's real life. That's what we're dealing with. The bass is in our house that isn't being addressed by A weight. If the bars used C weight to do their noise meter measurements, their sound checks in the evening, we wouldn't have this problem. If code enforcement went out with C weight and actually read the bass,
 read the real world, what's going on, we wouldn't have this problem. The bars would have to change really quick. They would turn down their bass. They would put in sound attenuation. This problem would be resolved years ago if you just used C-weight because all these noise meter readings I've seen that the city's shown from Pebble Hills and Cincinnati and all over, 65 decibels, 60, 65 decibels.
 And in reality, that's like 85, 80 to 85 decibels, right? I guarantee you, I see it at my house. I just turned in 25 noise nuisances. Now, for the, police would never cite this because they're using a weight, but it's real. It's based in my house, six nights a week till 2 a.m. Please. Thank you, Mr. Jones. The next speaker is Michael Castro.
 Mr. Castro, star six to unmute your telephone. Mr. Castro's topic is cannabis decriminalization. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Hi, good afternoon. City Council, can you guys hear me okay? Yes. Awesome, thank you. So again, City Council, I was just curious to see if you guys paid attention to what I said at the last City Council meeting as far as looking up the new ordinance in Austin, Texas, that decriminalizes cannabis.
 Now, it doesn't legalize cannabis, but it does decriminalize it. A point where the police officers can no longer issue citations or make arrests for cannabis misdemeanors. Obviously, if the offense is greater, you know, different things could go about that. But I do urge you guys to look into it. We do need to do something about what's happening right next door.
 If you guys want to make it more legal to possess cannabis, then you should, you know, come after it. But the thing is, is to do that, you're not going to stop the sale of cannabis right next door. It's going on. For the past two months now, lines have been out the door at every single dispensary right here in Summit Park, New Mexico. And again, I'm sitting right here in a greenhouse with over 800 plants in front of me.
 And we're about to be ready for sale coming this July. And 100% this cannabis is going to be available for every single person in El Paso, every single person in Texas, every single person in any state that wants to come visit New Mexico, come and park in Mexico, come and pop it out in New Mexico, come and do it in New Mexico. Our neighbors are driving into cannabis industry right now.
 and it's not okay if we are still putting people in jail if we're still issuing citations and even if we're not doing that even if the police is backing off a little bit which you know may be a good thing there still needs to be clear instructions on what to do as a city i think it's time to set the standard and we do something different um let's make the new spirit go reason right let's start to let's start to be open about
 right it's right next door the educational security bag it's not going anywhere anytime soon it's going to be in the hands of people who are 21 years and over just like alcohol but the thing is it's not like alcohol right we have to understand that over here in alfusos and carlin park they're not even regulating canada sales partially
 So yeah guys, just so you guys know, Southern Park New Mexico, if a dispensary wants to, they can operate for 24 hours. Same thing for Ontario County. If a dispensary wants to, they can operate for 24 hours. So let's go to show you it. Cannabis is here.
 not going anywhere anytime soon. Once again, let's stop arresting people. Let's stop ticketing people. Because this is what I do for a living. I live in El Paso, Texas, and I grow cannabis in New Mexico. And I'm not ashamed of that. I'm actually very proud of that. Because I provide very good medicine for the people who need it. So, yeah, City Council, I just hope you guys hear me out. I respect everything you want to do. Thank you, Mr. Castro. Yeah, thank you guys. Thank you guys very much for all who are listening to me.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Colt DeMorris. Colt DeMorris, I don't see him in the queue or coming forward. We'll move on to Wally Sheck. Ms. Sheck's topic is to right the wrong. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. You'll have three minutes. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. Good afternoon. God bless you and please help us save America.
 I'm here today. Seventy years ago, in El Paso, four place in a little rock house by the motor pole, I started to write my life history. In 19...
 In 87, I have to prove with the El Paso time when I tried to give my books as an industry for El Paso. Non-polluting, not using water or anything like this, but I wanted to do it not only for El Paso, but for our nation.
 and worldwide for America, because America meant everything, freedom and citizenship for my mother, who was 80 years old. And here I have proof of state letters from three presidents who was helping me
 And even for Mr. O'Rourke when he was an honorable congressman. I have not given up and I'm not going to give up because
 What I can do for El Paso, nobody as a World War II War Pride has accomplished. We have the best of the mayor right now. We have a pro-mayor and for me this means everything. And I say it publicly right now, Mr. Mayor,
 I will donate my car that I bought from you in 2003 when I didn't know you. And you gave me $500 extra because it wasn't such a good shape. The Blue Book did not justice. And I want you to have this for an advertisement because
 I'm 93, and this for me is checkout time. I'm doing it now, but I'm still alive. So, Mr. Rivera, I will be waiting for you after this thing is over. And, uh, uh-oh. That's okay. That's all right. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. Yeah. Mayor, that concludes the call to the public. Thank you, Ms. Sheck.
 You guys want to recess to one? Anybody? Yes? There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in session until 1.05 p.m. That brings us to item number 15 on the agenda, and this is a presentation and discussion providing a wrap-up of the 2022 Gold Team Reporting Series and Budget Update.
 Juliana Baldwin-Leos at the Performance Office, and so excited to share with you a quick recap as we formally wrap up our Gold Team Series. And then I also have with me Nicole Cody that will be presenting a budget update with a timeline.
 So very quickly to capture what we're gonna cover over the next several slides, is we're gonna do a quick reporting cycle recap in terms of information that's been shared so far. And then we're gonna look at a high level our leadership system and the key processes that support that. So all that to say that what underpins what we bring forward is our strategic plan and the discipline in terms of how we bring that information forward. Being able to highlight too some results at a vision block. And so you've received a lot of information over the last several meetings.
 from our gold team leads. And so I'm not gonna reiterate that. This is really about if we take a high level look at the things that have been accomplished across the vision blocks, what are some key things and some key takeaways as we move into our gold team budget presentations.
 And then from there, I'll turn it over to Nicole, and she'll provide a budget update, including a timeline, some alignment pieces and outlook. Also touch on challenges as we get ready to gear up for the upcoming Gold Team budget presentations, connections to response and recovery, some fiscal management strategies, and wrap that up with a summary in terms of what you can expect over the next several weeks.
 So with that, let me start with the reporting cycle recap. And so as I mentioned over the last five council meetings, you've heard from all of our gold teams, which are supported by all of our reporting, operating departments rather. And so they provided updates on key accomplishments, but we did make some improvements along the way. So it was take a step back to look at different ways that we can improve the process. And so comprehensive reports were provided.
 But we also attached summary fact sheets because we understand it's a lot of information. We have a lot of key strategic objectives and so we wanted to use this opportunity to also synthesize that information from our teams and then provide result presentations to zero in on key things that are occurring across our goals. And so where we are today is we're providing a wrap of all that information as we move forward into our prep for our budget presentations.
 And so when we talk about our leadership system, so great information shared throughout the day today on key initiatives that support, for example, our vibrant regional economy. We heard earlier today that it starts with a vision and a vision is critical. And for us, we absolutely believe that everything that we bring forward is tied back to our vision blocks, our four vision statements.
 And we wanted to ensure that when we talk about our strategic planning process, it's that ability to take all of this information and ensure that we're also allocating the resources that support the direction that council provides. And so that's where our integrated budget process comes into line and why Nicole Cody will also be providing that update as a second part of the presentation.
 So when we talk about the integrated budget process, just a quick snapshot of where we are today, we're still getting feedback through the Chiman process. And so that's gonna close up early June, and that'll give us another set of current feedback from our residents about key priorities as we plan for initiatives moving forward and conversations during the budget process. And so I'm gonna take us through at a very high level our vision blocks and just some key takeaways from our reporting series.
 Very much resoundingly, no matter the vision block, no matter the goal, no matter the department, we're still looking at response and recovery. And really the goal here is that we're comprehensive in our response and that we continue to look at that longer term approach, right? And so that's something that we'll continue to look at. When we talk about investing in infrastructure, so in our mission, council actually took action during one of our strategic planning sessions to add the word quality of place. And so it's about quality of life.
 But the place part is those physical improvements so that we're able to demonstrate that all of that infrastructure, you know, all the capital projects, the productivity and the investments, it's impacting community-wide improvements, but we're also looking at improvements within neighborhoods. And so it's investing in us as one community and one organization. Okay.
 And this just provides a visual snapshot. So we still have coming up several projects that are going to be completed, 22 to be exact, and then another 70 that are going to start construction within this year. And so this is just a quick look ahead and understanding that all of those investments in quality of place are linked also to supporting jobs.
 And that directly connects back to vibrant regional economies. So again, from a response and recovery perspective, a new flights have been announced and this was shared with our goal one in three team. And we also have seen that our airport passenger traffic is near or above pre pandemic levels. Great indicators.
 And then also we had detailed information in terms of El Paso's hotel occupancy. We're still leading within the state. So I think the conversation earlier today with additional hotel renovation coming online continues to show that future hotel rooms being booked are also trending up.
 And so as an example, in FY22 through Quarter 2, we've outpaced actuals for FY20 and FY21. So all good indicators in terms of continued sustained recovery and improvements within Viber regional economy. And you also heard about targeted industries and creating transformative investments. Great updates provided by economic development, and you'll continue to hear more of that as those initiatives continue to be implemented.
 And then lastly, we also want to focus on increasing access to services. And so you heard during several of the reports that there have been improvements made to ensure that we expand that access. And so these are just a couple of spotlights that came from international bridges that are important. So the 52% increase in e-pass transactions, as well as over 100,000 PARC195 transactions that have been processed.
 And then it's important, so this is something that I think is also critical to a lot of the conversations moving forward. And so you have our current destinations that were shared by El Paso International Airport, but then also goal destinations. And so this is very critical to the conversations about airport development moving forward and what that might look like with the feedback that we've gotten from our community partners, our business community, and direction from council to continue to focus on that.
 And then as we move into exceptional recreational, cultural, and educational opportunities, from a response and recovery perspective, we've often heard during council meetings that this is about being able to open back safely and effectively, and that we see that service levels are returning across the different program offerings that we have. And so this is just a visual depiction.
 But it's not just about the number of programs of turning, but that service excellence is sustained. So on the next slide, there's a visual recap of all the various awards and accolades and distinctions that our quality of life portfolio has received for service excellence across the board.
 And then lastly, from a broadly partner perspective, you heard that there were over 40 partnerships that were spotlighted during Goal 4. And of those 40, 14 were new funding opportunities that have been added to the portfolio and helping to support these initiatives. So those were some of the key takeaways that we heard with respect to this vision block. And here's the visual snapshot of the awards and recognitions.
 across the board. And then lastly, from a high performing government perspective, a critical focus has been to continue to implement leading edge practices. And so you heard during goal five about our new user experience team. So that's gonna be a game changer in how we bring new initiatives forward through our IT department. And I'll share a bit more in case you're wondering, well what's a UX team and what is that comprised of? On the next slide I'll get into that a bit more.
 And then also from a learning and development perspective, we just received the 2020 award from the Association of Talent Development that we're very focused on creating opportunities and pipelines for our workforce and aligning that with best practices. And so it was huge to get that recognition because that's on an international scale. And so being able to learn from best practices across sectors is very important to us and bringing that back here home to El Paso and to our workforce.
 And then back to increasing access to services, these are four key initiatives that have been very important in terms of feedback that we've received from our residents, our business community, and Council Leading the Way, starting with our customer relationship management tool. So that'll be deployed and that'll be a significant improvement in how our residents report
 concerns or complaints that they encounter, giving them more visibility in terms of being able to monitor the status so that you have that information when you speak to your constituents. And so adding that visibility, adding those processes are gonna be significant and that's something that's gonna be deployed this year.
 And then already deployed is our online bidding system, so vendors being able to access that has been a huge improvement for our businesses. You're gonna hear later today about our small businesses and targeted efforts to support them, and we feel that that's just another offering that's gonna help support those efforts that are our strategic objective and our plan.
 They also launched the quarterly procurement forecast. So this gives businesses an opportunity to have a look ahead for opportunities coming on board so that they can plan accordingly and find those opportunities. So all of that's been published and available. And then lastly, the deployed a popular annual financial report is a new way to report information that the office of the comptroller led to make that very user friendly. And so all of these initiatives
 continue to support that increase to access. It's been something that council has repeatedly requested in different services that we offer.
 And then lastly, I'll close with the financial management piece. And so when we say financial management as a core competency, it's being able to point to the improvements to our process and the guidance and direction that's been provided that ties back to services that we're offering. And so an example, and I'll jump over to this one first, is being able to point to our baseline year before these processes and systems were implemented and seeing the difference between
 or operating days in general fund reserves that are now available. And so all of this has been a result of the discipline that's been put in place so that we can stretch those tax dollars and continue to offer those services to our residents.
 And I'll bounce back to this just very quickly because we're spotlighting this as a leading-edge practice, so I wanted to give more context on user experience and what that team is going to continue to deliver. So you'll be seeing more updates for them coming forward. But it's a team that really is focused on designing new tools, new technology tools with our users in mind, our residents. And so there's data scientists, there's developers, researchers, and interns.
 You may recall during goal five we talked about being able to participate in the civic innovation fellowship program. And so we'll have students from Harvard, Columbia and others joining here in the summer that chose to be in El Paso to see what it is that we're doing and to be a part of that. So exciting initiatives there and this just provides some additional information and background on the user experience team that is very much a part of the improvements that we're moving forward.
 So with that, and of course, to get more granular and any additional detail, we have that on our strategic plan page. But this was really just an opportunity to wrap up our goal team series as we gear up and bring information forward for our budget process. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Nicole Cody, unless you all have any questions of me, and she'll go over the budget update for today.
 Yes, the schools that participated. So Harvard, Columbia, and I know that they're also, they already have UTEP interns on board as well, but I can give you a more detailed breakdown in terms of the final fellows that will be joining us in the summer. And they're going to bring back a report to council as well to spotlight that work as part of that effort. Thank you, Representative. Representative Nola, are you on? Yes. Karen El Paso.
 go ahead I want to get a little bit into slide 10 and kind of the budget impacts on that and I don't know if I should wait for the rest of the presentation if you're prepared to answer some of that now yes I'm sorry what was it so just looking at
 our in-person programming restoration, which is how you have it on the slide. So we see that and we hear this a lot that our rec centers, our swimming pools, our libraries are not at full capacity. So I have a lot of follow-up questions for that. First is, we've been told that that's a staffing issue, not a budget issue, is that correct?
 so it's a combination of yes looking at conditions to return but then also looking at operationally what would be required to return and i know and i'll let you finish your i know you had a follow-up statement because i know um for example with the library so if you look at the visual depiction here some of the libraries were undergoing renovations and improvements right and so that was a component of it but it was operationally can they return and then can we return sure that makes sense yeah yeah not a budget not staff but something combination yes so
 I guess my question on the budget end is we have fully funded all of our recreation or quality of life amenities to be fully operational. That is not happening right now, so there should in essence be a budget savings.
 for you know libraries not being open on Saturdays I can think of three or four rec centers and Aquatics facilities that are not open in my district. So do we have a number on what that budget savings is? See, that's why I was like, yeah, we could we can I mean it's definitely a starting Came out from the ether So Robert did you want to respond er? Go ahead Nicole
 Okay, so Nicole Cody, Director of Management and Budget, and Interim Managing Director of Purchasing. So the...
 At the last presentation that Robert provided regarding the budget stabilization fund and the policy changes, there was already savings that was allocated or earmarked for the pension stabilization fund and a portion of it for the budget stabilization fund as well. And so that contributed to the increase that you'll see.
 on the slide, which is $124.9 million, or the increase in days. Okay, so the $124.9 million is the savings of FY22 for, that's just, I kinda want that number so we can understand. Okay, just that portion. If you don't have it right now, that's fine. I know we have plenty of budget,
 updates and meetings coming up but I do think it's really gonna be important for this council to understand how much exactly that was and where exactly all of that money is going whether you mentioned two pots of money it could potentially have been going to so just want to be able to see an overall picture
 dissection of those dollars specifically. Absolutely. And so we'll do that as part of the quarterly update that we present to you all, and that will also be timed along with the certified. We can also do it as part of the budget, or we actually are planning on presenting it when we present the introduction of the tax rate.
 to you all so you have an overview of how 22 is looking in addition to what the property tax rate is. Maybe a little bit before that would be helpful. Thank you. And so then my next question is on the same quality of life issue. So for staffing, what is the percentage of staffing that we are lacking to get these facilities up and running?
 Do we know that. I would actually defer that to Ben Phyfe so we can get you that information. So FTEs PTEs understanding that I would like to know. I am here representative. I would just say we did. Everybody jumping on today. We did update you the council on this when we presented for goal team 4. I remember. And so we are still at for the entire quality of life portfolio we were at 64 percent staff
 staffed up right now, but we can get you the particulars about each department and what those activities mean. Yeah, that would be great. And I know there's a lot of part-time employees too at these facilities, so understanding that. And I don't expect you all to have the answer for this. I know this is something that I've talked about a lot.
 I don't think we pay our employees enough. I think that's why we're seeing a real deficit in employees. I know recently the council, I was not here for this meeting, but the council raised the minimum wage to I think $11 an hour.
 Sad I wasn't here. I'm sure you all missed my comments that I would have made if I was here at that meeting. But I would like to know if we've seen an impact. Has that made an impact? Are we getting a response on that? Has that helped our staffing table at all? Because if it hasn't, it's a conversation that we need to start seeing. So just wanting to see the data that's leading up to that and if it's making an impact. I know for some of these...
 especially with that minimum wage, a lot of those in quality of life department are part-time summer jobs. I know that we won't have full data on that impact, but for some of the part-time positions at libraries and rec centers, I would like to see that. I would also like to understand what our plan is, what the timeline looks like. If we...
 by the grace of whoever, I got all of our positions filled in September of 20, FY2023. What is our plan for opening kind of where those resources go first, because we're getting a lot of, I mean, especially, you know, I've now inherited the south side, parts of the south side, really excited about it, but seeing a lot of facilities in that area so close
 closed. And that is really concerning considering the disparities in those communities and how much they depend on their rec centers and aquatic facilities. Especially, I'm not sure if the Viscount Aquatic Facility is still closed for renovation. Yes. So you've got the Viscount's closed. If you live in the south side, you don't have an aquatic center. Memorial doesn't have a lot of the amenities.
 for seniors or they don't feel like they're adequate. And so you're really cutting out a large, the whole central area for seniors to be using facilities. And so we really need to start having that conversation and understand
 what the plan is for reopening once we start bringing more people on board. So I got really into slide 10. I'm sorry. I appreciate everybody who jumped on the call last minute. Thank you. So if I may, Representative, I will just say we can certainly work with HR to get you the statistics on the individual departments and the portfolio as a whole. I will say anecdotally.
 that we are getting a lot of inquiries that are really generated, I think, by the news of the council raising the minimum wage, and especially from that $1,000 signing bonus. It's made us a lot more competitive, but it is still premature, you know, because we are going through the recruitment process. I will also say, if we were to, you know, from your mouth to God's ears, be fully staffed up September 1st,
 I do not believe we would have an issue having facilities open up very very soon after that once employees were trained on boarded and ready to go but they just go to Roberts but I guess if we filled half of the positions what would our plan for reopening be
 yeah and then robert i know that we've talked about salaries and insurance or i have talked about it a lot um i would like to see in an upcoming quarterly report or budget update uh you know what what we're looking at in regards to those those benefits thank you so representative vanilla would you have your 101 briefing scheduled for the first week of june so i i mean you made some pretty good comments i mean one of the things i'll point out though is this council's been very aggressive about the investments in our workforce
 not only in this current fiscal year, but over the last two years. And so in this current year alone, not only did we do the 1.5%, we did the equity adjustments, we did the $500 lump sum in November. And then on top of that, you all just increased the minimum wage. So everybody got the 75 cent increase per hour. So when you add all of that up, that's over a 10% increase for our lowest paid employees. So not insignificant in what this council has done in this current year alone, pretty significant increase as far as our wages. Obviously, we know we still have much more to do.
 As far as increasing our wages, we have a pretty well thought out plan for what we are looking at next year. And so when we do a one-on-one briefings, that first week of June, we'll have to provide you all of those details on what we're looking at doing. Not only looking at compensation, different incentives, but also on the benefit sides as well. Thank you, Robert. And, yeah, I would just like to see if we have – I don't know – I'm not an HR person, so I don't even know that what I'm asking is possible, but just kind of calculating the impacts of those decisions I think is important for making ones in the future. So thank you for that.
 And then back real quickly, just back to your original comment about the savings from these departments. And so I did talk a little bit about that at the meeting that you missed. I'm sorry, when we established the pension stabilization fund. Once we close our third quarter, which ends at the end of May, we'll come back probably around sometime at the beginning of July and provide you the update on where we stand. One of the big things that we were waiting to see how it was going to play out was not only the impact from increasing the wages. We had an estimate on that.
 but it's really about the sign-on incentive we were really curious to see how effective that was going to be and so we continue to evaluate and look at that to see if that's really having an impact on on the hiring and so that's something that we'll continue to look at do we need to expand that continue it do we need to make it more to become more competitive and so those are really the things that we're evaluating now and as we begin to really put the final touches on the budget for next year thank you robert mayor proton thank you mayor uh i appreciate it and
 appreciate some of the issues that my colleague has brought up you know currently there are no senior centers in district one there is one rec center in district one currently that is the Don Haskins Center and so I think it's just when we talk about accessibility and that sort of thing I think it's great to point that out
 Um, I've had a conversation already with staff relating to that from what I've been told is that the rec center, the Don Haskins rec center at 7400 High Ridge has been closed due to the fact that the Office of Emergency Management was utilizing it for COVID testing and vaccination. They've since moved out three or four weeks ago.
 and now from what I've been told it's a question of having enough staff to do that so I'm really curious since we said because we were very data-driven organization what is the threshold of the amount of employees that need to be hard in order to open up the next wave of rec centers in the city considering that there are no rec centers currently open in district one and as my colleague has said there's many other rec centers through other parts of the city that are closed as well
 So Mayor Pro Tem, again for the record, Ben Fife, Managing Director of Cultural Affairs and Recreation. I would need to get you that information. I don't have it parsed out by division off the top of my head at this moment. Is it like 20? But we can go ahead and get that information. Is it 20 more positions need to be hired or 35 or? I don't wanna just pull a number out that isn't correct for you, sir. So let me go ahead and work on that and we can get that to you right away.
 Okay, because I, you know, again, I recognize that there's other parts of the city and people pay a variety of different taxes and services. But right now, my district has the only rec center it has available is closed and has been closed. And there is a gentleman that likes to go on my Facebook page pretty much every week, Hector Martinez. If you're listening, good day, sir. He constantly asks me about the need to open up.
 the Don Haskins rec center and so I recognize and understand that there's a lot of need throughout our community I wish there was more rec centers in district one I'm sure that the taxpayers of district one are probably not aware of what exactly their taxes are paying for right now we all pay taxes together but it would really benefit me to be able to give information
 to my constituents to understand exactly what is the threshold that we're talking about, about how many additional employees need to be hired in order to open up additional rec centers. From what I understand, the strategy is to have a certain amount of employees that are hired, and then they would have an additional round of opening. Do you know, again, when that additional tranche of rec centers or community centers or senior centers would be opened?
 Again, sir, I would need to gather some information and find out the exact rate to be able to open additional centers. But what I will say is, as we are recruiting employees, we also are losing employees to attrition.
 And I have shared this with the council before. It's not unusual for us to, for example, hire five new positions and then we lose three of them. And so it's just, we're constantly working through recruitment to be able to get to that point. But let me figure out by division,
 and what we are looking at staff wise as I did share during the gold team for presentation Don Haskins is among the centers that we are looking at thinking about parity and equity throughout the community for reopening once we get to that point has there been any discussions about working with the border plex workforce alliance or other third parties as higher attempt positions or something like that yes we have
 Okay. So that's something that we're actively looking is not necessarily trying to hire part-time City of El Paso or full-time City of El Paso employees, but working with a third party for temp positions as well. We work with BorderPlex to actually actively promote the opportunities within the portfolio. So we're not looking at like hiring temporary positions or a temp agency or something like that could fulfill some of these empty positions? No.
 Not at this time, sir. We have not discussed that. I just, again, I just think it's something we should really be looking at. I know that Representative Inello brings up the wage issues as being an obstacle. I'm not here to understand that. I'm just having constituents like Hector Martinez who are concerned about these facilities being closed as long as they have. They are trying to understand where their tax dollars are going to.
 which seems to be a big part of what our. There we go, I got back in. Oh, somebody just got back in. Other question that I had, and this is an item that Representative LaZarra has brought up
 is about like a sort of enhanced CR process that utilizes software from what I understand. Is that on slide 12, the customer relationship management tool? Yes, yes, that is a CRM tool. And so that was shared during the goal five team report.
 And so that tool is essentially bringing, so if you think about the CR process in terms of elevated, anything that comes through 311, anything that someone calls in as a service request, it's taking all of the voice of our customer data and putting it into one system so that you have visibility as those items are coming in on where it's at, responses that are more uniformed. And so it's really taking that entire,
 different inputs and putting into one simplified system. And so, yes, that's the customer relationship management tool. And when will that be live? So there are testing, getting additional feedback, and deploying. The final date was for summer is what they're planning. Yes, go ahead. Was that you, Carolyn? Okay, I thought I heard someone that wanted to chime in. Hi. Yes. Hi, Julie.
 Good afternoon. This is Carolyn Patrick with the IT department. Yes. So the timeline is the last portion that remains for the CRM project to go live is the CR process. And that is the portion that continues to be in testing. We want to make sure that it's
 absolutely right before the we bring the district offices online we as mentioned in the past we already have several departments and our 3-1-1 call center live on the system and they have been so for several months so here in the next few weeks we are looking to onboard the district offices so okay so i'm curious so so when will this be going live this sometime this summer
 And when when will will I guess when you're on onboarding or training our staff that will be included in those meetings as well. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Yes sir. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Yes sir. DIRECTOR HERSEY So at that point when and when will those meetings start. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Those meetings will be starting in the next few weeks. And so we are projecting by end of June to have all the offices in the entire CR process fully online. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Okay.
 Okay. Yeah, I mean, I think that's a great thing to do. Those are pretty much the concerns that I have at this point. The other question that I had, I just remembered it, was what is the sort of training for our 3-1-1 training
 employees because one of the things that we hear about at least with my office or others is that people call 311 the information that is presented to them is either incomplete or it's outdated so the scripts that 311 is using how often are they refreshed how are they sort of trained in terms of that
 So I can start Carolyn if you want to elaborate with this new process but that's absolutely a key component of launching this new CRM tool is to making sure that that's part of the change management piece that they're getting training in terms of information that's coming in responses that are provided out and so they've been a part of that making sure that they're part of the entire full deployment. I don't know if you want to elaborate on that Carolyn.
 DIRECTOR MACKAROWSKI Yes yes good question. So as part of the process for the CRM configuration the the system actually allows for scripts to be available online through the system and as that was being configured those scripts were updated by the departments in conjunction with 3 1 1. And so that's needs to be a periodic process but that was done within the last year as we have identified
 changes that need to occur in the systems questions that arise as far as what what is the process. There has been coordination between 3 1 1 and the departments as to what the process what the process needs to be and what those scripts need to look like. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- So how do we do it currently.
 How often does it occur? Is that your question in terms of training? Yeah, how do we do it currently? So I think with this new process before they deploy, there's going to be a series of trainings to ensure that when we launch, everyone's familiar with the new process, the system, the scripts. And then from a refresh cycle perspective, I don't know that specific answer, but I'll definitely verify because the system is going to make it more continuous. There's going to be more visibility added to it. So we'll get you a cycle just so that you have that information as well in terms of the new system.
 getting deployed in the summer okay so we so is there a quantifiable date about how often we update the current scripts you mean current state yeah like what's what's our current system I can I can ask for you and verify that yes I'll follow up in terms of the current state process we've been current state process well you're saying right now with like yeah like our currently right as opposed to the new system I don't know the statement
 We've already talked about Governor Abbott enough. Correct process. Yes, I'll get that information for you in terms of the cycle of refresh, right, on scripts? Yeah, that's what I'm trying to understand is what's the before, now what is the new thing there? Exactly, the new process moving forward. Okay, thank you. Yes, understood. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so with that, unless there's additional, I'll turn it over to Nicole to provide our budget update. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, Representative Sutter.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Julie, for being here. And thank you for the good news about the CR process. That's really exciting to hear. And also the 311. And I know that my chief of staff was part of the input that you received along with some other staffers, I believe, from our offices. So that's exciting. I do just have a short little on slide nine.
 It's just an FYI. Puerta, it should be Puerto. It ends in an O, not an A. Just if you want to correct that. Yes, we shall. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Representative. Yes. Now that's it. Okay. Thank you. So with that, I'll turn it over to Nicole Cody for our budget update. Thank you. Thank you.
 Nicole Cody for the record. So today as Juliana explained what we're going to be covering of course is the timeline and then our title our strategic plan and that alignment for the upcoming budget process along with what we presented to you back in February regarding our five year outlook. So here you can see the budget process timeline and so we are
 Looking at and as Robert has already mentioned we've already scheduled those City Council briefings with each of you and they will be in person And so we'll be able to meet with you and go over the initial preliminary budget
 So we are also going to be closing Chime In on June 3rd is the last day for Chime In. And so we need your help for this final push for this next week and a half to get as many participants as we can so we can hear the voice of our community. So please, we can resend you those QR codes and the link to the city website so you can help us ensure that we're capturing the voice of our community and including it as part of our budget priorities.
 Then towards the end of June is when we're going to have our budget workshops this year. And so this is an important note. Normally we have it after the 4th of July. This year we're going to have it before the 4th of July. So it will be the week of June 27th will be the week of our budget workshops.
 And then again at the end of July, we receive on July 25th the certified valuations. And so then the week after, we will be able to present or introduce the property tax rate to you all. We'll have our public hearings on the budget, and then you'll see the budget adoption is scheduled for August 16th. And at the last slide of the presentation, we go over the dates again, just so you all have it.
 So the strategic plan alignment is really about us focusing on our priorities and our needs for our organization. And so on April 26, the city council brought an item and voted to approve for the city manager to be able to minimize the financial impact.
 on residents by reducing the property tax rate. And so that is first and foremost on our mind and as we develop the budget for FY 2023, along with our tax relief for seniors and disabled, ensuring that we continue to have the operating costs necessary for our quality of life bond and public safety bond capital projects.
 We continue to see our investment in public safety, which includes increasing staffing, collective bargaining agreements, and of course our ongoing capital replacement plans. In addition to that, we are looking at our infrastructure. So that includes both street resurfacing, our intersection safety, and our continued investment in neighborhood traffic management plans. And then lastly, of course, but definitely not least, is our investment in our workforce.
 because they make it all happen. So we have, of course, our focus on compensation, as Robert mentioned, that we'll be briefing you during the city council briefings in the upcoming weeks, along with our proposal for healthcare, what we're seeing as increases in healthcare costs and wellness and our continued investment in learning and education of our workforce.
 So, under economic uncertainty and while we focus on our budget challenges, as you'll note under the presentation that Jerry DeMuro gave, inflationary pressures are affecting the city. It affects our potential revenue impacts. It affects the cost that we're seeing as far as fuel, supply chain disruption, and continued increase in our contracts.
 And so that is something we're addressing in FY 2023, but it remains an area of uncertainty. Along with that is, of course, the tight labor market. So he mentioned that they're having, and Representative Vanello, you also mentioned it regarding quality of life departments, is the...
 the ability, the turnover, the level of turnover, and the ability for the city to be a competitive workplace. And so what just went into effect, Robert mentioned, was the 75 cent increase per hour for our employees, which was effective this Sunday on May 22nd, and then the hiring incentive pilot that we currently started on April 10th.
 And so while we're looking at ways to address it and to ensure that the city maintains its competitive edge and we're able to hire our top performers, we're going to continue to provide recommendations, as he mentioned, and we'll be bringing those to you as part of the budget process.
 In addition to the economic uncertainty, I would be remiss in not mentioning the global geopolitical instability that we're seeing around the world. So I remember a time where El Paso was truly remote and we did not feel the impacts of the global economy. We did not see the full impact of all the changes we were seeing or hearing about around the world. Well, that's long gone.
 We are part of a global economy, and we are impacted by geopolitical instability, the national inflationary pressures, and the tight labor market that we're seeing in order to be competitive. We also will continue to see challenges in our unfunded departmental needs, and, of course, in some of the council budget requests that we would be able to identify as potential capital projects.
 Also, we have, of course, are the impact on services for the existing staff and filling vacancies that we've seen as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. So here you'll see that we presented in February of 2022 was the General Fund Five-Year Outlook.
 And so it's important that we highlight this as we're moving forward as part of the budget process, where you'll see the increase that we're expecting in revenues is outpaced by the cost of services and the contractual increases that we're seeing across the board. While we know that we're seeing these increases, we're also looking at leveraging all federal and state grants, as we've seen in both the response and recovery.
 for the CARES funding and how it assisted with the public health response and the investment we've seen in our community health, along with what you recently approved as far as the American Rescue Plan Act, which assists us along with the response, but also the recovery and relief for our families and the investment that we have in the long-term growth of the city.
 In addition to leveraging state and federal grants, which you'll also see additionally here, we continue to look at utilizing all resources in order to ensure that we're enhancing and improving services that we deliver for this community. So included in the budget, as we'll be presenting in the next few weeks, we do have a proposal for staffing for adequate fire and emergency response would assist us with providing the staffing for the Fire Station 36.
 We do have grants from the CDC that are helping address health disparities across our community and continue to make sure that we're resilient in future crisis responses. In addition to that was the grant that was approved by you all to submit a request for an investment in public safety for a TAG grant for the entire region.
 So as I mentioned, here is the budget calendar in detail based on the dates that we have coming up. And again, I'm going to highlight the budget work sessions are going to start June 27th. And we will be presenting the certified tax roll and ordinance introducing the tax rate on August 1st. And that's all. Thank you. Ms. Pryor? Yes, Mayor. That brings us to item number 16 on the agenda. Okay.
 And this is a management update on modifications and improvements to the city's response to illegal dumping. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Council. Good afternoon, Ms. Smyth. Ellen Smyth, Chief Transit and Field Officer. I have Astrid Benner on the line this afternoon to start with the presentation, and then we'll be open for questions. Also, we have representatives from the police department standing by to answer any questions that might be related to them.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Mayor and Council Astrid Benner for ESD. I'm here to report back to you on the illegal dumping item. Can we go to the next slide? And the next slide please. You asked us to report back to you on the illegal dumping issues and to bring forth proactive approach to improve the illegal illegal dumping going on in the city. And so we created a cross-functional team with
 ESD PD code streets and maintenance and through our collaboration we did identify grab gaps in our process and in the way we're communicating with our partners and our customers. Next slide. One of the gaps that we identified was that in our previous process we did not have any notification from the constables related to when homes were being evicted and items placed in front of homes.
 We now with our new process developed a notification alert with the area constables. We've also implemented PD code we'll be monitoring the property for any items that are left unclaimed which then would become illegal dumping and at that point they would call ESD for assistance in the cleanup. So that's a different approach and more innovative in our communications with with our partners and other departments. Next slide please.
 We've also identified that a lot of our programs to clean up the city have been suspended or had been suspended due to COVID. And so it's our time to bring them back. One of the key affiliates to bring back is the Keep El Paso Beautiful. And through this affiliate, we would be able to bring back the Give to the River cleanup efforts and Give to the Mountain cleanup efforts and also the Great American Cleanup.
 We have been working with neighborhood associations to bring them back for annual events in person and to bring free roll off dumpsters to to their neighborhoods so that we could help them with any cleanup areas that they may need. And ESD Outreach is working a contract with private companies to hold weekend neighborhood cleanups as necessary throughout our community. Next slide.
 One of our partnerships that we have coming up this summer is a public awareness campaign with El Paso Water Utility and ESD. Our summer campaign starts in June, and it's in partnership with El Paso Water Utilities and the El Paso County Water Improvement District, and it's going to focus on illegal dumping as a crime to curb behavior. It's also going to highlight the negative impacts of polluting bacon lots, stormwater drains, channels, and farmland.
 Next slide please. Other partners that we are working with with our new process is the El Paso County, the Union Pacific Railroad, El Paso Electric, Texas Gas, the neighborhood associations which I mentioned, and Streets and Maintenance. One of our proposed actions to them is that we partner with the ESD so that we can clean up the properties
 on which you may be getting calls on and get to them sooner and then prepare a memorandum of understanding with them so that we can bill them after the property is clean. We're also working with a more interactive process for city owned and partner properties to be cleaned as soon as possible. Next slide. Our other approach is to close the loop with customer service response. And so we identified a gap in our response to residents
 And so what our approach is is to be more have more transparent communication with our residents explain the process if it's a process that's not owned by the city of El Paso or any of its departments recommends their their next steps if necessary provide status updates and department contact information and provide a callback number in case the customer has any additional questions. Next slide please.
 So we were also asked to look at the resources required and the cost of them. And so our estimated costs are to be funded by ESD to bring back or keep El Paso a beautiful affiliate. We estimate that would cost us $50,000. Our El Paso Water Utility Awareness Campaign is at a cost of $35,000.
 Our cleanup events are at a cost of $32,000. Our partnerships have no cost and the new policy with the police department and existing personnel is just training and coordination. And closing the loop with our customers through education and feedback has no cost as we would be utilizing our existing personnel and resources for coordination. Next slide. So through this process,
 What we expect moving forward with our enhanced processes is that we'll have a rapid sharing of information regarding any illegal dumping cases and information between partners. Immediate cleanup response by ESD to cases call back efforts to residents to alleviate any concerns and of course proactive cleanups throughout our community to keep a clean and beautiful El Paso. Next slide.
 And so here's some information from the ESD Outreach and Partnership Program and the number where they could call us at 212-6000 or an email for a cleanup to coordinate a cleanup event. Next slide. And that is the end of the presentation. If you have any questions. Representative Rodriguez please followed by Representative Nello. Thank you Mayor and thank you to I'm sorry I didn't get her name who was presenting.
 Astrid. Astrid. Thank you, Astrid, for your presentation. I think this is long overdue. It's kind of embarrassing to see the mess in our streets, in our community. What's more embarrassing is the adults, the responsible adults that are doing this.
 And that was sarcastic, by the way. So I think this is long overdue. My only question would be, would it be smart of us to kind of put this program under 311, where people can call 311 and also be able to report, versus a separate number, the 2126000?
 Right, so currently the 311 is the appropriate number to call to start a case, and that's through the Police Department Code Enforcement Division. But what we've done with PD now is that as soon as they're aware of a case, they're going to let us know as well. So while they're investigating it from court or law enforcement, that's what really slows down the response time.
 But we don't want to jeopardize any of their evidence. And so while they're working on obtaining their photo evidence,
 then as soon as those photos are taken, we can make the piles disappear. And so what was happening previously, it would be a code case with PD and it would churn through the system and as it was going through the process, the pile would just sit there, right? And so now we're gonna have a dual track. They're gonna still be doing all of their required paperwork. That's for court and for certified letters and notifying the property owners.
 and then to the best of our ability unless it's required by law that we leave it there for whatever reason you know there's always extenuating circumstances and you know you never know how it's going to turn out but for a good majority of the cases we'll be able just to go ahead and remove it right away and that's really the biggest difference I think that you're gonna see in this new process that we've established
 Okay, so would this also include for example, I have a resident on the east side That they have a backdoor neighbor and this neighbor Refuses to clean their pool refuses to clean after their animals has a bunch of old furniture dumped outside And it's creating a situation for the neighbors where they have mosquitoes. They have cockroaches. They have mice they have all sorts of things that we don't want in our homes and
 would they be able to also engage or go to the homes of these people that, you know, even though it is their private property, but essentially it's causing a lot of trouble for the surrounding homes?
 Yes, yes, absolutely. Any resident that has a pool that's not attended is a health hazard, and so we have the ability to go in, you know, with the proper notice and treat the pool, you know, because the environmental service also oversees vector control. And we do not want an outbreak of mosquitoes because of the diseases that they carry, especially just a few years ago, the Zika was a big threat to this community.
 And while it hasn't been in the news lately, it is still out there. And so absolutely, if there's a swimming pool involved, it rises to a really much higher level of response just because of the health. In terms of just debris outside and then, of course, if there's animals involved, then the animal control officers also get involved.
 So what you're describing sounds to me like it's going to require multi-agencies? No, we've been working on it for a while now, and it has not been resolved, not because the city hasn't done everything in our power that we can do. It's a legal situation at this point. Oh, okay. Well, I'll get the address from you, and I'll follow up.
 Perfect. Thank you. That's it, Mayor. I don't have any other questions. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. And I think a lot of these cases do require that final personal touch, which is kind of what Astrid touched on, on closing the loop and reaching out with keeping the residents informed. Because while we are working diligently on 24 different departments, the customer is sitting there in the dark. They have no idea what we're working on or what progress we've made.
 and so that's another big part of this presentation is the process to make sure that we're calling those, especially the cases that for some reason
 are taking longer than they should. Those are the ones that we really intend to call back and give them a status report so we can tell them, you know, the pool has been addressed. Okay, now animal service is working on it. And so now the animals have been addressed. And so now the court documents are being worked on. And so just to keep them abreast, a lot of times the complaints are exactly that. They just didn't know we were even –
 doing it like we totally forgot about them and thank you for that Ellen and I just do want to say one last thing Astrid was talking about the campaign and it's not officially finished yet but as soon as that is finished please share that with us because I think this is a very important campaign that we have to share with people and also for us to have as information so as soon as you have that campaign finished please share thank you Representative Nello
 Hi, Ellen. Hi. Hi, Astrid. How are you all doing? Good. Good.
 I'm really happy to see this presentation. It's much better than the first one that I saw. I don't know why everyone's laughing. I also, you know, I want to thank you for taking responsibility within your plan of action. I think it's really important. It's gonna be a really important first step to getting us where we need to be. And I think that a lot of these closing the loops is really important. I think the customer communication is gonna be very important.
 I lost my train of thought. Okay, so really quickly, I'm just going to get right into my questions then. So the partnerships on slide six and seven. So you have your partners, your proposed action is to prepare MOUs that allow ESD to clean partner properties. You just want to be very clear that you are all going to take on the responsibility of cleaning El Paso water property. That's what we're working with them right now to see if they're agreeable to that.
 It's not that they won't clean it, it's just they're not as, we can do it a lot more expediently. Yeah, no, and I- They'll get to it eventually, so what we're trying to do is just speed up the clock. Yeah, I mean, we heard from El Paso Water Utilities themselves that they have every one of their canals on a three-year rotation, which is unacceptable. I'm not gonna tell you to not work out this MOU and clean up their property. I am very grateful for this slide and this program.
 I'm sure when you're working on an MOU there may be a financial portion of it I do think that should be a conversation because we really are taking on it's gonna be that's a lot of work for your department I think about just the water utility properties in my district and that's that's gonna be a big workload load for y'all and I'm not gonna tell you not to do it I'm very happy that you're doing it this is me like thanking you profusely for considering that
 but i i do recognize that there will be a financial impact of the city on that and i trust that you will work that out for for the the best of the taxpayer um so i just i guess i just wanted to say that out loud i don't know if it was beneficial to this at all but um recognizing that i appreciate that um there was another thing oh okay yeah so um
 apartment complexes and something that you're not talking about in this presentation are our citizen collection sites, which I was fully prepared for you to talk about because the first presentation I saw had a lot of that, so that's what's throwing me off. I mean, a lot of feedback that I've heard from residents since you gave that presentation at our community meeting is that a lot of the issues that we have in Central is apartment complexes.
 And the original response from ESD was we have these citizen collection sites. Again, not on this presentation. Y'all have taken a more proactive approach. But I don't think that I should not bring this up. To use a citizen collection site, you need a water bill. If you live in a housing authority property or an apartment, you do not have a water bill. So we're kind of essentially limiting people who can use that resource that could prevent additional –
 illegal dumping so I'm gonna let y'all figure out what the best solution to that is but I do want to bring that up because I do think that that could cut
 down a lot on illegal dumping and I'll be honest it was not something that I ever even considered until a constituent brought that up after seeing your presentation so I wanted to share that with you and I think that's why it was like really throwing me off because I was really really waiting for that presentation so the last thing I'll say is I do think this is a great first step I would love to see and you know a quarterly report or not every
 every quarter but a report on the effectiveness on this I think something that representative Rodriguez brought up is a really good example I know I have a property in my district that you are more than familiar with which is the family dollar in Alabama
 where they are constantly dumping. They don't want to build a fence. They don't have to. But what I would like to see after we kind of collect some data on how effective this is and we see the positive outcomes on this, what our plan is to address continuous illegal dumping sites. We cannot make family dollar build a fence. Would it even be effective? We don't know. But we do need to come up with a plan.
 to assist the neighbors in that. Unless your plan is just to continue going out there every time they call, sure, great, go for it, but they're going to continue to call. And while I think that is a great and effective policy, and that's what I want to see, we also are going to start to see people are just frustrated with the fact that they have to continually call.
 even if the trash is being picked up immediately. And that's not every case. I'm sure everybody has at least one in their district. I think that at least one. One or two, and so it's not, this is not, I'm not asking for, we're gonna do this with every site. We need a plan to address every site so nobody dumps there. But for those cases that are persistent, I think that I would love to see a plan on how we either assist,
 those businesses or you know I don't know penalizes them I don't know I don't know what the solution is I will lean on you for it but would like to see a way to address those kind of habitual offenders yeah we did talk about putting in the motion detective detection cameras that would you know start taking photographs as soon as anybody starts moving in that area
 and the backside of the camera is the hard part, like who's gonna watch it? So what we wanna do is approach the businesses and even if ESD,
 buys the equipment and just loans it to them for say 30 60 days to be able and then they can monitor it for us and When they see that it's been set off or they have any footage then we can come over because that that really is the limiting factor on any of this surveillance is who's watching the backside and
 i'm sure the residents at this point would be happy to do it especially if it's a hot case like that that it's you know when they reach the point where they're willing to try anything then i think that that they would be a really good partner with us to do that um yeah you know i trust you to make the decision for what's the the best um option to address that and i look forward to kind of seeing the the results of this this first step so thank you very much and thank you very much astrid
 Thank you, Representative Nello. Now, she asked a very, I thought, very important question, and it's people that don't have a water bill or something. And, I mean, I'm sure it's not a problem that just happened a minute ago. It's been a problem for quite a long time. What is that answer?
 So the citizen drop-off sites are funded by the customers of the City of El Paso on the trash. And, of course, the water utility bills does the billing for us. So that's why we ask you to bring your water bill to show that you paid trash.
 And the options that are left for the commercial, the apartment dwellers, the housing authority, are either to call whoever the private hauler is, typically it's El Paso Disposal or Heist Disposal,
 for an additional pickup at the apartment complex or what have you. Many of them don't do that. They just stack it next to the dumpster. But each one of those commercial haulers have signed a franchise agreement with Environmental Services that says that they will maintain their property either by cleaning up the illegal dumping, cleaning up the graffiti, and offering additional services as needed. So instead of twice a week pickup, they'll come and empty it three times a week.
 And so, and that's for the privilege of doing their business here at the City of El Paso, is that they have to keep their site maintained, which is one of the areas that we do fall back on. The only other option that's available to them is to call Environmental Services. We offer a special pickup for $35, and that's when we come with the claw and we'll pick up sofas or refrigerators.
 Because many times the illegal dumping is when they're moving out or when they've been evicted. And then the third option is...
 is, of course, to take it to the landfill. And we charge $16 for a pickup. Whatever you can fit in the back of a pickup is $16. Of course, there is the commercial landfill on the west side. What's the size of the pickup? Any size pickup, whatever you have, one ton, you know. There's some little ones and some really big ones. Whatever you can fit in a pickup. Representative Nello?
 Yeah, and so I understand that all of those things are options, but I have talked to individuals who have said, I went all the way to the collection station because that's what I'm here to do, and then I couldn't use it, so I just dumped myself, you know, at that family dollar specifically that's right down the street.
 And so I know that there are all of these options. People may not know about them, so if they show up to the citizen collection station, they can't use it. So I don't know if there is a way to have like a few vouchers a month at the citizen collection station that says, okay, we can give six people a month a free pass on this. If they can show that they live in a housing authority, or we can do a partnership with the housing authority.
 apartments are a little different. I don't know what the perfect solution here is. I know that you have alternatives. $16 for a pickup is not bad. Also, going back to the $35, if you leave something on the curb, you have to have a water bill to be able to do that, so it's also not an option. But I'm just saying that there are people that are showing up there, and because they're then not able to utilize the facility, they just kind of give up and throw their stuff on the street. And so if there's a way to just avoid one person from doing that,
 or a few people a month from doing that it's going to be a big savings and again I'm gonna trust you to figure out what that actual process is I am NOT the expert here but I just do I wanted to recognize that it is it's you know it's something that I'm hearing where they coined literally when pressed a coin that
 that was good for one free dump. And so then the county commissioners would hand them out to whoever they felt like really needed them. And then when they bring that coin to the facility, at the end of the month, we collect them and turn them in, and the county pays a set dollar amount for however many.
 I think like Representative Nello said, I think it's important that we make it easy. And the easier we make it, I think the more it will be utilized and the less we'll have in other areas that need. And then we've got to go pick it up anyway. And then it's going to cost us a lot more money. So if we want to be efficient, I think we need to find a way to make it easier. And whether we have X amount of days open where nothing is required to do it or whatever it may be, I don't know.
 But I think it becomes easier for us and less expensive by trying to figure out a way to make it available for people. Yeah, we did look at offering an amnesty day like the libraries do for their overdue books. Yeah, exactly. So maybe just have an amnesty day where just we won't be checking the water bills. Every day. Yeah. Right. Right. Okay. Thank you, Representative Molenhardt, followed by Representative Rivera. No, I'm sorry, Representative Salcido.
 because i hit the button and then you're next thank you mayor i just want to say thank you so much to astrid for this presentation um i definitely could see that this process is going to make it uh more efficient to be able to do all this so it's i'm really glad to see this um
 It is very important for us to all keep El Paso looking beautiful. So I do want to thank ESD. I've had many cleanups from the beginning of the year and I continue. You all have been great partners, helping me out, bring tools and whatnot and help me do these cleanups in my district. So I want to thank you all for that. Thank you. Thank you. And how many black belts do we have now? I think we're up to 300 black belts now. And we still are enrolling participants if you're interested in joining the recycling challenge.
 okay two one two six thousand we'll sign you up representative molinar thank you very much mr mayor allen always a pleasure to see you astrid thank you very much for that presentation so a couple of things while we're talking about the family dollar i'm going to talk about district 4 10 300 block of uh dire this is not to disparage them um we did receive a
 Concern from a citizen out there and so she did send some video. Unfortunately, we were not able to see it I did take two different trips out there in the field and I
 it's just absolutely amazing you saw the pictures i sent them to you and you know how family dollar does not sell mattresses there's like four or five discarded mattresses out there there is bagged trash from households that are there accumulation of trash all over the place and so that is the works and process to be cleaned up i know we need a red of entry i get that i understand that but to me whoever is doing that type of thing is just
 I think number one they're trespassing number two they're also doing illegal dumping and so talking about apartment complex I know this is in district 286 oh one Roberts and so there is a small trash bin or receptacle there for I don't know how many units in that complex
 it seems like no one picks that trash up. So when you mention right now that the apartment complex have an agreement or something like that with either one of those vendors, it's not happening there. 86-01 Roberts, I can tell you that much. Talking about the citizen collection sites, I would say, I know I brought this up last year, is there any way that let's just say one or even two days out of the year
 month that they could have extended hours and so that was brought to my attention over a year ago where People do work and yes, they do have a Saturday option. I understand that but still By the time they're doing waking up having their coffee and doing other things running errands going to Sam's Club Whatever they're gonna do with their family that day they may not be able to do what they want to do as far as this guarding trash and
 So this gentleman, he did propose, make it, let's just say, one Wednesday of the month or every other Wednesday of the month or something like that, and extended hours. And I really don't know what the hours would be. And I know probably the personnel would not want to be there until like 7 o'clock at night. I get that. I understand that. But still, what would be the impact, the benefit for everybody? I'd say it would be a win-win situation.
 uh be a win-win situation for the citizen that wants to comply wants to dispose of their trash in a proper manner and yet make sure that we're doing that the right way and i'm talking about citizen collection site i know you and i had a conversation about that but if you're a veteran you do can show your va card your dod card other form of identification marking you as a veteran and that does allow you to go into the citizen collection site without the
 water bill is that correct right the water bill it's it really just shows that you're a customer versus identification card okay and so um i was curious to know in naturalist presentations you're mentioning working with the constables i have in district four many apartment complexes and i know there's different properties not within a rental community but so i've never come across the issue where a tenant
 has been evicted and they just left their trash out there. Oh, yeah. I don't know how many times that happens, but thank God. I haven't seen one in District 4. It's more than you would think. What happens if the items are left more than two, three hours, the people who are driving by, it starts to become a free yard sale, and they just go through it and pluck out what ends up.
 it starts disappearing, and sometimes the whole pile disappears. But if it's things that are not desirable, they just get strewn down the block. Okay. I haven't seen that, but I understand that as well.
 And the evictions were put on hold for two years because of the COVID, you know, and so now that that rule has been lifted, there may be more evictions happening, you know, to be aware of. And if you see those, if you see a pile in the front yard, that's typically the sign of an eviction. So if you can call me right away, those are the ones that get out of control.
 Okay. And the last thing I'd like to cover with you, for example, just this week, we did have a concerned citizen at the 10-100 block at Gateway North, Gateway North and Trans Mountain. And I believe my legislative aide has already CR'd for that. But it's just a huge, huge accumulation of trash. There's also overgrown weeds in that. So, and that
 paradigm where there is not only an accumulation of debris trash garbage whatever but also weeds would there be a two-way mechanism to handle that at the same time
 Yes, you know now one of my new duties is to oversee the streets and maintenance department and so we're going to be figuring out ways that we can work more closely together because there's no sense in the street department going out with their medians and weeds and then right behind them comes ESD for the parkway so we're going to get together and figure
 make sure that we're doing it the best way. Okay, and that one particular area I'm talking about, so that would be the Trans Mountain, Gateway North, Gateway South. So we did have a lot of significant issue where there was, call them homeless people living there underneath the bridge. And they, of course, I, once again, on a field site visit, I did go by and, I mean, it's just,
 shopping carts, sleeping beds, they had pop-up tents out there. That's, I believe it's already been addressed, but it seems to be there's still the accumulation of whatever the residuals were from those people there, and it still needs to be cleaned up. And probably, I believe this is part of the 10-100 block of Gateway North where the people just discarded whatever they had outside of where they were living.
 And just so you know, we work really closely with the PD department when they clean up the homeless camps. So every so often they'll go in and, you know, just forcibly remove the homeless, but they leave behind everything. And so then we'll come in behind it and clean it up. And so if there's a residual from that, we'll check it out. Okay. And so the last thing I have is, for example—
 you know driving by or what i'm doing on the weekends or someplace but you know people see or i see personally uh discarded tvs you know those flat screens even those huge plasma tvs furniture what do you call it refrigerators and things like that i'm really leery of those refrigerators especially with kids that may go in there and suffocate and we'll never even know about them two or three days later and so um what's the best way to handle that because
 no one's really going to pay for that if you mentioned it's going to be 16 bucks for a pickup with using the claw but if that person doesn't know about it or maybe they do but they don't have the 16 right so again it's either 311 or the 2126000 because really the first thing we have to ascertain is whose property is it that is the very that's the bottom line you know um and tech stop wants to be notified the railroad department they absolutely wants they want to be notified
 The railroad department, they're very safety conscious and they don't want us anywhere near their tracks. So there's a lot of underlying factors, which I didn't get into the whole history lesson of how it works right now, but that's why these MOUs are so important to be able to get them to an understanding with what level of assistance are they going to allow us to do, to be more proactive.
 And, you know, as Representative Nello said, good luck with some of them. But I think that we can persuade them to let us help them and be more responsive. Because while we're notifying them, they may very well respond, but it may be two or three weeks later. Thank you.
 And that's really not what we're looking for. We want them to respond tomorrow or at least the next 48 hours. And so because it's within the city's purview, environmental services and streets and maintenance, to do that right away, that's what we do. That's what we're out there every day. We're on the streets and in the vacant lots and the alleys. And so we're really the ones who can make it happen a lot quicker.
 So the goal is to figure out a way that all of the partner agencies are comfortable with that. Okay. And I'll close on a positive note once again to you, Ellen, Astrid, and everyone else who was out there at 9550 Gateway North at the Old Glory Memorial, back-to-back Saturdays, two Saturdays in a row. It was just phenomenal, the work. There was over 100 volunteers out there cleaning, and ESD led the way, and so that was just fantastic. We thank you very much, ma'am. You're welcome.
 thank you representative um um thank you um so obviously a lot to discuss something that we all see in different parts of our community one thing that has really raised my eyes i just want to understand is we're proposing to take over the maintenance and cleanup of el paso water facilities
 Well, no, not all the facilities, just if there's a reported illegal dumping case. So I don't want you to think that we're going to be responsible for the entire linear portion of every drainage canal, because we don't really have the resources to do that. And if we did, they would have to pay us accordingly, and we would ... So they say that no good deed goes unpunished.
 I would be very very concerned about the details of an arrangement like that and the MOU because we operate under the function and have been at least for the seven years I've been in
 an arroyo a ditch something that is an El Paso water retention pond that that is something where we go and communicate very clearly that that is not the responsibility and role of the city for maintenance right and so that is there's a hefty amount of conversations that we have relating to that
 you know whether it's in some of the newer parts of the city or some of the more established parts right when district one used to reach current place which it no longer does so that is something again that
 I would just I again in theory I think it's a good idea because at the end of the day I'll pass a water or the city or the county or whatever at the end of the day People pay taxes to these entities and they want to see services in an efficient way in their communities so I can understand that and
 But I would hate for this thing all of a sudden to find out 5, 10, 15 years from now and the water utility is no longer maintaining any of their facilities, any of their retention ponds, any of their stormwater maintenance, which was the original reason why it was spun off in 2005. And we're essentially down a path where we're taking over that again.
 Again already knowing that we're stretched thin with our current budget Okay, I just I just want to be very because I could see how this could snowball into something Where it's it's much more engaged in
 That was there. And so, again, this is just for illegal dumping. Yes, sir. So, again, that would be another concern I have. I know that there was a facility, for example, it was right near District 1, and I actually had some people reach out to my office over by Belvedere behind the Westside Library. There's a large...
 facility there and there was evidently a homeless encampment. The water utility, it also had essentially acted as a nature preserve at that point, having been untouched as a water retention pond for close to 30 years.
 And the response from the water utility was to basically go in there with bulldozers and rip out all the vegetation in addition to some of the homeless encampments that were there. So I just think that moving forward, if we decide to move forward with this MOU, that the rules of engagement, the participation, and the level of participation is very, very, very clearly defined.
 already the the lines between the El Paso water utility the PSP in the city of El Paso are not black and white I know that it sort of there's the impression by you know sometimes is impression that they're two separate clearly distinct entities but if that was a case we wouldn't be approving their land sales we wouldn't be approving their bond their bond issuance right so we wouldn't be having our mayor sitting on the board there right so I
 it's already gray. And so I just think that we need to be very, very clear about what those words are because all of a sudden we could be in a position again five years from now or whatever. Our city attorney is there with their group of attorneys talking about what this one word means and how maintenance is actually the entire system and not just if there's a call or that sort of thing. Representative Shortbite? Yeah.
 I hear what you're saying and I concur with you. We will obviously be working with Ellen Smythe to go through whatever this process is going to look like at the end of the day and then make sure that we cross all our T's and dot all our I's in terms of your concerns. Thank you.
 Yeah. Thank you. Because, I mean, I guess, you know, again, it's one thing. If we're talking about taking over maintenance of the entire system or vice versa, whatever it is, like, you know, again, there isn't a black and white relationship already with El Paso Water and the city. So I think it just should really be cleared out and also thought about strategically what that means for the city and El Paso Water for the next 5, 10, 20 years. I'm not sure I would even put maintenance in that word at all because it's more like a response. A response.
 Thanks. Thank you. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. I just have a few questions. Did I hear you right to say that you're also tackling residential areas with, that really before they, are code enforcement officers pre-warning these people before they get a citation or complaint?
 Right. The way the municipal code is written right now is if there's any type of violation, whether it be storage of junk on the driveway or weeds or a junk car, whatever the case may be, the municipal code requires us to give them a notice of violation and seven days to fix it on their own. Okay. And so – and then – but on the books, we also have what we call the repeat offender rule.
 where if we've already notified you once in the last 365 days, so it's a rolling calendar, that we don't have to notify you again. Then we can just go in and clean it with no notice. So that's kind of what you would hear sometimes from your constituents, that we didn't tell them. But the way that the code is written is that we're only required to notify you once in the 365-day period.
 And then after that we've been notified and you need to be aware that you keep your property in line Okay, and then there's an area that I like to Bring up some kind of photo so I could show you to see if that owner is responsible for it It's a new rezoning with it. We did off on Saragossa the 1300 block there's a gap between the physicians hospital and the new zoning that we did and I think our repeat offenders back and
 I think they caught him with a photo camera the last time. That's how we were able to find out who it was inside him. But I think he's back doing the same thing again. Okay, I'll call you. Okay, sounds good. We'll check him out. And the other thing, I want to thank you for the presentation you did. To hear the many problems that Representative Molineux has in apartment conflicts, I would suggest that you email Ms. Smythe because she helped me with one that was really –
 along Alameda and had the same problem that you did and the trash can was overflowing and it was beyond, right? It was terrible. Right, some of the apartment complex managers, they don't pay their bill.
 And so the only way that the commercial haulers can get their attention is not to pick up the trash. And then in this extreme example, they not only didn't pick up the trash, they took the entire dumpster away. So then you just had a pile of trash in the parking lot with no dumpster. So it just went from bad to worse. So every time the wind blew, it blew onto traffic, east and west traffic on Alameda. But any of those types of just call me directly or have your staff call me and we'll work it down.
 I mean, that's what we're here for. So in conclusion, the end result was that complex, I think it's frequently painted spilnot because it was able to cement the surface and get a brand new trash bin and all my complaints stopped. It's all good. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Thank you. Representative Sarga?
 Thank you. Just real fast, I just want to thank Representative Nello for putting this item on the agenda. And I thank you, Alan, and to your team for this presentation. Thank you, Rep. Nello. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, Ms. Wright? Thank you. Thank you. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 17 to 20. You're not going to do call to the public? No, I'm kidding. I know. We've been through call to the public. That's the next item. Motion to approve. Motion to approve.
 Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve the first reading of ordinances on items 19 to 20. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. The next item is number 22, and this is
 Discussion and action on the award of solicitation number 2022-0238, Security Guard Services to Night Eyes Protective Services, Inc. Motion to approve. Do you have a question? Go ahead. I don't know who's here to answer the question. Is there a question? I do. Is it the Dixon or 60 Department? So let's have a purchasing question, but Claudia, let's see if we can get it done. Is this a service that we've had previously for fire stations? Yes.
 Yes, correct. This is a replacement contract, so we are replacing the current contract with a new one. And are these, these are for all our active fire stations? No, ma'am. This is, this is, go ahead, Jennifer. Yeah, me. Sorry, the backup just isn't opening for it, so I'm sure it's... Sorry, you're welcome, ma'am.
 This is for the location on Montana and then also the fire substations. The fire substations are going to be on a need basis or an on-call basis. Okay, so these are not facilities that are manned 24 hours a day? Correct. Okay, thanks. The backup didn't really explain that well. It's just the bidding process. So I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a second? Yes, ma'am.
 another motion by representative lizada made the second okay thank you so we have a motion in a second yes sir there's a motion in a second to approve on that motion call for the vote representative hernandez yes thank you in the voting session the motion passes unanimously representative rodriguez not present
 the next item is number 23. this is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2022-0401 south central streets phase five to jordan foster construction llc i have a question no i was just gonna say for the record this is now in district two yeah and so i would love to be briefed on this
 We can still approve it, but I still would like to be briefed on it, because I think that I had requested some of these for the upcoming bond, unaware that they were coming up. And in fact, maybe for those who are on the line, if there are any significant projects coming up in areas that were redistricted, it might be nice to just automatically go and brief us so we're aware of what's happening. So thank you. Yeah, so motion to approve.
 There's a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Lizárraga to approve item number 23. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernández? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodríguez not present. The next item is number 25. Thank you.
 And this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from RF Ranch and Farm and C4 commercial to C1 commercial and imposing conditions at 175 Midway Drive. And move to approve. Motion and a second. There is a motion and a second to approve. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session. The motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Anelo voting nay.
 And Representative Rodriguez not present. Mayor, the next two items are related, if I may read them both. Pardon me. Item 26 is a public hearing on an ordinance to amend Title V, City Liquor License Permit Fee and Liquor License Permit Term. And item 27 is discussion and action on a resolution amending Schedule C for the City of El Paso FY22 budget resolution to update the local fees local governments can charge for alcohol licenses.
 presentation please 26 27 20 26
 It's an ordinance amending Title V that was required in order to comply with recent changes made by TABC in which they consolidated some of their license and permits. As a result of those changes, the El Paso City Code required some modifications just to be aligned with the state. And item number 27 is Resolution Amending Schedule C in order to comply with those recent changes made by TABC.
 And some of the other changes that were made are some of the beer and ale changes that they made. They combined those into more beverages now and they reduced the number of licenses to 75 to 37. And I.T., can you?
 Proceed to the next slide please. And like I mentioned the local government changes. Some of the changes were to reflect the different license structures that they they created and update the local fees that local municipalities can charge for these permits and licenses and just clean up some of the TABC references in the in the city code. Does anyone have any questions.
 any questions no so is there a motion it's a motion in a second there's a motion made by representative anello seconded by representative molinar and this is to approve items 26 and 27 on that motion call for the vote representative hernandez yes thank you in the voting session and the motion passes with six affirmative votes representative salcido abstaining and representative rodriguez not present
 The next item is number 29. Did you all get the presentation? What's that? 29, District 7. What did you ask? Item 29 is discussion and action on a resolution of the City Council of El Paso nominating El Paso Health Care System Limited as a Texas State Enterprise Zone project. Did you get a presentation? We can't hear you. Do you have a presentation? Good afternoon, members of council. This is Kelly Collick from Economic Development. And I do have a presentation available for you.
 Thank you for pulling that up. So the item before you today item 29 is a Texas Enterprise Zone nomination resolution for El Paso Health Care System LTD. Next slide please LT. For a brief background on the program the Texas Enterprise Zone program is an economic development toolkit for local communities to partner with the state to encourage job creation retention
 and capital investment. El Paso is able to use this program and leverage state funds to support quality projects that will further our goals to attract and retain quality jobs and capital investment. Municipalities of our size are eligible for up to nine enterprise project designations during a state biennium and El Paso so far designated only one project during the current two-year period.
 Projects may be physically located in or outside of an enterprise zone, and the designation enables businesses to receive state tax incentives in the form of state sales and use tax refunds. The designation period is capped at five years, during which companies must meet minimum capital investment and employment thresholds. Next slide, please. To be eligible for TEZ designation, jobs must have an average weekly wage that meets or exceeds the county average weekly wage. Employment and capital investment must be met prior to the expiration of designated period
 and the company must first pay applicable sales and use tax to receive a refund. If located inside of an enterprise zone, such as this project is, 25% of the company's new employees at the qualified business site must meet economically disadvantaged, enterprise zone residency, or veteran requirements.
 Only full-time jobs will qualify for EZP award consideration, and jobs must be maintained through the end of the designation period or for at least three years after the date on which tax benefits are received, whichever is later. Next slide, please. The resolution before you today is to nominate El Paso Healthcare System, LTD, also known as Las Palmas Del Sol Healthcare. The company is headquartered in El Paso and operates 34 facilities across the region. Their Del Sol Medical Center, located at 10301 Gateway Boulevard West,
 provides multidisciplinary treatment of the 350 bed facility with a level two trauma center and additional specialty services The TZ nomination will support an 8.2 million dollar investment to update the primary surgery and catheterization laboratory at this location as well as the hiring of 10 new employees and the retention of 1,397 employees next slide please
 So here we have the location of the project depicted. This is located in District 7 along I-10 and Gateway Boulevard and sits within a Texas State Enterprise Zone as depicted in the blue shading on these two maps. Next slide, please. El Paso Health Care System, LTD, meets the criteria for designation as an Enterprise Zone project because they will invest $8.2 million, create 10 jobs, and retain 1,397 employees, of which 546 of those meet the definition of a retained job in Texas government code.
 And 25% of the new employees hired would be residents of an enterprise zone, economically disadvantaged, or veterans. Staff recommends approval of this nomination. The applicant's capital investments and employment commitments will further El Paso's business retention and expansion initiative by retaining hundreds of jobs. Additionally, there is no impact to city funds because this program involves only state sales and use tax refunds.
 Approval of this resolution will enable El Paso Healthcare System LTD's application for enterprise project designation to proceed for review and approval by the Texas Economic Development and Tourism Office. Next slide, please. To conclude, council action we are requesting today is to authorize the mayor to sign a resolution nominating El Paso Healthcare System LTD as a Texas State Enterprise Zone project. And next slide, please. That concludes my presentation. Any other questions, council?
 Thank you, Mayor. I would strongly urge my colleagues to support this issue. As we know, as was presented to you, it's very much needed in our area. I thought they had presented you with this, but when they presented it with me, to me rather, it's a very much needed project here. So I would ask for your support. I make a motion to approve.
 There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item number 29. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Mayor Pro Tem Shortspine and Representative Rodriguez not present. The next item is number 30, and this is discussion and action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a...
 collaboration agreement between the city of El Paso and lift fund together with anchor organizations and the Aspen Institute Latinos in society motion approved We do have public comment on this item, okay, we have Alejandro Manzanares that signed up to speak. Mr. Manzanares star six, please to unmute your microphone Good afternoon Thank you for being here
 Well, over the past eight and a half months, cross-sector leaders in the city of El Paso have joined other cross-sector leaders across other Latino-majority cities, such as San Bernardino, El Paso, San Antonio, Phoenix, and Chicago, on working on one particular intervention to support their Latino small business economies.
 The work put forward in the document that we call the Request for Action document that looks to support and create a one-stop shop location is a leading national best practice on entrepreneurship-led economic development. It will leapfrog El Paso's entrepreneurial ecosystem development and support and strengthen the small business landscape.
 We're very excited about this intervention. We see how cross-sector leaders have aligned around this intervention, which is an important prerequisite success. And we wanna thank the city manager as well for his support in this engagement. We will be supporting the committee and local leaders on the ground to help them implement this effort.
 And we would love to be able to uplift that as a national best practice on how a Latino-majority city was able to invest in a very culturally competent way in an innovative best practice around economic development. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Lupe Mares. Lupe Mares, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Lupe Mares, star six, please, if you're in the queue, to unmute your telephone. Lupe Mares. Lupe Mares.
 i'm not sure if you're in the queue i don't see her phone number in the queue and i don't see anyone unmuting their microphone at this point mary mayor thank you for that we have a motion and a second yes sir the motion was made by representative salcido seconded by representative lizada to approve item number 30 on that motion call for the vote representative hernandez yes thank you in the voting session the motion passes with six affirmative votes
 Mayor Pro Tem Shorthline and Representative Rodriguez not present. Thank you, Mr. Craig. Item number 34 is discussion and action that the City Council approves a change order in the amount of $168,964.54 to Lesna Construction Inc. There is a motion made by Representative Lizárraga, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Hernández.
 Yes. Thank you and the voting session. The motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Rodriguez not present. The final item is number 35. This is a presentation and introduction to the 48th year 2022-2023 annual action plan for the following federal Department of Housing and Urban Development entitlement grants.
 the Community Development Block Grant , Home Investment Partnership , Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS , and Emergency Solutions Grant programs. Good afternoon, Ms. Ferini. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Nicole Ferini, Chief Resilience Officer. If IT can bring up the presentation, please.
 Great, thank you so much. So as mentioned in the item posting, this is the action plan for the 48th year federal entitlement. That is the entitlement dollars coming from the Department of Housing and Urban Development for the fiscal year 23. Next slide, please.
 As a reminder, when we work towards deploying the entitlement funds, the Department of Community and Human Development is always working in three major areas to support the strategic plan for the city, as well as improve resilience, sustainability, and equity across our entire community. We do that work in three major areas. Enhancing civic empowerment, which is about equity and access, as well as sustainability, climate action, and volunteerism.
 We work predominantly in two other areas with the entitlement, human services, which is the work that we do in the context of providing funding to service providers in the areas of homelessness, health and well-being, as well as recreation and lifestyle. And finally, neighborhood development, which is where we push out our work in the context of housing, housing affordability, affordable housing, community revitalization, and quality of life. Next slide, please.
 So as a reminder, the entitlement that comes from the Department of Housing and Urban Development is composed of four federal grants that are aimed at serving low to moderate income populations in the following areas primarily. Neighborhood development, as I mentioned, which is housing, community revitalization, and quality of life.
 as well as human services, which are the dollars that we push out to provide services through our nonprofit partners in the areas of homelessness, health and well-being, and recreation and lifestyle. In those two areas, in this cycle, we are projecting that there will be $8.34 million available for neighborhood development. Those are the public facilities projects that you all are very accustomed to seeing, bricks and mortar type investments.
 as well as in the human services area, which is traditionally referred to as our public services. Again, money that is granted to nonprofit subrecipients to provide services to the community in the amount of $2.23 million. Overall, you are seeing $10.6 million total projected as available for fiscal year 23 under these entitlements.
 The four entitlement grants that I mentioned are the Community Development Block Grant with just over $6 million, the Home Investment Partnership Grant, which is focused on affordable housing and housing development, as well as single-family rehabilitation and first-time homebuyer programs at a little more than $2.5 million.
 The Emergency Solutions Grant, which is wholly focused on addressing homelessness in our community at just over $1.5 million. And our Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS program at just over $700,000. Next slide, please.
 Just as a reminder, the planning process is well underway. This process is a year long and it starts when the Council adopts our policies and procedures every year. For this cycle, you all approved the policies and procedures last summer. We then move through a very robust process that includes applications from nonprofits as well as receiving citizen request forms in terms of the needs of this community.
 We move through that selection process and it culminates with your adoption of the final action plan. Today we are introducing the draft annual action plan. We will then open the action plan for 30 days of public comment. So to be clear, we are not requesting any action today. We are merely introducing this item and opening it up for that public comment. We will bring it back after the 30-day public comment period closes.
 And at that time, we will be asking for adoption of the recommended annual action plan by the council. And also as a reminder, this funding becomes available on September 1st when the new fiscal year begins. Next slide.
 A little more detail in the human services category. The bulk of these dollars are being invested in addressing homelessness in our community. This council has heard me speak many, many times about the challenges that we are facing coming out of two years of a global pandemic and the amount of work and coalition building that we have done over the last two years leveraging predominantly recovery dollars. This is a return to utilizing our regular entitlement dollars to continue that work.
 We are recommending award to nine community partners. A little over 1,000 individuals are projected to be served through 10 programs and seven program categories for a total of $1.56 million. Next slide, please. These funds, as they continue to address homelessness, are continuing to address the areas that we've talked about many times. Homeless prevention in the form of rental assistance,
 case management, which we know is so desperately needed in our community to help hold the hands of these individuals as they build back and get on their feet. Street outreach so that we are accessing those individuals who are most vulnerable where they are and providing them access to services.
 providing expanded shelter and other support services, but ultimately culminating in what we hope will be permanent housing opportunities for those individuals. That is ultimately the formula for addressing homelessness in our community. All four of these areas are very critical in order to provide for the needs of the most vulnerable as we have learned very, very well over the last two years. Next slide, please.
 There is also a need to invest in some specialized service programs. Here what you're seeing is an investment of just over, I'm sorry, just under $300,000 in supporting women who are experiencing homelessness and folks who are experiencing or survivors of domestic violence through the Center Against Sexual and Family Violence and the YWCA.
 We are also supporting through our innovative program in incubator this year at $80,000, a justice involved case management program with the Opportunity Center for the Homeless. We have observed over the last two years specifically that there is a large population of justice involved or criminal justice involved
 individuals who are also experiencing homelessness. And so case management is extremely critical, again, in reducing recidivism back into the criminal justice system, but also getting folks ultimately housed. We are also supporting through our HOPWA program, Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS. Once again, just over 700,000 directly to the city of El Paso Department of Public Health, who has administered that program for many years very successfully. Next slide.
 Also in the human services category, we are supporting programs that are supportive of health and well-being as well as recreation and lifestyle programs throughout this community. We've identified seven community partners across seven different programs and are projecting to serve just over 2,000 El Pasoans across four program categories. This number is just over $600,000 in investment. Next slide, please.
 You can see here that there's a variety of groups that we are supporting in this area, programs for children and youth, particularly focused on youth who are particularly vulnerable and are in a specific kind of need, supporting programs that provide respite and urgent residential care, as well as the CASA program, which is Court Appointed Special Advocates.
 We are also supporting programs that provide for persons with disabilities and our seniors. Again, looking at...
 supporting the money management program for Project Amistad, as well as elderly case management in the area of homelessness with the Opportunity Center. You can see here specifically that while we are supporting health and wellness, as well as recreation and lifestyle programs, we are still being informed by the vulnerability and the community needs assessments that have been already deployed over the last couple of years and really leaning in where we think we can have the most impact.
 We are also supporting recreational set-asides for the YWCA. There are programs for seniors and disabled physical recreation. We are supporting medical and mental health at just under $300,000. Again, for the Center Against Sexual and Family Violence, mental health services for survivors of domestic violence, as well as integrated primary health care with Project VITA. Next slide, please.
 Neighborhood Development, these are the bricks and mortar projects that we would have formally referred to as public facilities. We are recommending award to four different community partners with just over 11,000 El Pasoans reached. Five different projects in four different project categories to the tune of just over $4 million. Next slide please. You can see here that the large scale recommendation at just $4 million.
 well, I'll say $2.6 million, just over $2.6 million is being recommended, awarded to HOME, which is our housing authority for the development of the Alamito Stream Center, which is in District 8. Also on the small scale quality of life projects in Districts 2 and 4, we are recommending a variety of projects in both park improvements as well as accessibility upgrades.
 we are recommending support, ongoing support of our volunteer housing rehabilitation program, which is deployed through a nonprofit known as Rebuilding Together. They will be focusing on rehabilitating single-family homes through volunteer work in both District 2 and 4. Next slide please.
 Finally, also under neighborhood development, our housing programs. We are hoping to be able to invest in 89 affordable housing units in three different program areas this year in the amount of $4.2 million. This is through the Home Investment Partnership Grant.
 And again, we have over the last five years and predominantly over the last three since we published our regional housing plan, adjusted our program policies so that we can encourage private sector investment and leveraging of funds so that we can produce even more affordable housing units
 than ever before. Just as a reminder, in previous years, the home entitlement was deployed on its own. Multifamily developments were built entirely utilizing home funds.
 In recent years, we have changed that policy to encourage, again, that private sector investment and leveraging of home funds as a part of the capital stack to produce, again, more affordable housing units, which we know is more important than ever, given the state of the housing market today and the economic impact of COVID-19. Next slide, please.
 So this is a projection and I want specifically on this slide to emphasize that these are projections and with the home entitlement, we will be watching carefully how effective these programs are. And I want to note that ultimately we may come back to this council to shift some of the funding around depending on what we see.
 happening again in the market and on the ground with private development. We are at this time recommending $2.5 million for affordable rental housing development, which is rehabilitation and or a new construction of affordable rental units by developers.
 We are also recommending $1.1 million for our occupied rehab program, which is the rehabilitation of single-family homes that are owned and occupied by low- to moderate-income El Pasoans. There are some challenges with this program, again, given the current value of housing stock in our community as compared to what the federal regulatory structure will allow, so we'll be watching this very closely.
 There is a similar challenge on the first-time homebuyer assistance program. We are currently projecting $600,000 in that program right now. That program provides down payment assistance and closing cost assistance for first-time homebuyers who qualify. One of the challenges that we have is that in previous years, the Department of Housing and Urban Development has capped
 the value of the home to be purchased at $165,000. We raised a lot of red flags about that cap earlier this year when we started to see the sale price of homes in our community and the availability of homes at $165,000 was extremely limited at best.
 And so the Department of Housing and Urban Development has recognized the state of the market and has raised that cap, but only raised it to $185,000. And so we still are,
 What I will say is skeptical about how effective this program can be under these market conditions, but we will be watching it closely and doing our absolute best to work with El Pasoans who qualify for this program. As that develops, we will be briefing the council on any changes that might occur. Next slide, please.
 That's the end of my presentation. The only final note that I'd like to make, because we like to brief the Council on the overall state of the entitlement as it changes over the course of time. And you all will recall that many times I have said that the entitlement has decreased significantly over the past 20 years.
 We recently took a look at our projections for this year as compared to the last 10 years. And just to give you an idea of what we are seeing, CDBG alone has decreased by 40% in the last 10 years – about 40%, it's 39% and change.
 But that is raw numbers, a 40% decrease in raw dollars that does not account for any kind of inflation. And as we all know, particularly in the context of construction projects right now, your dollars go significantly less far than they would have 10 years ago. So a 40% decrease in CDBG represents really a significant obstacle in terms of being able to deliver
 large and impactful projects with those dollars. And that's just something that we want to advise the council of and continue to keep you informed about the state of the entitlement. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. Yes, Representative Ranallo. And thank you for the presentation. Yes, sir. Hi, Nicole, thank you. I have a question about slide 11. So I know that District 2 and District 4 are allocated how much money?
 So it's typically a half a million dollars per district. And you'll recall that this year, this looks a little bit different. And we have worked very closely with your office, as well as with Representative Molinar's office, based on the number of applications that came into our office that were both eligible and feasible. And so these are the projects that fell into both of those categories. And so we were able to push some
 some additional dollars into District 2 proper with Wainwright Park improvements. But you know this as well as I, that Wainwright Park is very close to the boundary between District 2 and District 4, and so that's something that we were able to work with both of your offices on, so that we could provide that amenity for the community.
 yeah thank you I mean I just wanted to highlight that I think that you know with the CDBG funding it's definitely there are some areas of town district 2 is not one of them where these dollars don't qualify so I'm really glad that we could find a park in the Northeast that could benefit both districts so thank you Nicole for bringing that up absolutely representative and with that thank you very much thank you so much is there a motion to approve the introduction
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve the introduction on that motion. Call for the vote. It's listed for action? Okay. It's an introduction. 30 days for introduction, be back in 30 days. Thank you. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present.
 That brings us to the end of the agenda. Is there a motion to retire into executive session? Second. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into Executive Session pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss any of the following. Executive Session Item 1, Connie Patterson Jimenez versus City of El Paso, Matter Number 21-1039-1930, Under 551.071. Executive Session Item 2, Texas Gas Service requests to approve continued use of financial instruments for hedging gas costs
 for the 2022-2023 heating season, pattern number 22-1008-192 under 551.071, executive session item three, application of El Paso Electric Company to revise its energy efficiency cost recovery factor and establish revised cost caps, Public Utility Commission of Texas, docket number.
 53551, matter number 22-1008-193, under 551.071, Executive Session Item 4, Application of El Paso Electric Company to Change Rates to Open Access Transmission Tariff, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
 Docket number ER22-282-000. Matter number 21-1008-183 under 551.071. Executive Session Item 5. Application of El Paso Electric Company to Change Rates, Public Utility Commission of Texas.
 Token number 52195, matter number 21-1008-174, under 551.071. Executive Session Item 7, Purchase Lease Exchange of Real Property Held by El Paso Water Utilities, PSB, matter number 22-1009-1145, under 551.072.
 And Executive Session Item 8, Quarterly Litigation Report Matter Number 19-1021-1210 under 551.071. These matters are taken into Executive Session under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney, and 551.072, Deliberation Regarding Real Property. It is 3.15 p.m. Council, may we have a motion to come out of Executive Session? There's a motion and a second to come out of Executive Session. All in favor?
 Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 5.07 p.m. Mayor Pro Tem EX1. That the city attorney be authorized...
 to attend mediation negotiated settlement agreement for the case entitled patterson jimenez connie versus the city of el paso cause number two zero two zero dcv three three eight nine in addition the city attorney is authorized to sign all necessary documents to effectuate any such settlement under matter number twenty one dash one zero three nine dash nineteen thirty adopted this twenty fourth day of may two thousand and twenty two let's go
 There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein and read into the record and seconded by Representative Rivera to authorize settlement authority. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. I'm not in. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representatives Anello and Rodriguez not present. EX2? Aye.
 uh ex2 uh may 24th that the city of el paso the city council of the city of el paso approves the request of texas gas service company a vision of one gas inc for written approval for continued use of financial instruments for hedging gas costs for the 2022-2023 heating season approved this 24th day of may 2020.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsline, seconded by Representative Lizada as read into the record. To approve the request on that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session, the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representatives Anello-Rodriguez not present. EX3? EX3, yes.
 motion made second and carry that the city attorney is authorized to retain norman gordon as outside counsel and any other necessary consultants in consultation with the city manager of final intervention in the application revised its energy efficiency cost recovery factor filed by el paso electric on may 2nd 2022 in republic utility commission of texas docket number five three five five one and s-o-a-h docket number four seven three dash twenty two
 2610 approved this 24th day of May 2022 second there's a motion made by mayor Tim Shores wine seconded by representative Rivera has read into the record to file an intervention on that motion call for the vote representative Hernandez yes thank you in the voting session the motion passes with six affirmative votes representatives on a load Rodriguez not present x4 no action
 x5 motion made seconded and carried the city attorney and city manager authorized settlement authority to sign all settlement documents resolve all issues in Texas public utility Commission docket number five two one nine five application I'll pass electric for a change representative shorts fine mayor pro temp if we may we have a short presentation for the council and the public to see the proposed settlement before you all vote on the item okay
 And then members of El Paso Electric obviously are here to answer your questions. Council also, Mr. Norman Gordon is on Teams available to answer questions if you have questions from him as well. Thank you, Ms. Neiman. And then also on the line is outside counsel for El Paso Electric, Mr. Brett Slogan. This is Don Davey with the City Attorney's Office to discuss the application of El Paso Electric to change its range in the proposed settlement. IT, we need the presentation for EX5, please. Thank you.
 Open session item. It's labeled open session. Yes, counsel, it's in the flash drive. It's titled open session for EX5. Once again, this is Donald Dave from the city attorney's office to discuss the application of El Paso Electric to change its rates in the proposed settlements.
 Here's a history and timeline of El Paso Electric's rate case. El Paso Electric filed their case back in June of 2021. In October 20th of 2021, City Council denied El Paso Electric's request for an increase. November 3rd would be the effective date for the implementation of these rates. El Paso Electric and the city and the intervenors entered into mediation discussions on February 24th.
 Settlement discussions continued March through May and we're here today to present a presentation to City Council.
 Here's a general overview of the settlement terms of the rate case. Originally, under El Paso Electric's filed request, they requested a $41.8 million increase, so the overall impact to revenue. There was ultimately a settlement of $13.5 million, which is a 68% reduction from El Paso Electric's original request, or about a $28.3 million differential.
 Under El Paso Electric's original request, they requested a rate of return of 10.3%, and that was ultimately settled, or proposed settled, of 9.35%. Other items regarding revenue increases are the depreciation expense and a COVID expense rider and deferred income tax, as can be seen on the screen.
 Other settlement terms with regard to rate design have to do with the DG solar fee, the monthly SGS charge, and ultimate impact to residential base rate. The DG solar fee was an increase of 25 cents. There was a 5% reduction in the monthly SGS charge and about a 12% reduction under a proposed settlement for the impact to the base rates.
 This graph shows the total rate payer, the 13.5 rate payer impact and how it's broken down in this graph, which about 5.15 million is to the base rate increase, about $6 million to retiring plants, about a million dollars in rate case expense at about $1.6 million in COVID expenses. This number is further reduced by excess community deferred income taxes, about $6 million,
 for a total impact on rate payers of about 7.5 approximately 7.5 million dollars the overall impact to the average residential monthly bill as originally proposed and filed by El Paso Electric would have increased the average residential monthly bill approximately ten dollars a month under the proposed settlement the increase would be approximately two dollars and twenty cents
 Other factors and additional savings as part of this proposed settlement is a reduction in the purchase price of the Asletta right-of-way purchased by El Paso Electric to approximately $8 million as of 12-31-22, and this is applicable to the Texas ratepayers. Additionally, there was a reduction of approximately $500,000 to a spare turbine purchase by El Paso Electric.
 Other settlement terms, as discussed before in the first slide, there's a relation back of the effective date of these implementation of these rates to November 3rd, 2021. Proposed approval of interim rates and conditional approval of this settlement would be conditional on final wording in the settlement documents. I'm available to take any questions along with Norman Gordon, who's online, and El Paso Electric is also here with their representatives. Thank you.
 Representative Hernandez. Hi, thank you for that presentation. I do have a question for El Paso Electric representatives if they're available. Jim, he's on his way up. He just got here. Okay, there's a delay on my end. Hi there. I understand that the settlement agreement says that this, that it will allocate Newman 6 cost as a system resource. What does that mean and what is EPE's intent?
 So the settlement adopts what's called a baseline for generation for use of the generation cost recovery rider when Newman 6 goes into commercial operation. So just as with the DCRF and the TCRF, the generation baseline is set based on the outcome of this case in terms of,
 how the dollars are allocated and a system resource reference is basically saying that Newman 6 when EPE filed at CCN was identified as a resource for both jurisdictions. So it
 originally procured as part of our portfolio with solar resources and battery to serve Texas and New Mexico. So what the GCRR baseline does in the settlement is it adopts the percentage that's applicable to Texas, at least pursuant to the CCN, which is about 80% of the total.
 Okay, so if I'm understanding, you said that there was two jurisdictions, so that's New Mexico and Texas. Correct. So why would we have a baseline for New Mexico if we're in Texas?
 No, the baseline's for Texas. So the- Okay, so Texas for 80% and that's all it means. Correct. So what is the intent with that provision? Can you clarify? Because as you're aware, this, and I think you and I and others have had conversations before, we wanna be clear to the public on what your intentions are with Human 6. We need to have transparent conversations about that. So can you clarify what El Paso Electric's intent is with that language?
 So again, specifically it is to identify the portion of Newman Unit 6 that as a result of the CCN, Texas has cost responsibility for that portion. So 80%. Our current allocation of most production resources between Texas and New Mexico is approximately 80-20 because Texas is about 80% of our total sales. New Mexico is the other 20%.
 So in light of the in light of what's happening in New Mexico and that legislation is there going to be any different intent or is there going to be any different requests that the rapiers of El Paso and Texas can expect.
 So what we will be doing is evaluating whether or not additional amounts of Newman 6 would be appropriate for Texas. But none of that, if we go that route, that evaluation takes place outside of the rate case. In other words, the only thing the rate case is authorizing through the stipulation is really reflecting is what has already been authorized by the commission in Texas when they approve the CCN.
 So what it means for the the for the commission the Texas commission to approve Newman 6 as a system resource is that the only allocation for Texas is Texas as usual proportional which is about 80 percent. So would this language allow for a system share across both jurisdictions.
 I believe there's actually language in the stipulation to the effect that the 80% is actually laid out in the stipulation itself for Texas. And there's language in the stipulation that says there's no authorization for anything beyond the 80% unless EPE goes back to the commission and requests it and gets it. And so the stipulation is very clear about Texas's portion of Newman Unit 6, and that's the 80%.
 Right, but is that the intent for it to be 80%? I mean, can you just explain so that the average typical rate payer in El Paso understands that your intent is for 80%? Is that the intent of El Paso Electric today? Yes. So at least with respect to the settlement in the rate case, the intent is 80%.
 As you know, we're always looking as to whether or not Texas needs additional resources. And so when we're evaluating new resources for Texas, it'll be based on what is the most cost-effective way to serve Texas. If that means that our evaluation says that taking the rest of Newman 6 and serving Texas is cost-effective for Texas, we have to consider that.
 because that's certainly the way the commission looks at what should be authorized for for serving customers but that is for
 consideration later at least with respect to the stipulation here there's no I don't think there's any question I think mr. Gordon would agree and in fact he had the you know the language that we have in there is specifically to address this issue is that the only thing that the stipulation authorizes for Newman six and Texas purposes is the 80% okay so if I'm understanding correctly currently
 Your your this this language would say that the 80% would be for Texas ratepayers But you're saying that down the road after consideration for the additional 20% which would make the hundred percent for El Paso ratepayers it may they may be better off by having that entire system serve this this jurisdiction and
 However, I think that's what I understood. And I don't I'm just trying to paraphrase so I can convey this to my constituents. However, that is starkly different from what you all had told us in the beginning. And so I take issue with that because when you all give us your word, I go back to my constituents and I said, this is what the El Paso electric has said. This is what I am supportive. And this is why I want to collaborate.
 and work with the utility. So when that changes, it puts us in a predicament of like there's no trust here. It's lies, there's other intentions, there's other motivations. And so why I'm asking if the intent is to share that, that resource,
 at Newman 6 for the entire jurisdiction in Texas then you need to be clear and honest with that because that is not what El Paso Electric has said in the beginning. And if you want to have continued conversations and trust and relationships with with this jurisdiction that has regulatory authority over this utility then you need to be honest about your intentions. Not an exploration. Tell us what that what your end goal is.
 Well, there is no end goal. The goal is to identify the best resources, the lowest cost resources, and best resources to serve our customers. So when the CCN was originally issued for...
 for Newman 6 in Texas, it was specifically that. It was a, we proposed it as a system resource. We proposed, as we did the other 200 megawatts of solar, the battery storage facility, that was all proposed as system resources and it was proposed specifically because that selection, that portfolio of resources was the low cost answer portfolio to serve all of our customers.
 When that was rejected in New Mexico, it didn't change the 80% portion for Texas, as I think is clearly laid out in the stipulation. And that's why the 80% is in there for the baseline. But that doesn't mean we don't in the future evaluate, okay, now we need more resources for Texas. What's the least cost resources available to customers?
 I don't think that the answer is to say, well we'll accept a higher cost resources to serve our customers because we don't wanna use the remaining 20% of Newman. That's an analysis that needs to occur as we evaluate other resources, cost of other resources, that hasn't happened yet. And so I can't tell you what the outcome of that will be. I will tell you that we look at the lowest cost way to reliably serve our customers.
 Okay. And then just for, um, uh, for, for purposes of the public, I want to read the language where I can take an issue with, and I have concern about a past elections intent. Um, it says under the agreement, a baseline is set for the future GCRR filings.
 The agreed GCRR baseline includes a jurisdictional allocator consistent with the treatment of new men in Unit 6 as a system resource which will be used unless EPE petitions outside a GCRR filing and the treatment as a statement resource is then otherwise modified in a subsequent Commission order.
 And so it's unclear to me what the intent is. I wanted to share that with the public so they're fully aware on what is being proposed by El Paso Electric. For me, that is saying that Texans may be on the hook.
 for additional cost. A commitment that El Paso Electric, that if you do change that, you are changing your word to this body. And so I wanted to be clear that I have concerns with this and that when there is a potential change or a modification, then be reminded that this is going to be a concern from this body. Okay.
 I'll just say I think that the that that condition in the stipulation is very clear and that is that nothing can happen with Respect to Newman six and Texas ratepayers beyond the 80% unless it's petitioned separately by the company and approved by the Commission I
 And is that El Paso Electric's intention to separately modify and go back to the commission for modified stipulations so that Texans would be on the hook for New Mexicans portion.
 Well, I would say Texas customers would be receiving the lowest cost resources available, but that analysis hasn't been done yet. There is no intention other than to always evaluate all the resources available to our Texas customers and our New Mexico customers and provide them the lowest cost reliable resources. Is it the intention of El Paso Electric to conduct an analysis to make Texans rate payers responsible for that 20%?
 The analysis is to determine the best resources low cost resources to reliably serve Texas. That's the analysis that will take place. DIRECTOR HARRIS But what is the reasoning for the analysis to be determined at this time. Is it so that we can determine where those 20 percent will be recouped or is it to.
 Or is it to determine what is in the best interest of Texans? It is the second, to determine what is in the best interest of our Texas customers with respect to price and reliability. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Mayor Pro Temp. Yeah, Representative Hernandez brought up a lot of my issues and concerns. Can you tell us here today that you're not going to petition the PUC for recovering the 20% for New Mexico? No.
 No, as I said, that requires an analysis to determine what the best portfolio of resources is needed to serve Texas. So no, I wouldn't make that commitment. Our commitment is to find the lowest cost, reliable set of resources to serve our Texas customers. That's it. Even if we have to pay for New Mexico's resources as well.
 You're not paying for New Mexico resources. There's 20% that was going to go to New Mexico. If the entire Newman 6, hypothetically, power station was used to serve Texas, Texas would only be paying for the power that they get. They're not paying for power that someone else is getting. They're just paying for a resource that's supplying them.
 Again, the analysis is to, that's future analysis, is to determine what's the best portfolio of resources. I think it would be irresponsible for us to determine that the lowest cost set of reliable resources to serve Texas includes all of Newman Six, but we're not gonna do it. We're gonna do something more expensive. I just, I'm. I don't think, I don't think the way that you're framing it is particularly,
 honest about it. The reality is that the New Mexico PUC made a statement to look out for their consumers. We here in El Paso have only one energy provider which is El Paso Electric. And with your lack of commitment towards going to the PUC, you're going to saddle Texans, El Pasoans, with the costs of New Mexico's part of Newman 6th.
 I'm just trying to understand as simple as possible. Why should our community pay for New Mexico and pay for their energy here today? They should not. Texas customers will not pay for New Mexico energy. But, again, that only happens if you commit towards not petitioning the PUC of Texas. Are you willing to do that here today? No. Then we will be paying for it. We have the potential for paying for it. Texas customers will never pay for energy supplied to New Mexico.
 Again, you're asking for the recovery. You built Newman 6. El Paso Electric built Newman 6 with the expectation that the system would pay back that capital expense, both New Mexicans and Texans for it. And clearly in this language, it says that you can petition for the Texas PUC to recover all of the costs of the system resource. And all of the power will be supplied to Texas in that instance.
 again it again I think representative Hernandez said it as well you know this is asking this is a lack of confidence building with this you're not willing to go and and commit here today towards towards us not having to pay outside of our portion of us having to pay for this cost when it was communicated at the beginning with Newman 6 which this council had issues with that we would not be paying for
 over building of this structure and we wouldn't be paying for New Mexico and what we hear it what we're hearing here today is that we that down the road at some point you might go to the PUC of Texas and saddle this community with another cost that we had no choice in in in controlling again Texas customers will not pay for power that they don't receive that is supplied to New Mexico are you willing to commit to not go into the PUC to pay for those portions
 No, our commitment is to provide the lowest cost power and reliable resources to our Texas customers. And I understand that, and that's a great mission statement on behalf of El Paso Electric, but it doesn't change the fact that our community is going to be saddled yet again with the potential cost from El Paso Electric that we didn't ask for and questionable if we need. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Jim, so based on all the questions we've had right now,
 When you go for reimbursement of Newman 6, well, we only have to pay 80% of it, and if we have to pay at some point 100% of it, you said only the El Paso or Texas customers will have the ability to use Newman 6 as they're paid for. Is that correct?
 I didn't catch the last part. So you're saying if Texas has to pay 100% of Newman 6, only Texas will have the ability to use Newman 6 for energy? Of course. So New Mexico, if not paying for it, will have to have energy from other sources? And are those sources that would have been available to Texas without Newman 6? No. We will procure resources specifically for New Mexico.
 And Newman 6, when we talked about building Newman 6, one of the reasons was it was going to be more efficient and provide power at a lesser cost to the citizens of El Paso. So we'll see some of those savings based on that? Yes. It was, as I stated earlier, Newman 6 was identified as a portion of the portfolio of resources to do just that, to supply the lowest cost.
 possible for reliable resources to serve Texas load Newman six as you said is more efficient it uses by our estimates about 600 million gallons less water per year than the other resources at at the Newman station that's replacing but ultimately that the determination of that set of resources was based on price and reliability the ability to serve load at peak
 In the future that same analysis takes place The first question is do we need additional resources to serve Texas load? Because of low growth in Texas and retirement of other resources And then an evaluation is done of okay. What's the best set of resources to supply the that load? if if
 And that is open to all resources. It's open to solar resources and wind resources and natural gas resources and anything else that's available. And based on cost, that analysis is done to say, okay, what's the portfolio or what resources are best to serve this load at the lowest possible price? The same analysis that we do every time we look at having to procure additional resources to serve load. So based on what you just told me,
 New Mexico ratepayers will pay more because they won't have the ability to utilize Newman-Six if they didn't pay anything for it. Well, typically, yes. Capacity resources, I mean, gas resources like Newman-Six are probably the lowest cost capacity resource
 And so, you know, New Mexico is probably looking at additional storage resources, battery energy storage, additional other resources like solar, which contribute less to peak, but they can supply demand in energy. So what we're looking at is just that. It's identifying the resources to serve Texas and identifying the resources to serve New Mexico.
 But I don't want to, I want to make sure we're clear about this. Newman 6, at least as it is today, 80% of it is authorized to serve Texas. And that's what the GCRR baseline and those percentages are identified in the stipulation for exactly that reason. So that we can move forward with that same 80% and say this is the amount that,
 that goes to, not only is this the amount of the plant energy and capacity that'll be supplied to Texas, but it's the amount of the cost that would be recovered. In order to justify a larger percentage of that for Texas, it would be we need additional resources to serve Texas, that's the first question. And then the second would be, okay, what's the lowest cost way to supply those resources?
 And in that, in a hypothetical where we do that analysis and we say those additional available Newman resources are the best thing for Texas, then that's what we propose to do. It's a very big hypothetical because you have to identify all the resources, how much Texas needs, but yes, I mean that's the process, but from the perspective of the stipulation
 There's no question that nothing has changed from the original CCN regarding the 80% for Texas. I think this body wants to be assured that our rate payers get the lowest rate possible and they don't pay for energy that someone's not willing to pitch in and pay for the technology that will provide that type of energy.
 I'd like to make sure that your commitment says all of the production from Newman 6 would go to El Paso or Texas. Great payers were paying for that plant and will entitle us to the last six. Right, exactly, because I think that's really important. And is there a way to look at that plan?
 a chart that shows us the savings based on Newman 6 and non-savings to New Mexico ratepayers because they're not utilizing that technology. Would that be a way for us to be able to check and balance? Well, again, in the hypothetical, the decision was ultimately made to go to the commission, the Texas commission, and say here's a set of resources to serve additional Texas load.
 then that analysis would have to demonstrate of all the resources available to EP that this, the ones that were selected, are the lowest cost reliable resources to serve. And then in that instance, I would say yes, that's exactly what we show. We show the cost of all the competing portfolios, and we demonstrate that the one that we've selected is the lowest cost set of resources.
 And I think Representative Hernandez very well said that we don't want to pay, and you said we wouldn't, but I think it's important that we repeat it, that we don't want to pay for technology for another state that's not willing to carry their weight when it comes to developing this type of technology. And she was very clear that we do not want to pay for it. And I'm hearing you saying that we will not, and we want your word that we won't have to pay for it.
 And you said that we wouldn't. I mean, you've said it more than once. Well, yes. What I've said is in the rate case, what we're talking about here, nothing has changed. And that language is in the stipulation specifically to make the point that nothing has changed.
 and that for anything to change in the future requires future proceedings, future analysis, and everything else. And so we made an attempt in the stipulation to draw a line, at least with respect to Newman 6, and say that rate case does not affect anything that's happened so far with respect to what has already been approved for Newman 6. And it's obvious that we would have the opportunity to intervene in that type of, if that ever happened. Yes. All right. Thank you, sir.
 No other questions. Thank you again for your time. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem. Yeah, I just also said I think one of the things that was shown on here is also that the distributed generation solar minimum has also been increased. And I'm curious about what are the thoughts from El Paso Electric about that increase to our residents? Mm-hmm.
 You've been here all day. What's a couple more minutes? I'm happy. I'll just stick around. So you're referring to the $30 minimum bill? Yes. The quarter increase in that. So, again, in a settlement agreement, all the parties lay out their sides, and then all the parties come to an agreement. That agreement is primarily between –
 or the issue I would say is primarily not between the company and but the staff of the PUC and other parties to say we need to.
 It's essentially a negotiated amount. I think one rationale would be that rates are going up for all residential customers, and so the baseline would increase slightly, 25 cents over the $30. But again, I would characterize that as a condition for settlement to get an agreement with all parties. Do you think these increases on the solar minimum help to develop solar economic development opportunities in our community?
 Well, I'll tell you that I think that the minimum bill is primarily a mechanism to reduce the amount of subsidy to DG customers paid by non-DG customers. It isn't intended to either encourage or discourage rooftop solar. And in fact, to go back to the 2017 case where it was originally came out of another settlement,
 Solar installations in Texas exploded after the $30 minimum bill. I don't necessarily attribute it to the minimum bill, but it clearly didn't hold anything back with respect to the expanded rooftop solar production. Would you support a lowering of the solar minimum in future rate cases? Yes.
 I'll say that there's a provision in that is being considered in the I'm being careful here just because you know the signed on to the stipulation
 But one provision that's considered there is a commitment by the company to work with all the parties to look at specifically that, whether it's the minimum bill. You'll recall we at one time had proposed a demand charge for DG customers. So the commitment is to look at this going forward after the rate case to look at the options for DG rate design. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Member Proctor. Thank you.
 there's neiman mayor if the council doesn't have any other questions you can move forward with we don't considering the motion yes ma'am we don't thank you thank you i believe i read it into the record already do we have a second by representative the motion was made by mayor potem schwartzbein seconded by representative rivera and this is to
 that the city attorney and city manager be authorized settlement authority to sign all settlement documents to resolve all issues in Texas Public Utility Commission docket number 52195, application of El Paso Electric for rate change. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session. The motion passes with five affirmative votes. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein voting nay. Representatives Anelo Rodriguez not present.
 Ex. 7. No action. Ex. 8. No action. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Nay. And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, May 24, 2022 is adjourned at 5.48 p.m. Good job, everyone. Good night.