Good morning, Representative Molinar. Good morning. Senator Hernandez. I can't see anybody else on there right now. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. I do see a quorum on the screen. Would you like to get started? Yes, ma'am. Good morning, everyone.
 Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, May 25th, 2021. It is 9.01 a.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding, and we begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine? Present. Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez?
 Here. Molinar. Present. Salcido. Present. Rodriguez. Good morning. Here. Rivera. Good morning. Here. Thank you. We have a quorum. Representative Lizárraga has requested to be excused and we begin the meeting with an invocation delivered by Police Chaplain Joe Morata. Good morning, sir. Good morning, everyone. I'm hoping that you can hear me. Okay. So thank you for the opportunity. Let's pray.
 Heavenly Father, we thank you for your goodness and mercies toward us. We thank you for this day and the life and strength to be of service to you and to this community. We pray for peace upon our city and its residents. We ask for comfort for the grieving, strength for the weak, a voice for the voiceless, and peace where there is discord. Sorry, last one.
 officials as they conduct the city's business. We ask that you bless them with wisdom and understanding as they hear, read, discuss, and make decisions on the issues impacting this city and the lives of its individual residents. Father, grant discernment to them for the challenges and difficulties as they seek to make El Paso a better place to live, a better place to work, a better place to start and raise families, and a better place to retire.
 We look to you for guidance, direction. May your presence permeate this meeting today in our city and our community. And keep your hand upon everyone in your name. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. And now to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, our first graders from Mrs. Herrera's class at Ramona Elementary at the invitation of Representative Cassandra Hernandez. This morning we have Gavin Avila, Waylon Brown, John Carrion, Isabella Christian,
 excuse me Francisco de la Cruz Zachary Guzman Riley Jordan Jaden Lita Mariana Lopez Mia Mendoza Isaiah Meyer Bianca Montes Alexander Mosher Jaden Olivas Dania Quesada Kaitlyn Robles as Roger Rodriguez Sophia Rondan Amaya Saucedo Ariana Torres and Penelope Torres good morning
 for peace and justice and being visible. Thank you. That brings us... Great job, Guy. Thank you very much. That was great, and I want to thank you all for making our morning, and you know, we just said that, you know, make El Paso a better place to live and a better place to be, and I can tell that with you all, you helped us do that this morning, and I want to thank you and look forward to meeting every one of you all. Thank you, and may God bless everyone. Thank you, Mayor.
 That brings us to the Mayor's proclamations. Before we get started, Ms. Pryne, I'd like to have a moment of silence this morning for George Floyd and his family. Thank you, Ms. Pryne. Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the Mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is International Internal Audit Awareness Month. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. The commission city of El Paso, Texas. Whereas internal auditing is a vital part of strengthening organizations and protecting stakeholders.
 of both the public and private sectors and whereas internal auditing helps identify and manage the organization's risks and ensures policies procedures and controls are in place and working appropriately and whereas internal auditing is an increasingly sophisticated and complex activity requiring specialized knowledge training and education
 And whereas internal auditing is an established profession with globally recognized code of ethics and international standards for the professional practice of internal auditing, and whereas the Institute of Internal Auditors, the internal audit professions, most widely recognized advocate, educator, and provider of standards, guidance, and certifications celebrates its 80th anniversary in 2021,
 And whereas historically the global internal audit profession promotes awareness about its value during the month of May each year and whereas the contribution of internal auditors to the success of organizations and the global economy at large deserves our recognition and commendations and whereas we congratulate both the Institute of internal auditors and
 on its 80th anniversary and the IIA El Paso chapter on its 42nd anniversary. And now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that this month of May shall be known as International Internal Audit Awareness Month, signed this 25th day of May by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Thank you, Representative Rivera.
 And thank you again, as I mentioned yesterday, for serving as chairman of the COAC committee. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Ms. Prine? Yes, that brings us to the next proclamation, which is City of El Paso Employee's Day. Representative Nundas, good morning again. It's actually me, Representative Rodriguez. No, I know, I was just saying hi. Good morning, Representative Nundas. Representative Rodriguez. Good morning, everybody. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas.
 Whereas on March 13, 2020, the governor of the state of Texas declared a state of disaster. The president of the United States of America declared a national emergency and the mayor of the city of El Paso declared a local state of disaster pursuant to Texas government code section 418.108 in response to the declared pandemic.
 due to the novel coronavirus now designated SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease COVID-19, and whereas on March 17, 2020, the City Council of El Paso adopted an emergency ordinance extending the city's state of disaster, instituting emergency measures due to a public health emergency, and authorizing the Emergency Management Director or designee to update, restrict,
 and proclamate regulations necessary to comply with federal, state, and local authorities.
 guidance in relation to COVID-19, which was continuously been extended throughout today. And whereas extreme safety precautions were mandated by the pandemic that caused sudden and extreme changes to the arrangement for and the implemented in by the city of El Paso. And whereas several divisions within the city were called on to go over and above regular workloads to carry out necessary tasks, meetings with great
 meeting the great challenges of the pandemic, including but not limited to, standing up for the emergency response, which entailed coordinating the emergency response plan for over 14 months, providing testing and then vaccinations, rapidly ramping up technology to enable virtual work from home to include virtual meetings, and
 Providence of technical support, providing constant and clear communication to the employees and public through social and traditional media. Legal support to continuously analyze, interpret, and draft necessary regulations to respond to the emergency, providing ongoing police and fire protection through the added risk from the pandemic, enabling distribution of essential financial support and providing support
 Prevenance of services to the community through the CARES Fund. Organizing and enabling required coordination of all virtual council meetings often into the late hours of the night through the City Clerk's Office and many more tasks by employees who rose to the occasion to keep the city moving forward and.
 And whereas we extend our utmost gratitude to the employees of the city of El Paso who went over and above to perform these and many more nameless tasks in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. And now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that May 25th, 2021 shall be known as City of El Paso Employees Day. Thank you.
 thank you very much thank you for that representative and i did want to mention that uh during the pledge allegiance uh representative nandas's son wayland brown was uh was in the class there and i'm sure he was very proud to be able to do the pledge allegiance to the city of el paso and very proud of his mom being there so represented nandas thank you and uh we're just as proud as he is how's that thank you mayor thank you
 And with that, Ms. Prine? MS. Yes, counsel, just a reminder to please make sure your cameras are on for the duration of the meeting to ensure we maintain a quorum. If you need technical assistance, please notify me. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor and he will recognize you. Per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor, you'll have up to 10 minutes. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking, and everyone else, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the Consent Agenda. All matters listed under the Consent Agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the Consent Agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Um, proposed revisions for May 25th City Council meeting, page 3, item 2, request for excuse, uh, for Representative Lozarga. Um, page 3, item 4, delete for airport.
 Page 9, Item 27, postponed two weeks per Representative LaZarga. And Page 9, Item 28, postponed two weeks per Representative LaZarga. And Page 11, Item 33, moved to the consent agenda per airport. Are there any other requests for revisions per council? Anyone? Anyone? Bueller. Okay. Do we have a motion to approve? So moved. Second. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. And the motion passes unanimously. We now turn to page number six. We're on item number 21, and this is a comprehensive update on the status of the public safety bond program.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. This is Jerry DeMuro with the Capital Improvement Department. I'm going to give a brief update of where we are with the execution and delivery of projects under the Public Safety Program. So I will run my presentation. So I'm going to go ahead and share my screen.
 But Jerry, as you're sharing that screen, just want to tell the council that we put this item on an update as the COVID-19 has impacted several projects. We wanted to make sure you had an idea of the rollout of the public safety bond package before you start asking questions in terms of how it's been impacted and when it's coming online. As you know, several other projects were delayed. And so we have updated the council on how those adjustments have affected those projects.
 and that's why we're doing this update as well to share with you the timeline. Okay, thank you. Thank you, sir. And I know council has taken some action to get some funding in the last bond vote that we had. Go ahead, sir. Okay, thank you very much, Mayor. So the presentation is really going to cover the bond funding overview, what projects were identified as part of the bond program, and the status of the execution of those projects.
 When we looked at the Public Safety Bond Program, it was to put new public facilities in place for the growing areas, perform major maintenance and renovation of aging facilities, improve working conditions for city employees, and create a joint fire department police department academy to accommodate future classes and improve training efficiencies. The police projects that were funded under the bond program included a new Eastside Regional Command Center, the Public Safety Training Academy,
 a new police headquarters, a new central regional command, renovation of four regional command centers, and funds for fleet replacement. The rollout plan for the police department indicates that the program will run through 2027. I'll talk a little bit about where we are on the status of each of these as I move ahead.
 Bond funding for the fire department included a new station 36, a new station 38 located at the same campus as the Eastside Regional Command Center, a special team station which consolidates stations 1, 9, and 11 in downtown. Those stations are used for high angle rescue, water rescue, and hazmat response.
 A new Station 40 at a location yet to be determined. The public safety training and vehicle maintenance and logistics facility. A new fire headquarters. Renovation of most of the fire stations and funds for vehicle replacement. The rollout program for the fire department is shown here. We do show that the program extending through 2029 with the latest project being the fire station 40, which will be started in 2027.
 So our progress to date. Eastside Regional Command, we are due to finalize construction or design in June. We have hired a construction manager at this contract that is helping us with pre-construction services and will be prepared to provide a guaranteed maximum price so that we can begin construction in the fall of 2021 and complete it in the spring of 2023.
 The Central Regional Command, we have selected the architect and the design is to be completed by the summer of 2022 and construction to begin in the winter of 2022 and completed in the spring of 2024. Police Headquarters programming is underway and architect has been selected to help us create the design build documents, which are bridging documents or project requirements. We plan to have the design builder on board by June 2022.
 We selected the design build method to minimize the risk to the city. In general, it creates fewer change orders and fewer back and forth between our engineering consultants and the contractor. If there are issues in the design, those issues are resolved between the contractor and the design builder, the design partner of the design builder.
 We're taking the same approach with the Police Academy, doing it as a design build. And again, it's following the same timeline as the other. We have selected the architect for the programming documents and should begin programming this summer with the design builder to be on board by June.
 In selecting design build it's a two-step process. You first qualify the design builder on the basis of qualifications, you shortlist members that would respond to a proposal, and you you then make the selection of the team. It generally does take about six to eight months to complete. Command center renovations, these will be initiated following the completion of Eastside Regional Command Center. Once the Eastside Regional Command Center is completed, it will be occupied by the members of the Pebble Hills Regional Command Center.
 And then once Pebble Hills is renovated, Mission Valley will move into Pebble Hills, and that will continue until we complete the four renovations. For the fire program, Fire Station 36, we are finalizing design. Construction is scheduled to begin this fall and be completed in early 2023. This station is located adjacent to the Trans Mountain Providence Hospital Campus, and this is a rendering of Fire Station 36 presented by our architect.
 Fire Station 38 architect selection is ongoing, designed to begin this summer, be completed by the spring, and construction to begin in the fall. This fire station will be awarded to the same architect firm that created Fire Station 36, providing us efficiencies in design, architecture, and overall construction.
 Special team station, the architect selection is ongoing. Design scheduled to begin this summer and be completed in the fall of 22. Construction to begin early in 23 and completed in 25. Fire station 40, as I mentioned, would be initiated in 2027. Additional work for the fire department includes fire department headquarters. Programming is underway. Project will be completed using the design build method because it will be located at the same campus as the academy and logistics center.
 Again, the same for the Academy and Logistics Center. Programming is underway. Project is being completed using a design bill delivery strategy. Station renovations. To prioritize what stations needed renovation, we went through and did a facilities assessment, conditions assessment of each one of the buildings.
 We completed all the assessments over these last 12 months, and we're planning five renovations per year as we advance the program. So design has been initiated for the first five stations, which are Station 10, 19, 21, 25, and 26, and will be completed in the winter of 2022. Construction to be completed on all – design will be completed in the winter of 2022. Construction will be completed on all these stations in the fall of 23, and design for the next five stations will begin in the fall of 2021. Thank you.
 That is a brief update of the Public Safety Program. Does anybody have any questions? No, sir. Thank you for that presentation.
 Just a reminder that we only have 20% of those bonds sold, and so we're going to have several more millions of dollars that we'll have to issue, and that, again, rubs up against the tax rate and the costs associated with those bonds as well as the operations and maintenance. And I'm just reminding the council of that because I think it's important to continuously discuss that and remind you all so that you know that those costs are coming.
 Yes, sir. And, you know, as you mentioned last time in the meeting, that we did get very favorable rates at, I think you told us it was 2.58, which was a very favorable rate for the bonds. And also, you know, we talked about operating and maintenance and bonds.
 Although we'll be able to buy the equipment and necessary stuff for the buildings as they continue to be constructed in the future. Those will be part of our budgetary items as renewal of equipment, renewal of technology,
 come up that will end up being part of the operating and maintenance and also of course personnel and personnel has always been our number one priority when it comes to police and fire and that will continue to be part of operating and maintenance and all our budgets moving forward.
 But I'm very pleased that the public are very happy to see that the $413 million that was approved by the taxpayers is moving forward. And thank you for your team, Mr. Gonzalez. And thank you very much for the presentation that gives us to get to see where our timeline is. So thank you for the plan, Representative Schwartzwein. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Just a couple questions. First of all, it's really great to see that these projects are going through. We know that when the voters overwhelmingly approved this, this was an investment in our community, understanding full well that these bonds that we were selling would have an impact on our tax rate and on our commitments for keeping our community safe. And it's up to us to make sure that we fulfill the voters'
 Will by this overwhelming approval of this bond package a few years ago. A couple questions moving backwards. So during these fire department renovations, the five per year, what are what renovations are included in these?
 The renovations vary by station. Typically there is new millwork for the kitchens, making sure they're durable because they have aged and are no longer durable. There's generally HVAC improvements. In certain cases, there's improvements to the bays or addition of a bay or additions of restrooms, modifications of the dormitories. They vary by station, Alan. Okay.
 One of the things that we've seen items come up, we have are relating to resiliency and sustainability and making us more environmentally friendly.
 sound in terms of our city moving forward. You know, Representative Lozargo placed an item at the last council agenda. We have our resiliency plan built into that. And we're working towards introducing language for an official climate action plan for the city of El Paso, similar to what other cities from Austin to Houston to Dallas to San Antonio have done, including Georgetown, Texas, as well.
 One of the things that is discussed in some of these other climate action plans and is discussed in climate action in general, including our own resiliency plan, is the need to make sure that we have a sustainable design as possible that's as low impact as possible to make sure that it uses the least amount of energy, holds in the heat, the air conditioning, et cetera, and being.
 having a low environmental impact. So, you know, one of the things is even if we were to go and approve something like that, a plan like that, it'll be, you know, at least probably a while away. But these buildings that we have are probably going to be a really big tranche in terms of investment and public safety infrastructure for our community probably for the next 30 years.
 So in what ways are we sort of future-proofing these projects in terms of certificates for environmental sustainability and resiliency? What are the sort of environmental standards for these projects and this infrastructure moving forward? Because if we're not factoring that into these projects now, it's not like we're going to go and retrofit these projects in 10 or 15 years. We're building these for our community probably for the next 30 years at least.
 So on all new construction Mr. Schwartzbein they're designed to lead silver or green globes with two two globes on all other renovations particularly when we look at the fire stations we've already done an assessment of the roofs of all of the fire stations for their ability to accommodate solar panels some of them can accommodate solar panels some of them cannot
 So we're looking at alternative ways to provide renewable energy such as power purchasing agreements with the utility where we would purchase green energy as an offset to power the facilities instead of having generation actually on site. We're looking at putting in conduit in areas of parking to ensure that we can use solar canopies if they're available for covered parking.
 So those are the kind of things we're looking at, and the architect teams as well as the folks here at CID and the fire department are very interested in making sure that energy is improved, energy consumption is improved. Okay. Is there higher levels of LED certification at this point? I don't know the... Yes, there is a LEED platinum standard, LEED platinum, LEED gold, LEED silver. The city ordinance requires LEED...
 and then we'll have silver or green globes too. Okay. Has there been any discussion about having them raised to a higher level even though it would go beyond our ordinance? Because I do think that we need to try to be as aggressive and aware of kind of what the future will bring and preparing our community for that. Mayor Pro Tem, there has been, we've talked as a
 As an executive team on how we can put a program together to do exactly that, we have a list of projects that we've packaged in order to request that at the federal level, rather, and it just depends on if...
 the infrastructure bill is going to be passed or not, as to whether or not we elevate some of these facilities to a higher level. Some of the ones that are already underway, we may not be able to elevate those to a higher level, but we have talked about making some facilities in the future net zero and being able to contribute to the grid if that's possible. That's been done in other places.
 I've been in other organizations where we've done that and been very successful at it. And we were able to do that by getting federal funds in order to help offset those costs. Long term, it'll save you on energy costs. So we are looking at that. We're also looking at solar lighting as well, in addition to EV chargers at the airport. And that's some things we've been in discussion with the electric utility. I think we – I'm pretty sure we've given you all some –
 updates on that. So that's dependent on that work. In addition to that, we've worked closely. My office has been involved as well, but we've worked closely with REAC in order to help them with a strategic plan that'll be coming forward to the City Council. Lastly, I think you and Deputy Mayor Pro Tem Cissy Lozada both put an item on the agenda to
 to kind of elevate that discussion. So we've been working on that. So we're due to bring back a report to y'all and give y'all more detail on all the work that we've done in that space. Okay. Yeah, I just, I just, I think it's, it's important to sort of think about those things. I know that the police department headquarters is a design build. When you talk about projects that could be sort of further advanced, are those some of the design build projects like the police department or those already,
 already sort of further along. I know that, for example, Station 36, it seems like the fire station in the northwest seems to be pretty far along already with its design. So when you're talking about some of these other projects that could be sort of elevated in terms of additional resiliency or sustainability design, do you all have an idea of which are some of those projects from this public safety bond?
 I think certainly the newer facilities, you can explore that. I also want to comment that in today's industry and construction and building equipment, the systems are really, really efficient, and we're getting the return to the level of a LEED Gold or a LEED Platinum without actually having to expend any additional costs.
 We do, however, have to weigh some costs. For example, at the police command center on the east side, the architect wanted to put in a 40-gallon solar hot water heater, and the cost was $15,000. For a 40-gallon heater, I really can't rationalize putting in a solar water heater. So those are the kind of decisions we have to make. I am working with the sustainability office as well as trying to retain an on-call consultant to help us –
 to tackle some of these issues on renewable energy for the city. And that should be hitting the streets sometime next week. Okay. I just have two questions. I'm at eight minutes, so I'll just read off these two questions, and that way y'all can take all the time you want to answer them. I know that...
 You know, a lot of these facilities, the first and most important part in terms of design and aesthetics comes from operational necessities, right? Making sure that the design is responsive and geared towards our first responders. I'm just kind of curious, has there been any sort of.
 input relating towards the design for any of these specifically station 36 from constituents are there any plans for public input into sort of any of this sort of final design with station 36 in the northwest but any of these other projects we did host public meetings for both station 36 and for the east side regional command center they were done over
 They were done virtually earlier. We were also coordinating with the hospital. The hospital has approval on Fire Station 36 on its aesthetics and ingress, egress, and things like that. So we are definitely coordinating. Great. Let me just read out my other question. Is there any plan or time frame in which we think our free...
 fleet replacement will become ingrained into our general budget so that we can keep a steady schedule and upkeep for replacement demands for wear and tear. The last of my questions.
 I personally have not been engaged in the vehicle replacement. I think that's Jerry, let me take that Jerry. That has to do a lot with what we've had a very long discussion with the council about going all the way back to 2014 about a lot of facility
 that's not in play right now with regard to set aside funds. That's the reason why we worked so hard to put money aside, not only for police and fire equipment replacement, which included the vehicles, because there was not that sort of dollars set aside for those kinds of things. That's the reason every time they needed something, everything needed to be bonded. That is the same case for all the other departments.
 as well as things like HVAC replacement, generator backups, and things of that nature. We have an entire list of that that we published in 2015.
 So it is something that we've been working on over the last several years in order to make some headway on, which we have. But we don't have a regular schedule for the rest of the fleet in order to do that. That is something we have been working on. And again, we've been taking care of it by making transfers like from the sanitation department, ESD, and codes and
 when they had older vehicles that they could swap out, and then they bought new vehicles, and we swapped that out with the Parks Department. So that has been something that has been woefully inadequately funded in the past and something that's been on our radar and something that we've made better, but we still have more work to do. So no, sir, there is not a dedicated fund for all of our fleet replacement other than police and fire.
 If I might add, the fire stations, the new fire stations, the budgets do include the cost of the firefighting apparatus and emergency response. Okay. Yeah, my question was about, I guess, PD and fire sort of fleet replacement. If it made sense, what was the sort of best approach?
 best practice in terms of trying to keep that as an expense within our general budget. But I have allotted my time. So thank you again for the responses. And thanks again for all the hard work. These are very important projects for our community. Mayor Prokosem, just to be exact until the council hears this again, we do have money set aside for equipment replacement and police and fire vehicle replacement on an annual basis. We do have that.
 I was referring to the other departments where we've kind of begged and borrowed and made some adjustments in order to account for their needs. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Now, thank you, Mayor Potem, Schwarzbein. And now we have Representative Hernandez. Thank you for the presentation, Mr. DeMuro.
 I just wanted to share the same sentiments as Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein regarding the carbon emissions and the reductions when we turn all this off because we're going to start getting all these alerts.
 Um, I feel like we're at a stage right now during the planning where we need to have like really, um, specific responses as it relates to what we're going to do with the energy efficiency with our buildings. Um, I hear that, you know, we have an ordinance. I hear that, you know, these are things that you're discussing about. But now that we're going now that we've hired, um, a contractor and there's designs happening.
 I need to really understand if we're going to be pushing for the highest level of energy efficiency and reduction of carbon emissions.
 So I really like the idea that you're looking outside the box, like, hey, we can phase it in where we put solar panels or we have those purchasing agreements. I think that's critical when we're planning. But I do want a solid response because there is a demand from our constituents that they want to see this type of facility in our community. There is a demand not only from our younger generation, but we pay a lot in energy bills as well. So it's a challenge.
 economies of scale effort at this point if we have energy efficiency facilities. And I know that we have the silver globe, but we can go higher. We can even get to net zero. So I really do want to have that conversation, which is why I have been asking that we push forward with some form of bond advisory committee. This council already spoke on that issue, so I won't bring it back up. But we do have a quality of life bond advisory committee that we can present these items to and to our city council community meetings.
 because these are really critical. And the environment of Texas currently where there appears to be, there's a sense of law enforcement officers who feel that they're attacked. I think it's critical that we get the word out that we are committed to our law enforcement and that we are going to be building this to ensure public safety as Mayor Pro Temp.
 mentioned earlier but i just wanted to re-emphasize that i'm i'm not hearing a clear answer and i want to clearly understand so i can convey to our constituents and to our law enforcement personnel what it is exactly the type of facilities that we're going to have but that's all i wanted to share otherwise i'm very excited to see the rollout of this um if we can uh
 You know, I'm always going to be an advocate to try to put it in earlier, especially now that we're seeing better interest rates. So if we can be more aggressive with that rollout, I would be supportive of that, of course, while keeping in mind and finding that balance with not to impact the tax rate, which is the dance that we play a lot. But those are my thoughts, and I wanted to share those with you. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Zundes.
 I do want to make a comment. Chair, let me handle this one real quick. So we're working on, for the director from council, we are working on the city facilities, a plan for renewable and energy efficiency. As I mentioned, based on the programs that we do have in place right now, we have over $100 million of renovations on public safety alone, and it's very critical that we
 really evaluate the scopes of these projects to make sure that we're accounting for all the energy efficiencies that we can and we'll see that presentation in the near future as a response to the directive from council and all the things that were gonna be included into the design of these renovations. It's hard for us to go into detail on every single project, but we can certainly do that at a future presentation or share with you that individually as council members to show you the scopes and how we're accommodating the energy efficiency improvements that we're doing.
 I do want to clarify, just maybe we can include it as part of the presentation that will be given council related to the city facilities as to the LEED certification process. The LEED certification process has multiple categories such as site selection, internal air quality, and many different things that you can get points on. Even educational opportunities for if it's a public building that you can share with the public about energy efficiencies.
 For the most part, we're maximizing the energy efficiency points, and that doesn't necessarily get you to the platinum level of certification process. It's a whole list of points that you can get that leads you to the platinum level. For the silver, you maximize the amount of energy efficiency points that you can get based on what you put in there, based on the controls, the type of systems that you put in there, renewables.
 and everything plays into it. And we'll be happy to share that in more detail, just so that we're clear with you all. And then you can share that with your constituents about what the LEED process is. I want to make sure that we don't go on this path that going to platinum on all the facilities is necessarily getting us to more efficient buildings. If we maximize the energy efficiency, we can get to the silver level.
 Nicole? Yeah, I'm sorry, Sam. I didn't mean to interrupt you. Nicole Farini, Chief Resilience Officer. I just have to jump in on this, and Sammy and I have been having this conversation for quite some time. It's extremely important that we don't get hyper-focused on a certification level. What we need to focus on as an organization is the same thing that we focused on
 in other areas, which is performance standards. We need to be taking a look at what is right in terms of energy efficiency for our buildings as a performance standard. If we start to achieve that, as Sam mentioned, we're going to achieve the certifications as a function of good design and as high performance standards. So again, when we talk with the Regional Renewable Energy Advisory Council, which has been reinvigorated through this work, and we're very excited to be able to bring forward a strategic plan
 that they've been working on, that we've been working on with them, municipal energy usage and incorporation of renewable energy generation by the city and the city taking the lead in that space is an entire pillar of that strategic plan. And none of it is focused on achievement of a certain level of points or something else from some abstract, right? And I'm a champion of the lead rating system. Folks that know my background know that I have done
 have done that for many many years however in this case what is right for us is really targeting high levels of energy efficiency that reduce demand and because of the number of buildings that the city owns the stock the sheer stock that we have by reducing our energy demand overall we are reducing energy demand for this entire community and we're setting the standard for the private
 sector to then follow, ultimately achieving an energy demand reduction and hopefully a reduction in energy cost burden for our community, right? So it's not just about saving money for the city. It's about really setting the standard and ultimately achieving something that addresses the global climate crisis. And so I know that's a lot. I get very passionate and energized about this issue, but I think Sam's right on target. And I want to share with the council that we are working hand in hand.
 Across departments to look at this we are looking at resiliency. We are looking at sustainability Those are not the same thing But that we're working on both of those things grid reliability as well as energy demand reduction as well as renewable generation all of those things And then working with the react with our utilities all of those partners have to come to the table not to mention the advocacy that we're doing at the state and the federal level to make sure that we have we clear the path and
 and that we activate the funding that's necessary to be able to do these things. And so just really excited that you guys are asking the question and my apologies for getting so overly animated about it. No, Nicole, I mean, thank you, Mrs. Ferini and Mr. Rodriguez for your responses. And I think this is the conversation that we're trying to have, that we're trying to understand, but we're not having it. And so we need to, we're asking the community to reduce their efficiency. We're asking utilities that they need to be more energy efficient. Well, the city needs to lead by example.
 No pun intended. But I do agree with you that, you know, let's not get hyper-focused on, you know, some accolade, but rather let's bring some measurable outcomes that we can be proud of. But, again, we still need to have the conversation, and that's really my end point is that if we can have a strategy, if we can have a plan that we can share with the community, I know it's welcomed. I welcome that. And I'm eager to share that with everyone. Thank you for your feedback. Thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Nundas. And I think it's so accurate to say that today's technology will not be the same tomorrow. And that's what we need to look for for tomorrow's technology as we invest taxpayers' money. So thank you for that. And the dialogue does need to begin. So thank you for that. And with that, we have Representative Molinar.
 Thank you very much Mr. Mayor. Good morning everyone. Just trying to understand a few things. So appreciate all the conversation on energy efficiency and things like that. However, the people making these fire stations, the new fire academy, the police academy, the new police headquarters, are they, do they have a history of doing design work for public safety?
 Yes, sir. Each one of them has either a specialist that's all they do. So, for example, the Eastside Regional Command Center has a firm out of Colorado.
 that is also working on the Central Regional Command Center. And they have been exceptionally good at working with the police department at clearly defining the requirements down to the edges of tables and such so that officers can clean their guns without losing parts. So they're very, very competent, and they also have the energy efficiency experiences as well.
 Okay. And also, well, how much input will the current, let's just say, police chief, fire chief, maybe their command staff be able to provide input into the design of what's happening, not happening? I can tell you from, let's just say, back in the day when the Northeast Regional Command opened up and all of a sudden we were there making modifications to what we needed to do as far as the holding cells.
 and other things like that. So will there be the police department and fire department both be able to provide any input into the design phase. FRED PODESTA. Yes sir. The police department and fire department are intimately involved. They attend the routine project meetings.
 They indicate what will work for them and what will not. They evaluate the recommendations of the subject matter experts. You mentioned detention cells. There's a big difference in the detention cells of the existing facilities and those that are going into the Mewieside Regional Command Center.
 And not only has it been just one command, it's been multiple commands and it's been inclusive of Chief Allen, making sure that we have the force protection necessary within the building. So I'm very comfortable that the I can very comfortably say that both fire and PD have have taken a major role in the design of these facilities. Thank you, sir. And with that, Mr. Prine?
 Yes, Mayor, that brings us to item number 22. This is an operational focus update on the budget. Good morning. This is Nicole Cody, Director of Management and Budget. Today we're going to be discussing the Chime In survey. So as you know, the budget process is an integrated budget process with our strategic planning process as well and our strategic plan.
 directly to our key results and also an important component is our customer input. And so Chai Min plays an important role in that, along with, of course, the Council budget requests. And I'm going to take this opportunity to remind you that the Council budget requests are available. And if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out to myself or IT regarding filling out those Council budget requests.
 And another component, of course, is an important component that includes our youth of El Paso, is the Strategic Budget Advisory Initiative. The participants that we saw this year is extraordinary. So you'll see that we have 8,675 participants from our community that participated in our Chime In survey this year.
 We break this down by demographics. And when you look at the age groups, you'll see that the majority of the participants were from the 50 to 64 age group from at about 32.6%. But the other areas over 65 and 35 to 49 are relatively close, with 18 to 34 being the smallest amount. We did include this year at your request that to include
 the participants to select what district they're part of. So unfortunately, as you can see, the majority of the participants are still not sure what district they belong to, but we did get responses from quite a few. I'd like to pass it over to Laura Cruz Acosta who will go into their social media outreach. Laura? Thanks, Nicole. So as you can see, and we're very happy to involve this year our social media.
 Specifically this year, we provided social media inquiries on our Facebook page, as well as our Instagram and our Twitter pages.
 Additionally, we did do some videos with Your City in Five programming to make sure that the community is aware of this opportunity. Our social media, for the most part, on our Facebook page, we received over 8,000 folks who participated in the effort of our social media questions. And on our Twitter page, we...
 close to 10,000 folks participated in the question and answer sessions of that. Instagram as well received a good response in terms of what the public wanted to see.
 where they wanted their funding to go in terms of this year's budget. So it was really a great opportunity for the community to find out. And of course, with every posting that we put out there, we also included the Chime In survey connection. So we did see quite a few folks who linked over to our actual survey that provided a greater response rate. Nicole? Great, thank you, Laura.
 So some of the survey feedback that we've received are regarding streets, parks, public safety, of course, public health, our economic development initiatives, quality of life, and of course the focus on basics. Here are some survey quotes that you can see that we pulled directly from the the China survey.
 and we'll be providing a copy by planning area or if you'd like the entire, it's a very large document since we had so many participants this year, but we'll be providing it by PDF by planning area to each of the districts. So here you'll see the top three priorities as identified. Number one is our streets, number two public safety, and this year is community health. You'll see the breakdown by each of the categories.
 The streets, public safety at 17%, community health at 15.1%, economic development at 13.5%, parks at 13%, and cultural and educational programs at 11.3%.
 Which brings me to the next point. So if we were to look at quality of life of services, quality of life services both with cultural and educational programs and parks combined, that represents 24.3% of the total if we were to combine those two, which clearly takes them to the number one place as part of quality of life services.
 If we were to look at each area as we look at each area by planning area, this one is central. El Paso with a thousand plus participants and for them their priorities are streets, community health, and cultural and educational programs. For the east side of El Paso with 3,357 participants, it reflects what we see as the overall city-wide priorities of streets, public safety, and public health.
 Our Mission Valley area of 529 participants reflects the streets public safety with a focus on parks as number three. Our Northeast area with 1,174 participants shows streets public safety and community health. Our West side with 2,518 participants shows again streets public safety and community health.
 One question that we did add includes what are the top three priorities of the top three priorities you've selected? Would you support additional funding for these priorities over the next year? And overwhelmingly we received 74.1% of a yes with only 25.9% no. The lowest three priorities as identified in this slide are the business services, mobility, and cultural and educational programs.
 One question that we did ask directly related to COVID-19 was the services that had to be deferred as part of FY 2021's budget. What would you like to see funded? And so with 29.5%, it includes residential street maintenance, then quality of life operating costs for new and existing facilities, followed by public safety vehicle and equipment replacements.
 So what we wanted to tie in is that with these chime in surveys, it's important to note that we are listening through the strategic objectives of our 20 by 20 that you all have approved and we've completed.
 And now our 25 by 25 strategic initiatives, you'll see that we are directly tying to what the customers are asking for. Where are those investments? The investments in public safety, the investments in our streets, and the investment in our community health. I included this part of the strategic objectives and also reflect.
 The overall four priorities identified, which include the quality of life services, which we have seen the additional projects that have been completed through capital projects, through the bonds, as well as the increase in the O&M that's been added in order to support those new projects, along with the streets, public safety and community health investments that we have made.
 You'll see is the preliminary general fund expenses. And of course, this is still preliminary for FY 2022, but you'll see directly that there is a significant investment both in public safety, because not only because of the collective bargaining agreement, but also restoring their vehicle replacement funding, as well as quality of life by ensuring that those new projects that have been completed will be able to open with staffing.
 and infrastructure, which includes restoring a portion of the residential street resurfacing funding as well. I would really like to highlight that we are picking off today our virtual focus groups for Chime In. So we actually start today with Central Paso, and we received over 2,000 plus
 interest from our participants that we're interested in participating in our focus groups this year. So we did expand it and we did listen to our participants last year, really requested two separate times, maybe one during the day and one in the evening. So we are doing that for each of the different planning areas, as you can see. We'll have an evening session as well as a midday session
 for each of the areas. And so we are giving them a week notice and then we remind them the day before. Please participate and it's all through email based on the email address that they did provide to us.
 and we're reaching out to them directly to really understand what is the priority for that area and what is it about that priority that they really want us to focus on. What is that area that needs to be highlighted for each of these different planning areas within our city? And that concludes my presentation. Thank you very much for that presentation. We have no questions. Ms. Pine? Mayor. Are you good? Who's that?
 Mayor Pro Tem. Your favorite Mayor Pro Tem. Okay. I didn't get a text from you but I should assume and go straight to you. Representative Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Mayor, I would advise against assuming anything we all know that happens when you assume things, sir. However, I do want to say thank you to your leadership, Mayor, and thank you to Ms. Cody and everybody over there in your department and city management who have been working so hard.
 Ms. Cruz Acosta and the folks in the PIO office. I think that the sort of Facebook, Instagram, Twitter sort of yes, no, decrease, increase items have been well received. I think it's, for lack of a better term, it's very easy for people just to go and click on this, especially the younger folks as well. Although, as you probably all know,
 A lot of the users, at least on Facebook now, are our parents' age as well. So that's a thing, too. And that's what I think is kind of interesting is looking at those responses, looking at the age breakdown as well, which I think is pretty interesting, too. I just had a couple questions. I can just sort of put these out there first just as questions so that way it's not going over the 10 minutes. Okay.
 Were individual questions, I guess, the sort of individual questions that were posted on the sort of social media stories counted as individual responses towards this 8,000 individual count for the tribe-in process? So if you clicked on one of the increase, decrease, was that counted as an individual response? The other question was...
 Thinking forward, was there ever an option for maintain the current level of funding or is it just increase or decrease as well? Other question that I have is, will the district offices be able to get a report about the virtual focus groups? Another question that I have is, what mentioned that a portion of the street residential resurfacing is going to be reactivated?
 what percentage of that residential resurfacing program is going to be reactivated, and what is the cost for that percentage? So is it $2 million, $1 million, that sort of thing?
 Those, I think, are my questions that I have for right now. And again, I want to thank you all, because I do think that the social media stories was a great, great path forward. And I think got people more involved as well in the process. And that's always a great thing for city government. So those are my questions. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 So regarding the first question, the social media responses are very separate and distinct from the Chai Min process. So in order to maintain the integrity of the data, the Chai Min process, you have to fill out the full survey in order for it to be considered a Chai Min participant. So that's really why Laura provided the number of participants that responded to both Twitter and through Facebook as kind of a separate number of participants.
 Okay. And so then, um, your next question regarding was there an ability to maintain funding or increase funding or reduce funding? Um, I believe there was just an increase or would you support an additional funding, yes or no, on that item? And then your third question was, I believe, regarding the residential street resurfacing, sir.
 And you were asking the level of funding that's currently in the preliminary FY 2022 budget. And so is that accurate? I guess my question was is is said it was we're doing it like essentially a partial activation of the street residential. So if it was.
 $6 million for the full resurfacing for this year. What is, I guess, the percentage of the program that we're doing this year, and what is that cost? Okay, so we're looking at about 72% reactivated, and it's about $4.8 million. Okay, thank you. As of today.
 And just to be clear, so that's what we have included in the general plan for next year. And so I know Representative Hernandez brought it up yesterday. It's something that we had already been thinking about is how we utilize that federal funding to put towards some of these street projects. And it has to be for the PAYGO type funding projects that we've been doing. You can't use it for any type of bond financing project. But absolutely, we're going to do everything we can. We know streets is a number one priority for not only the council but the community. So absolutely, we're going to continue to explore ways to utilize and take advantage of that federal funding as well.
 thank you robert i believe i covered did i miss a question there there was a question about getting uh the district offices getting a report from the virtual focus groups if we could see the
 And then I just I don't know if it's a question as much as just a comment. It was really great to see that you did have that slide that that lumped in the sort of Parks and Rec and sort of cultural MCAD programming in together. I know that that was something that I brought up last year.
 about the fact that we you know if you looked at basically the sort of quality of life sections of the sort of chime and breakdown that you'd see that that would be you know at number one or close to number one for most of the districts and you had showed taking the time to make that slide where they were bunched in together and show that they were you know the number one interest from our residents going in there. But I do appreciate you all taking the time to make that slide as well. Appreciate that.
 That's all I have, Mayor. Thank you very much, and thank you again to staff. Thank you, sir. And with that, we have Representative Molinard, followed by Representative Veda.
 Thank you very much Mr. Mayor. So it's great to see those results. It's very positive for District 4 and things like that and I appreciate that Nicole. So but I have a question. So yesterday I had the pleasure of speaking to a constituent totally unrelated subject. But like she explained to me, she does not have a computer, doesn't even know what a tablet was, but a tablet for something else. Not tablet what you and I would know as an electrical device or electric device.
 she does not own a cell phone doesn't want a cell phone doesn't want a computer and so her information came through the local media the regular news and she's not able to participate in the chime in she's not able to participate in social media and she doesn't want to so i would really encourage for next year when we do this again or other subsequent years we have to come up with some type of way to reach out to our constituents
 Call it snail mail, if you will. Call it something else because really we're missing out on those people and their input there. And I believe their input is very valuable to our needs assessment and how we go forward. Thank you.
 Thank you. Representable in our, absolutely. So in previous years, this year we didn't do it mainly due to COVID, but in previous years we actually go on site. So my team, along with Laura's team, have paper copies, and we've been at Walmarts, we've been at the,
 We've been at different locations, right, Laura? And we schedule them throughout the time period, multiple days, in order to really reach those individuals that don't have access to computers or don't have cell phones, absolutely. We are very sensitive to that. We want to make sure that we include them. And again, I apologize this year we did not, but we will continue that in the future and make sure that we are reaching those populations.
 And also, Laura and Nicole, and I don't know if it's possible through permission with Sun Metro that they could be like, let's just say the driver, we would add another duty to him or her, but they would make available, let's just say a small handbasket that they could fill it out at that time where they're writing and return it at the same time, both in English and Spanish. That way we can do something effective for those people on the ridership.
 Sure. So one of the things to Nicole's point is that what we did in previous years and unfortunately because of the pandemic it was not feasible this year.
 But one of the things that we actually did was actually go out to Sun Metro locations as well, as Nicole mentioned, the fountains locations and various local stores such as Walmart who allowed us to do inquiries because we knew that there are going to be those individuals who don't have social media, who don't have even an email address.
 That was one of the things that we did do this year is actually a lot of email as well in encouraging folks to come to fill out the survey. So certainly something that we will continue to do once we are safe and able to do so. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Thank you very much Laura. Appreciate your response. Thank you. Thank you Nicole. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Thank you Representative Moulinard. With that we have Representative Rivera. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Thank you sir. Thank you Mayor.
 Ms. Cody, thank you for the presentation. It was really informative and nice to know that you all are taking those actions. Like the COVID team is taking pop-up tents. You guys are taking your own action. And I really do appreciate that. And I know that when we have our community meetings, we also used to provide that information to them.
 But I understand with COVID situation, everything was placed on hold. But you did a heck of a job, both of you. And it's really informative to know that you had all this information. My one question to you is when is Council 9 to receive the FY22 preliminary budget book, if we are going to receive one of them?
 Yes, sir. We always send them to you in an email. It will be a link to provide you not only the preliminary budget book, but we'll also be providing, of course, the Red Line Schedule C, along with all the information that we provide to you in preparation for the July budget workshops. The initial council briefings, we are going to provide a very high-level briefing
 summaries for you by department, but the real detail and extensive book, as well as the copy of the PowerPoint, the goal team PowerPoint, all of that information will come before our July meetings the week of July 6th. So we'll make sure that we get that to you with plenty of time in advance before our July 6th meetings. Okay. You don't have a date for us at this time, but just so that before July 6th.
 That'll be sufficient. Thank you so much for your answer and response. Thank you very much for everything. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Rivera. And with that, we have Representative Anello, followed by Representative Schwartzbein.
 Thank you so much Nicole and I actually want to thank Representative Rivera for his question. I'm a little disappointed to hear that we won't be getting these books until July. I know that there is a lot of work that goes into them. I know that there's a lot of deadlines. I understand why the final books come at July but I know that this council has talked extensively about really getting into this budget a lot earlier.
 because of the pandemic and the financial impacts it's going to have. You know, unfortunately now it's already May and we don't have any of this data yet, right? And I know that we had talked about March before. The updates are so helpful. But I really think a hands-on approach with the Council is going to be the best. I know I've said this many times over the last six months. I don't need to say it again, I don't think. But I think that any data that we could get before that final book is going to be very helpful.
 And so again, thank you for the presentations that you do every council meeting. They are very helpful and very informative. But I think at this point we do need something tangible for us to work off of. I think July is far too late.
 especially when the budget is adopted in August, that's a month. And I know that with COVID email is the best. I think that I did say last meeting for me, I think something physical would be very helpful. I know that's a lot of work just putting them out. So I am letting you know ahead of time, I will be requesting that, but,
 I definitely think that, you know, we need to be workshopping this much earlier than July. I don't want to keep repeating it. I know March was a date that I had said before. It's now almost June. Would like to have something by the next council meeting if possible. So thank you very much, Nicole.
 Yes, so Representative Inella, let me kind of clarify from what I stated before. So the city manager and Robert have asked us to provide, and by high level it's by department, it provides the detailed revenue and the detailed expenses by line, but it's still just by category. So we will be providing those as part of the information that you'll be receiving for the council briefings that are coming up.
 So it's not the full book, but it is the detail by department that you are looking for. So I apologize if I made it sound like it was all one thing. So we do have that information. We're getting it ready to be able to provide that to you prior to your meetings. But the full book, I guess, the printed full book is what we normally provide before
 before the meetings in July. And so we can look at moving those up as well and ensuring that you're getting that additional detail
 sooner than of course sooner than July 6th absolutely I appreciate that very much Nicole thank you I will look definitely hope we can move those dates up because again the impacts of COVID we've had we've already heard the conversations right the holding line on taxes but of course the concerns from the community about increasing streets public safety as well as
 the concerns we're hearing from the community about valuations. And so I'll repeat myself one last time. I think it is very important for council to be as included in this process as possible and to make the hard decisions. If we are going to make cuts, where those are going to come, right? That is our duty as council. And I just don't think that the July 6th deadline is enough time to start that. So thank you so much, Nicole. I appreciate it.
 So if I can add up to the vanilla. So we've been presenting a lot of information in these budget updates going back to February. And so I mean, I don't think anything is going to be surprised what you're going to see in those reports. I mean, the budget office, we were making adjustments as late as last week. Again, trying to stay within the overall tax rate of what we're expecting with property valuations. And then some of the other things that we're trying to add in to address some of the council concerns that things you all brought up over the last couple of weeks.
 But that slide, Nicole, I don't know if you want to bring it up, that slide 26 on your presentation, this is information, I mean, going back all the way to February 15th when we presented the five-year forecast, that budget and that information going all the way back to February is essentially what you're going to see in these budget reports that we're going to provide to you all pretty soon.
 And so I provided detail on what's included in these various things. And so what you're going to see is, for example, in the public safety, I've talked about how we're going back to the two police academies to get us back on track with the staffing plan. We have obviously the collective bargaining impact from both police and fire. We have the CIT cause bill 10 right now into the general budget for next year.
 We have three fire academies built in for next year, again, because of the staffing issue. And I brought that up with the last budget update, and Chief Augustino chimed in and spoke about that. Also, in the public safety, we have additional, we have seven additional 911 communicators. Again, they've needed added additional staff, an additional team to that service that we provide. The Quiet Life, that's something we've talked about, the prorating, the phasing in of the services related to Quiet Life.
 Again, it's sharing that with the services that are ready to open. So the water parks, the different recreation centers that have opened here in the last couple of weeks, building the operating costs associated with those. And then again, building back into phase three that Tracy Jones presented multiple times on what the approach is going to be of opening up more and more of the actual physical locations for these services. On IT and the communications, this is primarily being driven by our IT contracts.
 So you can imagine what the increased demand for utilizing technology. We've seen an increase in, for example, the number of licenses we've had to be able to maintain, whether it's for Microsoft or being able to utilize Teams for all of our city employees. On sound governance, the decrease of 2.9 million, primarily related to the decrease of the budget stabilization that we had built up for the current year.
 and so you may recall as part of the budget that was adopted in fiscal year 21 there was about 2.8 million dollars that was set aside to go towards increasing our budget stabilization so that's coming out for next year we'll look at the infrastructure the 7.7 million dollar increase again a large majority of that is being driven by the residential street resurfacing projects that we're building back into the budget for next year nicole talked about adding about 72 percent but again we're going to look at utilizing federal funds to ensure that we get back to that 100 on
 the residential street project. And then we still do have the $3 million for the collector roads pay go funding built in as well. And you back in the ADA on demand funding, which we did not fund this year because we had excess funds available from prior year. So that's an additional $500,000 there. So, I mean, for the most part, I believe that we've covered a lot of this information. I mean, obviously it's not in the reports. And as I mentioned, we're making adjustments up until last week
 Again, to stay within that overall tax rate, just based on what we're seeing with expectations on property valuations. Also try to build in the capital project discussion, which is what I've shown in some of the presentations over the last couple of weeks of looking at the timing. It's something that we've heard from some of the council members of looking at potentially taking advantage of, again, of those low interest rates. And moving forward with primarily the public safety bond, that's going to be the real big driver over the next couple years of getting those projects.
 moving. So not only looking at the operating side, but the debt side as well, because there is an impact, for example, with the overall tax rate that I presented at the last meeting of maintaining the overall same tax rate. What ends up happening is if we move forward with the capital project plan as we presented, the debt rate for next year actually goes up by about half a penny, which in order to maintain the overall same rate means that the operating side of the general portion of the tax rate is coming down by about half a penny.
 Robert, and I want to say that these updates have been very helpful. The information you're giving now is very helpful, but you as a CFO, Noah, as well as anybody on this council, is like sitting down and see these red line versions and these breakdowns and these little details really are a larger picture of what's happening and conversation that council needs to be a part of. And I don't want to diminish at all the...
 even all of the information that you just gave right now off the top of your head, but it's very helpful. But my thing is just I think that council needs to be proactive in the input where it comes to those adjustments.
 Well, and so that's why we present this information is to hopefully start getting that feedback from you all. And so we can make sure that whenever we're developing the budget that we're incorporating your feedback. And so that's what we do is we provide these updates not only to share information to the council, but also to the community as well, so that everybody's fully informed and aware. There's no surprises whatsoever.
 Whenever we provide you all the reports, I mean, this is essentially the budget of the reports that you're going to see. To circle back around to my initial point is that for me, I need more information than the slide to be able to give input in that conversation. So I think that's just what I wanted to express is that I, and I don't speak for everyone on this council, but I need more detail and would love to get that as soon as possible. So thank you all very much.
 You know, Mr. Cortina, it's kind of what Representative Manello was talking about, that as you just said, we just did an update just a couple days ago. You've been giving us all these presentations. When do you think we can expect a link to all the updates you've done and everything compiled into kind of one link so we can kind of look at it and ask additional questions?
 I know that we've been doing this every two weeks and we've had some great updates and this is a great slide, but if we could give council and myself everything compiled with Redline and even from the updates that you just did a couple days ago and we continue to update that and give us basically a link so we can look at it and continue to ask questions, it would be appreciative. When do you think we can expect one?
 So I think what representative Manel is asking for is the actual reports. I don't think she's asking for copies of the presentations. I mean we can give you links to copies of all the presentations that we've done since February. Even going back prior to February we've been doing updates since October. And I get that and we understand that if you could just compile it all and put it in a form where we can look at it and go back and forth. Instead of having to go back to all the meetings and
 I know that I've made some copies and I'm sure other members have made copies to kind of put together, but it'd really be very helpful if you could put it in some kind of link with all your updates and redline some of the changes and some of the things. Like you said, you just made some just a couple days ago and if we could get that compiled so we can look at it, it'd be awesome. I think it'd really be helpful prior to when we start having those sessions.
 Whenever we send the link for the reports, we'll include links for the presentations as well. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Thank you sir. I appreciate that. DIRECTOR MACKENZIE- And Ralph I think for clarification you're right. I think that the presentations and what the mayor is asking for is important. I know for some people going back and forth through the new agenda system is difficult but I am more asking specifically for reports in addition to that. So just wanted to make that clarification. I know you got it you repeated it but just to be extra extra clear. Thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Thank you Mr. Gonzalez.
 Yes, but what I wanted to point out is that there's been a lot of changes in how the budget information is shared with the City Council. I know that as far back as 2014, the Council was very frustrated when they received the book, the day of the budget presentations. And then they would meet for weeks on end and go over, you know, detail that really was...
 was really time consuming and didn't get, just frustrated the council as well as the department heads. What we did is we put a strategic plan in place and then the strategic plan is funded by priority. And then we update the council on the budget throughout the entire year. So there are no surprises. In addition to that, what we added was individual briefings of the city council, which we have scheduled now,
 prior to giving you even more detail, and then prior to you receiving the entire book. The entire book is just, you know, the different nuances of,
 of the departments, not anything to do with the numbers. The numbers that Nicole talked about, you'll get that in advance, and you've been getting the information throughout the entire year. There's no surprises. You're not gonna see anything in the budget in any of the detail that's any surprise from what's been presented. It's all aligned and integrated with each other. So there's been no surprises. The entire council has been very pleased with this process. I know some want additional details, and we'll get that to you.
 We'll get that to you and we'll aggregate the data that's been presented in addition to the backup of those reports that support the documents and the presentations that are being given to the council. So all of that will be a part of what was given to you. And it's done every year.
 In years past, we've gotten you the information in the same timeframe as we have as we're doing this year. Nothing has changed. And then in the COVID year, like last year, we did act swiftly prior to the budget session and the council did take action prior to the budgeting session. But that was a pandemic of epic proportion and during an extreme emergency.
 Right now, what we're doing is we're doing the same thing. We're getting all the information ahead of time and all of the data, as I said, will be aggregated and sent to you, but we've not changed any of the process and we have given any detail and to Representative Anello's point, she makes a good point. She wants all the backup. We're happy to provide that. We've provided that in the past. And so we will do that again this year.
 Thank you for that, Mr. Gonzalez. That's kind of what I was asking for, so we can just compile it. So I appreciate that information. And with that, we have Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzweiler. I don't know if anybody else would sign up to speak. Can we keep that slide on still, Mr. Cortinas? Mr. Cortinas, can you bring back up that slide?
 So basically, I guess to echo what Representative Manello says, I mean, I do think that, you know, this budget is going to be a tough one. And I know that we've been talking at least for the last six months about wanting to break this down more a la carte style to really understand by department what the changes are.
 and how these increases and decreases are being funded. And I understand if that's something that hasn't been done traditionally this early in the budget process, then that's a change. But I also know that a high performing organization like the city of El Paso under this management is able,
 We've certainly seen over this last year to be flexible, to be adept to changes. And so I don't think it's really going to be an issue for us to come back in our next sort of budget updates before July to sort of have this broken down. You know, there is a $31,232,825 gap.
 proposed increase in the budget from 2021 to 2022's budget. And I'm not a mathematician here, but the change between the 2020 budget and the 2022 is also increased as well, close to,
 maybe $16 million or $14 million. So I think it's important for us and the public to understand why that increase is happening, especially again when we're hearing those concerns from residents with the increase in the property valuations, which we don't have any control over to understand about
 why those increases are there when we're hearing those concerns about from our residents about property valuations and why we're not taking that into account into our overall budget. In fact, you know, we're getting critiqued by the central appraisal district advising us on our budget and what they've sort of seen, which I don't really think is.
 Well, it is what it is. So I think giving us that opportunity to have this information broken down outside of just strategic goals into individual departments, I think will help us better inform the community and help us better inform the decisions that we need to make as well. We have talked about wanting to see a sort of a la carte style understanding.
 you know, by departments where those changes would be, where those increases and decreases would be to help you to understand the sort of why. So I think that would be good. And then I guess also to echo the Mayor, I think a very easy sort of link that could sort of list all the different sort of budget and management updates that we've had over the last year or over the last six months as we get to July would also be,
 that's a great idea as well to have there too. So we have a quick link or something that we can print out and put into a binder as well. If you all have any thoughts about that. Yeah, we can absolutely do that. And again, it's not like a broken record, but that's in the budget every year. So that's not anything that we haven't done in the past. I understand the question. I don't know why there's confusion on what's in those
 because we do break them down and they're in the information that's given. But I understand what you're saying. You want to see is that like with, for example, the public safety items, you want to see it with fire and with police and where the collective bargaining agreement adjustments are in terms of paying and things of that nature. I think we provided that in the backup in the previous meeting.
 a PowerPoint, but we can provide a link, aggregate the data, and also have the department shown as the backup under the public safety goal and show the increase. Again, we've done that, but we'll break it down in such a way where it's easier to consume. We absolutely can do that. I mean, I feel like this is the first sort of slide where we actually sort of see the...
 I've shown this before, Mayor Pro Temp. That we've added information for the budget increase overall? No, I'm talking about this slide. We've shown this slide before several times. We've also showed the revenue slide. Before you talk about this slide, because I just want to make sure we bring up the data and show you so that
 Everyone sees the same thing. But yeah, we've talked about this particular slide multiple times. And when you say increase, I want to make sure the community doesn't misunderstand. There's not an increase. It's actually just adjusting back to where we were. We've shown you slides where we were at a certain rate and then we reduced it dramatically because of COVID. And now we're adding things back in.
 So, you know, you can say that, yeah, that's an increase from one year to the next, which is accurate. But when you look at it in the aggregate, you're just simply adding back some things. Now, there's some additional costs, especially in public safety, as it relates to the health pandemic and also as it relates to police and fire in relation to CBA and just cost increases in police academies or fire academies.
 And we've talked about that. But I understand what you're wanting and how you phrased it. We can absolutely put it in a way where it's more digestible and easier to consume. And I'm not saying this because I'm not saying that these increases aren't warranted or necessary or, you know, aren't important. It's not an adversarial concern that I'm bringing these up. If anything, it's something so that we have.
 so that we have material that would get them able to inform our community, our constituents as this process moves forward and people bring up these questions.
 of the property valuation versus the tax rate and the city's role and responsibility in it, even though we are one of the smaller taxing entities, if you look at our overall tax rate. I absolutely understand what you're asking for. And we can provide that, because I understand now where you're coming from, and that can easily be provided and then...
 be able to be communicated to the public when you get asked questions. So I definitely understand. Quark Life is another example that's on this slide where we're adding things back in, and we're opening up new things like the recreational facilities that several of you have been at that just opened. We talked about that that's going to cost more money. We talked about that four or five years ago, that doing them all at the same time is going to have a big increase on the operations and maintenance side, so that should not be a surprise.
 the water parks, that's another example. So, and then there's, you're gonna hear probably from the citizens today about wanting to go at 100% on opening up all swim facilities. So, we talked about how, because of the pandemic, that we were wanting to make sure we were measured in our response in terms of how we came back from a health perspective.
 And then the whole discussion about the financial piece came into play and that we wanted to help the community recover. So last year's budget, we did not have a tax increase.
 And in this year's budget, that's what we're saying we're working towards as well, that could not have a tax increase and looking at having a decrease to the seniors and the disabled by giving them a bigger tax exemption, which would be a tax decrease to them. So we have listened to the council, we have made those adjustments. And that's what Robert's talking about when he says adjustments, it's those kind of adjustments that we've listened to y'all and made those adjustments. What you're asking for, okay, we wanna see where you made those adjustments,
 what got impacted, what didn't get impacted, what's getting more money. We can break this down further because it's something that we've done every year. So it's not something that is difficult to put together. And I get what you're saying in terms of attempting to communicate these line items here with the departments and what makes up that number. So yeah, we absolutely could do that. And again, for the public's consumption, we do that every year.
 So you get that all the time. It's not anything new. It's just a matter of how the information is broken down, and you want it broken down now as opposed to later. Now, again, when we say later, we've provided the book to you all, and we've provided the backup that Nicole's talking about to you every year in June. That's not changing this year.
 When she's referring to the big book, it's the entire assembled book, but all the data points that you need financially, we're going to brief you all in the month of June like we have in the past individually. Then you have the information as a backup as well to answer all of these questions. I think you all have become more sophisticated with these questions, and you're wanting it earlier.
 even though the process, you'll get it much earlier in June, and then you'll get the full book that you referenced in its entirety in the binder, looking pretty, I guess, in July, early July. But really, we will have already briefed you in June, just like we do every year, and you don't improve the budget until August.
 So the timeframe in terms of when we get it to you has not changed other than what you're asking for now in terms of being able to break this down further. And we'll do that. That's not hard. We'll absolutely do that for you, for the whole council. Great. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, Ms. Prine, thank you, Representative Mayor Potem, Schwartzwein, and Mr. Gonzalez.
 thank you all for your participation in this but that next item is fine yes that brings us to item number 23 this is presentation and discussion providing a report from gold team number four quality of life good morning mayor and council for the record ben fife director of cultural affairs and recreation if i t will please bring up the presentation good morning and i t if you can please bring up the presentation next slide please
 Today we're excited to be able to bring a presentation on Goal Team 4, which includes our Quality of Life departments. As you just heard in the last presentation, Quality of Life has been before the Council numerous times over the last couple of months, specifically as we talked about services, challenges, and the need for quality of life.
 and the phasing of reopenings. Today we are going to be giving you a holistic view of the last year to talk about some of our accomplishments as well as challenges ahead. I'll be joined today by leadership from all of these departments, including Assistant Director of CID, Jerry DeMuro, from Libraries, Ellen Iberg, and from the El Paso Zoo and Botanical Gardens, Director Joe Montesano. Next slide, please.
 As you've seen from the previous Goal Team reports, the table of contents remains the same. We'll start with a response and recovery recap, talk a little bit about priorities, accomplishments, KPIs, our FY21 key deliverables, and then end with our key opportunities and challenges. Next slide, please.
 As a reminder, goal four is to enhance El Paso's quality of life through recreational, cultural and educational environments. Next slide. And we'll begin with our response and recovery to the COVID-19 pandemic. Although most people may not associate quality of life employees with frontline work during the pandemic,
 I take every opportunity I can to remind the public that almost 100 Quality of Life staff members have been central to our COVID-19 response efforts. You see a breakdown here on this slide of the number of employees. The Quality of Life staff has been temporarily reassigned to things like the Education Task Force with the Health Department. They have been central to the business practices of OEM and health.
 to be able to do things like procure protective equipment for city staff. They've assisted with vaccine registrations, assisted with the emergency operation or response center, testing sites, and even actually been reassigned to animal services during a time when volunteers were not allowed access into the facilities. Quality of Life staff stepped in to be able to help with animal care.
 We've also had some of our mascots, most famously the zoo animals, assigned at various testing facilities to make sure it is a friendly experience for families. Next slide, please.
 We also have seen a number of our facilities repurposed, and I know Council has received briefings on these in the past. Over 20 facilities have been repurposed from the Quality of Life portfolio, primarily from Parks and Recreation. So these are things such as field offices for the Health Department. We have had overflow operations for the Opportunity Centre for the Homeless.
 We actually have set up some of our sites for food distribution, including Nolan Richardson Recreation Center, which is now the Northeast distribution site for El Pasoans fighting hunger. When they were about to lose their distribution site in the Northeast, we worked very quickly with them to be able to get them this facility assigned within seven days.
 And of course, we've had numerous parking areas throughout the portfolio serving as testing or vaccination sites. Next slide, please.
 There have been a number of modifications as with all of the city facilities related to ensuring both staff and the public are as safe as possible including retrofits with air purification systems, hand sanitizing and temperature monitoring stations. We've also set up in most of our facilities the ability to be able to register people for vaccines on the spot.
 I know Representative Molinar, you actually just told a story in the last presentation about members of our community who were not necessarily proficient with digital access or do not want to become proficient with digital access. So our facilities actually help to fill that gap to be able to ensure everybody has access to vaccine registration. And so we've also worked to close high risk elements and high touch elements in our facilities. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 So at this point, I'm going to ask Ellen Iberg to walk you through key accomplishments for the library. Ellen? Good morning, Mayor and Council. Ellen Iberg, Regional Manager, Richard Burgess Library. Our service response during this time period, the libraries were closed in December and January, but we restarted our curbside pickup program in February. Curbside pickups were available at the three regional branch libraries, and the bookmobile provided curbside pickups at five neighborhood libraries.
 Library materials were delivered to a total of 2,266 vehicles during this quarter. Patrons could apply for library cards online and this service is continuing now and will continue on in the future. Programming was all done virtually and approximately 100 programs were posted during this quarter. We also partnered with the YISD to provide digital access to the students using their own credentials through Sora and those students have checked out over 3,000 items during this period.
 workplace job and small business training. The place in workplace stands for public literacy access for careers and entrepreneurship. This is an initiative that started three years ago through a grant-funded program from the Texas State Library. It is designed to support small businesses and those looking for work. It is one-stop information and support center offering services to the public for free.
 During this time we've helped 152 clients, hosted workshops, and trained employees. We've also connected with community partners such as the YWCA, UTEP, EPCC, Workforce Solutions, Everyone On, and the Housing Authority. Next slide please. Council, we're one away from losing a quorum. We're missing reps Schwarzwein, Anello, the Mayor had to step away momentarily. Thank you.
 Continuing adult education, Career Online High School. Career Online High School has proved to be one of the library's most popular programs during the pandemic. During this fiscal year, we've awarded 21 scholarships and 12 students have completed the program. You can see a photo of Sonia, a recent COHS graduate in this slide. Since receiving her diploma, she says, I can finally be considered for a promotion at work.
 Awards and recognitions. The Texas Municipal Library Directors Association has awarded the El Paso Public Library its Achievement in Excellence of Libraries Award for demonstrating achievement and excellence in 10 categories. There are 568 public library systems in Texas, and EPPL was one of the 56 systems receiving this honor. Next slide, please.
 So key accomplishments for museums and cultural affairs include creation of eight new exhibitions at the El Paso Museum of Art and the El Paso Museum of History during closure to be able to reopen with fresh galleries for our visitors. Some of these exhibitions were over a year in the making, and so we're incredibly proud of staff participation.
 I'd like to also brag on the staff for really making sure that our museums now more aggressively reflect our community and more diverse viewpoints and diverse perspectives around the contributions made by El Pasoans of all colors and genders.
 We've also prioritized infrastructure at the El Paso Museum of Art and the El Paso Museum of History. During the closures, we were able to tackle some pretty aggressive maintenance projects, long-term preventative maintenance, as well as things that needed to be addressed that were difficult to do during times when we are open.
 And we've also received two awards for recently completed public art projects, both of them in District 3 with Flores del Desierto on Airway and also an award for the public art project in the recently opened Valle Bajo Community Center. Next slide please.
 In Parks and Recreation, just like MCAD, we were able to actually take periods of closure to be able to do some significant renovation, specifically on our courts in nine of our rec centers. So when you do visit these, you will see basically brand new flooring and facilities in these areas.
 We also worked to be able to use some of the savings we'd accrued from programs that we could not actually implement to upgrade lighting at 21 of our locations. This actually saved significant amount of staff time because these lights are able to be controlled via phone.
 and also they increase revenue. These lights are not able to be tripped by the public. In the past, the public can basically climb in and turn the lights on without paying for the proper permit to be able to do so. Now they actually have to be able to go through the sports division for those permits. Next slide, please.
 Some of the other key accomplishments of Parks and Recreation, these first two are really things that I think also fit into the recap of our recovery efforts and our response. Senior meal drive-thru distribution has been a success. When our facilities shut down, we were able to take a program that had been in place for decades in which seniors were able to access food at their centers to be able to get a hot meal five days a week.
 We pivoted and within 72 hours were able to change this program model to one of a drive-by distribution for five meals at a time, working with our partners at the County Nutrition Program. I'd also like to acknowledge the efforts of Representative Anello here, who was really a significant partner in connecting us with people to be able to make this move so quickly.
 Staff actually was very proactive as well in taking some of our vacant facilities and turning them into Wi-Fi centers beginning in September 2020.
 When local schools began virtual schooling and virtual classes, staff started to notice anecdotally that some of the families around some of our community centers who may not necessarily have access to Wi-Fi or strong enough Wi-Fi to be able to have multiple children in school were actually sitting outside closed facilities to be able to access the Wi-Fi.
 They worked very quickly to be able to develop a program in which we were able to serve over 8,600 El Pasoans to be able to ensure that no one fell through the cracks with virtual schooling because they did have access
 to strong Wi-Fi. And then of course, we've received an award this year for our senior division for an app that has been developed specifically to be able to help seniors connect to services and programs nearby them. So everything from transportation to health to quality of life services. Next slide, please. And now I will turn this over to Joe Montezano, the director of the zoo and botanical gardens.
 Good morning, Council, Mayor and Council. Joe Manasano, Director of the, as Ben said, Zoo and Botanical Gardens for the record. So my key accomplishments are a little more warm and fuzzy. So we did have a Mexican wolf pack. So we had, this is the first time we've had Mexican wolves born at the zoo in over 30 years, I believe. So it's a new pack that came, and mom, dad, and the three boys came, and now they have six babies. Six baby cubs are out there as well.
 and so they're part of an international actually national international wolf breeding program so at some point there we will pull some of them and actually put them into the wild because they're trying to get a dna diversity into the wild from captive population so it's very cool that we were doing that as well the male peninsulan pronghorn antelope was added to our collection so now there's six females and one boy out there and he should do what he's supposed to do as well so we'll see how that works out we added a male malayan tiger
 female giraffe, which is very exciting. We had three male giraffes for a long time. Two of them were shipped to other facilities and a female that we actually own came in from another zoo and she's there now and eventually she will breed with the one male that's left when she gets a little bit older. We also have our mountain lion kittens. They were kittens when they came to us. That was during the pandemic. They're over there to the left. Now they're full grown mountain lions, of course, because all these animals came in during the pandemic pretty much and the people didn't get to see them until we reopened.
 back in February, so it was very exciting. We also have a young Komodo dragon who we are building him an exhibit. It was just an opportunity to get him in early and we are housing him now until his exhibit gets built at the end of it. It's one of our last quality of life projects. Next slide.
 So some of the animal successes we've had, we had an African lion that we sent to Providence Hospital for an MRI and we transported another lion to Phoenix actually for targeted radiation therapy. I mean even though the outcome of these are questionable, I mean the second one is doing fine actually and the radiation seems to be helping. It's a major project for us to transport a lion as you could imagine to Phoenix and back for these kind of operations and surgery so that's the successful part of this just actually doing it
 and getting these treatments available for these great animals we have here. We also had the opportunity to carry and transport that magnificent frigate bird back to Florida. That's his picture on the bottom right there. He kind of blew in when we had that major storm back in Texas. They're from the coast, the Gulf Coast.
 and so uh there are no frigate birds in this part of the of texas and so uh he just got off course somehow we cared for and made him healthy and then we actually arranged for a free flight back to him for florida where he was subsequently released where the birds are actually at right now so that was kind of fun for us we also have a lot of hatchlings from metallic starlings blue mott mott's burrowing owls road runners birds basically uh which do well here in breedwell here but are great additions to the collection as well
 And also, even though it's sad news, but we did have the end-of-life care for Juno, our Asian elephant. We consider that a success because even though, I mean, she passed away, we gave her three or four years of good quality life despite her cancer and her conditions. And so even though it ended badly, I guess certainly the process to get her there was certainly an accomplishment for us. Next slide.
 So spring break attendance. For spring break this year, we were opened up back in February. Spring break came along in March. We set new records. We increased about 2,156 guests, and that's comparing it to 2019, obviously, because 2020 we were closed, so I can't compare it to that.
 Even with all the COVID restrictions in place, limited product offer, limited parking, we did temporarily lose some amenities like the carousel and the ropes course and those things. We still had tremendous attendance. Spring break was up, as you can see, 2,000 people. And next slide. Oh, sorry. I was also going to say that I'll give it back to Ben in a second. But we're also up about 30,000 people on the year so far. So people are really coming back and enjoying the zoo. And so we're doing real well. Ben? Yeah.
 All right, so these are some updates on some of the 25 and 25 initiatives. The thing that I think we are most excited about are the recent openings of some of our new facilities. We appreciate the support we've received from Council and leadership in actually helping us to make sure that each of these openings was a celebration for the community, including the Chamisal Community Center, Vallevajo Community Center, facilities at the Beast Regional Park,
 We are anticipating an opening for the Sylvia Carreon Community Center. And then, of course, construction has finally begun on the 80,000 square foot Children's Museum, which will be located in the heart of the downtown Arts District. Next slide, please. One of the major success stories of the pandemic has been virtual programming.
 for the quality of life portfolio. As Deputy City Manager Tracy Jerome has reminded the council on numerous occasions, even though facilities were closed, our service levels and support for the community did not waver. And so you can see some of the measures we've had from...
 virtual content and it has been really significant. You can also see that we're actually up this year over last year, just with half of the year's numbers related to virtual content. So we have a total of 7 million in reach right now for this, the first two quarters of the fiscal year. Next slide. This is just a graph that kind of shows you the increase in the number of programs offered virtually. Next slide.
 And I'd like to actually just take a minute to actually mention that we are discussing the fact that as we move closer to fuller reopenings, that those virtual programs are also incredibly important for people who may not have the level of comfort or access to be able to come out regularly to some of our facilities. And so a hybrid approach will definitely be something that we look forward to in the future.
 Here are some of our KPIs related to program participation and attendance. Where you see zeros, we should mention that we are reporting right now on the first two quarters, at which point we had not officially entered Phase 1 for reopenings, and so you do see a lot of zeros here. But we look forward to being able to update those when we report out for future quarters.
 For Parks and Recreation, it's important to note that our numbers are actually reflective of the fact that we were able to actually hold things like sports in outdoor settings, both in the fall and early in the spring, as well as programming such as senior meal distribution, the Wi-Fi centers, the heating and cooling centers, etc. Next slide, please.
 Here you'll see the KPIs related to quality of life projects completed within the timeframe and or under budget at 90%.
 I think this is incredibly important to actually recognize the fact that this number is so high, given all of the challenges related to construction around the pandemic, including shortages with supply chains, as well as oftentimes shortages in workers due to COVID-19.
 At this point, I will turn this over to Jerry DeMuro to walk you through some of the quality of life projects completed. Jerry, you're muted. IT, can you go back one slide, please? Thank you. So in quarter two of FY21, we completed 17 quality of life projects. Overall, the quality of life program to date throughout its history has completed 142 projects. Next slide, please.
 Some of the projects that we delivered are some of the NIP neighborhood improvement projects, the four water parks, the four community centers, shade canopies for our playgrounds, some library improvements, some zoo enhancements, and the 50-meter pool. Next please.
 The library renovations that we are in the process of or have recently completed include the Clardy Fox Library, the Esperanza Moreno Library, the Jose Cisnato Library, the Armijo Library which will be starting in construction in a couple weeks, the Westside Library, and then finally the Doris Van Doren Library. We are keeping the Doris Van Doren Library open while we renovate the rest of them and once the Westside Library has been renovated we will then close Doris Van Doren to complete the renovations there.
 So the recreation center improvements we have ongoing include the Seville Recreation Center, the Nolan Richardson Recreation Center, Pavo Real, Pato O'Rourke, the Grandview Recreation Center, and the Veterans Recreation Center. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 A number of park improvements. These are either through CDBG or through the quality of life funding, including a number of family park enhancements. We are just getting ready to kick off the Joey Barasa and Vino Memorial construction, as well as the Modesto Gomez improvement construction and other improvements.
 park improvements elsewhere. Our aquatic facilities we have some improvements that are planned for the Viscount Training and Instructional Pool and the Leo Cancelera Pool. Those should probably be taking place toward late fall early winter. In addition, we've advanced the permitting and design process for the paved trails and trailheads. Next slide please.
 Museums and Cultural Affairs, Ben mentioned that the Children's Museum is under construction and the Mexican American Cultural Center has completed their design. The Mexican American Cultural Center rendering is on the right and the Children's Museum on the left. Next slide please. And these are just some views of the recreation centers. You can see the interiors, the pools, some of the gym equipment that's there. Next slide please. These are the water parks as well as, yes, these are all the water parks that are opening up here shortly. Next slide please.
 These are just enhancements that are being made at the various libraries. Next slide, please. And I'll turn it back over to Ben. Thank you. Of course, linked up to capital improvements is the 2% program for public art. We currently have eight projects that are in process.
 Bienvenido is the project that is closest to being finished. This is the door that welcomes visitors to El Paso and specifically to the Downtown Arts District that has been installed, but it's just pending landscaping. But there are a number of other projects that are in process in various states of completion that we are excited to be able to working on and updating the council as we progress. Next slide, please. All right, Ellen. Sorry.
 We are glad to be part of the footprints of the new Chamizal and Valle Bajo recreation centers. The Chamizal Express Library and Enrique Moreno Express Library both opened recently. The public is excited about the services that will be provided in these new locations.
 Three other branch libraries are being renovated and three are coming soon, as was just said. We're continuing to phase in more library services as previously planned. And library staff are currently planning special online services and virtual programming for our summer reading program, which will start in June. We're finally considering changing the bookmobile routes to reach out to underserved parts of our community.
 such as senior centers assisted living facilities veterans retirement home and others. Thank you. Next slide please.
 In museums and cultural affairs, one of the key deliverables has been the awarding of, actually to date, that has increased to 114 artists and non-profit organizations' temporary relief funding. I'd also like the opportunity here to just restate that when the pandemic hit, a lot of cities in Texas, actually the majority of cities in Texas,
 completely rethought their commitment to local artists and arts organizations in light of dwindling hotel occupancy tax revenue. Most cities actually moved to cancel their existing contracts with these organizations and put programs on hiatus. And I'd really like to acknowledge the hard work of the city manager and our deputy city manager in keeping their commitment to these artists'
 and our cultural organizations during this time, understanding how much vibrancy they bring to our community. So we're incredibly proud to be able to continue with these programs and to make sure that we are helping some of our local artists who have been badly impacted by the pandemic to be able to continue to work.
 We also had our very first iteration of the digital version of Chalk the Block in collaboration with the El Paso Community Foundation, and we've completed six public art projects during the pandemic. Next slide, please.
 For Parks and Recreation, some of our key deliverables are actually activating new facilities. As we've mentioned already, we have had several new facilities that have finally opened to the public. We are incredibly proud of the work that is happening there, and especially with the partnership with the library on several of those facilities, as Ellen mentioned.
 We're also working to build up programs and our patron base after COVID-19 closures. We have implemented new recreation software with comparable private sector features. This is really exciting for us. This actually gives us the ability to connect more readily with customers and actually give them more options for how they schedule things. And then lastly, we are looking forward to beginning the process for a master plan for Memorial Park,
 to address long-term maintenance issues, as well as new amenities that we know are important to the community. Next slide, please. All right, Joe. Thanks, Ben. So for the zoo, projects that are complete is the Cat Adoption Center, which is, as you may or may not know, is a combination project with us, on our space on the zoo property, with Animal Services actually having a facility out here. So it is done. I believe it's set to open up
 The week after Memorial Day, so June 2nd, 3rd, something like that. You'll get an announcement on that. Press release will go out. But it's the first one of these in the country. It's the first time someone has tried to actually adopt cats out of a zoological park. So we're very excited to see how it's going to work and maybe set a precedent for other facilities to do it. It's done very nicely, and we're very excited to have our partners on property. So next slide.
 So right now we're on the last third of our quality of life projects and so what's coming up the biggest one coming up is the penguin exhibit. These are Magellanic penguins, South American penguins. There's a graphic representation of it there to your right but they don't need cold I mean they're South American penguins so they don't need the refrigerated temperatures of our
 other penguin friends so it's a little easier for us to keep down here so we do have some sea lion repairs and upgrades that's an old facility an old stadium we have one of our more popular shows and demonstrations though so we have to fix that up a little bit south american pavilion renovations that's really a new hvac system there's some rest south american restrooms as you can see and some upgrades to that as well and an animal holding two is a new facility
 So our animals come in, they go into quarantine, they go into, we need an indoor space basically to move animals around, hold them in while they're either being renovated at their facility or they're new under quarantine or for different reasons. What's really critical about this is beyond just bringing in new things, we're fixing up the old things as well at the same time, which is just very insightful for when the quality of life bond was passed. So we're very happy to be doing that. So next slide. And that's kind of where we are on these things. So the project's in design. We have an African bird holding area.
 So the African savanna where the giraffes and zebras are actually will function as one giant unit. So it'll be like the savanna where the kudus, the zebras, the giraffes, and the birds will all wander together basically with a place for some of them to go to get out of the way if they need to. But the African bird holding is in design. Education Discovery Center is a building we already have. It's in, I guess, redesign, so we're going to renovate the inside. It's been here a very, very long time and needs some help, if you will. The Amur leopards as well.
 So this is an exhibit. Amur leopards are one of the more endangered animals in the world, actually. And so we're going to ship our female off to another facility. They're going to renovate this entire place, and then we're going to get a breeding pair. We'll come back, a new pair, a younger pair, a male and a female, to do some breeding because the Amur leopard population is having lots of problems in zoos and facilities.
 The projects in pre-design are the Galapagos exhibit renovation. We have Galapagos tortoises now and so this will be basically a redesign so people get a little closer to them but they can actually cut through the exhibits with the proper security and things in place. The Komodo dragon exhibit I mentioned that he's already here and so we got to build him his house. Ocelot improvements that's ocelots are kind of in the way now of the
 the road to bring the penguin exhibit on. So we have to kind of move them first so we can build the road to bring the penguins and everything else on for that whole section of the park. That's the last of the oldest sections of the park too, that still exists. So once that's all done, once these are all done, again, it will be completely, there'll be nothing left of the old zoo that was here, you know, so many years ago. Alligator exhibit renovations as well. We do have Brutus, our old alligator there. He just needs some new fencing and some touch-ups in his exhibit to make that area look more modern and cohesive as well. So next slide.
 So some of the opportunities and challenges we have ahead are continuing to services and facilities in
 while also evaluating programs on hiatus to determine quality, customer response, and resource allocation. One of the great things that actually has dovetailed nicely with that effort is an initiative spearheaded by the Performance Office and funded by Bloomberg Philanthropy related to human-centered design and programs for youth.
 And so there have been over 20 hours of interviews with teens, parents, families, as well as administrators and instructors for those programs. We've collected over 700 original research and data points and developed two prototypes co-designed with our participants to make our offerings more user friendly to access and to ensure we're actually offering what the public would like to see versus what we are used to offering.
 We also have modified hours that increase efficiency of operations, allow for better cleaning and alleviating some overtime at some of our facilities, specifically our zoos and museums. We...
 technology to deliver services more efficiently and effectively. I already mentioned the fact that we are definitely looking at a hybrid model of program delivery when the pandemic ends, knowing that some of our customer base really does enjoy that level of access. And then lastly, there is a significant escalation in supplies, supply costs for construction that will have potential budget challenges for capital projects.
 including for buildings and also for public art moving forward and so with that that will conclude our presentation and we are open for questions yes mayor we have miss Marilyn Guida that signed up to speak on this item good morning miss Guida you have three minutes ma'am
 Good morning, Mayor, Council members and City Manager. I'd like to give you my perspective on the accomplishments of the City's Archaeology Museum as a corollary to the staff presentation. As a volunteer docent since 2014 and a member of the Museum, I sometimes encounter wonderful moments with visitors.
 A few years ago, I overheard a mother who was showing her young child the horticulture and pit house diorama scene. And the mother was saying, your grandpa lived in a house like this in Mexico. That moment helped me to realize the personal connections that El Pasoans have to an ancient lifestyle that seems so foreign and remote to most of us today. So the Archaeology Museum is about people.
 First and foremost, connecting people of the present to the people of the past, and the people of the past who knew how to not just survive but thrive in the Chihuahuan Desert. With over 80% of our population of Hispano heritage, the Archaeology Museum is a place to learn about how their ancestors lived, something that is not taught in our schools until students take certain anthropology classes at UTEP.
 Free school and public tours at the Archaeology Museum provide this history to local residents and visitors. Currently, two exhibits created by Archaeology Museum staff and based on artifacts from the Archaeology Museum's collection are on view at the Art Museum and at the airport.
 There are new weekly archaeology museum Facebook posts, the artifact of the week and did you know which provide an educational component about the museum's collection and an introduction to the specific sites and details of the ancient past of this region. The museum's website carries 16 educational puzzles, crafts and activities appropriate for families with children at home.
 The Archaeology Museum recently sent an email to members announcing that the biennial Jornada Mogollón Archaeology Conference is being planned for October 2021. Efforts are underway to publish the papers from the 2019 conference. Did you know this region was a draw for indigenous people before the Spanish arrived?
 In addition to the Pueblo people, the Kiowa, the Mescalero, and other tribes came to this area. For many, the sacred area we now call Hueco Tanks was an important destination. You may not know that there are still people living in this region whose ancestors were here when the Spanish arrived.
 the monso piro and suma people are among them the archaeology museum has hosted presentations by representatives of the tiwa people the monso people as well as northern pueblo people so that the public can hear directly from descendants of indigenous people of this region i hope this has given you an idea of the many ways the archaeology museum provides a unique service to both el paso
 I hope to give each of you tours of the Archaeology Museum when it reopens. Thank you. Thank you. And with that we have Representative Salcido followed by Mayor Potem Schwartzbein. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Council, staff and members of the community. Thank you so much for the presentation. So I have a few questions for Ben Five. I know you mentioned that you have some senior programs in our community. What are those programs?
 So right now we are actually actively working to create programs specifically for our senior population that can be activated at facilities that are open. Those include things like fitness classes. We also are working on looking at ways to activate outdoor programs, very similar to a successful program initiated by representatives.
 outside of the Happiness Senior Center. Zach is actually working on those programs, proposals right now serving our senior population, even though we do not have our senior center. Ben, you're cutting off a little bit on my end.
 I apologize, Rep. So we're actually actively working to create programs that we can implement at open centers. Those include things like fitness, wellness class, sports teams. We also are working to develop outdoor programs similar to the social event that was spearheaded by Representative Hubeb, that district.
 That's something we want to implement in all councils moving forward so that we make sure seniors are engaged while facilities are closed. I will also mention that we last, a few weeks ago, actually convened a virtual meeting with all of the advisory councils from all the senior centres to be able to what the plans are moving forward so we could address any questions or concerns that may be coming up and just make sure we're all in active communication.
 Well, that is very great to hear what you're doing for the seniors. So I actually, um, I had the pleasure to meet, uh, to speak to one of my constituents this weekend. And even though it was a great conversation, it actually was quite sad. She was diagnosed with cancer and, um, is, uh, actually never had kids. So she kind of is all alone in this world. Um, she has, uh, she mentioned, mentioned like she had like two friends maybe. And, um,
 I just don't know if there's anything that we have as a city that aids terminal ill seniors. You know, I think right now what her struggles are is she needs to ramp at her house to be built. And so I kind of went ahead and I kind of contacted some of my friends.
 developers that are out there and to get quotes and I'm willing to put it in for her because I think it's a need but I don't know if there's any you know program that we have as a city to help her moving on forward so I just kind of want to get an idea if we have anything in place for that.
 So if you would actually send the information on this individual to my office, ma'am, we can certainly reach out. And I will also reach out to Community Development, as I believe that they do have programs in place that you're describing. So we can make sure when we do reach out, we have a comprehensive list for this individual. And when they're terminally ill, what other aid do we provide from CBDG or do we have?
 I can't speak for another department, but I can certainly make sure when we do check in with her, ma'am, that I do have staff on board to be able to have those resources available.
 Okay, great. I let her know that we usually work together and I told her that I would find out what it is that we could do and that we'll find some solutions for her. But it was quite sad just to kind of hear that, you know, she's out here on her own and really doesn't have any aid. And so thank you. Thank you that you are working with the seniors. And maybe moving forward, we could kind of address a little bit more of needs like that. But thank you so much. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Representative Salcedo.
 With that, we have Representative Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein followed by Representative Molinar. Thank you again Mayor. Thank you again Ben for your presentation, all staff's hard work. I had a couple questions relating to some of the programming and sort of timelines coming up for this goal team vision block cohort.
 One of the questions is some of the outdoor program that we've done. First of all, I want to say that I think in terms of equity and access, it makes all the sense in the world to look at keeping on some of our virtual programming or having opportunities for virtual engagement. I think if one thing that we've all seen, this sort of band-aid has been ripped off in terms of virtual access programs.
 and people getting out. And maybe for some of us who don't have issues of mobility or other sort of
 I think that's a big challenge is being able to have access to that virtual programming. Virtual learning is absolutely a game changer for many, many of our families here in our community. So that's absolutely something that I think is absolutely appropriate and would support moving forward. I am kind of curious in moving forward with that. Are we going to be looking at virtual events and in person to be
 as performance indicators moving forward? I think definitely we would definitely be in discussions with the performance office on that, sir. Obviously, we had to pivot with how we tracked and how we reported out. And so I imagine we'll continue to do that as we continue on this evolution moving out of the COVID-19 realities. Okay. I guess you kind of already sort of mentioned it, but...
 I guess, do you expect Quality Life Services to maintain a level of interactive and virtual options to accompany in-person events, or would you see them sort of as a separate? Actually, I believe we would definitely be looking at both. Okay.
 Again, I think we have certainly seen that some people really do like the ease of access that they get from virtual. We certainly know that with a lot of school districts diminishing capacity to fund field trips, you know, these kinds of services are important. But, of course, it doesn't replace the in-person experience, so we want to be able to offer both. Okay. Okay.
 In terms of some program, it's really great to see that Memorial Park Master Plan. I think that's long overdue. That's a really great historic park that's very unique for our city. And it's really beautiful and happy to see that even though that's not in my district, it's a great park and glad to see that's there.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 from the data, knowing from what the residents have said, is that they really want to see dog parks. And I think that there needs to be a better flexibility between operational costs of maintenance of parks with flexibility in terms of the size. Not every district can have a two or three acre dog park. And I think that we as an institution need to be flexible about providing those services.
 to the park. I mean, I think, I don't know if a dog park master plan is necessary, but I do think that there's a clear need that we hear from constituents and backed up by the data of Chiman that dog parks are some more dog parks or something that residents want to see moving forward. It's something that we hear a lot of, sir, from constituents as well. One of the things I've spoken about in the past is I would really like to be...
 review our current standards, park standards, and that's where we have outlines and the delineations for all our amenities, really designed specifically to ensure ease of maintenance and quality control for members of the community. But that's something we can look into as we do that exercise. Yeah, I think that, I think reviewing the sort of dog park standards and maintenance would be a really great step forward because I think that there's opportunities
 within our existing park infrastructure for adaptive reuse in making parks, making areas either have dog park accessible areas or even exploring the opportunity to, similar to what you've seen in other Texas cities, have dual use parks or leash free hours
 as well as something to look at too that you've seen in other cities such as Austin and others. A couple other questions. I'm at the five-minute mark of my 10-minute allotment because I am timing myself.
 is what is the plan for reopening of the Archaeology Museum? What is the plan for Chalk the Block this year? What is the plan for the reopening of our aquatics facilities? What is our plan for Winterfest? And what are some of our plans for the integration of our streetcar with events and programming in the upcoming year as well?
 And last but not least, also, what is the sort of plan and timeline for all these as well as our senior centers? Okay. So actually, I would say for aquatic as well as the archaeology museum and our senior centers, those, as we've briefed the council before, are actually in later phases of reopenings. You know, we have briefed the council that we have at this point three different phases of reopenings.
 That allows us to be able to make determinations on what the data is telling us related to current infection rates, hospitalization rates. But it also allows us to also make informed decisions about what we can handle financially. You know, there has been a lot of discussion with the council about...
 both of those being necessary factors. And I would remind the council, as we have shared with the council previously, that staffing levels throughout the quality of life portfolio are still not where they would need to be to turn everything on at 100%. So, okay, so what you say...
 when you say the when you say a timeline in the later phase when you're talking about aquatics or archaeology museum or senior centers if it's in phase three like what is that timeline like is that you know what's like is that like six months from now three months from now not for another fiscal year like what's so as we've actually shared with the council we do not have hard dates attached to
 phases. We really want to build in the flexibility to be able to react accordingly, to make sure that we are being very careful with the community's health, as well as with our own fiscal resources that we know are very precious right now. Given revenue
 the challenges that we have had over the last budget cycles with COVID-19. So I just- Time for Chalk the Block and- Yeah, so before you go into Chalk the Block really quick, I just wanted to chime in and I think I understand the need to have that flexibility. I also think in terms of this sort of anxiety and concerns that we have from our residents, it would help to try to better define when we might see some of those facilities like the Archeology Museum, like the senior centers,
 and like our aquatics facilities, when we might see those additional phases come in, even if it's a six- to nine-month or 12- to 18-month sort of framework,
 that I think would be helping in some of those concerns and anxieties that we're hearing from our residents and the services that they are dearly and sorely missing. So I just wanted to put that in there, just let my feeling maybe some of my other fellow council members have their own sort of thoughts that they might wanna chime in as well. Now you're gonna bring up chocolate block is now sort of last question. I appreciate again, all that you're doing and that amazing piece of artwork as your background as well. Well, very next.
 So talk to block actually we are cautiously optimistic we will be able to have an in-person event this year. Staff is already working on that in terms of logistics and planning. We do also see Winterfest proceeding in the same manner as well as the .
 are regularly containing the downtown stakeholders to do events, to be able to talk, all of us interact with health protocols, with making sure that we put enough buffers in place for planning to be able to make sure that we are all successful, and also having discussions about streetcar as a whole.
 as it could be activated for events like that. I mean, I think, and I got 30 seconds left, in terms of the streetcar and activation of it, you know, we have some of our community partners that are at 100% occupancy.
 We have the Plaza Classic Film Festival coming up, Chalk the Block, Winterfest, Dia de los Muertos. These are all opportunities to increase the sort of economic impact of our downtown small businesses or uptown small businesses by utilizing the streetcar based upon our programming and event calendar.
 we could talk and talk and talk about it but we're entering into summer we're entering into a place where more and more of a percentage of our population is vaccinated and wanting and willing to go out and i do think that this is something and it's probably less of a mr fife and more of a mr gonzalez um sort of question but i do think that we need to stop talking about how we integrate the streetcar and start asking
 actually having it integrated into our summer and fall programming because our constituents are ready and we need to be helping our small businesses up and down the streetcar in our downtown and uptown area who have been struggling over this last year. And the streetcar is not the only component, but it's one of the components towards spreading out that economic and love
 Throughout our community with the different events that we have going on through our downtown and uptown area. I just wanted to end with that Thank you again mayor. Thank you again, mr. Thank you Thank you very much, mr. Mayor mr. Ben 5 and your leadership team, thank you very much for that very precise concise presentation on different aspects so
 So I would also like to reiterate the Archaeology Museum, and I have reminded the city manager and Tracy Jerome on this issue as well. There are several district board constituents that are really, really interested in reopening up their Archaeology Museum. We just heard from Marilyn Guida,
 very former city employee, also a docent to the Archeology Museum. And I received a letter, our office received a letter recently from a woman from Las Cruces, who was a grandmother who used to take her children, or excuse me, her grandchildren,
 to the Archaeology Museum. And what a treat. Think about that. A grandmother leaving Las Cruces, come to El Paso to have her grandkids visit the Archaeology Museum. That's a plus. That's a win for me. And the same thing, the fact that we have the United States Border Patrol Museum right adjacent to the Archaeology Museum, that's even a bigger plus.
 plus another big win so you can go to two different museums same date same time or excuse me same date and you know it's it's a great great thing to have so i'll continue fighting for the archaeology museum to open it's a small museum but still it uh it needs to be reopened then the other thing about the parks is for the dog park at the uh
 Joey Barraza and Vino Memorial Park. I know that's under construction or will start construction. I would like to make sure that everything goes slowly. If anything needs our help, please reach out to the district board office. Thank you. Thank you, Rep. Thank you, Representative Moulinard. And with that, next item is Frank. And thank you, Mr. Fyfe and all the team members. Thank you, sir. Before we go, Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mr. Fyfe.
 Um, thank you, Mayor. Mr. Five, thank you for the thorough presentation. I too just want to express my support for our streetcar. It has been a project that for decades and years has been a priority for councils before us, administrations before us. And so we really do have a duty to ensure that it reopens as part of our strategy for our downtown.
 Um, you know, and so there's there's a lot betting on the Sun Metro and the expansion of our transportation and mass transit.
 And you know, there's development happening specifically for the streetcar. And so we really need to bring that conversation back to the table. If there are budgetary questions, we need to have those conversations. But I just want to re-emphasize that the streetcar is really vital for the redevelopment of downtown, especially post pandemic.
 So I just wanted to say that again because I kind of hear us going in circles about it and I really want to find some strategies and plans to to make sure it comes back. Thank you. DIRECTOR HARRIS BUSHER- So Mayor if I may. Ellen Smyth SubMetro. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Yes ma'am. DIRECTOR HARRIS BUSHER- The streetcar we're testing every month for a week so it's it's up and running ready to go. We are meeting with them 5 every month on the upcoming events.
 And so we're ready to go as soon as there's any scheduled events downtown. We don't want to run empty, so we're trying to make sure that we start up when there's a willing audience to jump on board. But we're ready. The streetcar is fully operational. The operators are fully certified. We're ready. I just want you all to know that.
 Right. And the only thing I'm going to mention is that if there's not a consistent route, if we don't have a consistent operation, you're going to see low ridership, which is why it's critical that when we do relaunch the streetcar, that we have a set operational schedule, not only for events.
 But for your day to day commute and the current in the downtown Utah area. So when you bring the plan forward, the plan needs to have a clear strategy on a on an operational plan that everybody can go to so that they know that they can rely on the streetcar. If you if you piecemeal it and you do it by event, you're going to see a little ridership. And I just want to reemphasize that I don't agree with that methodology and I would really like to see.
 a plan, an operational plan that's going to be consistent year-round. Thank you for that, Representative Nunes. And if we are going to do it, we need to do it right and we need to prepare. And I think Representative Schwarzbein will agree with this saying, prepare to fail, fail to prepare. Would that be correct, Mayor Pro Tem? If you fail to plan, then you plan to fail. There you go. And with that, I go to you, sir.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mary. And thank you again. There are there are the, you know, there are so many horses that you need to water and feed as well. There's a lot of a lot of metaphors and analogies that we have all learned through our time here on this wonderful council.
 I just again want to reiterate with what Representative Fernandez says. I do think that having a sort of multi-tiered-up phasing approach towards the streetcar, yes, with regular operational hours, but also looking at what we can do in the sort of short to medium term about, again,
 Again, tying in those events and those programming activities that are going on. It's not something that's going to be happening down the road. Right now, we have Chihuahua and locomotive games that are going on multiple days out of the week with 100 percent occupancy. There's nothing that we can't do that says in two weeks starting, you know, in June.
 that we're going to be having the streetcar running, you know, basically two hours before the two hours after all baseball and soccer games. That's a built-in audience. We already have seen people that would park in the uptown area and the glory road transfer center, uh,
 park their cars, take their kids, take their families on the streetcar, decked out in locomotives and Chihuahuas gear to take the streetcar out to the ball game, to take the streetcar out to downtown. We have seen that those sort of traditions being created on the fly and it's not such a large
 I would love to see the opportunity for increased demand and demand for streetcar. I would love to see the opportunity for businesses to ask to make that happen again. I think that our businesses up and down the streetcar corridor, whether it's new businesses like Taconeta or old established businesses like Artabino's or G2
 visitors in that area and make more of an event around these sporting events with utilization of our streetcar. So again, I do want to ask, you know,
 Mr. Gonzalez, can we really work on working with our downtown partners to start that integration and restarting of the streetcar? You know, we can talk about plans and having these monthly meetings with our downtown partners, but we can also take the lead and be bold and start the integration of our streetcar system along our programming in our sort of downtown core, again, which the streetcar naturally complements.
 Yeah, I've heard the council's discussion on this and what
 direction. You want to head in with respect to how to start it back up. I think that the only thing that Ellen was referring to is that what the game plan is now given COVID restrictions and given the fact that we're not a community herd immunity yet. We want to make sure we don't mix the two and also the whole idea of making it sustainable from a financial standpoint. But I understand the priority, understand the direction and we
 and we will work on something, bring back to the city council. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. And with that, Ms. Prime, we go to the next item. Yes, Mayor, that brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 24 through 26 and items 29 and 30. Is there a motion? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortline. Aye. Representative Anello.
 Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera.
 Yes. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to page 10 to item number 31. This is discussion and action that the mayor be authorized to execute an interlocal agreement between the City of El Paso and El Paso County to support continued operation of the Inspira Hotel temporary emergency shelter in order to address the needs of persons experiencing homelessness in El Paso during COVID-19. Motion to approve.
 There is a motion and a second to approve item number 31. On that motion, Mayor Pro Temp-Shortline. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molina. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 32. This is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating the city right away over a 20-foot alley north of Montana Avenue and east of Campbell Street. Move to approve.
 Second. Point of order. Motion and a second. Any other? Yes. Point of order.
 I'm sorry. I believe yesterday during the work session, items 27, 28, and 32 were connected to each other. I think in the work session they did, but on this morning they did not postpone item 32 for two weeks. I was looking at that on exclusions too. It was item 28 and 27 and 32 was not included.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you. With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor, we do have public comment on this item. Yes, ma'am. We have Mr. George Hello and Mr. Tom Deloy. Mr. Deloy, I see you in the queue, sir. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon, Council. This is Tom Deloy with the Housing Office. Thanks for your consideration on this matter. It's very important to our proposed New Western Senior Development, and your vote affirms that we can move ahead with our planned project. So thanks for your consideration. Thank you. Is Mr. George Hello on the line? Mayor, I don't see him in the queue. So that concludes public comment on this item. Okay. One second, please. Thank you.
 okay there is a motion and a second to approve item number 32. public comment has been taken on that motion mayor pro temp shortsway representative anello hi hernandez yes and the motion passes unanimously the next item is number 34
 And this is discussion in action on a resolution to approve an 11th amendment to the city's 2019-2020 45th year annual action plan for the Community Development Block Grant Coronavirus Phase 3 to delete the COVID-19 emergency shelter capacity expansion project for the Opportunity Center and add funds to supplement the Inspira Hotel emergency shelter project. Move to approve. Second.
 There is a motion and a second to approve item number 34. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthwing. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. And the motion passes unanimously. Council, that brings us to the end of the agenda. May we have a motion to recess until noon for call to the public? So moved. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting until noon. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is in recess until noon, at which time we will have call to the public. There you go. We're getting up. You and I are both muted, so. Oh, here it is. Sorry about that. That was my computer. Is there a motion to reconvene the city council meeting? So moved. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 12.01 p.m. Thank you, Ms. Pryor. And with that, I know that we have three members of the public that are signing up to speak, but before I'd like to recognize Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you for this opportunity. And I would, I know that my colleagues are aware of this, but this is a proud moment for El Paso and for the people that are, some of our constituents that are on the neighborhood coalition.
 at this time i would like to uh congratulate the el paso neighborhood coalition in bringing the neighborhoods usa conference to el paso in 2023 in collaboration with the destination el paso and the neighborhood services i think that's a great accomplishment for each of us in in having those those particular individuals represent
 not only the coalition but work with our staff and that speaks volume for our staff as well thank you mayor and congratulations to you thank you
 Thank you and congratulations to them and I look forward to being a speaker during that time. So thank you for that. And with that, Ms. Prine, we have a call to the public, please. Yes, Mayor. We now move to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act, public
 Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's integrity or character which are not pertinent to City business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon, we have three members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Mr. Adrian Slater. Mr. Slater's topic is Park and Recreation Aquatics Department. Good afternoon, Mr. Slater. Star 6 to unmute your telephone, please. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, honorable Mayor Leaser, city representatives, city manager, Mr. Gonzalez and staff. Can you hear me okay? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. For the record, my name is Adrian Slater, and I come before you today as the vice chair of finance for Border Swimming, which is a local swim club and member of USA Swimming.
 Board of Swimming would like to discuss a number of current issues on behalf of our eight member swim clubs, which combined have a membership of nearly a thousand competitive swimmers and athletes. Before I start, I'd like to thank council and leadership, including Tracy Jerome and Ben Fyfe for your support of Board of Swimming and facilitating our access to a number of aquatics facilities during the COVID closures via our license agreement, which was early terminated by the city as of May 1st.
 During that time, our organization provided lifeguard staff for the proper usage of aquatics facilities. While support for Parks and Rec didn't waver during COVID closures, the reallocation of human and financial resources has been and continues to greatly impact our organization's ability to practice in city aquatics facilities, and just as importantly, our inability to host competitive swim meets.
 A few months ago, we were told that the city was going to hire 60 new lifeguards. However, as of today, less than 30 lifeguards have been hired. Border Swimming has sent more than 15 lifeguards to the city, of which only three have been hired. Staffing levels are still not where they need to be, but what our organization wants to know is, when will this happen? I'm here to advocate for additional resources to be provided to the Parks and Rec Department for further reopening of quality-of-life venues.
 The city operates 14 aquatic centers. However, only the Westside Natatorium is currently available to border swimming. For the summer months, the city has only allocated three pools to border swimming, the Westside Nat, Pavo Real, and the Beast beginning next month. As of today, Pavo can't be used because the heater still hasn't been installed and water temperatures are too cold for our kids.
 In addition, the City is cutting back on available practice times and lanes for border swimming, in some cases reallocating lanes which are currently being underutilized. Our proposal is to monitor the online reservation system, PerfectMind, to ensure proper facility utilization. If it's determined that pools are being underutilized, then additional space should be made available for our organization, thus ensuring the City is maximizing utilization and potential income.
 A short time ago, we heard Mr. Fife state the aquatics facilities would be reopened in phase three of the reopening plan, subject to availability of funds and a drop in COVID rates. With no hard dates applied to phases, this hinders our ability to properly plan organizations, events, and initiatives. Thank you.
 Our suggestion is for the Parks and Recreation Department to reinitiate monthly Aquatics Advisory Committee meetings with our organization and the public to properly manage all stakeholders' expectations for available aquatics facilities and support each other's efforts and programming to maximize utilization. Finally, I'd like to point out that the City refers to the two 58-meter pools, the Westside Nat and the Beast, as competitive pools. Thank you, Mr. Slade.
 Thank you, sir. You have 30 seconds? Yeah, if you could just wrap up your comments, I would appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Go ahead. I will quickly. Thank you, Mayor. As of today, the city still has not approved border swimming to host any competitive meets. Our kids are now into our third season with no approved swim meets at any city facility, and this is not helping their mental health.
 Border Swimming has a long-standing relationship with the City, which is collaborative and symbiotic. We have always been willing to augment the resources that the City has available, but we also request the City continue to support our athletes. Thank you so much for your time and consideration today. Thank you, sir. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Josh Simmons. Mr. Simmons' topic is the TCEQ Contested Hearing of the application of El Paso Electric for air quality permit.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Simmons. You have three minutes, sir. Hi, good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council, and distinguished city staff. I'm Joshua Simmons. I'm a constituent of District 5 and a strong and unswaying advocate in favor of renewable energies here in El Paso Southwest.
 I appreciate the efforts of the City of El Paso and Council in opposition to Newman 6 on the grounds of necessity with the anticipation of high costs that will burden the El Paso area rate payers.
 Whereas the City of El Paso has taken no action upon the TCEQ hearing on May 10th, well it was announced on May 10th, I want to charge the public to summon resistance. El Paso residents of the Northeast, this is a call to action to voice up against Newman 6 at the TCEQ hearing and on June 3rd.
 If you're a resident of the Northeast of El Paso area and within a significant distance of the Newman Power Station, I urge you to sign up for comments and become a participating party in the hearing. A short link that I've made and created for this is bit.ly forward slash TCEQ June 3rd. Again, that's bit.ly B-I-T period L-Y forward slash all capital letters TCEQ June 3.
 So June 3rd is going to be a preliminary hearing. So this is going to be an opportunity for parties to be part of the evidentiary hearing that will follow after this hearing. To be a party, you must attend this preliminary hearing. So that's why, again, I encourage all the North Koreans.
 residents and significant distance of the power plant to participate if this air permit is not denied then newman six will be constructed and in turn as the concerns of the city el paso is made aware that uh rate pair the cost for rate payers will be brought upon them and the pressing firm el paso electric for this addition to the newman power stations they swift move on their part to continue the stranglehold of oil and unclean natural gas and
 as the state within the state and the signing into law by governor abbott of hb17 puts the puts a
 a shift towards renewables in an unfavorable favor. So, Paso Electric needs to reassess this proposal of Newman 6 and its Newman power station and eliminate any need for a fossil fuel source to generate energy now. And with the use of the tax expenses that are in place now, use those to benefit into doing more renewable investments solar.
 So recently, the International Energy Agency released its recent report that deems no new fossil fuel infrastructure must be built if the 1.5 centigrade threshold of global temperature to be averted. Now, I say averted, but not reversed. So this is going to be a collaborative effort from all ends to stop fossil fuel investment, not only in the world, but significantly here in El Paso. So I would just like to encourage the public to participate in that TQQ hearing. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. And the final speaker is mr. Luis Vidana. Mr. Luis Vidana Luis Vidana mayor I don't see mr. Vidana's phone number in the queue or any other phone number that could be related to his Yes, sir that concludes call to the public that brings us to the end of the agenda Councilman we have a motion to adjourn motions adjourn second
 There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, May 25, 2021, is adjourned at 12.11 p.m. Thank you. Everybody have a great day. Godspeed, everyone. Enjoy your week. Bye-bye.