Better together and that's one thing you know I'm speaking on behalf of journal Eisenhower That we could we could keep that in mind that when we think about opportunities for each other if we work together Good morning Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, June 6 2023
 mayor laser is present and presiding inside council chambers along with mayor representative kennedy mayor pro tim anello representative hernandez alternate mayor pro temo linar representative salsido representative fierro representative rivera it is nine o'clock a.m
 And now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain Rabbi Levi Greenberg. Good morning, Rabbi. Good morning. Before I begin the invocation, I would like to do an act of charity. Sovereign of the world, look favorably upon the mayor, city council members, the city staff, and all of us gathered here this morning in person and online.
 and bestow upon us all the joy of life good health and prosperity this week we study the bible narrative of the procedure followed by the israelites throughout their 40-year journey through the desert to the promised land the divine cloud that hovered above the tabernacle would ascend indicating that it was time to travel forward to the next destination while the israelites packed their tents
 the Levites hurriedly dismantled the tabernacle and loaded its various parts onto their designated wagons. A trumpet blast signaled the beginning of the journey, and the entire camp of several million strong marched forward. When the clouds stopped, the Levites reconstructed the tabernacle under it, and the Israelites camped around it in their designated pattern. There was no set schedule as to how long they would camp in a specific area.
 At times, they were stationary for years, and sometimes the clouds signaled a new journey after only one night. Regardless of the convenience or lack thereof, the Bible states, at God's bidding they encamped, and at God's bidding they traveled. This provides us with a powerful lesson in our own lives. Wherever we may find ourselves on the journey of life, we must be conscious of the fact that
 that our path is set by God, and every step on the way is an opportunity to perpetuate goodness and bring light to places where darkness prevails, to accomplish the divine task of perfecting our world one step at a time.
 It behooves us to reflect on the statement, in God we trust, printed on our currency, to appreciate that all our success is a blessing from above, and we ought to utilize these blessings to spread goodness and kindness, one routine action at a time, thereby fostering unity and friendship, preparing the world for an era of true peace and tranquility. Please, God.
 give strength to our elected officials to be cognizant of your presence, and they have the ability to elevate the quality of life to everyone in our region and to inspire us all to come together in unity, that we truly care for our peers, for society, our environment, and work together to make our world a better place for all.
 May our borderland region serve as a beacon of light, strength, and moral courage as we do our part in preparing the world for an era of global peace and tranquility. May this occur speedily in our times. Amen. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Sheriff, will you lead us in the pledge, sir? To the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, indivisible. Thank you, Sheriff Rudikia.
 And I do want to thank and recognize everybody that's here today. Thank you for being here. I do want to, you know, I think about as the Rabbi was talking about humanity and people and I had the opportunity to start thinking about the way the city, the county, and really the state has handled the finishing of Title 42 and how the city of El Paso and,
 the Office of Emergency Management, everybody handled our asylum seekers and how we treated people with respect and will continue to treat people with respect and will continue to make sure that people are treated properly. And the city really did an incredible job of doing that and I want to continue to do
 to make sure that even though the numbers today now show that they're way down, it's really because of the, I attribute that to really the job that everyone did as a whole. And you know, you can, you really can point your finger at one person because really everybody did it as a team. And we've talked about that.
 As a team, we do a lot of things well, and individually, we don't do very many things on our own very well. So I want to, you know, kind of thank everybody for the job they did, and I want to thank everybody for treating people the way we always want to be treated. And I want us to kind of close our eyes and kind of.
 Thank all the elected leaders and non-elected leaders, officers of emergency management, and really our federal partners that really helped us to make sure that we had the funding and we had the proper tools to be able to do the right job. And thank everybody for really the job they did and moving forward to make sure that we always continue to treat people the way we always want to be treated. Thank you. Ms. Prine.
 Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Personal Attendant Appreciation Day. And for the record, Representative Canales is also present in Council Chambers. Representative Kennedy? Thank you.
 Whereas elderly and people with disabilities want to live free and independent lives with community-based services and support in their own homes, and whereas personal attendants play a crucial role in ensuring people with various disabilities and the elderly are able to live independent and productive lives while facilitating activities of daily living such as, but not limited to, bathing, dressing,
 toileting, feeding, transferring, mobility, cooking, cleaning, laundry, managing medications, routine care, and other help related to health issues provided by a person without a nursing license, and whereas persons with injuries or in sickness may need long or short-term services from personal attendants,
 and whereas people with disabilities and the elderly would like to acknowledge and extend their gratitude to those people who, without benefits, equality of pay for their important services, or paid vacations, work diligently to facilitate the lives of others, and now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that June 6, 2023, shall be known as Personal Attendant Appreciation Day.
 Good morning. Good morning. And, you know, as you read that, Representative Kennedy, I think of when my father had Alzheimer's and he needed somebody to help him. And there's always an angel everywhere. And my sister took good care of him. And you all are the angels to the people that need your assistance and your love. So I thank you for that.
 Thank you. Muchas gracias. Muchas gracias. Buenos días. Yo voy a hablar en español y el señor Josué me va a interpretar en inglés. I'll speak in Spanish and Josué will translate. Mi nombre es Francisca Grajeda, organizadora de la coalición de asistentes personales, ELPAC. My name is Francisca Grajeda. I'm the organizer for the Personal Attendant Coalition of Texas.
 Esta coalición se inició en el 2006, luchando por los derechos de las asistentes personales.
 This coalition formed in 2006 to start fighting for the rights of personal care attendants. Ahorita tenemos 17 años luchando por los salarios y beneficios por las asistentes personales. We've been fighting for better wages and benefits for 17 years for personal care attendants. Y ahorita nomás hemos logrado unos centavos con las legislaturas. Cada año nomás nos aumentan centavos.
 And every year we've been fighting to get better wages, but our legislature just gives us cents as raises. Our fight has been for $15 an hour for personal care attendants. $8.11 is the base wage for a personal care attendant right now.
 Y ahorita en esta legislatura nomás nos aumentaron dos dólares con 49 centavos. Dos dólares y 49 centavos fue el aumento que esta legislatura aprobó como aumento para los salarios. El salario que va a ser ahora que aumentaron para hacer 10 dólares con 60 centavos.
 Y nosotros queríamos 15 dólares por el salario mínimo por su trabajo, por las asistentes personales. Y hemos estado luchando por 15 dólares por hora porque eso es lo que nos cuesta la atención personal.
 Ahorita, con esta proclamación, queremos agradecer a las asistentes personales por todo amor, por todo su trabajo y por toda la pasión que ponen para este trabajo. Este trabajo es con mucho, lo hacen con todo el amor porque están trabajando con personas, con seres humanos y queremos agradecerles a todas las asistentes personales por todo su trabajo. Con esta proclamación, queremos agradecer...
 y agradecer a los asistentes de cuidado personal por su dedicación pasional en el trabajo de las personas con discapacidades y los adultos. Muchas gracias por esta proclamación. Gracias a todos, al mayor y al cabildo y a todos. Muchas gracias. Gracias, señor Mayor, al Concierto de la Ciudad por su proclamación. Gracias a ustedes. Gracias. Gracias. Muchas gracias. Gracias. Gracias. Gracias a todos por estar aquí. La próxima proclamación es el día de independencia el 11 de junio.
 Esperamos a los individuos para venir. Sí, señora. Vengan. A ver, Monica, si quieres venir. Buenas tardes, amigos. Así que, la proclamación de la ciudad de El Paso, Texas, mientras que en 1863 el presidente Abraham Lincoln emitió la proclamación de la emancipación declarando a todos los esclavos libres. Sin embargo, esta libertad no fue conocida a muchos americanos negros esclavos hasta dos años después de su pasaje.
 y mientras el 19 de junio reconoce que el 19 de junio de 1865, la última gente esclavizada en Galveston, Texas, fue informada de que la esclavitud había sido abolida y los negros americanos que habían sido esclavos en el sur-este celebraron el 19 de junio, comúnmente conocido como el Día Independiente del Junio, como inspiración y encargo para las futuras generaciones.
 Y mientras el 10 de junio ofrece una oportunidad para que la ciudad celebre la herencia de los negros de América y honre los sacrificios y contribuciones que se han hecho en la fábrica de América y aclare el compromiso de la Unión de Estados Unidos con la libertad y la igualdad en acorde con nuestra Constitución, junto con la proclamación de la emancipación y el 13 de enero, que abolió la esclavitud ratificada por el Congreso el 6 de diciembre de 1865.
 y mientras el reconocimiento candidato de esta historia es necesario si nosotros, como nación, estado o ciudad, somos exitosos en nuestros esfuerzos para construir una comunidad realmente equitativa que exemplifique y promocione los valores americanos fundamentales de libertad, diversidad, igualdad, libertad y justicia.
 And whereas the city of El Paso recognizes Juneteenth Independence Day as a day to celebrate the culturally important role of emancipation and the work towards the liberation in our past, present, and future. And recognizes and commends the efforts of organizations like Black El Paso Voice and the Inter-Club Council of El Paso for promoting and preserving Black American culture in the city of El Paso.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that June 19th, 2023 shall be known as Juneteenth Independence Day. Thank you. Good morning. Oh, I'm sorry. Good morning. Good morning. We want to thank the city council for the proclamation for Juneteenth.
 I was here last year and I think I had mentioned how it's sometimes during this time of year people do complain and say I can't believe we're celebrating another Black History Month. And the thing is when it comes to Juneteenth it's about freedom. Ever since the first celebration in Galveston years ago to celebrate being free here in Texas and in Texas it's been acknowledged since 1980 actually and it's now a federal holiday.
 So what we're doing now is celebrating here in El Paso. And thanks to City Parks and Rec who I contacted last year in May to see if they would assist us with having a celebration this year and the offices of Representative Vanello, we can make that actualization on June 17th at 2 p.m.
 at Nations Tobin Park where we'll be celebrating. But not only will we be celebrating, we'll be educating the community about the importance of celebrating Freedom Day. And we can do that more here in El Paso by educating the community. It's much needed when it comes to not just black history, but the importance of why we celebrate and some things that we're still in some ways fighting for.
 When it comes to the education of the community about Juneteenth, we're missing it. And we would like for the city to join with us in educating the community. This is a celebration where we hope that the city would actually take on as its own. Just like Winterfest, we hope that Juneteenth could be a summer fest or something to celebrate our freedoms.
 It's been difficult putting it together because when you contact people and tell them about it, and they're like, well, Black History Month isn't until February. Why are you doing this now? So we're still somewhat missing it, but not only in the city as a whole, but with our own black community as well. So we hope that the city will join us in educating the community about the importance of Juneteenth. Thank you, and thank you for what you all do.
 Greetings everyone. Good morning, sir. I am Marcus McCoy. I serve on the McColl Center Board of Directors as the Director of Public Relations. I want to invite you all in the spirit of Juneteenth to come out on June 19th at the McColl Neighborhood Center from 8 to 10. We're going to be doing a Juneteenth breakfast and all the information can be found online at mccollcenter.org. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning. My name is Brandy Weitsch. I'm a native El Pasoan and I'm very proud of El Paso.
 considering all their people in the community, in the black community. And I hope to see all of you at Juneteenth. It starts with leadership and to give that knowledge to people and also for you guys to learn the knowledge and see and meet the other half of El Paso. So I hope to see you there. Thank you. Thank you again for what you all do. Thank you all. Congratulations.
 And if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers, council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once all the ceremonial items have been completed. The next proclamation is Texas Police Athletic Federation Texas Police Games Week. Would you like to come forward?
 well it are proclamation city of el paso texas whereas the dates of june 11th through the 17th 2023 mark the texas police athletic federation texas police games and whereas the texas police games include all law enforcement first responders and active veteran military and athletic events
 And whereas the El Paso Sports Commission, Destination El Paso, El Paso City Parks and Recreation, and El Paso County Parks and Recreation have partnered to bring the Texas Police Games to El Paso. And whereas over 1,000 participants from Texas, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, Colorado...
 Oklahoma, and the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, are expected to compete in nearly 40 events all across El Paso County. And whereas the 2023 Texas Police Games mark the first time the games have been held in El Paso since 1981.
 And whereas law enforcement, first responders, and the military are a lifeblood of the El Paso community. And whereas law enforcement, or excuse me, whereas the El Paso community wholeheartedly supports all law enforcement and their participation in the 2023 Texas Police Games. And whereas we encourage all businesses and community members to welcome and support all law enforcement as they take in our city's restaurants, shops, parks, and hotels.
 Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that June 11th through June 17th, 2023 shall be known as Texas Police Athletic Federation Texas Police Games Week. Signed, the Honorable Oscar Leiser, Mayor, City of El Paso. Good morning, sir.
 Good morning, Mayor, Councilmembers. Thank you so much for having us today, and thank you so much for the proclamation. My name is Beau Bagley, Sports Tourism Director for the El Paso Sports Commission. 1981, been a long time. Two key selling points for the Texas Police Athletic Federation. Number one, El Paso's put in $1 billion worth of infrastructure improvements the last 10 years. It's time to show it off.
 Number two, it's time to support law enforcement behind me. What, 14 out of the last 15 years, top three safest large cities in the United States. In terms of the Texas Police Athletic Federation became a no-brainer. It was a unanimous vote to bring the Texas Police Games back to El Paso.
 And I'd like to say, just as of yesterday, registration is now up to 1,200 participants in 40 events, making this the largest Texas Police Games in nearly 10 years. And it's coming to El Paso. Takes, I'm just kind of the conductor, but it takes an orchestra. As you can see behind me, there's a lot of people involved to make this happen. El Paso PD, everybody in, of course,
 The late Chief Allen, in lieu of advertisements, and I have a copy of a program that's going to come out in about two days, we did a two-page advertisement dedicating to Chief Allen.
 and it takes a village sheriff's office commander Arrutia deputy Omar Gonzalez actually defending national champion in soccer talk some smack out there El Paso Municipal Police Officers Association sergeant Victor Vela make sure if he's here local 51 Paul Thompson
 Of course, City Parks and Rec, Ben Fyfe, Monica Vargas and their crew, County Parks and Rec, Veronica Myers, Tessa Jimenez and their crew, and of course our title sponsors, AT&T FirstNet.
 This is something that's very exciting coming next week to El Paso. There are 40 events all over the city. Certainly invite all of you out to welcome the participants and enjoy the festivities and all the events. I'd like to bring up maybe Commander Arrutia, a member from the El Paso Police Department, and AT&T FirstNet, if I may, please. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. You did a great job, by the way, on the pledge. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 this is exciting 1200 participants that's 1200 people coming to visit our beautiful city rent our hotels eat in our restaurants and we get to showcase what we're all about really too this is about we have so many athletes that work in public service firemen police officers federal law enforcement that were former athletes in college and in high school and they get to go out and showcase their skills uh the el paso county sheriff's office has uh
 Lieutenant Corey Harrison, who was a Division I track athlete at UTEP. Lieutenant Andre Wright, who played on the Saul Ross team that went to the Sweet 16 in 2004. So these are great individuals to get to come out, showcase what they're about, organize events on behalf of the police games, and really bring El Paso to the spotlight in the law enforcement community and their families. So it's a great event. Thank you for your support on the event, and we hope to see you out there. Thank you. Thank you.
 A member from El Paso PD. Liz Archuleta from AT&T FirstNet, please.
 Good morning, Council. Good morning, Mayor. It is an honor for AT&T to be the chief sponsor of the 2023 Texas Police Games. AT&T has a long history of supporting public safety and providing reliable emergency communications services to our country. We're excited to welcome over 1,200 participants and their families and supporters to our fine city.
 Again, we want to thank you for your support and welcoming the Texas Police Games. And we wish all competitors, especially our local competitors, good luck, lots of fun and safety, and for them to enjoy everything that El Paso has to offer. Thank you so much. Thank you. And I think you see that this council and this city supports police first responders and always will.
 thank you mayor and council just you said it right liz said it right at t has been supported public supporting public safety through first net for a very long time and we're honored to continue to support uh law enforcement in this exciting uh game so thank you all um for for the support and for the proclamation and we're just really excited to be part of it thank you thank you thank you all mr bagley you have a really good voice you ever thought of going on tv
 I just wondered. Thank you. The next proclamation is National Cancer Survivor Month. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas a cancer survivor is an individual living with a history of cancer, from the moment of diagnosis through the remainder of his or her life,
 And whereas there is more than 909, 147,000 Texans who are cancer survivors, and nearly 18.1 million cancer survivors in the United States. And whereas more than 137,308 new cases of cancer will be diagnosed in Texas. And whereas many cancers are preventable and are treatable if detected early.
 And whereas helping those with cancer is a top priority through increasing access to quality cancer screening care, providing effective prevention strategies and providing services to individuals living with and beyond cancer. Whereas the first Sunday in June is recognized as the National Cancer Survivor Day. And during the month of June, we celebrate those individuals who have bravely and successfully battled with cancer to earn the designation survivor.
 And whereas we celebrate our cancer survivors who have reached their milestones and recognize those who have been supported along the way. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that month of June 2023 shall be known as National Cancer Survivor Month. Signed by the Honorable Oscar Mayer-Leeser. Good morning, Ms. Henry.
 Good morning and thank you, Mayor and Council. My name is Carol Bowley and I am the Executive Director of the Rio Grande Cancer Foundation. We are very grateful for today's proclamation. This month we celebrate survivorship, just like we did last Saturday at our annual Give Cancer the Boot Survivor Celebration.
 but it's also an opportunity to bring awareness to challenges that those that are going through a cancer journey continue to face. And I'm not talking about treatment and side effects, which are devastating enough, but also rising medical costs, inadequate insurance, difficulty finding or keeping employment, and ongoing physical, psychological, and financial struggles.
 The Rio Grande Cancer Foundation exists to reduce the considerable burden of cancer and improve the quality of life for those living with, through, and beyond cancer. I'm honored to be joined this morning by some amazing people who would like to say a few words. Nancy Swopes, she's an oncology nurse and breast cancer navigator from the Hospitals of Providence.
 Dr. Moaz Solomon, a radiation oncologist from Texas Oncology. Philippa Solis, Executive Director of El Paso Pro Musica and a cancer survivor. And finally, Cindy Martinez, Program Manager for the Rio Grande Cancer Foundation. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Council, for the proclamation. As Carol said, I'm an oncology nurse and breast cancer specialist.
 In the 17 years that I've taken care of cancer patients, we like to celebrate them every day. We do have June. We have the rest of the month.
 But also, as Carol said, along with their struggles of cancer, the treatment, they survive so many other things. They have emotional distress, financial distress, spiritual distress, child care. So everything that they get through is a big milestone, and it's worth celebrating. And so, like I said, June 4th is Cancer Survivor Day, but we like to celebrate them all year long with every milestone they do because they really, really are survivors. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Nancy, and thank you, City Council, for having us here this morning. Good morning. For this important occasion. My name is Moa Solomon. As Carol said, I am a radiation oncologist. I specialize in the treatment of solid tumors with radiotherapy, but more importantly, I specialize in making sure that our cancer patients can live strong, healthy, and fulfilling lives. I want our city leaders to know something before I speak about our survivors.
 I've had the opportunity to work around this great country at several cancer centers, both community and academic. And nowhere have I found such a kind, trusting, resilient, welcoming community that is a privilege to take care of. But part of what this community also needs is ensuring survivorship is also not forgotten. Oftentimes as physicians we're focused on the success of treatment,
 but we also need to focus on the success after treatment, the success of life, not just being alive but being able to thrive. And with that, I want to recognize our survivors here in this community that have paved the way for all of our future survivors to come through and to be able to live those strong, healthy lives. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, everyone. I'm Felipa Solis. Yes, I'm with El Paso Pro Musica, and music also heals as well. But I'm not here just as a survivor or, as we said and saw how the doctor put so eloquently, thrivers. I'm here to salute all of the survivors who every day –
 not only make a difference for themselves, but are examples of strength and power for us all.
 When I was first diagnosed, Charlie Swopes was one of the first people I spoke to because I didn't know what was going to happen. And there are people like this in this community who are making a difference for people who may not have the means, who may not understand what the next steps might be. And I think it's so wonderful that City Council today, especially you, Mayor Leaser, are here to celebrate and honor those people who have –
 had difficulties getting to the point of the finish line. And the one group of people I think that is most important to recognize today are those people who have stood beside all of us, our families, our loved ones, our friends, in the worst of times,
 and in the best of times as we're crossing that finish line and we're called survivors. So it's the love that we have that surrounds survivors that makes all the difference, and the love from the city
 City Council, indeed, giving all survivors one great big hug. And we want to thank the Rio Grande Cancer Foundation for all they do. Simple things like a yoga class, a cooking class, having someone to talk to. For so many people, how important it is.
 to just be able to wear a wig at the most difficult times. Rio Grande Cancer is making so much happen for so many thousands of people in this community every year, and to be able to stand up here with them is an honor for me and a greater honor for me to stand before you. Thank you so much for this incredible proclamation. Thank you. Good morning. Just to recap, I'm Cindy Martinez from the Rio Grande Cancer Foundation.
 Thank you so much for joining us and celebrating National Cancer Survivor Month. It is an inspiration working at the Cancer Foundation daily and seeing our patrons come in at the best times and at the worst times. We celebrate them every day, and they inspire us, and thank you very much. Thank you.
 I WANT TO KNOW ANYONE IN THIS ROOM IN HERE THAT HAS HAD CANCER THEMSELVES OR A FAMILY MEMBER THAT HAS HAD CANCER, PLEASE STAND UP. SEE HOW IMPORTANT THIS IS AND THERE ARE SO MANY PEOPLE AFFECTED IN OUR COMMUNITY. SO THANK YOU ALL. REPRESENTATIVE SALCIER, THANK YOU. THE FINAL PROCLAMATION IS YOUNG WOMEN'S LEADERSHIP ACADEMY MONTH.
 To probably forego this, they were unable to make it today, and so I'll just transfer. Yeah, we'll move it for the following. Okay. Thank you so much. Appreciate that. Ms. Parnes? Mayor, would you like to go to the consent agenda? I would love to do that. Thank you. And by the way, Ms. Solis, you sound like you could do TV also. You do have that voice for TV also. There's a feature there. Thank you.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem. What number is it?
 I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 5, item 13, revise per the city clerk's office. And that revision is to correct the board name to read AmeriCorp Seniors Advisory Council. And then I have another one. It's page 8, item 19, and that is to add Representative Anello as a co-sponsor. Thank you, Mayor. I'd also like to move item 18 to the front, please.
 That is the first item on the regular portion. Yes, so there is a motion made by Mayor Potemonello, seconded by Representative Kennedy to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to page 8 to item number 18 on the agenda, and this is discussion in action
 On a resolution that recognizes June as post-traumatic stress disorder awareness month, this item was submitted by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar. Pro Tem Molinar. Okay. Good morning, Mayor, Consul Rene Hurtado with Chief of Staff for Emergence Health Network, your mental health authority. Good morning, sir.
 As we just heard, June is Post Traumatic Stress Disorder Awareness Month. And the Emergent Health Network, along with its Veterans Services Department and other partners, would like to use this time to shed some light on the importance of this condition. While most people make a connection of PTSD with the military community, it is important to understand that PTSD is not only developed by members of the armed forces. Anyone can develop PTSD when they experience or witness a traumatic event in whatever setting.
 Non-combat PTSD can affect all ages, genders, income levels, ethnicities, and lifestyles. Anyone who experiences or learns about an event involving actual or threatened death, sexual violation, or serious injury can develop PTSD, and it can be debilitating. In some cases, PTSD can disrupt an individual's daily functions, and they can re-experience the event. They can have negative flashbacks, nightmares, severe anxiety, irritable behavior, and angry outbursts. It's a condition that can impact
 person and those around them especially family members unfortunately in El Paso our community has experienced a series of traumatic events from the horrific events of a three to the pandemic and its aftermath to our current ongoing challenges getting help can prevent symptoms from getting worse it the important message here is that seeking help a treatment for PTSD can make real can make a real difference reaching out is the first step
 Whether it's reaching out to HN or other community providers, it's important to take that first step. At emergence, you can reach out and call our call center, 242-0555, or simply dial 988.
 As the local mental health authority in El Paso, Emergence Health Network would like to take this time today, throughout the month of June, and actually really throughout the year, to help raise public awareness about the real issues related to PTSD, reduce the stigma associated with it, and help ensure that those who are suffering from those invisible wounds get the proper treatment. Thank you, sir. And I'm here with some members of the Emergence team who are here to champion this important cause. Thank you, sir. Representative Molinar. Thank you.
 Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Awareness Month Resolution, whereas post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD, has been recognized as an official mental health diagnosis by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders since 1980, and whereas anyone can develop PTSD when they experience or witness a traumatic event, and approximately 12 million people will have post-traumatic stress disorder within any given year.
 And whereas veterans of the armed forces and active duty military members are disproportionately impacted by PTSD, and whereas many post-traumatic stress responses remain unreported, undiagnosed, and untreated due to lack of awareness about post-traumatic stress and the persistent stigma associated with mental health conditions, and whereas post-traumatic stress significantly increases the risk of post-traumatic stress responses, including anxiety, anxiety, and
 depression, homelessness, substance abuse, and suicide, especially if left untreated. Whereas Opasco can call the 988-SUICIDE-IN-CRISIS line or the Emergency Health Network Crisis Line, 915-779-1800 if they or a loved one are experiencing a mental health crisis.
 and whereas June is recognized as post-traumatic stress disorder awareness month, a time for people to raise awareness of post-traumatic stress disorder treatment and recovery. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso recognizes June as post-traumatic stress disorder to bring awareness to those with PTSD and to encourage people to reach out to their fellow citizens to provide support and remove the stigma associated with this disorder. Signed, Oscar Leaser, the Mayor of the City of El Paso.
 thank you again thank you for being here thank you mr is there a motion to approve a motion to prove there's a motion made by mayor potemanelo seconded by representative fierro to approve the resolution on item 18. on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 Item number 19 is discussion in action to approve a resolution recognizing Women Veterans Day for their service to the United States Armed Forces. This item was submitted by Representatives Kennedy and Mayor Potemah-Anello. Representative Kennedy.
 Whereas, for 248 years, women have proudly served in the United States Armed Forces in both unofficial and official capacities to serve and preserve the freedom and liberty of the people of the United States, and whereas women's contributions to the success of the American Revolution include, but not limited to, the spinning of liberty cloth, picketing merchants, selling British imports, writing propaganda, and firing cannons on the battlefields,
 And whereas women, some disguised as men, commanded troops and fought in battles, such as Cathay Williams, the only woman to serve as a Buffalo soldier and a Buffalo Calf Road woman, who knocked Lieutenant Colonel George Custer off his horse
 in the Battle of Little Bighorn. And whereas thousands of women enlisted in the U.S. Nurse Corps and Navy Nurse Corps, often tending to the killed and wounded on the battlefield, and thousands of Hello Girls operated switchboards near the front lines of World War I, whereas in World War II, 350,000 women enlisted in the Women's Army Corps, the Navy Women's Reserve, the Marine Corps Women's Reserve, the Coast Guard Women's Reserve, and the Women's Air Force Service Pilots, the Army Nurse Corps, and the Navy Nurse Corps,
 And whereas in 1948 Congress passed the Women's Armed Services Integration Act, allowing women to serve as permanent members of the United States Armed Forces, but restricting each branch to 2% of women, of which many went on to courageously serve in MASH units in the Korean War Combat Theater,
 And whereas women who volunteered to serve in the Vietnam War in the health, communications, intelligence, administration fields and continued to face the horrors of combat with eight women killed were finally allowed to be promoted to general and command units, but still faced a 10-year obstacle to the building of the Vietnam Women's Memorial,
 And whereas Desert Shield, Desert Storm, although barred from combat, 40,000 servicewomen deployed serving in more roles than were previously open, such as plane and helicopter pilots, and where more women found themselves engaged in combat as the lines of engagement were continuously blurred.
 Since September 11, 2001, over 300,000 women have deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan, and whose courageous actions and exemplary performances have further opportunities for women by the way of lifting combat restrictions, 9,000 combat action badges, 114 Army Rangers, 940 tankers, infantry, and cavalry scouts,
 And whereas an estimated 1,000 women have been killed in action, 100 were prisoners of war, and countless others wounded in combat since 1773, and despite being the fastest-growing subgroup of veterans, women veterans continue to face barriers to equality and recognition amongst their male counterparts and in the civilian community, and furthermore declare that they will no longer be invisible.
 Now therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso recognizes June 12, 2023, as Women's Veterans Day, to recognize and honor the service and sacrifices of the women who volunteered to serve in the United States Armed Forces.
 Good morning, everyone. Thank you so much, Representative Kennedy, for initiating this proclamation, and thank you everyone for your support. My name is Melissa Harcrow. I'm here today not only as the chair of the city's Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee, but also as the Women Veterans Program Coordinator for West Texas with the Texas Veterans Commission.
 And since I've started this position, I've learned that many women who have served in the armed forces do not consider themselves veterans. And that's due to a multitude of reasons, some of which because they were told by society that they are not veterans because they are not a man.
 some because they did not deploy, and some because they did not serve in combat jobs. That is absolutely false. And as we said in the proclamation, you are not invisible, you are a veteran. So if you served in the armed forces, you are a veteran.
 I'm here today with a group of strong women leaders behind me, strong women veterans. We have Shalia Anthony. She is with the Military Veterans Peer Network and the Emergence Health Network. And we have next to her Alexis McCray, who is the chair of the County's Veterans Advisory Board and the spearhead of the Women's Veterans Day events. We have Beatriz Ramirez, who is the commander
 Is the commander of the American GI Forum here? Oh, and Shalia is also the vice. She is the regional commander. Shalia is the vice? Regional vice commander. I'm sorry about that. And Lisa Turner is for the transgender veterans. What is your position, Lisa? For advocacy for the transgender.
 National Chair for Advocacy for the Transgender Veterans of America. If that doesn't tell you that women leaders lead from the front, I don't know what else does. So, and as they said for Juneteenth, it starts with leadership. Again, I thank you so much for that. Does anybody want to say anything? No? Okay. One thing I'd like to say though, oh, you know Lisa always got something to say.
 So I did want to also point out some combat deployments. Shalia how many did you have? Two deployments to Afghanistan. One deployment to Kuwait is hot there. Betty has one deployment to Afghanistan Lisa. Fort Bliss.
 And I have four, one to Iraq, one to Afghanistan, and two Qatar, plus one overseas tour to Korea. So thank you again very much for this. I really, really appreciate it. I really shot from the hip today, but thank you for your time. Thank you all for your service, thank you. Mayor, Ms. Lisa Turner signed up to speak on this item. Thank you all again for your service to our country. Thank you for everything. And Ms. Turner?
 Council, my name is Lisa Turner. I presently serve as the National Chair for Advocacy for the Transgender and Diverse Veterans of America. We are agile, adaptive, and we work at the local level. We're here for all of our veterans. You put that uniform on, you're family, plain and simple. Now, there's a dog tag over here, a large size. Can't wear these around my neck. It says, heroes don't wear capes, they wear dog tags.
 We go where others are scared to go. We do what our nation asks of us. A lot of us come back broken. Women were not considered veterans until 1980 by the VA. And I remember when we opened our women's health clinic at our local VA, Dr. Rogers was the head. The VA furnished it with broken equipment. So we will always need veterans.
 Your support and your backing it was quite frankly as Melissa says Women are still not treated as veterans. It's quite simple you put that uniform on I don't care for your male Female whatever your family and your veteran. Thank you. Thank you miss Turner. Thank you all and again Thank you for serving our country
 Motion to recess for photos. Is there a motion to approve? We need a motion to approve. Sorry. Well, I didn't make one. I made a motion to approve. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanelo, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item number 19 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Is there a motion to recess? There's a motion and a second to recess a regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye.
 Anyone opposed the meeting is in recess at 9 51 a.m. In order to take photos with this morning's honorees Council members and folks who are joining us this morning We're gonna go ahead and do the personal attendance appreciation day photograph in the back of this room In front of the photographs since our folks are already. Thank you. Miss prime. Yes, sir There's a motion in a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting all in favor. Aye anyone opposed
 the meeting is back in session at 10 39 a.m mayor can we please um move up item 35 on page 14. no we're going to do item 18 first i know i'm kidding yes ma'am
 This is item 35, ma'am. Thank you. Item 35 is discussion and action on the appointment of two candidates as substitute associate municipal judges of the municipal court to fill terms from June 26, 2023 through June 25, 2027. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Lilia Wuerl, Director of Municipal Court, and I'm happy to introduce our two judicial candidates, Ms. Sarah Priddy and Mr. Roberto Ramos.
 Thank you. Thank you for being here. Do please feel free to ask them any questions. We don't So it's pretty good we got two motions and two seconds so one for each one of you Yes, sir. The motion was made by me Representative at Nundus. I just would like an opportunity if you all could just introduce yourselves and so we can welcome you to the public I'm Sarah pretty
 I have been practicing criminal law for about 11 years. I'm a one trick pony, so I don't know anything that's not criminal law. I started as a prosecutor, then a public defender, went out into private practice. I was a full-time criminal law magistrate at the jail for three years. I missed private practice, so I've been out for a whole two months.
 And I'm excited to work at Muni Court again. So one last thing, I guess. I have a million kids, precisely six. And we live in Manhattan Heights, so we interact, probably unfortunately interact with Representative Anello a lot. Well, that wasn't very nice, unfortunately. I think I might be a little bit of a pain.
 But yeah, any questions, specific questions? No. Judge, thank you for being here. We really appreciate your service to our community, Judge. Thank you. Representative Kennedy.
 Go ahead sir. Morning. So my name is Roberta Rommels. I'm a born raised El Paso in lived in San Antonio for a little bit But came back to help, you know serve my community because that's the reason why I went to law school I recently went out on my own this January I also am the city the county mediator for the family law cases that we have and I'm just looking forward to serving the city I'm serving the community of El Paso again and hopefully being approved as a judge. Thank you judge. Thank you. I'm sure Kennedy. I
 I was going to say that I'm knowledgeable of both candidates. I have dealt with Judge Priddy when she was a magistrate on frequent occasions, and I think these two are as qualified as you could find anywhere. With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Temo Nelo, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve Item 35. Unfortunately, I don't get to vote, but I would vote for both of you. Thank you and congratulations.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Thank you. Congratulations again. We now return to page number 8. The next item is number 20.
 And item 20 is presentation, discussion, and action regarding proposed amendments to the noise ordinance title nine and amplified sound permit title five, including but not limited to an update on progress toward the direction provided by the city council in June of 2022 to continue public outreach and the solicitation of a third party expert to evaluate and recommend proposed amendments. This item was submitted by Representative Canales. Go ahead, Representative Canales.
 Thank you. Yeah, for many years now the City Council has been looking at different proposed changes to our noise ordinances, both concerning noise nuisances in Title IX of our code and then amplified sound permits in Title V. After a very robust public outreach process with many public meetings, several hearings in front of the council.
 The first set of changes passed in February 2019 with the understanding that the implementation of those would would be monitored and that future updates would come back to the council based on How that implementation rolled out and the real-world practice that we saw Of course one year on from that we then experienced the the COVID-19 pandemic And then this issue was kind of on the back burner. I
 A lot of businesses were closed, a lot of the outdoor traffic and outdoor noise wasn't at its normal levels. But the conversation came back in 2022, particularly looking at some changes that were recommended, more so on the amplified sound permit side. And that was discussed for several months in early 2022.
 and culminated in the last public hearing, which was about one year ago in June 2022. So at that time, the council considered some proposed changes based on recommendations that came from the police department and from a cross-functional team that the city had set up of employees from different departments.
 that was tasked with monitoring the implementation of the noise ordinance and making recommendations to the council based on the successes and the challenges of that implementation. That included lowering the maximum decibel level from 70 decibels to 65 on the noise nuisance side and then on the amplified sound permit side,
 It included revising the definition of an outdoor area to include a semi-enclosed patio with rolling doors or open windows, expanding the location requirement from 350 feet to 500 feet away from residences in order to obtain that amplified sound permit to play music outside.
 Expanding the notice requirements so that more people around these permit holders would be noticed when they were coming in for a new permit or a renewal. Lowering the threshold for revocation of an amplified sound permit from 10 violations to 2 violations. And then clarifying that the city could seek injunctive relief from the courts in cases where there were multiple violations.
 That June 2022 meeting resulted in the City Council asking staff, directing staff to continue public outreach with the community, with businesses, with interested parties, and some additional direction to hire a third party consultant, likely an acoustician, someone who is an expert in sound propagation and vibration.
 and sound dynamics to help us with the evaluation of these proposed changes. Again, the issues surrounding the noise ordinance and some of the violations that we saw that precipitated the discussion in 2022, they're very much still ongoing and things that many of our neighborhoods are still dealing with.
 And so as we reached one year since that direction from the previous city council, I just wanted to get an update of where we are on this, the progress toward the direction that the council gave a year ago, and just a better understanding of where we're going on this.
 I and you know, I'm requesting an update from staff I don't know if staff has that update ready to go today or if it comes in there We got somebody standing up there ready to come Yes, sir. Yes, we do We'll be able to at least give you an update on where we are in that process right now representative and I've asked Steve Alvarado from our code enforcement to do this that I
 yeah come on up sir excellent thank you thank you good morning mayor members of the council steve alvarado code enforcement director good morning sir good morning here to provide a brief update i still am under the cone of silence so i can't tell you is that the first bid went out march 7th we received no responsible bids submitted to the city we wrote the rewrote the scope of work but included the same deliverables at that time and it was sent out back in april i'm sorry in
 April, yes, April of this year. There was 14 views to this second rewrite. Two local vendors submitted comments
 And we anticipate that they'll be bringing it to council. Purchasing will be bringing it to council in July of 2023, sometime thereof. That's all I have for you. We have continued enforcement weekly since 2021. Our code enforcement staff and PD is out there taking noise decibel readings. And we continue to do that on a weekly basis. What type of...
 Rydyn ni'n dweud y byddwch yn parhau i fod yno. A ydych chi wedi gweld unrhyw gwahaniaeth arall, neu mae'n dal i fod yn yr un peth oherwydd nad ydym ni wedi cyflwyno unrhyw beth newydd? Yn eithaf yr un peth. Rydym yn cynnal unrhyw beth ar ôl 70.0. Mae wedi bod cyflawniadau cyfyngol o ran y cyflawniadau, ond rydyn ni ar gael yno Ffridd a Sawrdd, yn dechrau i Ffwrdd 17, byddwn ni ar gael yno Ffwrdd, Dydd, Ffridd, Sawrdd, hyd at 0200. Rydym yn gwneud cynyddu'r am
 Beth math o, rydych chi wedi dweud, fioleidyddiaethau minid? Ac efallai nad ydych chi'n cael hynny ar y gorff eich ceg. Ydych chi'n gwybod sut llawer, yn ystod y tro diwethaf, rydych chi'n credu ein bod wedi rhoi'r gwaith? O, nid ers y tro diwethaf, ond gallaf ddod â'ch wybodaeth. Ie, ac yna, rydych chi'n dweud, mae wedi bod yn ddew. Beth yw'r normaidd pan rydych chi'n... Oherwydd, rwy'n mynd allan i'w gael gyda chi i gyd, ac roeddwn i allan i gyd o'r tŷ cyf
 y rhan fwyaf o'r amser roedd y niferoedd yn lawr. Yn y 60au, weithiau pan fyddwch chi'n gwirio'r corno, ac roedd hynny mewn gwirionedd yn y 50au. Felly, a ydych chi'n gweld y math o gyfadreoliadau unwaith? Yn eithaf yr un peth, rwy'n credu yn y ddwy mis diwethaf, rydym efallai wedi cyhoeddi eich tri cyfeiriad. Iawn, ac roedd, fel y dywedais, fe wnes i allan yno a throi ambell awr ac yn gwirionedd yn gwneud y Prifysgol Cynulliad ac yn gwirionedd yn y cwrdd ag eich holl.
 ac rydych chi i gyd yn hynod o ddiddordeb ac rwy'n gwerthfawrogi hynny ac rwy'n gwybod ei bod yn bwysig. Rwy'n alw i bobl fod yn gallu cael adroddiad a chyflwyniad, ond mae'n bwysig iawn bod yna a gweld eich hun ac fe wnes i hynny. Felly, rwy'n edrych ar edrych ar yr adroddiad newydd a gweld sut rydyn ni'n ei wneud. Rydym yn cael y wybodaeth hwnnw i bawb. Yr ymddiriedolwyr... Fyraen, mae gen i lawer mwy o gwestiynau mewn gwirionedd. Iawn, rydyn ni wedi mynd i'r
 Ffiro, ac yna byddwn yn dod yn ôl i chi a'ch gynnal chi i ddiwedd. Diolch, Mr. Mayor. Nid wyf yn siŵr, Mr. Alvarado, bod hyn yn cael ei gyflwyno i chi, Cyngor Lleol neu'n rheolwr y ddinas, ond gan fod yn aelod newydd, hoffwn gyflawni'r hyn a ddisgwylwyd o ran ystafell amser pan fyddwch chi'n cael rhywun sy'n gallu llwyddo'r RFP, neu, ie, y RFP,
 ynghyd â'r cyd-dweud y byddwn yn cael cynnwys ymchwil yn ymwneud â'r ddechrau, y byddwn yn cael y cyhoedd yn ymwneud â'r cyhoedd, dim ond adolygiad a llinellau o beth i'w gofyn. Ie, yn siŵr, byddwn yn rhoi'r cyfle i chi. Byddwn yn dod yn ôl gyda'r... Roeddech chi eisiau cyflwyniad? Byddai'n rhaid i mi ddod trwy hynny. Colonel, byddai hynny'n ddefnyddiol iawn. Diolch. Ie, yn siŵr. Ie, oherwydd roeddwn yn cofio gweld rhywun ar
 chi ddew, ond dwi ddim wedi cael fy nghyfri ar hyn, felly, os gwelwch. Yn sicr. Diolch, Rep. Molinar. Ac yna byddwn yn dod yn ôl i Rep. Canales. Diolch, Prif Weinidog. Mr. Alvarado, diolch yn fawr am fod yma. Dwi ddim yn siŵr os oes gennych chi wedi gwylio ein cyfarfodydd cyngor y ddynion. Rwy'n gobeithio eich bod gennych. Ond, yn ystod y cyfnod cyhoeddus, mae gennym un o'r ddynion, dros y llynedd, Mr. Rivera. Rivera, sy'n dod yma ac yn ymwneud â chyflawniadau.
 ac mae'n ymgymryd yn llawn ac yn glir nad yw'r cyfnod oedd yn cael ei gynnal yn effeithiol yn yr ardal lle mae'n byw. Ac mae'n byw
 I won't name the street, but just west of Southwest University ballpark, and there is a bar there. And so I did have the occasion to go there, but unfortunately that bar was closed that day, so I didn't hear no noise. And he was not home at that time. But nevertheless, he has repeatedly come here and complained, and his...
 House is very close in very close proximity to that one particular bar. And I know you say you're out there. Does that mean and his his one of his main contentions is that the officers do go out there, but they don't have a meter. Yeah.
 So when you say the officers are out there with meters, does that mean every police officer, every unit has a meter, or only certain units have a meter? Can you please explain that? Certainly. Each code officer does have – we have – I shouldn't say each. We have about 14 decibel readers that we issue to the code officers. Typical night, we'll have three to four people. Starting June 17th, we'll have four assigned officers.
 Each and every week to to enforce it so they do have access to decibel readers They are calibrated each time they go out police officers do have access to the meters But I can't speak on every half because I don't oversee that part. Have you personally heard or met with mr. Rivera my in chance I
 I have not personally met with Mr. Rivera. I have met with some residents, in fact, been to their houses at midnight, one in the morning, to listen to what they are hearing. But I believe my staff has met with Mr. Rivera. And what is the outcome of that meeting? With Mr. Rivera, the gentleman I think is Mr. Rivera, we have met with him, went to his house. I think he lives, there's an alley and then there's a bar, if I'm not mistaken, if this is the same gentleman. That's correct.
 different gentleman i apologize Mr. Rivera lives immediately next to is that the bar? hush hush the other gentleman used to live across the alley from later later Mr. Gonzalez and his team I know talked to the gentleman last time he was here for a call to the public and they have
 been in contact with him and will continue to address the matter. I know that it was two weeks ago that he was here and I don't know if Colonel Weston, you have that...
 But the outcome when I know that I talked to Michigan's all this and I know they met with him Mayor I don't have the outcome of that, but I certainly will get it. Thank you, sir, and I'm not sure mr Colonel I was directed to your mr. Alvarado. You could kind of reach out to the gentleman. Mr Rivera and get his side of the story because he every time he comes here He makes it loud and clear that he has been impacted by the noise. Thank you. Thank you I
 Thank you, Mary. Yeah, I've met with Mr. Rivera, and I have a meeting on my calendar with Colonel Weston and staff. It's on the agenda for that, and so I'm happy to fill you in on that situation. Perhaps we can bring in Mr. Rivera soon. I'm sure he'd love to have a conversation about enforcement here. I think as we run around the horn here, other folks asked pretty clearly for what they'd like to see. I also would like to see
 an updated report on citations, and then just a look at the tools that we're sending both our police officers and our code enforcement officers out with to make sure that we're providing sufficient resources for them to be able to enforce what we already have. And again, I know that their feedback largely drove the...
 list of proposed changes that were considered last year in June. And so maybe an updated set of observations from the officers that are out enforcing so that we can...
 look at what changes might need to be made in order to make sure that the ordinance is robust enough that it's protecting the folks who just wanna enjoy. Yes, certainly. I think that it can be a combined comprehensive briefing with our cross-functional team that we've had in place as well as bringing the additional data that's needed. So we'll put all that together and get that in front of the council at a council date coming up. Let me get with staff in terms of the timing to put that together and do it properly.
 But we'll provide that to you as an in-person update here at the council. Is the cross-functional team still active as well? Let me find out if I have anybody on staff to look at the status. I don't know the current status of the CFT, unless I have someone from staff here that can answer to it.
 Okay, yeah, and I know that that goes back a long time to 2018, 2019. But we have, I believe, the Chief Zerour, and that was running that cross-functional team. So there's good data that came out of that work that I wouldn't want to get lost in terms of the update to you. Excellent. Okay. I look forward to that comprehensive update then, and I think that will provide us with the information we need to see how we move forward with this. Thank you. Thanks, Mayor.
 Mayor, we do have public comment on this item. Yes, ma'am. We have Ms. Turner. Thank you again, Representative Canales. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I have at times living up on Bartlett heard the bars down on Donathan Drive. They do make a lot of noise. If I lived in that area, I would be up here raising bloody cane with every single one of you. Because if I can hear it up on Bartlett Drive, everything, it's got to be, you know what?
 Within a hundred three hundred feet of these businesses. Thank you No, I mean it was posted with action in case we needed to take specific action But I think staff has gotten the right the informal direction they need here in order to to come back to us Thank you, Mr. Pryor, yes that brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 21 and 22 I
 Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anelo, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 21 and 22. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. Representative Fierro, were you going to vote on this item? No. Thank you, sir. End the voting session, and the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Fierro abstaining. Thank you. Next item. Item 23. Ms. Laura Frankl.
 Okay, so Representative Fiedro recused himself from this, the first reading of ordinances. Item 23. Move to approve. Is discussion in action that the city manager is authorized to sign an authorization and reimbursement agreement, public road crossing improvements, surface signal and signal interconnect with Union Pacific Railroad Company. Move to approve. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello.
 seconded by representative Rivera to approve item 23 on that motion call for the vote I'm sorry council let me start that over voting session is open in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously
 item 24 is discussion in action on the request that the purchasing director be authorized to issue a purchase order for the award of solicitation 2023-0415 mast arm poles to consolidated electric distributors inc dba wildcat electric supply second and we do have public comment on this item we have miss turner again good morning mayor council mr turner good morning again
 This is just a sample of a lot of these bids that have come through that you've taken and awarded you come in they submit a bid it gets awarded it comes up to you and There's a price increase on it now explain to me how when you award a bid You didn't take in account what it was going to cost to do business. I
 And I've seen a lot of these. This is a simple one. It's like only 6% increase. But I've seen one that came through, had it like an 80% increase. I kind of wondered who is watching our money. I mean, if I bid on something, I tell you how much it's going to cost you for me to do the job. But now there seems to be an open door. I can tell you how much it's going to cost and say, oh, wait a minute, I can't do it. So I'm going to come out here and you're going to give me a 10, 15, 20, 50.
 100% raise to do it. I don't really understand what you're doing. You awarded a bid, and then there's a contract variance. Oh, we've got to increase it to 6.01 due to the increase in price for steel items. Again, if you're going to sit down and submit a bid, don't you look at those prices? These prices just didn't go up the day that you submitted the bid. That stuff doesn't happen. But that seems to have been the process. Every two weeks when we go through these things, we see these things.
 Time and again, time and again, a bid is submitted, it comes up, and by the way, there's going to be a contract variance. It can be like 6%. It can be 100%. It seems to be the norm now. That ain't the way we used to do business. So I was just curious why.
 Nicole Cody managing director for the record. So if you allow me to go ahead and respond. Okay. So with the contract variance that's listed is in comparison to the previous contract.
 So when they submit a bid, it's not a change during the bid process. In this case, it's a comparison to the previous contract. So when we first had the previous contract, it's an increase of 6% due to the price of steel for the new contract. So there's a totally new – it says on here, it says on comparison to previous contract, there's $78,000. Yes. So – I just wanted to make sure to clarify that it's – And how many poles was that? You told me that amount.
 I'm sorry sir it says uh electrical duration though okay now go ahead and street light poles how many were there I think 200 yeah you told me 200 when we did uh yes sir okay thank you thank you thank you sir when you did the briefing on it there is a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Canales to approve item 24 on that motion call for the vote
 matter of fact I think mayor Potem you're asked that question how many polls it's your question yes ma'am in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 Item 25 is discussion in action that the City Council ratify the additional expenditures with a continued use of health information management system contract number 2021-1443 with advanced business software LLC and that the City Council accept pricing for subscription and access to the public health information management system. Yes ma'am, Mayor Pro Temp. I have some questions.
 Good morning, Paula Salas with Purchasing. Yes ma'am. Paula, how are you? Okay. So looking at the resolution, and so I see that the initial term of $60,000 was approved. I think administratively an increase of $15,000 was added. Where did $91,000 come from? Okay, so during the process, this was an interim contract for six months.
 and it was to give or allow for the new contract to be in place. This is a companion item from an item on consent that we terminated for the same services, and this is to continue with the existing vendor with this same contract that was brought in to, from council, or to council, and the 91,000 is the continuation of the services from July,
 2022 to May of 2023. So the remainder of the 24 months. So 18 months was the 91,000? The 91,000 is what is owed from July of last year until May of this year. The 216,000 is for the additional 24 months.
 I get that, but I'm just, so what is the exact increase of the cost? Because it's hard to determine with the amendments and then also the difference in length of time, right? So if you did 60 months for 20, 60,000 for 24 months, it's different. But then there was the 15,000 amendment for a different amount of time. So I'm just trying to wonder, based on 24 months, what the actual increase of cost is. So the costs remain the same. Okay. The monthly cost.
 Remain the same. It's just a 24 month contract. It's an additional 24 months Yes, I'm sorry if I'm duplicating the question I'm it's also still not totally clear to me I see that there were I
 Essentially, we were charged, it's a subscription to a software service, we were essentially charged $8,333 a month with past due, we have past due invoices from July of last year through April of this, well through May of this year.
 Is this this is because we continued to use the service, but we had already reached the maximum of 60,000 approved by Council plus the 15,000 administrative addition So we've used the service But we didn't have capacity on the contract and this is ratifying those expenditures that we can pay these past due invoices Yes, that is correct. Okay. I think I've constructed it now When we okay
 This is an unusual situation, right? Where we, was it just an oversight that we continued to use the service without realizing we had reached the cap on the contract? No, there were different issues throughout the, in view of the award of the replacement contract. There were a few issues there.
 because of the Compatibility we couldn't establish with the new contract with the new vendor. So in order to Avoid any gap in services we continued with this contract and that's why we're coming back to ratify That awarded contract and add additional Funding okay, and I mean I promise I'm not trying to get anybody in trouble I just want to understand how it is that we had the the
 We continue to use the service without the contract, and we're going back in time now to pay for services we already used. Would the normal procedure be that it would come to council before to extend the contract for the short term, and then just to avoid having to ratify expenditures that were already made? Would that be the normal procedure? Yes. Mr. Cody? Yes.
 Nicole Cody, managing director. So absolutely representative. This is not the norm. This is truly the exception in this case. And as Paula had already mentioned, it is a companion item. So originally they were going to go to the new vendor that we're terminating with, but since they were unable to provide the services that the Department of Public Health had requested, they continued because they still needed the services to use their existing or the previous contract.
 And so the previous contract had ended, so that's why we do need to come back to you all and ensure that we ratify those expenses so that we're able to pay those invoices during that period. So the part of, in my summary, the part that was missing was that there was an award to a new vendor, and then that new vendor couldn't meet the obligations that they agreed to? Correct. Correct. Okay, and so in an emergency capacity, essentially...
 Staff persisted with the with the previous Vendor exactly and and I don't know if dr. O'Connor says on the line We did ask the department also to be here so that he is so they can explain Any any other additional detail you might have about what the contract does or the services? Good morning, dr O'Connor good morning mayor and council That is correct
 We incurring to some trouble as Ms. Cody is mentioning and that item is gonna be coming up, but definitely this is a system that we're using currently at the Department of Public Health and we cannot be without that system. This is rather an exception in the way that we're presenting this. We had other contract online, but they couldn't meet their obligations.
 Yeah, I mean I of course understand the importance of maintaining continuity of our health records and particularly the the sensitivity of people's health records and making sure that We keep those secure and continuous. So again, I don't I don't have any problem with this I just wanted to make sure I had the timeline constructed here and Understood what we were voting on. Thank you Representative Kennedy so
 We awarded it to somebody who couldn't do the job, which I'm concerned with the vetting of a new vendor for something this important. But then we operated without a contract for months, just as a month-to-month. There was no clause in the contract to go month-to-month or anything? So all options had already been utilized at that point because they needed the additional time to be able to, when we moved to award.
 I'm sorry, just to add this item, the initial item, the 2021-14-43, it did go to, it came to Council as a public and health safety exemption because the current contract, it was already, it had ended.
 and we had already exhausted all the options. So it was just to give time for the new vendor to come on board and be able to perform. However, during that time period, the department with communication with the vendor, they notice and the vendor confirmed that they couldn't proceed because of compatibility issues.
 And Dr. Ocaranza can explain a little bit more if you'd like. No, I mean, it's a technical thing, but basically they bid on something they couldn't do? Correct. How long after the bid did we figure out they couldn't do the job? I will defer that to the department. And I understand and I agree that it is an exception because of health and safety. But I'm concerned about a process where we award it
 they couldn't do it, my question would be, how well did we vet the vendor to be able to accomplish it, and what was the time gap between the award and us throwing in the towel going, this isn't gonna work? Well, we followed the procedure, and we were ready to start moving and processing all the health records to the new vendor when we started finding that the vendor was not gonna be able to provide what the specs were when we submitted the RFP.
 and that's when we started getting those conversations with legal with the vendor and we told them this is what we needed you said you were going to be able to provide the specifications that we get and the process that we follow is the purchasing process that is very well said within the city and as an organization we did all the proper procedures so we can
 given them an opportunity to perform the job that they already said that they were going to be able to perform. But if they were not going to be able to perform, then we proceed to terminating that contract. And that's what we want to continue utilizing the same service that we have up to now, where we have the patient records, where we have other documents that are very important to the Department of Public Health and to the public.
 My question was, what was the time gap between the award and our knowledge that the vendor could not perform? It's a number. Yes. We can get back with you on that number. Okay. I mean, it's kind of like we followed procedures, but the patient didn't make it.
 Well, Representative Kennedy, I do concur with you. I mean, I think this is something that we do have to take a look at, though, in terms of the vetting process. Now, we've had good vetting. We've taken it through our normal processes for these kinds of things. But the fact that we had some type of immediate incompatibility.
 I think requires us to examine that a little bit more. I mean, this is an exception. I know that we haven't deviated in terms of what that vetting looks like, so I'm certainly not putting this on the staff, but I think the fact that we ran into this situation does require us to take a deeper look. Yeah, and I'm not against this item in particular because I do understand having the records available is critical.
 My concern is if there's going to be a transition like this, we may want to look at moving it back a little further. And if you could just give me the time gap between award and our knowledge that it was a non-functioning system, that would be great. And are they required to put a bond when they bid on something to make sure that they can perform? I would think they are because that's how we do business. And if they did, were they required to forfeit the bond because they couldn't provide the service?
 I'm sorry, excuse me, it's only on construction that we do the performance. So they don't have to do a bond on that at all? No, sir. I thought if they were providing a service for the city, they were required to, no, okay. No, sir. So the answer is no. Not for this type of, no, sir, not for this type of. Thank you, Representative Sinolis.
 You were on the same wavelength, Mayor. I was gonna ask about some penalty for non-performance as well, if that was included in the contract, but I think that answers the question here. I'll ask it anyway. So there's no penalty for non-performance for the contract that we're terminating? So there is in a sense that when we terminate. For convenience? Well, we're terminating for default. So they are, they cannot apply or submit bids for this type of solicitation for three years.
 That's right. Okay. Did we expend any funds on that contract that we're terminating? No, we didn't. Well, health did not use any funds for the previous contract. Okay. That's all my questions. Thank you, Mayor. Actually, move to approve. Is there a difference between the awarded contract and the new contract? There's no variance, Mayor. It's the same amount of money? Yes.
 from the awarded contract, the company, whoever they got it. Oh, the awarded contract. No, I'm sorry. I apologize. I don't have that with me. But as far as the pricing now, the vendor is still at the same rate. But I can get you that information. That's a vendor from prior time. But the new vendor, was it cheaper? And that's why we went with them? It sounds like it probably was. I would have to get that information, sir. I don't have it here. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to go, you were in the right track, but I'm going to go in the fact that you, this previous vendor that you all chose had committed and said he could, or they could do it, right? And at the end, as you started working with this company, it turns out that they can't. So you have to go to this company now, this new company that's being awarded this contract, and they are able.
 That's the difference right they can do what is what you're requesting to do as far as with all these records that are Correct it's the existing vendor it's the current vendor The current vendor yeah but the previous vendor just couldn't do it and that's when you found out you had to come to us Correct
 So the previous contract that we just terminated, CureMD, that's the vendor that got terminated. And the previous vendor, ABS, has been the, it's the current provider and has been before CureMD just because we couldn't go ahead and proceed with the services. Okay, so I understood you right then. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Ms. Frey.
 i heard representative canales make the motion to approve representative rivera seconded
 Yes I did. I'm sorry if I may. May Mayor just add one point. And I think it's really important that we clarify because I don't want there to be any concern on the overall RFP process. So the RFP process is very long in the sense that it's important that we go through the evaluation period. There is an evaluation committee where we also have the ability to.
 There's a question and answer period as well before they even submit the bids to ensure that they fully understand what's going to be requested in the scope of work. And so what's different between that process and what occurred here with this vendor is that it was under the emergency exemption for public health and safety.
 So it didn't go, the one that we're terminating with QRMD did not go through the full RFP process. But we still need to vet the company that we picked to make sure they provide the service that's required. And even if there's compatibility or an issue with whatever was the issue, we still need to make sure before we award something because it's a company that cannot provide a service that's very important to our community and the safety of the records.
 I mean, I think that we do need to make sure that even though it's an emergency, even though we still need to vet all companies that are going to do business with the city for security to start with, but also make sure they provide the service that's required. Absolutely, sir. And so we do work with the departments, and you're absolutely right. We'll make sure that we continue to ensure that the department has fully vetted. Thank you. Mayor Potem?
 Thank you, Mayor. And I don't want to sound like a broken record over the last six years or in any way, hostile or condescending, but I think this is a really important contract. It's a very complicated situation. I think that a briefing to council prior to this item coming up would have been helpful. I think, you know, prior to the pandemic, I think we were briefed a lot by purchasing. There's a lot more communication and relationship. I don't feel like that has revived itself since the pandemic. And I think, you know,
 this makes I don't want to say it makes a lot of sense there are still some things that my head is like tilting on and I think that's just because of time and context to the conversation that could have been very helpful to the council and very much avoided in this public setting so thank you yes ma'am thanks Mary you just you were asking about the previous contract that pulled up the minutes from 2021. so it was an issue it was a three-year term what's that
 It is a three-year term in the amount of $150,958 and a two-year option for an additional $84,984. So it's – what was that? It's okay. Yeah, so it's slightly – I guess it would be less expensive on a month – prorated to the month, but comparable in cost. Yeah.
 Thank you, Ms. Prine. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item number 25. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes 6-1. Representative Kennedy voting nay. Representative Hernandez not present. That brings us to item 26, approval.
 and this is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign contract 2023-0194 citywide litter control contract between the city of El Paso and both work Quest FK TIBH Industries Inc and Border TM Industries Inc DBA exceed resources thank you hello my friend
 I want to first start off by saying that I think this is such a great contract. I think it's really important. But I would like to know, because we don't have a red line in the backup, what were the additional locations added? So I see there's 23 locations in the backup, but I just don't know which one's based on the increase. I'm sorry. I apologize. Go ahead.
 Paula Salas for the record. And the weed control is one of the services that is included. The rate per day as needed is another item that was also included. Okay.
 And for the other new additions, I would defer that to the department, and that's environmental services. Well, I'm going to ask on both those things because there's an addition to weed mitigation, and there's an addition to rate, which I think are great. I just would like to know what that is, both those things. Definitely. I'll get back to you on that then because I don't see anybody from – Does anybody know what the increase in the rate was? Here we go.
 Yes, Nicholas Evada Environmental Services. I'll need to get back to you on the new area, the new areas added to the contract. In addition this also covers the Cincinnati Entertainment District for us. They pick up the trash and waste there and do grounds maintenance also in that area. I'm sorry you're we're on item 26.
 Yes. That specifically talks about the airport area and every location listed on the backup 1 through 23 are specifically in the airport area. So you're saying we're adding the Cincinnati district? The Cincinnati district is part of the contract also. Previous to this addition? Yes. Okay, but it's not in the backup anywhere? Sam, can you? Yes.
 Yes, the airport is, Sam Rodriguez, director of the airport, Mayor Pro Tem. So the additional areas that are being added for the airport are the advanced manufacturing district that we're going to be developing, as well as the additional quarter on the 601 district that are being added to the contract for litter and weed control, as well as the additional areas along Cottonwoods.
 Because of staffing resources at the airport, we're transferring those services to this contract to get help for litter control and weed control on Cottonwoods. Okay, and I do now see at the very last page the Cincinnati area, but now I still don't see any of those additional areas that you just mentioned, which again, all of the information in the backup is very helpful. And then do we know what the change in the rate is? Yes, we do. Okay.
 So the annual amount for the litter control airport is an increase of 14.40%, so it's about $52,696 with 10 cents. The herbicide, the annual amount, it did increase for $20,965 with 60 cents, or 14.39%. Also for the litter control alley cleanup,
 The annual increase was $99,653 with 40 cents or 14.45%. The Cincinnati cleanup, I'm sorry, Cincinnati special pickup per visit did increase for $1,384 with 90 cents. And then for the new services, it was an annual increase of $118,230 with 20 cents.
 The weed control is an additional $235,702 with 93 cents. And the rate per day did increase an annual amount of $1,963 with 20 cents. Okay, great. And you had mentioned that a lot of that increase is wage increase? It's wage increase. Do you know what that wage increase is specifically? No, I don't have the wages. Okay.
 That I can also get that. Yeah, if you can get those to me, that would be great. I also am looking at the legal holidays. So I'm assuming by this they follow the holidays of the city of El Paso. And I do not see Juneteenth on that list. I don't know if it just needs to be updated. And now I am just poking holes at this backup. I will – my question is so –
 What areas of the city do we do cleanup in? I know based on this contract, it is the airport. It is Kern Place. I know that we also have a contract with the DMD to do downtown. Are there any other areas that the city of El Paso does cleanup services like this through contract, not ESD? We need to defer to Mr. Rodriguez is on the line and then also Mr. Yabato. Sorry, I'm just kind of talking out there to the ether, whoever wants to answer. If they can please...
 Yeah, for the airport specifically we have this contract. We also have a contract with exceed that does a terminal services. They handle all our restrooms at the airport. It's a very similar contract to this through through exceed specific to it's not under this contract, but we do have those contract services for the airport. Richard, no
 may have similar contracts at some of their facilities, janitorial and whatnot. Well, I don't want to cut you off. I guess I want to get kind of to the point. I'm wondering why Kern Place was added to this contract and why we have singled out a neighborhood outside of previous contracts to add to this contract, what the qualifications for that
 And we don't have to have that conversation today, but it is something that I am curious about. What other contracts we have across the city and why we have exceeding more funds on the current place entertainment district. So, again, you don't have to answer those today, but I do think it is important. And I just – but I will be honest. Without that information, I –
 I feel iffy about this because I think this is a great program. I think XSEDE is a great company. I think utilizing services from individuals with IDD, other disabilities, is extremely important. Just, again, this is the type of information that I would have liked up front. Thank you, Representative Vedder.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, sir. And I believe that Mayor Pro Tem is on the right track. The only thing I have to ask for you is you've got all these special locations that you all are taking care of with this. What about our center medians? I'm getting bombarded with our center medians being weed infested, and I have no answer for them. When are they going to take place?
 Nicholas Havada again with Environmental Services. We do have one contract right now currently that assists our median staff to take care of medians. They are working right now currently on a scheduled basis going from location to location. I don't have their current location as of today, but we do have one contract. And it was only, we only had one company apply for, or propose, give us a proposal for the previous contract.
 Could I have a meeting with you on that as to when the east side and the Mission Valley area are scheduled to be cleaned up? I have tons of complaints on that. Representative Rivera, we absolutely will. And I'll sit down with our folks and I think it's probably something for the entire council in terms of what the priority schedule looks like just being under that one service. That would be great. I appreciate that. I'll make sure that we get that to all of you.
 thank you mayor thank you representative what is the date of execution on this contract on uh june 16th as soon as we get the payment and performance bonds june 16th there's one council there's oh so we would have to approve it today you all know that i love this this is my least favorite thing that happens at the city council where contracts are brought
 literally before the date of execution. I just, I really don't know how many times we can have the conversation about it does not leave room. If you're not going to brief us, you do not leave room for conversation. It's just, it's getting extremely unacceptable. With that, I think there's a motion to approve. The motion was made by Mayor Potemanelo, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve item 26 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session.
 The motion passes seven to one with Representative Kennedy voting nay. The remainder of council voting aye. The motion does carry. That brings us to item. Thank you all very much. That brings us to item 27 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance of the city council amending ordinance number 018749 concerning tax increment reinvestment zone number 10 by reducing the boundaries. Good afternoon. Karina Brescala, Economic and International Development.
 I assume you all would like to see the presentation. So this is an ordinance that would reduce the boundaries of tax increment reinvestment zone number 10. This was mentioned at the board for TERS 10 meeting that this would be coming forward. It has been introduced and notified publicly in the newspaper.
 So a little bit of background again for everyone here and for the public listening in. On December 19th, 2017, City Council created tax increment reinvestment zone number 10, TERS 10. The contribution is 100% of the city's portion of real property tax revenue. That is a 44-acre parcel at the corner of Paseo del Norte and Gateway Desert North, I think. I've gotten that. I get those wrong all the time.
 And then on May 19, May 29, 2018, the boundaries are expanded. This is commonly referred to as TERS 10A. Under Chapter 311 of the Texas Tax Code, it is one tax increment zone, but, you know, we have different funding strings within the city, so this is a fund distinction between 10 and 10A. The contribution for 10A, which is a larger piece of land, again, I have a map on the next slide, is at 33% of that real property tax revenue.
 The intent of the expansion as stated in backup and discussions at the time was to fund infrastructure improvements including stormwater for the potential development out there and then also look at using the TURs as a possible funding source for the Ressler extension. As council may be aware the Ressler extension was funded as part of the community progress bond. It was just a faster way of getting the money for those necessary traffic improvements.
 And then a lot of the identified stormwater need has been incorporated into El Paso Waters stormwater CIP. So we're just not seeing, there's not as many projects that would need to be funded. And then on June 12, 2018, the board adopted the project and financing plan. And so that governs those allowable expenditures for the TERS funds.
 Here is that boundary. The ordinance today would remove the section, again, 10A, so all of that highlighted in orange, a little over 3,800 acres, and would remove that from the TERS boundary. Here is the fund breakdown. So you can see the two different funds. So 2361 is TERS 10. That is 100%. That is on city-owned property, so it does not generate
 very much revenue and then TURS 10A, the expansion zone that we would be removing, fund balance, revenue of this year is $848,000 and then we have obligations that includes the recently approved Pasadena North Day traffic signal at $600,000.
 some administrative expenses, and then an allocation for Schneider Electric approved as part of their Chapter 380 agreement, also for $600,000. That is reimbursement for public infrastructure improvements. So less the $1.2 million. Remaining fund balance for TERS 10A, again, the section we would be removing under this ordinance, is just under $900,000. Thank you.
 So under Chapter 311 of the Texas Tax Code, there are some procedural steps that we have to go through in order to reduce a TERS boundary. So we have to ensure that obligations of the fund have been paid. That's that $1.2 million you saw on the previous slide. That has been done. There are no bonds issued to date. There are no other funding obligations on the zone.
 And then again, under Chapter 311.014d, any remaining tax increment in the fund will be transferred into the general fund. So that will be paid back to the municipality. Requested action from staff is going to be approval of the ordinance reducing the boundaries of tax increment reinvestment zone number 10. Again, as the funding source is no longer needed for those improvements. Happy to take any questions. Now, who's, I think, Representative Canales?
 yep just one quick question uh the remaining increment uh will be transferred to the general fund yes that is just the 10a portion the eight hundred ninety six thousand four hundred dollars
 Okay, and for us in this case because it's in two different funding streams I think there'd be a personality requirement if we did it otherwise, but yes, and so the 50,000 505 dollars and 91 cents in the tears the the 2361 that turns 10 fund balance that remains as a balance The balance would be used for administrative costs and then if that was sold or developed in the future would start generating revenue Understood. Thank you. Thank you Why don't we get why don't we get rid of 10 I
 that is an action that council can take um it would need to be a separate item it would need to go through the same public uh notification process but staff's recommendation would be to keep the tours in place um it gives us the best flexibility in terms of attracting investment to the area and looking at ways to develop that property but that is absolutely how long has that been in place 2018. so we haven't had a bite in five years maybe it's time to cut bait mr kirk
 So we've had a couple, we've actually had two contracts on that site. Unfortunately, they didn't work out. Both of them contemplated using the TURs primarily for the traffic signal improvements, which council previously funded or the Tax Increment Reinvestment Board recommended to be funded. So that was the big thought process for the smaller piece.
 I will say that having the tax increment reinvestment zone is helpful. This is a very strategic property for the city. It is uniquely positioned out of any of the properties that we own to take advantage of the state convention center hotel program. Currently TERS 10 is completely owned by the city so it is not generating any revenue. Nothing is being diverted away from the general fund.
 It just provides us additional flexibility because we don't know exactly what the development will look like in the future. I think we are still targeting a hotel with meeting space options so that we can take advantage of that state convention center hotel program. However, there may be other uses out there that we can't predict at this moment and this just is an extra tool for us.
 I'm not a – I mean, if it was – if the piece of property was that, you know, chilly red hot, I think we'd probably have something working on it. But I'm just saying, I'm not a real fan of having a tourist sitting there that's non-functioning and has been for five years. I mean, it's kind of like, okay, I understand it. I understand the concept that you can use it to try and attract people to that area. Yes, sir. But –
 Representative Kennedy, that property is real hot, and if we put it for sale, we'd have 1,000 offers on it. We don't have it for sale. We not put it for sale. We've kept it in our inventory, which, so you're right, it is red-hot property, and I know the city's had a lot of inquiries and people that do want to buy it, and I think the city's been trying to hold it for probably a hotel or something, but to your point is it is a red-hot property, but we've not.
 Market it to sell it we haven't in there and actually there's been activity with that as well I mean, I think pretty continuously until that the last deal, you know didn't didn't go through I will say I don't think it hurts you to have it there. I mean, there's a potential We don't know what that project might look like It's very easy as the City Council as the board for the TERS if you feel at that particular time if we do attract the project there and
 You may not need a TERS, you may not want a TERS, and you can take it down as a city council any time you choose to do that. So I don't think it puts you in any kind of position right now where it's a detriment from a financial standpoint to have that in place, knowing as well that you can always remove it. But again, that's a prerogative of the city council. But if we were to take it down, it wouldn't preclude us from bringing it back up, right? No, you can go through the process again to do that, so you're correct. It's not irreversible.
 Right. Okay, that's correct. And I think the second agreement that we had on there, they were going to pay for the traffic signal themselves. Because I remember they had talked about part of the proposal, part of the offer was including paying for all improvements to the traffic signal in that area. Up to a certain amount, yes, sir. Right. But anyway, so yeah, so that is a really, really hot property. And if we put it for sale, we would sell it.
 anyway so what's that is there any motions or amendments or anything y'all want make one last question mayor sorry go ahead sir yeah I know this is again at least mostly city-owned property it's largely oh it's not not non revenue generating then whether it's in a terza or not it's not going to be we remove the terza it's not contributing any
 property tax revenue to the general fund either. What is the small amount then, the small changes in the fund balance? I see it's like mental math, $6,000 in the first year, $10,000 in the second year, you know, approximately that amount year to year where we've built up this balance of $50,505.
 I believe it's a small portion that is not city-owned. So there's like a Panda Express. Okay, right, in the small northern. I think so. I would have to go and look at the details of the fund revenue to be sure on that one. The northeast corner of it, I think, right, is the small, tiny portion that's non-city-owned property? Okay. That's up here. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you for the presentation. Quick question. What does it cost? What's the cost for creating a TERS?
 The cost for creating a TERS is, I mean they're all staff initiated so it would depend on how we do them. We do have professional services agreements with David Pettit, Economic Development. He has done, and his team have done, almost all of the TERS. That's the primary cost is the project and financing plan. It's, for a brand new creation document, I think it's $35,000. If it's something like this where we removed and replaced or we were doing amendments,
 it might be an adjusted cost but that's per their contract that is for the brand new creation to remove or make minor amendments that would be handled in house primary cost is newspaper notice so a couple hundred dollars perfect thank you thank you yes mayor we have mr. Rick Bonert followed by Lisa Turner
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Good morning, sir. I'm here to speak in favor of the reduction, but also, as Mr. Kennedy has stated, I think that you should do away with the smaller parcels, TERS, as well. It's not generating any income, and who wouldn't want to buy it if you're getting 100 percent tax rebate? That's quite an incentive to sell.
 but it certainly isn't very fair to the rest of us that are paying taxes on our property. I would like to get my taxes back 100% and put it into my property. That'd be great. But I think the complaint has always been... Yeah, but your property doesn't generate income, dude. I think the complaint has always been that the...
 taxes are unfair to the residential customers and we need to increase our commercial tax base in order to make it a more even playing field, this removes a big piece of property from that tax base, the commercial tax base that you're requesting. So why you would indeed try to give a 100% rebate to a property owner to just get them to come. The benefit to you would take 58 years to recoup.
 If you're giving 100% rebate for 31 years, it takes another 20 some odd years before it begins to break even. I won't be alive to see that. Most of you on city council won't be alive to see that benefit. The fair thing to do is to remove this TERS, market the property, sell it, and let the new owners begin to pay their fair share of the taxes. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Bonar. I'd just like to respond to you, Mr. Bonar. There's no incentive agreement on this property. And so you mentioned,
 You mentioned this as if there's a rebate on this property, there's none. But the TERS itself is 100% participation rate. In other words, the person that buys it or the property in question would receive 100% of the taxes that they pay, the city portion, back to those owners. I'll have a- Or back to the TERS, to the TERS itself. But the TERS and this property are all one. There's not like 17 owners.
 It would just be to the same place. Bottom line is it won't generate any taxes that go into the general fund that are split amongst the rest of us while they still receive all the benefits of every other tax person. So if I was a buyer. And Dr. Bonar, whether without a TERSH, that property is a very desirable property right now. So sell it.
 So anyway, thank you. Cut your losses, as Representative Kennedy said. I'm just telling you, it's a very desirable corner. Get it on the tax roll. Let it pay its fair share. That way it covers the benefits that it gets, police, fire, streets, traffic lights, everything. It's just a participant like everyone else. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Bonnard. Ms. Turner? Again, good morning, Mayor and Council. We entered into these agreements because we believe, one, growth.
 will help the taxpayer. Growth does not help the taxpayer. It just reaches into their pocket and takes more money out. Growth has never paid its way. If it paid its way, our taxes wouldn't be pushing nearly $1.00 for the city. What are you, in the 90s? I'm sorry, it doesn't work. It's quote, I constantly get questions
 because I'm accused of being a socialist because I believe in certain things. Well, a terse is a socialist thing. It is a communistic thing. It is not capitalistic. You want to own a business, you buy the property, you do your business, you don't need deductions, you don't need tax rebates, you don't need sales tax rebates, you need none of that. It's gross income minus your cost minus your taxes is what your profit is.
 all on one little small postcard. That's the capitalist way, but that's not how we do it here. We are subsidizing other people at the cost of broken roads, children going hungry, bad education, you name it. All that money is going to people with money. You should not be supporting the people with money. They've already got the money. Let them put their own money in it. Have them quit using my money, your money,
 the money of the people who live in El Paso. It doesn't help me. I like to eat. You know, my rent was, it was fine. Nearly $500 in two years, my rent's gone up. And for what? I got nothing more out of it. Building gets older. I'd buy a house, but I'm not gonna pay the same amount on the house in interest, and then end up just renting it from the city and the other taxing entities.
 Why bother? I mean, I'll never own it. I'll still be paying rent just to somebody differently. It's like this. Get rid of them. And quite frankly, I think under the new state laws, I don't even know if you all can even do this anymore. You know, this imposes conditions on a business, and we're not allowed to do that anymore. Judging from what I've read, the political statement's coming out of the governor's office, so I don't know.
 I don't like these things. Get rid of them. They're worthless. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Turner. And, you know, to your point and Dr. Bonar's point, the shop at Cibron right across the street, that big shopping center that's 500,000 square feet that was developed has no incentives. It was built strictly on the developer. Oh, yeah. Good afternoon. Robert Cortez for the record. If we could bring the presentation back up real quickly, IT. Okay.
 So they went through this and we hear you on the discussion about the TERS 10 but on the TERS they just wanted to point out it's a fast growing part just with all the growth that we've seen. So doing away with that portion is again going to bring that additional revenue to the general fund. So she has a slide on in the presentation on slide four and you can see here in FY 2020
 In terms of 10A, the revenue was about $435,000. You can see it incremental. Well, it stayed the same for a couple years, but with the housing growth that we've seen and the far portion of that boundary, you see in FY23 that it grew to $848,000.
 So it's almost doubled since the creation, which is good because it's a fast-growing part of town. It had been tied up in the TERS and now we're doing away with it. That's all additional revenue that's going to come back to the general fund. With the preliminary information that we received from the appraisal district, Ms. Kilgore mentioned that yesterday. We got that late last week. Right now on this TERS 10, we're looking at,
 Again, this is preliminary, so before all the protests and everything is settled, but right now it's about $1.4 million of revenue. So again, about $600,000 more than what it was in the prior year. So doing away with the TERS-10 is going to be significant. It's going to help, again, with the budget development that we've talked a lot about and how are we going to bring in these new revenue sources. And so I just wanted to point that out, that this TERS-10 is a very, very fast-growing project
 TURs right now. So doing away with that again is gonna help the general plan with, again, the budget development. Well, that thing is a fast growing area and it's huge. And it's mainly grown without tax incentives, without any incentives to the developer that built the Cimarron that built over 500,000 square feet in that area without any taxpayers' incentives. So you're right, I mean, every time I turn around and bring in another, you know,
 selling another pad. They're bringing another company. And again, we've not given them since the day they put the shovel in the ground. We've not given them any incentives. So that's why it's been growing, because Jerry Rubin and Adam Frank have done an incredible job of developing that area and bringing it to incredible development out there. Thank you. So what are you recommending or asking? Okay.
 Staff is recommending approval of the ordinance to reduce the boundaries, but I believe mayor Pro Tem. Did you have a question? Oh, okay There's not a motion on the floor Miss prime the motion was made by mayor Pro Tem Manila seconded by representative Piero to approve item 27 public comment has been taken on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously and
 Mayor, may we go to item 36? Please. Thank you. Thank you for that. Item 36 is discussion and action on the City of El Paso Vision Zero Safety Action Plan. Is Joaquin here? Yes. Good? Okay.
 Good morning. Mayor and Council Joaquin Rodriguez with the Capital Improvement Department. I also have with us Brandon Gonzalez from the team at ALTA who have been our consultants on this project and with us every step of the way. We'll also have at the end of this Neum Apodaca and Scott White from our Vision Zero Task Force to also share some some thoughts on the process and get us IT. Can you bring up the presentation please. Good morning sir. Morning Mayor.
 So some of these slides will be familiar to all. As you know, Vision Zero really ties into the city's strategic plan, specifically goals two, seven and eight. Additionally, Vision Zero is really a natural extension of some of our other ongoing efforts, including complete streets, the recently adopted street design manual, the city's adopted bike plan, other programs like our neighborhood traffic management program and our intersection safety improvement program.
 Again, the city has taken a lot of actions to promote safer streets in our community and promote transportation safety in general. You can see this through some enforcement and education campaigns as well as through the intersection safety improvement program. Really the key difference that we want to highlight is that Vision Zero examines the type of collisions that are occurring in order to help us develop a proactive approach.
 We'll go over just a quick overview, although we've done some of this at our past briefings with you. This is really our big motivation behind Vision Zero.
 from 2017 to 2022 within the El Paso community, there were 262 traffic fatalities and 881 suspected serious injuries. If that number is not staggering enough, the Federal Highway Administration has developed a method by which they apply a monetary value to those. So essentially it's a 300 or $3.59 billion loss to our community in that timeframe from crashes. Our Vision Zero,
 policy that you'll be adopting today really focuses on a shift from the traditional transportation safety methods to what we call the safe systems approach. So rather than preventing crashes the focus shifts to preventing deaths and serious injuries. Understanding that.
 humans make mistakes and that there are limitations to human behavior and designing for that. We focus on reducing speed. We focus on the concept of shared responsibility. And finally we focus on proactively identifying and addressing risks in the community.
 Our charge really started with the adoption of the Vision Zero resolution that this council adopted back in September that set an aggressive goal to eliminate all traffic deaths and serious injuries and rethink street design to protect the most vulnerable road users. That goal of eliminating traffic deaths and serious injuries also aligns with the Texas Department of Transportation's goal to do the same.
 the project was split into these four phases this last phase which we are in now is really adoption of the plan so looking at the planning document itself and everything that is included there one of the key components of this effort was our vision zero task force which as i mentioned earlier a couple members from the task force are here to speak today we held a total of five formal task force meetings as well as a couple follow-ups that we had
 virtually and a lot of interaction between the task force over email. Meeting 5 back in May is where we presented the draft action plan to the task force for their comments and really took a deep dive into what we see as our priority corridors and an overview of the online data dashboard.
 We also wanted to give a quick overview of our community engagement efforts, really highlighted by these six events here. Our Vision Zero launch was a success where we partnered with some members of the community and the neighborhood coalition.
 We also made an effort to really go where the people are rather than trying to bring people into our own events, participating in events like Glow in the Park, the Love Your Heart Walk, the Univision Health Fair, and then most recently the Neighborhood USA Conference hosted by the city.
 So in total this is sort of a planning by the numbers to give you an idea of the total breadth of the engagement that we were able to to achieve for this project. We really focused on online and in-person surveys. In total we feel we really had meaningful engagement with over 500 people throughout the course of this project.
 including seven community events three neighborhood event events and then a lot of online participation through our online surveys in-person surveys and finally the individual Vision Zero pledges.
 Now I'll ask Brandon to come up and go through an overview of the action plan itself and the document that you all are adopting today. Good afternoon mayor and council it's good to be here. I'll go through just a little bit of an update on the overview of the vision process and then also the action plan just to give you a little bit of a flavor where kind of things ended up.
 So first of all, at a high level, when we're talking about Vision Zero in the, you know, an overview, there's a couple things that differentiate Vision Zero from a lot of other kind of safety work, safety plans. And one of them is really starts with the systemic safety analysis. And this is a really comprehensive, really robust dive into the data to try to understand not just where crashes are happening, but we want to understand what are contributing factors to the crashes. What are the contexts to the crashes?
 and really that's the deeper dive that allows us to be more proactive in addressing safety in the future and part of that systemic safety analysis is really taking into account contextual data so again we're not just looking at the crash factors of what actually contributed to the crash from a police report from that kind of reporting standpoint we're thinking a lot about what are the roadway conditions what are the land use conditions where in the community are they happening who are being affected and disproportionately affected by the crashes
 So it's really just this big comprehensive look. And that's supported through the use of big data. And this is a rapidly evolving area in our field of using cell phone data to be able to better determine even down to the details are people slamming on their brakes and if they're slamming on their brakes, why are some potential factors for that? And so using a lot of what this big data is telling us is integrated into that systemic safety analysis to ultimately help us to create some of these crash profiles.
 and I'll talk a little bit about those crash profiles in a second, but this just gives you the idea of the process that we go through in trying to use the data to develop the story, to fine-grain the story, and then ultimately to help to develop the crash profiles that we can use to direct improvements, limited resources to where they can be most effective.
 So this is just a high level overview of some of the crash trends. This is in the action plan report. There's a lot of other crash trends that are in the report itself. But a couple that I just wanted to call out, because I thought they were interesting compared to other communities, is 20% of KSI killed or seriously injured crashes involve motorcycles. And this is something that is, I wouldn't say unique to El Paso, but is much higher than what we see in a lot of other communities.
 And so that kind of directs us to some specific actions when we're thinking about motorcycles on roadways. Another one that I think is really important is if you look down at the bottom right corner, pedestrians make up only about 4% of total crashes, but they account for 21% of crashes where people are killed or seriously injured. And so that really shows a disproportionate impact or severity of accidents.
 kind of the burden I guess borne by pedestrians in the city and so a lot of what the messaging we're doing around this particular You know action plan and the request for funding is really geared towards vulnerable roadway users people walking in particular
 So back to the crash profiles, again this is where the data, this is a really big outcome of the process because the crash profiles are a description, a deeper dive into what all the data is telling us. And we divided the crash profiles into pedestrian crash profiles, cycling profiles, motorcycle profiles, again because of that 20% total number which is pretty high, and then also looking at vehicular.
 And so this is just the high level overview of those and in the appendix of the plan we go into a lot of specific details around each of these crash profiles.
 But a couple just to bring up that we saw from the pedestrian standpoint is we saw a large number of pedestrian fatalities We're located within really close proximity to transit stops and that they're also happening at night And so for us we kind of look at that data and say what are the crossing conditions around some of our transit stops? Are those areas well lit at night to provide safe access? and that's the route that we take when we look at some of these crash profiles and
 Another one just to call out is fatal, if you go down to vehicular, the bottom of the table, fatal vehicular angle crashes at unsignalized intersections was another really big thing that stood out to us. This can be a lot of different turning movements, but it's basically if you think about a vehicle turning across traffic at any spot that's not a signalized intersection, that is a very
 disproportionate representation of fatalities in the city so that again leads us into countermeasures that we can potentially use to address some of those issues and countermeasures is just kind of the fancy word that we use a lot for for improvements you know what can we do to try to make improvements that are going to directly tackle you know the issue that we've identified
 And those countermeasures are divided generally into two buckets. The first is operational safety countermeasures, and these are things that we can do that are sometimes can be pretty cost effective, or low cost, and it's going in and looking at can we do pedestrian intervals, can we change the cycling of, or the cycles of,
 pedestrian crossings and links? Can we maybe do right turn prohibitions in areas where there's higher volumes of pedestrian traffic? A lot of these can generally be low-cost efforts that are more focused on traffic operations.
 The second bucket is design safety countermeasures. And this is when we start getting a little bit more into engineering infrastructure. But there's a lot of different scales of that. It could be quick build, you know, things that we could do pretty rapidly at low cost to, you know, formal infrastructure. But really when we're talking about design countermeasures, it's curb extensions.
 you know, medians, pedestrian hybrid beacons, you know, pedestrian signals and those types of things. And then we also talk a lot about traffic calming, which I know the city already has a traffic calming program. And so we're thinking about what are ways that we can do to expand the city's traffic calming program to really target some of those, you know, some of the safety issues that the data is telling us.
 So then I'll give a little bit of an overview of the action plan itself and kind of the organization and again at a really high level, but hopefully you've had a chance to look at some of the information that's in it at this point.
 The safe systems elements, Joaquin talked a little bit about those earlier, but these are really tied to the safe systems approach. And a lot of the way the plan is organized is using these safe system elements. And the reason why we're doing that is there's two main reasons. First of all, this is part of the paradigm shift that's happening with cities when they accept Vision Zero. It's really changing the mindset on how we think about safety and our roadways.
 So that's first and foremost. And the second is, is that this really helps El Paso to be able to secure some of the federal funding that's coming down through Safe Streets for All because they really want to see that the safe systems approach was integrated into the plan, into the process, and we tried to organize the recommendations to be really based on this, to make it really clear as the city pursues funding, if this is how it was organized and we followed that safe systems approach.
 We developed a number of guiding principles. I won't read all these to you, but this is part of the beginning of the project. We went through and edited these with our task force and ultimately came up with these seven guiding principles that again get at the shift that's happening when we think about our roadways in El Paso tied to the Safe Systems approach.
 The overall plan organization, we divided it into six chapters. And one thing to note about Vision Zero action plans is we try to keep them short, concise, and highly visual. Because the whole point of a Vision Zero action plan is for the public to be able to look through it and really be able to understand the story that's in there. So we really try to keep it as short and concise as possible.
 So we have the introduction to Vision Zero, we talk about the safety in El Paso today, this is the crash trends, the high injury network, which I'll talk about in just a second, and some of those other just details around crash data. We go into the public input themes and Your Voice Matters.
 We talk about the crash profiles that I mentioned briefly in more detail in chapter four and some of those countermeasures that we think would be really, well suited to address some of those crash profiles and issues that we see on El Paso roadways from a safety standpoint.
 We talk about reaching zero traffic deaths, so this is really the biggest section of the plan where we have a lot of recommendations. And then finally we have transparent implementation. So this is the top priorities that we want to start with on year one in the city of El Paso. And then also what are some of those top priority projects that we could potentially move forward with a funding request.
 A couple of main takeaways from the plan, first of all, is the vehicular high injury network and this is really important because El Paso has thousands of miles of roadways, but it's showing us that 60% of all of the fatal and serious injuries are happening on just 7% of El Paso streets. So we're able to focus funding on the areas where there's the highest problem and that's just again a use of resources to really target the problem.
 to target the problem. And this is, we divided the high-injury network into two different kind of maps. The first is vehicular high-injury network focused on cars.
 And because the data showed that there was such a high number of pedestrian fatalities, we wanted to create a bicycle and pedestrian high injury network to supplement the vehicle HIN. So this map shows that 68% of the fatal and serious injury crashes involving people walking and biking are happening on just 5% of El Paso streets. So again, really just trying to help us focus in on the areas that have the greatest problem.
 One other thing just to note that I think is a big takeaway from the Vision Zero plan is that the high injury networks that I just showed you are focused on El Paso roads, local streets. They don't include TxDOT roadways and that was really intentional because we wanted to focus on the roadways where El Paso had the most control over. But there's a lot of pedestrian fatalities in particular on TxDOT roads and so we identified the top intersections and the top corridors
 where KSI or killed or seriously injured crashes are occurring. And this provides an opportunity for the city to really work with TxDOT on addressing some of these key areas.
 I mentioned the recommendations framework. This is in chapter five of the plan and we organized it by those safe systems elements. There's probably about 60 or 70 different action items that are included in the plan and we organized those on a timeline and then also provided some initial responsibilities for who can help carry those recommendations forward.
 And then finally we ended up with our top 10 priority actions. And so this is what we're thinking about from year one as we hit the ground. What are the things that the city can do to start really making progress on Vision Zero? And that first one apply for safe streets for all implementation funding is probably one of the biggest that we're we're working on.
 two other quick things is a data dashboard this is something that was developed as part of the project and it's going to be completely turned over to the city and really highly encourage the city to continue to keep the data dashboard up as you move forward this is just for transparency continuing to update the data to show progress that's being made on the as the city tackles vision zero this is a really important piece of
 Vision Zero programs, other cities in Texas that have adopted Vision Zero have really made the dashboard a central feature of moving forward and continuing that transparent reporting.
 And then an annual progress report. And this is something that could be short, concise. We have an example of it within the appendix of the plan that the city could take and just update on an annual basis. And it's really again hitting at that transparency piece of it so that somebody can pick it up, read it in a couple of pages and see how the city is doing towards meeting some of the goals and objectives of the Vision Zero Action Plan. Turn back over to Joaquin.
 Thanks Brandon. So our requested action today is that council adopt a resolution to formally adopt the City of El Paso Vision 0 action plan. I think there were a couple more slides IT. If you could go to the next slide please. IT can you go to the next slide. There we go. And then our next steps assuming you all adopt the plan today really are going to focus on preparing these safe streets for all grants application. We do expect to come back later this month with a
 a better presentation that's focused on the Safe Streets for All grants application. Adopting this Vision Zero action plan is a requirement of that grant application and really the first step in doing that. So with that, I'd like to invite a couple members of our Vision Zero task force up to speak, Mr. Noom Apodaca from the Medical Center of the Americas and Scott White from Vision Zero Texas. Thank you.
 Good afternoon City Council, Mayor, staff and all citizens present here today. My name is Nauma Podaca and I am here representing the work of the Medical Center of the Americas Foundation and the Vision Zero Task Force and the communities that live within and around the MCA campus. As you may already know, traffic fatalities and serious injuries resulting from vehicular accidents are all too common occurrence on roadways throughout the world and in our city.
 The idea to reduce and ultimately eliminate these needless deaths and wounds has already been a part of roadway design and focus. However, something has always been missing from this process, and we still suffer from a staggeringly large number of these horrendous results on our streets. A structured strategy to analyze and implement real-world changes in roadway design, speed limits, and driver behavior needed to be developed. This is how the Vision Zero Global Initiative came about.
 To clarify Vision Zero is a worldwide roadway and educational strategy to eliminate all traffic fatalities and severe injuries while increasing safe healthy and equitable mobility for all. It is an ambitious goal but one that has already seen impactful and lasting changes in other cities and countries throughout the world. It is a global initiative that our city engineers and planners joined in with to ensure safer streets for all of us.
 The El Paso Vision Zero Task Force was formed to incorporate a multidisciplinary approach, bringing together the diverse and necessary local stakeholders to address this complex problem on our streets. We were able to meet with talented mobility consultants and city professionals to formulate a set of vehicular guidelines for our drivers to follow. These guidelines and recommendations were the result of the regular meetings our task force had to formalize a street action plan that makes sense for our city's roadways and the citizens of El Paso.
 We took a global initiative with an El Paso perspective and tailored it to our specific needs. Take into account our driving habits, street designs, destinations and demographics. I come to ask you to please consider the work of the Vision Zero Task Force presented to you today and help support the realization of a safer and healthier streets and multimodal system for the greater El Paso community. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Mr. White. Good morning Mr. Mayor, council. For the record I'm Scott White. I am policy director for Velo Paso Bicycle Pedestrian Coalition but this past year I've been promoted to director of Vision Zero Texas as part of Farm and Cities reach to really work on part of our core mission which is to get every community every county everyone across the Texas to adopt Vision Zero so we can end
 this health crisis that we're facing and have been facing of there being too many traffic deaths across the state you've seen me up here way too many times talking about safety and now we're at the point where we're going to launch something that's really going to be meaningful to this community and to this region and that is if you adopt this policy today we will launch a
 huge effort that's really going to change the way we think and act about Transportation and transportation safety. This is about a paradigm shift for too long. We focused on speed and throughput LoS 85th percentile if you know those terms and it's time now to think about how we make our streets safe for everyone because the cost of crashes far exceeds
 the cost of traffic delays and we need to make sure all our citizens everyone who lives in this community has a fair shake at getting home at night that's all we're asking for is making everyone is safe and sound and that we design our streets our policies and our funding priorities to focus on that goal so I hope you pass this bill today Thank You Mr. White Mayor we also have Miss Turner that signed up to speak
 Good afternoon, Mr. Turner. Good afternoon, Mayor of Council. Decades ago, the first thing my father told me when I was going to learn how to drive was that the cemetery was full of people who had the right of way. We've got a lot of stupid drivers in this town. They will pass you in the breakdown lane. They'll drive 100 miles an hour down the interstate, going through all the lines. Their clothes will be black. Black.
 night and they'll be walking across the street not where there's a crosswalk just walking across the street bicyclists I know mr. white supports him but and I used to to race one I can tell you this if you don't follow the rules of the road you're gonna get run over and I see a lot of bicyclists that don't bother with the rules of the road stop signs mean nothing to them they just go straight through the sign
 or they'll just turn right in front of you as you're coming up to the sign you don't know which way they're going they forgot you have to signal same thing for them at night dark clothes no light on the bike how are you supposed to see it you don't know it until you hit it there's a lot of simple things like making sure that that no u-turn sign is enforced they're not enforced we see it all the time
 Red means stop, yellow means slow down, green means go. Red does not mean hurry up, and yellow does not mean hurry up. But in this town, that seems to be the way it is. And what's worse is we tailgate. You can't drive safely in this town because somebody's always three feet off the back of your bumper. I don't mind meeting new people, but I sure as the heck don't wanna meet them in my front seat.
 with them all bloody and me going through my own windshield i don't like to meet people that way our police officers do that they'll pull right up and sit on the back of your car now that's aggressive driving and it's also illegal because you're not supposed to be driving tailgating people but we do that anyway and on top of that we live here in this town but for some odd reason we don't know where we're going
 We know what that ramp to get off of, and we wait until the last minute to go from the far left lane onto the off ramp because we don't know where we're going. We don't plan. Thank you, Ms. Turner. People are stupid. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Thank you. And, you know, I think it's very important what we're talking about today, but as we –
 as the weather always gets nicer and and there's a lot more people out there walking there's a lot more people out there riding bicycles and there's a lot more a lot more people out on motorcycles we really need to be cautious be careful and be on the lookout and it it's always very important to be on the lookout but there's a lot more people going to be out there now that the weather's become a lot nicer so let's um take that a lot into consideration represent canalis
 Thank you, Mayor. I think Ms. Turner's comments highlight an important point, that here and everywhere there's bad behavior, mistakes made, poor decision-making from people operating motor vehicles, and it shows, I think, the importance of this kind of plan that we can't necessarily legislate for people's behavior, but we can make the streets themselves safer through design interventions, and that's what this looks to do.
 If anyone has seen me speak about this before, they'll know I'm a real Vision Zero stan. I think that these are interventions that are really important, quite frankly, that a lot of other communities have made faster than we have. And it's about time that we're getting to work on making
 our road network, pedestrian network, bicycle network, multimodal network as safe as it can possibly be for all of the users and everybody who lives in our community and has to use those systems every day. I did have one specific question that is I know the Safe Streets for All grant award would be contingent on us passing this resolution today.
 What is the anticipated timeline for award of that grant if we do receive it? I don't know the answer to that. I think Omar Martinez might be hiding somewhere who has a better idea of the timeline than I do. Good afternoon, Council. Omar Martinez, Grants and Strategic Initiatives Manager. Mr. Canales, it would take one year after submitting the application roughly to put together the funding authorization package with the USDOT.
 This is because with all the federal dollars that are available for transportation projects, it just delays the administrative process. So the best bet we have is to complete all the paperwork and submit the most competitive applications we can and be ready to execute once the monies are available.
 So we'll be back on the next council meeting for a presentation specific to the grant application and the package that we've put together for that. If anybody would like us to do a one on one briefing of that package beforehand I'm happy to set that up.
 The grant deadline is June 12th and there is a requirement in that notice of funding opportunity that the vision zero action plan be adopted by June of this year. So that's our original timeline for this project actually had us adopting a plan out in September. But because of the acceleration of that
 grant timeline we have worked very diligently to accelerate certain portions of the project to be able to have an action plan that meets the minimum requirements of the grant application in place. There are some appendices that we're going to continue to work on that are still part of our consultant scope of work and things that we need to put together, things like
 different design standards and then looking specifically at developing conceptual design packages for some of the high priority intersections and segments. That will come later on in the process, but today really the action that we're looking for is specific to the planning document itself. Thank you. Would all of the, so I know some of the design safety countermeasures are more, they're more capital interventions where we would need that funding in advance. Would
 Would we be able to institute any of the operational safety countermeasures in advance of the award of the federal funds? Absolutely. So part of the Vision Zero Action Plan isn't necessarily just an infrastructure plan. There are policy recommendations there for beginning to include some of these safety countermeasures within sort of our day-to-day work and the day-to-day work of our Streets and Maintenance Department.
 us at capital improvements department we've already been working closely with streets and maintenance to try to develop some pilot projects where we're implementing some of these quick build type improvements.
 The reality is as a city we spend a lot of money on roadway maintenance, striping maintenance. A lot of that funding is already there. It's just a matter of rethinking the design of those projects. And you'll see that reflected in our ask for the Safe Streets for All grant as well where we're using some existing funding sources to try and leverage bringing down some of that federal money.
 yeah i think again if you if you need a city council champion for some of these things i'm happy to help with especially some of the policy changes leading pedestrian intervals phasing you know and cycle lengths i think those are things that we can do quickly and i'd be happy to put those forward as policy changes as part of the overall strategy of the plan which of course
 Like you said, with the federal funds, it's a much longer process. Yeah. Thank you. Thanks, Mayor. Thank you. Representative Salcido.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you so much for the presentation. I'm also a big supporter of the El Paso vision, the zero safety vision that you all have. It's very proactive. So I really like that you're working on this. The safety of the public is my main priority, our main priority as a whole. But I will say that the statistics really do give me anxiety all the time when I see them, the 67 percent of vehicle accidents.
 and also the bicycle which is 68%. So getting that number down definitely is a goal of mine and however we can support to get there, we are here to support. Thank you so much. Thank you, motion. And I motion to approve. Ms. Cronin. Yes, Mayor, there was a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Piero to approve item 36. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Piero, thank you. And the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, may we go to call to the public?
 Please. Thank you. The El Paso City Council is local government body charged with serving all of the citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However Council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have 10 members of the public that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Brandon LeMaster. Brandon LeMaster, Miguel Rico. Mr. Rico's topic is unauthorized use of private driveway and neighbor feeding feral cats. And IT will need the Elmo for this, please. Good afternoon, sir. Oh, there's been a . Buenas tardes, señor Mayor. Mi nombre es Miguel Rico. Le traigo unas fotografias para que vea cuál es su mensaje hacia estas personas.
 Good afternoon, my name is Miguel Rico and I brought you council members in me here photographs so you can see the message that you want to give to these people. You know about serious illnesses, okay? You cannot put me like you because I have a condition that I am treating myself.
 You may know about how hard diseases can be. I personally have a condition that I'm treating myself. Because even in that, the professionals that are here as doctors are not sufficiently trained to attend to my condition.
 Because professionals that are here in El Paso are not completely capable to treat my condition. So if you're nice to see the picture and tell me, how will I be able to leave my house in case of an emergency?
 I just want you to know, Mr. Mayor, that I am being really honest, and I try to respect them, but this is something that cannot go on. Y yo no quiero que después vayan a decir, no, el señor Rico no nos dejó saber, y se los estoy dejando saber.
 And I don't want people to say that Mr. Rico didn't let us know when I'm actually letting everyone know. Because, again, the city employees, how can I say this? They think that they have to explain their excuses to me and explain to me what they want. They don't have to explain anything to me. What they have to explain is to you guys.
 The city employees believe that they have to explain excuses to me when actually they have to explain themselves to you. They can say whatever they want.
 But at the end of the day, I do not work with them or they don't work for me. So they cannot make excuses about how all these rules and ordinances work in this matter. I let you know that I let you know this. I hope you can do something about it and give me a clear advice or message to these people.
 I just wanted you to know about this and please help me give a clear message to these people since I already let them know about this. The next page, please.
 The next page, Mr. Mayor. Look, they're cans for cats. I already told you. And that's the message you give to these people. I repeat, if I fall or something happens to my family, I already told you here.
 So the picture that you're looking at right now, this is all canned food for cats. And I do want this to be known that if something happens to me or my family, if I fall, you are aware of this. Y son tan cobardes que lo hacen cuando, porque yo no soy una persona que no salgo ni para afuera. Son tan cobardes que lo hacen cuando yo no estoy afuera, señor.
 And this happens whenever I am not outside of the property. They are cowards and they know when I'm not outside. And let me tell you, to see if it's a little embarrassing for you, that an American who I get along with very well collected several of those dates. I can't clean that up, Mr. Mayor.
 And I just want you to know that a person that lives in my neighborhood who I get along real well, she has picked up a lot of these cans for me, and this is something that cannot go on. The next photo, please. There is an officer parked in a parking lot, and it lasted a long time. Also that day, several policemen passed by, and they didn't take an emergency, sir.
 There is a lot of officers that parked in the neighborhood in this picture. That officer had been there for a long time, and they never had their emergency lights on. Y le traje esa muestra porque estas personas, quién sabe si irían o no irían. Ellos dijeron que sí. Yo no sé. Yo no salgo para afuera.
 And I brought you this picture because I'm not sure if these police officers attended to the call that they told me they attended to, and I'm really not sure since I am not able to leave my home. I made a complaint to the office of Anelo explaining a situation where they left a propaganda in a fence that you took me to, and it lasted almost all day.
 I went ahead and placed a complaint with the office of Representative Anello about a cat that was left in a cage all day. Gracias, señor Rico. Y ese terminó su tiempo. Gracias. Es muy poco tiempo, señor alcalde, para esto. Pero tengo muchas explicaciones que darle a usted. I understand that you understand Spanish, okay? But if you prefer in Spanish, I prefer, if you prefer in English. No, no, si lo entendí, si lo entendí todo. Se lo agradezco su tiempo. Gracias. Gracias.
 The next speaker is Elizabeth Crawford. Ms. Crawford's topic is Pride Month and Humility Month. Y si se quiere esperar un tiempo cuando acaben el resto de hablar, puedo hablar con usted después. Thank you. Thank you so much. Señor Rico. Señor Rico, ahí está el... Sí, por favor. Ahí le quiere hablar el señor Weston.
 go ahead miss cropper thank you thank you for the opportunity to speak today um i want to address um what is being celebrated in el paso and across our nation and around the world as pride month
 God's Word tells us very clearly that God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble. And furthermore, God's Word says it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. This is not just about physical things that we see. There's spiritual warfare going on here. Blasphemy is when we shake our fists in the face of a holy God.
 When we take things that belong to God, things that are for his honor, and we turn them and we twist them for the enemy of our souls and his enemy, the devil.
 and to take the rainbow, which is the sign of God's covenant after the flood, his sign that he would never again flood this world with a worldwide flood. The rainbow was given after Noah and his family exited the ark as a sign of God's mercy.
 That yes, one day he will judge the world by fire, but we have these years in his mercy. He's calling out to people to repent and come to him for salvation. Every time the rainbow is in the sky, it's a reminder of God's faithfulness over these centuries and millennia to his promise.
 to take that symbol and use it as a sign of homosexuality, which in the Bible is listed as an abomination to God. There are no words to describe that. And as a Christian, that's very disrespectful to me and to all other Christians. If people talk about respect,
 This is our Heavenly Father, our Holy Father. And not only that, he's all of our creator. He created every single person, those who acknowledge him and those who don't. I plead with you that God's word tells us that the time is coming when the whole world will be deceived.
 There's deception coming. I urge you, go home, read the book of Revelation. The days are coming and are rapidly approaching when the world will fall under deception. Right is wrong, wrong is right, according to people. Revelation chapter 13, when everyone who does not know Jesus Christ will bow to the deception.
 receive a mark Thank You miss Crawford Thank you. You've reached the three-minute limit. The next speaker is Ron como followed by Steven's drummer if Dain Salcedo Lisa Turner Mr. Como's topic is animal services. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes I know I'm kicking a dead horse, but I just have to bring this up. I
 City of El Paso's replaced the fire chief, the police chief, and now we get to welcome a new city manager, and we've replaced a shelter director. Our city manager has experience. He's trained. He has a clue on what to do to do his job properly. Our interim police chief, he's amazing. He knows his job. He's trained. He's certified. He's good with people. Our new fire department, the fire chief.
 He's got years of experience, he's certified, he's got training, he's got everything. And then there's our shelter director. We put a man in because he was a friend, not because he's trained, not because he's certified, not because he spent a day in the shelter before he was made director. And look where we are. To give you an example, we have been telling you we're going to get more strays, more disease, and more bites for three years.
 The US Post Office just released its findings for 2022. El Paso Animal Services went from being number, or El Paso City went from being number 25 in the nation for dog bites in 2019. And thanks to our new programs and our new competence and the upper management and everything that's happened in the last three years, in 2022, El Paso has now moved to number 16 in the number of bites in the nation.
 We moved up nine spots from 22 to 19. Whose fault is that? Sure not ours. We've been telling you this was going to happen. We have a problem with honesty in the city with employees, people being paid by our tax dollars. You know, we have the city telling shelters, rescues, that if somebody dumps a stray at their property, it's okay because it's a shelter.
 But yet a military lady couldn't get rescues to take her dog and she's leaving. She tried to leave it at the shelter. One, I understand they tried to charge her with abandonment. But it's okay to do it to private rescues. But don't do it to the city. So is this double standards? Now we have a case, like I showed Oscar, of a German shepherd that was shot. The leg was broken. The dog was left out off dire by the animal services department.
 Why? Who knows? I consider that dog wounded, hurt. El Paso Animal Services abandoned the dog. The dog's owner should have been hit with animal cruelty, and the person who shot it should have been brought up in charges. Nothing was done. I'm sick and tired of our shelter. Thank you, Mr. Cuomo. The next speaker is Stephen Strummer, followed by Efrain Saucedo, Lisa Turner, Eddie Chavez, Arnulfo Hernandez. Mr. Strummer's topic is Compliments to Celebrate.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Stromer. Good afternoon. I am thankful for the privilege of meeting a longtime friend of yours, Oscar Lieser, who has known you and worked for you well over 17 years. I'm speaking to you, sir. This person spoke glowingly of you with me two days ago at the Vista del Valle Community Gardens.
 He gave me permission to mention his name here today. He lovingly supports you in every possible conceivable way, sir. I'm speaking, I'm referring to your good friend, Joel Acosta. Joel was the progenitor and impetus for the Multipurpose Center. There are only six of these in the U.S.,
 Mr. Acosta fought heavily tooth and nail for the multi-purpose center, working fervently to obtain $1.5 million in grant funding for this beloved operation. It is going through a rehabilitation at present, which I believe, sir, you are aware. He spoke on all you have meant in his life.
 I am amazed to live in a city of such a high caliber mayor who really has transformed a life. I am deeply indebted to live in such a place, certainly better than San Francisco, New York City. San Francisco, it's been said, is imploding from within Wall Street Journal. I have been watching the astounding rehabilitation on the multipurpose center and pray it will
 to be a viable strong part of the mission to undergird the disabled folk throughout the city of el paso texas this work will live on for years and years it is a one-of-a-kind investment in human life which i pray will ever be working for the people of the city of el paso and i thank you sir with every part of me i had no idea thank you for listening to me thank you sir
 The next speaker is Efrain Saucedo, followed by Lisa Turner, Eddie Chavez, Arnulfo Hernandez. Mr. Saucedo's topic is how to get rid of the stress. Good afternoon, Mr. Saucedo. How are you? How you doing? First of all, I wanted to say God bless you. I apologize for the people who come and give you a lot of... Now, I know that you
 are getting our city a lot better, especially my city rep, Isabel Sancion. Thank you very much, everything is going real well. Now, pay attention or put attention. Okay, I'm going to tell you how to get rid of the stress, okay? The first thing that you have to do, you are in your house, there, sand or grass, take off your shoes and your socks,
 go outside, make contact, okay, when Father Sun is out in Mother Earth. Okay, Father Sun is going to give you the purest electrons in the universe. Mother Earth is going to give you the little protons that she has. Okay, we have five lower vertebrates, one to five. We have 12 vertebrates.
 middle ones and we have seven cervicals. When you have the stress from number four to number 23, that's the people which goes in the freeway and turn your fingers and stuff like that because he has the stress all the way. Most of the doctors, they don't know how to do it. They just give you some pills and probably make it worse.
 Okay, like I say, go outside, take the sun, make contact, and from the sun, you're going to get the purest and most powerful vitamin for free, vitamin D, anti-cancer. It will cause distress. It will cause everything. And you're going to see your life a lot better.
 For those who have the accelerated system like myself, that's very good because we won't take good care of ourselves, we're going to die from cancer. Okay, so you're going to have vitamin D.
 The most violent cancer, you're going to have. Thank you, Mr. Saucedo. And we'll continue later on. Thank you, sir. And I hope you do it. Thank you, sir. No, thank you. We'll see you in two weeks. The next speaker is Lisa Turner, followed by Eddie Chavez, Adolfo Hernandez, Wally Sheck. Ms. Turner's topic is Governor Abbott and Texas GOP genocidal actions. Good afternoon, Ms. Turner. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Ms. Turner.
 I can see that none of you all have turned trans since we've been here all day. So that theory goes out the window. Recently, Governor Abbott signed SB 14. What does that mean? That means no gender-affirming care for children. It also means that those on that care will be forced to detransition. So why am I talking about this? What it's going to do, if mom and dad can't find the medication,
 That child will take efforts and matters into their own hands. That child will try and commit suicide. That you can't live like this. You can't live with a mind saying one thing and the body saying another. Now I'm probably looking at nine straight people up here. That's, you know who you are. You know you're straight. Folks like me, we know something's different. I knew at the age of four something was different.
 There wasn't a word for it back then, but something was different. And we all basically have walked the same path. You will find yourself at some point on the edge of the abyss trying to decide whether you can accept yourself for who you are or do you walk into the abyss. That's what this law is going to do to a lot of children. And they are going to start committing suicide if they can't get access to their medication.
 It's genocidal, it's an attempt to destroy an entire generation of children because of one thing, they're trans because quote, they don't think it's right. They use lies, information with no basis in fact,
 and then they turned it into law. They didn't listen to anybody. They didn't listen to the people who came to speak. They didn't listen to the children. They didn't listen to the parents. They didn't listen to anybody. This is gonna be the way it is. We're gonna make you straight or you're gonna die. And of course our churches, our churches would rather have an empty pew and another headstone instead of having a transgendered individual in their church in that pew.
 They would rather see another headstone in the cemetery people have called for our eradication. Thank you Wally check mr. Chavez this topic is the condition of our government. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes Council I'm coming up here because I was invited by mrs. Wally sometimes I feel that it's a waste of time coming up here because I
 I feel like we're talking to deaf ears. You guys were appointed up there because you promised us that you were going to help us not to spend more money, but to try to save us money. And here we are paying taxes again. You know, we're tired of this. I love my city, Northeast. We try fighting for them. We depend on you guys. You've got comfortable chairs, comfortable jobs or anything, and then you abuse it.
 give us something back for our money now we're getting rid of tommy gonzalez office i don't think we need that i think we should go back to the same government that we had the mayor and the council and you guys do your job save us money don't give us more taxes do your job have a conscience we believe in you guys we pray for you guys that you're supposed to lead us so don't disappoint us please the concerned citizen thank you thank you sir the next speaker is arnulfo
 His topic is working city lunches, city issued P cards, gas cards and change of permanent city manager. IT will need the please. Good afternoon sir you'll have three minutes. May I leave sir? Good afternoon sir. City council, search for the permanent city manager is an issue that probably out of sight
 at the moment, but it should not be out of mind. Fort Bliss is our largest employer in El Paso, and it's also one of the largest bases in the United States. We claim to be the veteran capital of the United States. Accordingly, the search for the city manager should invite candidates who are veterans and ask questions such as, what branch did you serve in? For how long? What was your rank? What were your duties? And ask for references.
 Keeping in mind the city manager, I'd like to pivot to the trolley car system of which the mayor put on the agenda a few days ago, I should say weeks ago, regarding increasing ridership. I think instead of cutting services, we should expand this light rail system with spurs that serve veterans in South El Paso and lower valley residents included. I show you an article on the screen
 from May 5th from Sacramento, California, where I lived for 40 years before I moved back home. And it says that the city of Sacramento received $45 million from the Federal Transportation Administration for trolley cars to serve the people of Sacramento while containing the
 Continuing sustainable clean and equitable public transportation and I emphasize public information that serves the parents with strollers cyclists students from UTEP and also veterans, but as it relates to the to the City manager a new moment hospital has been built in East El Paso and a new VA clinic will be it built adjacent to it on 26 acres my final comment on this is
 We are fortunate that our interim city manager is a retired senior army officer Colonel Kerry Weston who was worked on complex army Programs we should make it rich use of his rich experience in the accessing federal and state grants for the other for this purpose And others and not have to wait until we select a permanent city manager I will be remiss in leaving the podium and not thanking the city manager and
 in reserve manager and mayor lease for taking decisive and prompt action in terminating city paid working lunches the card-blank use of city issued purses credit cards And you need to do the same thing with gas cards given to city Representatives and senior officials with the exceptions for city-owned Cars with proper record-keeping usage. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The final speaker is Wally
 Mayor, she did sign up after the sign-up period, but she's okay to speak, sir. Ms. Sheck's topic is typically right or wrong, save America. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. God bless everyone and God save America. And I love you so much from all my heart. I don't use three minutes. My three minutes was up in February, okay? So...
 The city owes me 12 minutes, four three minute speeches that I didn't get honored. So next.
 meeting I come you can have either three four minutes or four three minutes but I need 12 I got good news and I'm making money for the city and every one of you is invited and Mr. Mayor I don't call you at your office I'm so tempted to tell you hello from Eisenhower and God bless you
 I don't want three minutes. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes call to the public. You can get in touch with me. Item 28. Yes, sir. Item 28 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 201 East Sunset Road from R4 residential to C4 commercial and imposing a condition. There was a motion made by Representative Hernandez. Seconded by, I'm not sure who the second. Thank you.
 Seconded by Representative Kennedy to approve item 28. Yes, we're on item 28. So motion and a second? Yes, sir. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you for being here. Thank you very much. Thank you all for being here. Now, we do have that we would break for lunch. You all want to finish? Or you want to break for lunch? Break for lunch? Huh? So, okay. Go ahead. Let's go. It's up to you guys.
 Keep going, okay, let's go. Okay, item 29 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 1271 Tower Trail Lane from M1 Light Manufacturing to C3 Commercial and imposing a condition. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Anello to approve item 29. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open.
 Thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously Item 30 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 9 0 1 North Stanton Street from a to apartment and c4 commercial to jet GMU general mixed-use and approving a master zoning plan There's a motion made by representative canales seconded by representative Rivera to approve item 30 and
 On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. Mayor Pro Tem, thank you. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item 31 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 5037 Crossroads Drive from R5 Residential to AO Apartment Office. Is there a motion? Move to approve. Second. There's a... We do have public comment on this item from Ms. Turner. Did she leave? She left. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. The motion was made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linar, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 31. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item 32 is a public hearing on an ordinance to vacate in a 53 square foot public utility easement located at 6524 Tassoula Place. There's a motion made by Representative Fierro.
 Seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 32. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item 33 is discussion and action requesting city council support for the submission of the staff-recommended grant application to the FY23 Defense Manufacturing Community Support Program. Move to approve. Second.
 Motion was made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 33. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Item 34 is discussion and action requesting city council support for the submission of the staff recommended grant application to the FY 23 Department of Defense, Defense Critical Infrastructure Program grant program for the El Paso Training and Events Campus.
 Yes ma'am. Hi, Omar. Walk me through this a little bit. So it is for a training and events campus at the airport property with partnership from Fort Bliss. What does that partnership look like? So first I do have Paul Arbright to talk more about in detail about the partnership. Essentially, Fort Bliss provided a white paper specifying their needs. The needs are included in the presentation. This educational needs includes helping military personnel get mission.
 required training, post-secondary programs, army personnel testing, and they lack consolidating training space, lab work, lab space, and some testing facilities. So this facility would actually supplement what's already in Fort Bliss, and we would be able to join everything together into one facility and a joint Fort Bliss and city partner.
 And I see that there's also a partnership with Western Tech and UTEP. Will those students be allowed as well? Because my issue is that we're going to take land that we rent out commercially to build a training center for the largest landowner in the city of El Paso.
 That is a good question. So this facility will be owned by the city of El Paso. You are indeed correct that UTEP, Western Tech, and other Department of Defense partners are going to be able to operate in this. But this is ultimately a city-owned facility. It's going to be Fort Bliss personnel that come to this. And then there's going to be a mixed mass. So it can be anybody from the public that can also both present, deliver curriculum, and study.
 in this facility. If I can add as well, Sam Rodriguez, director of the airport, this is intended also for the community of Mariposa. Part of the Build Back Better challenge, if you're city council members, we submitted a grant for 100 million that included the training component to support the industry that we're looking to attract at the airport for advanced manufacturing. So bringing in companies or facilities, technical schools like Western Tech,
 close to the vicinity of the advanced manufacturing district is part of the goal. Obviously it's not going to be a free operation. There's a revenue component that we're required to get per the FAA requirements. As far as leasing the facilities, the operational, the big component of this as well is this event center that will allow us to have consortiums working in collaboration with UTEP.
 to really bring to highlight the industry that we're looking to grow with aerospace and defense industry. So it is a component that was included in the original $100 million grant ask, but we're looking to supplement this with this particular grant funding that's available through the DSIP.
 I just want to make sure that we are training the public and the military alike in the same. That we are not just building a facility for the military on our property, which is a revenue-generating property, to only be training military. I'm fine to put that money into the Fort Bliss property if that's the case, but –
 But I just that's what I can say. No, it is intended to be open to the public as well. So schools like Western Tech, schools that also serve the military on post right now, we're looking to ask them to relocate as well. That's an opportunity for them so they can provide the citizens of El Paso the opportunity to attend those trainings in schools as well.
 Our opportunity, again, is to really provide that alignment, to provide that labor force component to the companies that we're looking to bring in for the advanced manufacturing. This is a critical component of that. When you look at facilities and training and labor force, it's a big piece, and this is a great funding opportunity for us to do that. From a revenue standpoint, again, DFA requires that we collect revenue from leasing and potentially operations,
 of the facility itself to the airport as part of that requirement. And have we had any conversations with the high schools in regards to this training? And so part of it is obviously the partnerships that we have with UTEP and the Build Back Better, the coalition that we have with the county and being able to promote this out, not just to obviously the UTEP students and the technical schools, but that'd be part of the strategy.
 we're gonna be working very closely with them to ensure that we have that outreach. At this point, I cannot tell you if we reached out to the high schools as a coalition, but that's certainly part of the plan moving forward. Okay, I think Paul wants to add to that. Yeah, thank you, Representative. And Sam's absolutely right. It is all about a vision of what we're trying to build here in El Paso for the additive manufacturing district and the Aerospace Defense Design Corridor. So what we're trying to do is we're trying to get
 the entire region, they do pathways into employment to keep the talent here in El Paso. So it's not just transitioning service members, it's not just service members, but it's also El Paso sons and daughters that graduate from UTEP, go to school, and then find themselves that the only way that they can make a good living in those degrees that they have is to leave El Paso and go somewhere else.
 So we have to provide that venue here to where they can get the training that they need here, that they can get the employment they need here. By us creating this pathway, by using this education, training, and conference center, provides a pathway into that additive manufacturing district and it also allows El Paso's sons and daughters who join the service from, you know, into all the different services to have something to come home to.
 so that they would actually have great jobs and employment here as well yeah i don't disagree with that i guess i'm just missing the strategy after building the facility i think that's not been presented at all so the strategy after building is to present to the higher levels of the installation management command is the one that ultimately approves moving into that army education center which the
 The Fort Bliss commanding general is already very excited and willing to submit a letter of support for this to make sure that this vision comes to fruition. The only conversations and the only strategies thus far have been with the U.S. military.
 No, no. So there are further strategies going on. They have gone on. We're getting letters of support from the local universities. We have talked with EPISD and their STEM about doing pathways into this additive manufacturing area. So there are conversations happening about building this district out.
 Do we have any of those available? Any of that conversation? And again, we've been having this seems like a theme today. Not a lot of the information provided to the council when making the decisions that will eventually lead to that. I would say ma'am that we have drafted letters of support. We sent it out to EPISD for consideration, but we haven't gotten back from them yet. So the conversations are there. I can send you a draft letter if that's helpful. So you can see more or less the language and how
 Sure, I just mean the strategy as a whole. I really think that that's a really important piece to this conversation. I mean, I know this is just a grant application, but to support something like this, I would love to know what the entire strategy is moving forward. I think a lot of the times we're just asked to blindly support these things, and then we get the grant, and there hasn't been a lot of conversation about what we're doing.
 that we do want to be generating revenue off of is where I have concern. I think that the technical training part of this is extremely important. I don't want this conversation to seem like I'm not gonna support this and I don't think this is a great thing.
 again there are nine people or a body who are supposed to be a part of these conversations and these decisions that have thus far not been with that I'll call the question I will respond to that there pro tem I mean the strategy as a whole is to is to is to create an overall manufacturing capability that supports the regional missions and subsets of the things that are happening at Fort Lewis
 And so having a training venue as part of that with the innovation is certainly something that's not gonna be just done with the city and with Fort Bliss. I mean, to get any of these things done, to be able to draw these different capabilities requires a partnership. It requires a partnership with higher education. It certainly does dovetail, as you're talking about, into us looking at pursuing maybe programs that we can do at the high school level, even if we haven't done it now. And so,
 So complementing an advanced manufacturing capability with a training component really is the overall strategy and bringing partners in as we start getting this off the ground. Colonel, I think it's important to talk about how long this has been going on.
 ie dwi'n gofyn rydyn ni wedi bod yn cael ymatebion hynny hyd yn oed cyn i'r blaen dwi'n cofio Meira ar y cyfnod cyntaf o'ch gynnal pan oedden ni'n edrych ar peidio â chyfarchiad a thechnoleg ar y pwrp at yr aeroport felly nawr bod y staff a'r tîm wedi gallu cymryd hynny a ddeall y ffordd i fynd yno yn wirioneddol pwysig felly mae hynny'n mynd yn ôl i
 chi'n gwybod 2011 2012 2013 ar y amgylch pan oedden ni'n cael ymatebion cychwynol honno ond gallwch chi ddim dim ond dweud eich bod yn mynd i ddod â chyfranogwyr yma a dod â capabiliadau yma rwy'n gofyn os ydych chi ddim yn edrych ar hyn yn holistig ac yn edrych arnyn nhw o'r wahanol llawr y tain hefyd ac felly i gael Fort Bliss yn yn ymwneud â hynny i gael y arweinyddiaeth yn yn ymwneud â hynny
 Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n dda iawn i chi ddod i'r ardal. Mae'n
 Yn ymwneud â'r ffyniad, mae yna gyfnod cyd-dynol, yn dda? Mae yna'r cyfnod o 8 miliwn. Rwy'n gweld ei fod yn cyllid arian ar gyrff ardal. Efallai y byddai'n cwestiwn i chi, Mr. Rodriguez.
 dwi'n gyfforddol gyda'r cynnig hwn heddiw ond rwy'n meddwl bod os ydym yn mynd i fod yn gyfranogol mewn cael y grant hwn, dylai'r grant hwn yn arwain ar ddewis gynulleidfaoedd arbennig ar gyfer cyfleoedd datblygu economaidd a hyfforddiant er enghraifft, y fund datblygu economaidd Texas, edrych ar y fund effeithlon ac
 Rwy'n ceisio ati ati, er bod yn fuddsoddiad yr ardal, y canlyniad sylfaenol o'r pwrpas yw cadw aelodau gweithredu yma sy'n helpu gyda'n economi. Maen nhw'n achub ffyrdd, maen nhw'n prynu carau ac maen nhw'n dod yn aelodau cyfrannu o'n cymdeithas a'n gweithle.
 Yn benodol, mae'r arian sy'n gweithio ar gyfer cydnabod arian fel hyn, oherwydd byddwn i'n hoffi gweld, wrth i'r Llywodraeth ddod i gael mwy o gyfleoedd, a allwn ni ystyried y arian hynny yn y dyfodol fel cyfle?
 Yn fawr, yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr. Yn fawr.
 activity and we're able to make the project work. This is no different. We're working very closely on with different companies and entities to figure out how what kind of funding sources are available to really make the vision happen for our community. Right now we're looking at airport funds because we know they're part of our allocation in our CIP to develop this whole area. But certainly if we do we get the grant
 part of the part of the strategies to look at you know is there different opportunities to use some of those extra funding sources to bring on those those additional technical schools universities etc to help us make build out the campus and a much bigger component our big focus in this particular case is the convention when our convention but it's the training center and
 the big piece that could house 1,000 people for consortiums, for training opportunities, for job fairs, et cetera, that could support not just the training areas that you see here, but also the advanced manufacturing businesses that we're looking to bring in.
 to have that as an amenity for them. It is intended to be a money-making operation for the airport, and that's the reason airport enterprise funds are eligible for that. But certainly, impact fund and other funds could be used for this particular project as well. There's gonna be a lot of opportunity as we grow,
 As we grow the development, we're under the development of the $25 million grant to build 250,000 square feet of space. There'll be opportunities for some of those funds to be used for tenant improvements for some of those companies to really help them relocate, to help them bridge that gap in capital needs up front. And we're developing the policies that we'll be bringing to council in support of those that we look to use some of those funds, as you just stated.
 Yeah, no, I mean that makes sense. And I understand now the intent. In the event that we're awarded, would we hire like an operator to operate the center? Or would that be done in house?
 No, that would be the intent, is to hire an operator. We obviously have a concession agreement with the golf course there. It's certainly, we want to maximize the use of the big space, the conference center space, that they could certainly leverage the golf course and the operations there for weekends, as an example, where the school, the training is not happening, to be able to host big weddings, big events there. Especially for the military, they have a lot of opportunities
 celebrations that they do. So there's that component of that that would certainly help to do this particular grant, to use this particular facility, but it would be an operator that we would like to hire to support the operation here that has the expertise, that has the contacts to be able to make this a successful operation. Obviously working very closely with those training schools like Western Tech, UTEP and others that may relocate to this location.
 Okay and the location has where on the airport because I'm looking at it's like global reach is that linear road would it be on the east side of global reach or is it the west side of global reach? Right, right. Yeah if I can bring up the presentation go to slide 11. Actually go to slide 10. Okay I could see I could see and I'm zooming in.
 So if you ride by the golf course again looking to leverage the views and amenities that we have at the golf course is you can go to slide 10 please. And I see this like around the round object there.
 Yeah. So that's the general location. So that's global reach. The Marmax facility that's the building that's to the left of that. And then you see the advanced manufacturing district across global reach. That's what we're looking to develop that. And then if you go to the next slide, this is a great opportunity again to be able to So it would be so it would be surface parking for a thousand for a thousand. Correct. Folks. Okay.
 Yeah, so you see the conference there. I'm looking to leverage the Lakeview. It's just a great opportunity for us to provide a great environment for the students, the residents, and the soldiers, but also to leverage the golf course and the amenity that we have for the airport.
 I mean, I can't reiterate the opportunity that this presents. And, you know, I really applaud your team, including you, Mr. Albright, you know, without those relationships that we are facilitating and cultivating with leadership at Fort Bliss.
 We're not going to have that synergy unless you have someone boots on the ground like you. And so I really appreciate the work that everyone is doing behind the scenes. Omar, in your opinion, what is the likelihood of us being awarded this? Are we competitive enough related to the NOFO that's presented?
 There are 100 million dollars available and the federal government DOD has funded projects are roughly around the same size. And so we are very hopeful. The fact that we have we are meeting one of Fort Bliss' stated demands and needs is crucial. So I think we have a really good shot at getting it. OK great. Well thank you all for your work and I'm excited to approve this and promote it. Good job. Thank you. Ms. Prine. Yes the motion was made by Representative Hernandez seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 34
 On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, Representative Fierro. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes 6-1. Mayor Pro Tem, anello voti me. Representative Kennedy not present. The remainder of council voting aye. Thank you. The final item is number 37.
 And this is discussion in action and requesting City Council support for the staff recommended project that has been selected to submit for the U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Highway Administration Charging and Fueling Infrastructure Discretionary Grant Program. Move to approve. There is a motion made by Mayor Potemko-Anello, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 37. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Kennedy not present. Council, will you be retiring into executive session or taking a recess? I say executive session. Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, we can break till two. Yeah, let's just break till two. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by? You don't wanna break till two? Representative Canales to retire into executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? You're opposed, sir?
 I'll take a roll call to retire into executive session. Representative Hernandez? Yes. You want to do it right now? Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar. Mayor, is this to retire into executive session now? Okay, so you want to recess now and retire into executive session at two o'clock. Okay, on that motion, all in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551 Subchapter D to discuss executive session item 1, City Attorney and City Manager Annual Performance Evaluations, matter number 21-1043-688, HQ number 23-816 under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney and 551.074, Personnel Matters.
 It is now 1 26 p.m. City Council will recess from 1 26 to 2 o'clock p.m. and retire into executive session at 2 o'clock p.m. Thank you, Mayor. Is there a motion to come out of executive session? There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 2 51 p.m. Mayor Pro Tem EX1? No action. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? No.
 There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular meeting for Tuesday, June 6, 2023 is adjourned at 2.51 p.m. Thank you.