Morning. Representative Rivera, Hernandez, La Sarga, Representative Molinar. Morning, Mayor. Nice to see you all.
 Please, can we start? Yes, Mayor. Good morning, this is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, June 8th, 2021. It is nine o'clock a.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding, and we begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein, Representative Anello.
 Present. Hernandez? Here. Molinar? Present. Salcido? Present. Rodriguez? Here. Rivera? Present. Lizada? Present. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthwine? OK, we do have a quorum. We're just missing Representative Shorthwine. We now go to the invocation that will be delivered by Police Chaplain Dennis Hoffman. Good morning, Chaplain Kaufman.
 We really thank you for this group, this meeting this morning. I pray, Father, that you give them wisdom and guidance and understanding as they conduct the business of our city. Father, we thank you that you know the needs of this city, and I pray that you would be with these representatives, the mayor, and all those here. Father, we give them your wisdom and give them a special understanding that they can do your will. We thank you that you love us and that you have given us strength
 Grace and mercy and forgiveness in Jesus Christ, and I thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you. And now to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance are students from Ms. Martin's fourth grade class at Paso Dale Elementary at the invitation of Representative Henry Rivera. This morning we have Daniela Rodriguez, Giovanna Contreras, Daphne Ponce, Jan Valle, Sofia Sanchez, Jaden Granados, Felipe Lopez, Aliyah Villarreal.
 I pledge allegiance to the United States and to the republic for which it stands nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. I pledge allegiance to the United States and to the republic for which it stands nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. I pledge allegiance to the United States and to the republic for which it stands nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. I pledge allegiance to the United States and to the republic for which it stands nation under God, indivisible
 for bringing them to us and they all did an incredible job and I look forward to meeting every one of you all. Thank you. Ms. Prine? Ms. Yes, Mayor. That brings us to the mayor's. Ms. I'm very excited and honored for this opportunity. Thank you. Mr. Thank you. Ms. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Riverside High School baseball date. Mr. Representative Rivera? Representative Rivera? Representative Rivera? Representative Rivera? Representative Rivera? Representative Rivera?
 Okay. Good morning. Thank you. And good morning, everyone. We have Riverside High School baseball team listening today. So welcome and thank you.
 The proclamation of the city of El Paso, Texas, whereas the 2021, the Riverside High School varsity baseball team won the District 1-4A championship with an 11 to one district record. And whereas the Rangers followed up their district championship with a bi-district championship in the first round of the Texas 4A state playoffs, they defeated the Manahans, Lobes and the three game series. And whereas the Rangers advanced to the area round of the state playoffs,
 where they defeated the Snyder Tigers two games to zero. In Game 2, senior Aaron Aguilar delivered a two-run single in the last inning to give the Rangers the lead 3-2. They held on to the win by the same score to clinch the series. And whereas the Rangers advanced to the regional quarterfinal round of the state playoffs, where they defeated the Lubbock Escancado Matadors two games to one late in the game,
 Three, Junior Ethan Muniz delivered a two-run single to tie the game 4-4. In the last inning, sophomore Orlando Samniego delivered a walk-off RBI single to send Riverside to the regional semifinals, the Sweet 16, and Razor Rangers were only the third El Paso high school baseball team to advance to the Sweet 16 round of the state playoffs in the last 20 years.
 And now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that June 8th, 2021 shall be known as Riverside High School Baseball Day. Signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Elisa. Congratulations to the Riverside High School team. Thank you. Congratulations to the Riverside baseball team and great accomplishment. And thank you for representing our city so well. And thank you, Representative Hernandez. And with that, we have Representative Salcido.
 Yes, the next proclamation is Army 246, Birthday. Thank you, Mayor. Can you all hear me? Yes. Okay. So Proclamation City, El Paso, Texas. Whereas on June 14, the U.S. Army commemorates its birthday by honoring the courage of the American soldier, and whereas whenever the nation has needed us in the past,
 246 years, the U.S. Army has answered the call. No matter the challenges we have faced as a nation, but in the domestic or foreign threat, a natural or man-made disaster, or public health crisis, our Army will always be there whenever needed or support.
 And whereas Army soldiers serve our nation with honor and dignity, bringing a variety of skill set and career choices as doctors, nurses, public health experts, scientists and researchers, cyber experts, coders and engineers. And whereas the responsibility to defend our nation requires universal commitment to the Army values, especially leaders.
 This includes treating people with respect, working and fighting as a team, and always doing what's right. And whereas El Paso is proud to be a part of the Army family, we wish the Army as a whole and the soldiers, family members, governmental civilians, and veterans the call El Paso home. A happy 246th birthday. Thank you.
 for your service and now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that June 14 2021 shall be known as the Army 246 birthday. Thank you so much. Thank you represent I see though and as we all know Fort Bliss is El Paso and El Paso is Fort Bliss and we're one community and I Thank you for that Distinguished members of El Paso this is a
 Colonel Frank Stanko, the Deputy Commanding Officer of Operations. And on behalf of Major General Bernabe and Command Star Major Williams, just really thank you and appreciate the proclamation. We enjoy a great relationship with the city of El Paso, and we appreciate the incredible support and look forward to this continued partnership. So thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. With that, Council, please remember to keep your cameras on at all times, even during presentations, to ensure we maintain a quorum. If you need technical assistance, please notify me. If you would like to speak, please notify the Mayor and wait to be recognized. Per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the Consent Agenda. All matters listed under the Consent Agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the Consent Agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem, do you have a motion?
 Yes, I'm just, I had a hard time getting it from the, here we go. Yes, I have proposed revisions for the June 8th City Council meeting. Page 8, item 15, move to the forefront of the regular agenda. Per Representative Schwartzbein and page 12, item 26, delete per purchasing and strategic sourcing.
 Are there any other revisions from council at this point? We also have on page 16, item 35, will go to the forefront of the regular agenda following item 16, per economic and international development. Okay, thank you. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez?
 Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. We now move to page 8 to the first item that was moved to the forefront. This is item number 15, and this is discussion and action for the mayor on behalf of the city council to sign a letter by mayors united against anti-Semitism, united against hate, and declaring unequivocally that anti-Semitism is incompatible with the fundamental values of democracy. And this is Representative Soto.
 Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein's item. Thank you, Ms. Brine. I want to address the Council, Mayor, and thank you, the Mayor, for having this item placed on here. We have seen over the last few years, and especially over the last few months, an explosion of violence against Jewish communities from across the world, but especially across the United States.
 Assault, harassment and vandalism, according to the ADL against Jews, remains at near historic levels in the United States. The deadly terrorist attacks in synagogues in Pittsburgh and Poway have made American Jews feel more vulnerable than they have felt in decades. In August of 2017, the country saw a disturbing manifestation of anti-Semitism at the Unite the Right alt rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
 And in 2017 of August, where hundreds of marchers threw Nazi salutes, waved swastika flags, and shouted, Sikh Highland Jews will not replace us. And ABL researchers identified more than 300 of the estimated 500 to 600 individuals who showed up to support this anti-Semitic rally. Citing statistics, again, by the Anti-Defamation League and Anti-Organization League,
 The anti-hate organization was founded in 1913, attacks and hate language aimed at people of Jewish faith had more than doubled in the last year. In 2019, the ADL recorded more than 2,100 cases of assault, vandalism, and harassments against Jewish Americans across the United States, the most since tracking began in 1917. And 2020 and 2021 have blown 2019 out of the water with over 7,500
 anti-Semitic or extremist attacks have occurred. Amnesty International has issued a similar call to condemn this violence, saying that anti-Semitic attacks attack the very notion of universal human rights. This letter that this council approves in our mayor's science today represents a needed statement to those that El Paso does not tolerate hate for anybody or anyone. We are a welcoming community.
 One, my family chose to make home to raise a family and work. And as the grandson of a Holocaust survivor and the son of immigrants, what we witness and hear in the news more often than not hits me to my core. I think we all need to be strong and resolute in denouncing violent behavior against anyone.
 even our most vulnerable and when a nation lose sight of its moral compass, terrible things happen. This statement against United Mayors United against anti-semitism has currently been signed by over 600 cities from across the United States since January as well as mayors and cities in Texas such as Allen, Texas, Austin, Texas, Beaumont, Texas, Dallas, Texas, Fort Worth, Texas, Galveston, Texas, and
 Houston, Texas, Kylene, Texas, Mansfield, Texas, and who can forget Plano, as well as Port Arthur, San Antonio, and Sugar Land. So this item is one I think is really important. I think that this council needs to send the right direction that no matter how large or how small of a community we are, when attacks occur and anti-Semitic,
 hate attacks occurred affects all of us. And so I strongly implore this council to approve this item and for the mayor to sign this statement about Mayors United Against Anti-Semitism. I don't know if somebody would like to make a motion. Motion to approve. We do have public comment on this item.
 Go ahead. We have a private comment. Yes, Mayor. Please. We have six members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Mr. Stuart Blaugrund. He will be followed by Robert French. Good morning, Mr. Blaugrund. Star six, please. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Good morning to Mayor and Council, Mayor Leaser. It's nice to see you again. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 I rise in support of this resolution. I am a regional vice president of the American Jewish Committee here in Dallas, and as many of you know, I grew up in El Paso. A measurable rise in hate speech and hate crimes has occurred in our country over the last several years, and unfortunately, the El Paso community saw this play out with devastating consequences.
 when a crazed racist gunman entered a local Walmart and slaughtered 23 people in the deadliest premeditated attack on Latinos in modern American history. Along with communities of color, many Jewish communities are also main targets of white nationalist rhetoric and activity. Some of the most serious cases receive ample publicity, including the 2018 and 2019 mass murders in Pittsburgh and San Diego area synagogues.
 Locally, only a year before the Cielo Vista massacre, vandals desecrated the benazion section of the Concordia Cemetery with anti-Semitic symbols. It's very personal to me because my beloved parents and grandparents are buried in that synagogue. Two gravestones, a rock wall, and an asphalt drive were spray-painted with anti-Semitic symbols.
 This deeply disturbing local event is an unfortunate reminder that hate-filled individuals and hate-motivated organizations exist not only across our nation, but also in El Paso. AJC stands as a beacon against hatred and bigotry and engages in various forms of outreach at the local, regional, and regional level.
 national and global levels to combat prejudice and tolerance. One of the initiatives, as Representative Harveen has indicated, is the Mayors United Against Antisemitism. All the largest Texas cities so far have already signed on to the
 resolution that includes the mayors of Dallas Houston Austin San Antonio and Fort Worth so I call on council to stand up against this bigotry by unanimously approving this resolution and having the city of El Paso joined in 600 cities and mayors who have already signed on to this resolution thank you thank you mr. blogger
 Thank you. The next speaker is Robert French. Mr. Robert French will be followed by Naomi Ruth Estrada. Good morning, Mr. French. You have three minutes, sir. Good morning, Mayor and City Council representatives. I'm Robert French, Executive Director of the Jewish Federation of Greater El Paso and the Jewish Community Foundation of El Paso. Growing up in the United Kingdom, I faced blatant anti-Semitism on a regular basis. My family, my friends, and pretty much everyone I know, too.
 Regardless of your gender, whether you were young or old, it was palpable, and it still is. Anti-Semitism doesn't discriminate. Name-calling was just the tip of the iceberg. We were spat upon, chased, attacked, beaten up, and so much more, simply because we were Jewish. Whether being verbally or physically attacked, what was even more disturbing was the silence. Mr. French, we're unable to hear you, sir. Mr. French, we're unable to hear you, sir.
 Is he on? Did he mute himself accidentally? No, he's not muted. I can see he's trying to speak. However, we've lost the sound. Maybe he can call back in. Mr. French, if you'd like to disconnect the line and call back in, we will call you to speak again once you've rejoined. We'll move on in the meantime to Ms. Naomi Ruth Estrada.
 God, no one is out to destroy the Polish people today, but there are still many that wish to rid the world of Israel and the Jews. Can you start again, sir? I've already witnessed and heard of numerous incidents here in El Paso, and we see the daily occurrences of anti-Semitism in the U.S. national press. What has happened to me in the U.K. is happening here too. Without sounding too cliché, the silence is often deafening. Hatred of any kind is intolerable and must be defeated.
 I rise in support of this resolution, and I urge you to sign on to the Mayor's Against Anti-Semitism letter on behalf of this Council and this great city. History demands that we take action and speak up. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. French. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Naomi Ruth Estrada. She will be followed by Douglas Schneider. Am I properly unmuted? Good morning, Ms. Estrada. You have three minutes. We can hear you, ma'am.
 Perfect. My name is Naomi Estrada. My pronouns are she, her. I am a member of Temple Mount Sinai. I am also the president of our sisterhood. I would like the mayor to sign this to make sure that, God forbid anything happen in El Paso, that we've at least taken the step to the measures needed
 to let the world know that this is not El Paso, not an El Paso. In other cities it has always been, this isn't us, and of course it isn't. As a Jew by choice and in a Jewish community where there are many returning Jews who are Latinx people who have decided to return to their Judaism potentially after generations,
 They've already faced discrimination as Latinx, Latin American, Mexican American, South American American, island American peoples. And to return to Judaism, they have added the pressure of discrimination in their own lives, willingly and lovingly, to re-accept Judaism. Thank you.
 Our community is full of these people. They should be protected at every level, and signing this measure lets the city know that community members are appreciated, respected, and protected. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Douglas Shiner. He will be followed by Ben Ziedman. Mr. Shiner, if you're on the line, star 6, please. Douglas Shiner. Mr. Douglas Shiner. Mr. Shiner.
 I don't see his phone number in the queue, so we'll move to Mr. Ben Ziedman. He will be followed by Jerry Halberg-Harman. Good morning, Mr. Ziedman. You have three minutes. Hi, thank you. This is Rabbi Ben Ziedman from Temple Mount Sinai. Am I coming through okay? Yes, sir.
 Mr Mayor and City Council, thank you so much for taking up this important consideration and I urge you to vote against anti-Semitism and to stand up and say El Paso is not a place for hate of any kind. I continue to applaud the City Council and its leadership for this.
 for its stances against hate, hate against a variety of people who are targeted by anti-Semites, by white supremacists, and by racists.
 And I think that this is an important statement that the City Council can make in the continuum of statements against hatred of a variety of kinds to say that El Paso remains as welcoming as it always has to the broad variety of people who find themselves at home here. The Jewish people have found El Paso to be a home for hundreds of years at this point.
 and it has represented a unique and welcoming place for the Jewish community and for many different communities in a way that many American cities have not. And I think that this is an important way that El Paso can remain at the forefront. During the recent conflict in Israel, there were many cities in which Israelis and Arabs came into conflict within those individual cities. There's one particular city which made the news,
 where there was a lack of conflict, a significant lack of conflict, and a continual joining together of Jews and Arab citizens of that city to stand together against conflict in the Middle East in terms of the recent conflict between Gaza and Israel.
 And the reason why, according to the news reporting, that that city found itself peaceful and whole in the midst of the chaos is because of the way that the mayor and its leadership in the city stood up as the conflict began and had been standing up for many, many years in advance. To say, this is a place where all people are at home and making inroads and relationships between the two and the variety of sides within that community.
 And I see El Paso continuing to do the same. I'm grateful to you for considering this measure and encourage you to sign on to it. Thank you. Thank you, Rabbi. The next speaker is Ms. Jerry Halberg-Harman. Mrs. Jerry Halberg-Harman, star 6, please, if you're in the queue. Mrs. Jerry Halberg-Harman or Mr. Douglas Shiner, star 6. Mayor, I don't see either of their phone numbers in the queue. Thank you, and that will conclude a call to the public. I do want to thank...
 Our callers, and I think the rabbi is so correct that, you know, we all need to continue to pray for peace on earth. It's so important that, you know, we have no more racism and no more hatred, not only in our city, in our country, but in this world. It's so important that we see peace on earth. So I thank you for.
 City Council for Representative Mayor Quotam Shortsvine for putting the item on the agenda and we will continue to pray for again peace Representative Shortsvine Yes thank you again Mayor and thank you again for your willingness to sign this and for the Council to take up this very important item you know I think that we have heard loud and clear from just the callers the sort of anxiety
 that intention that is there as being a Jewish American. Over the last month, I have received messages targeting my faith as a public official in this community early in my first term serving faith
 I had anti-Semitic graffiti sprawled on the front of a gallery downtown, as well as the vandalism incident that we occurred here that Mr. Glaugrand had mentioned at the Jewish cemetery here in El Paso, where many members of my family are buried. These attacks are occurring here in this country, in this state, and in this city, and we need to be strong with sending a united voice.
 Much of this is in line with the Compassion 2020 resolution that this council had signed late last year as well. And again, I want to thank you, Mayor, for taking up this item and again, this council, for your approval here today. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. We have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 15 on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem, short line. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Aye.
 Yes And that motion passes unanimously thank you miss pregnant again, let's all continue to pray for peace on earth Thank you. Thank you. We now return to page 7 to item number 14 and
 This is discussion in action to direct the city manager to develop a review of climate change action plans of other cities comparable to El Paso, not limited to Austin, Dallas, Houston, Denver, Oakland, and Las Cruces, and to report back to city council in 60 days for the purpose of developing a citywide climate action plan. Thank you again. So Ms. Brown, we have a small presentation here that
 My office as well as Representative Anello, Representative Lozarga had prepared here just to give a sense of what this item is about. You know, we have seen a lot of steps in the right directions towards dealing with climate change and the impacts of how to make our city more resilient and sustainable, not just over the last few years, but over the decades.
 Certainly, El Paso Water with some of their xyroscaping and watering methods. We have seen the creation of the Renewable Energy Advisory Committee, which produced a great strategic plan for urban energy, as well as items that Representative Lazarga has put up over the last year.
 few months as well relating to pilot programs and other initiatives. And the reason for our submission and involvement with this item is to initiate a very necessary discussion with our colleagues about climate change and our ability to act as a policymaking body for this municipality.
 Here's some of the facts. The concentration of CO2, carbon dioxide in our atmosphere is at the highest it has been in human history. In fact, there's just a report this morning that shows that we have doubled the amount of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere currently than where we were before the industrial revolution.
 As of 2020, 11% of the world's population was considered vulnerable to climate change impacts such as droughts, floods, heat waves, extreme weather events, and sea level rise. And we are seeing and feeling these impacts today. These changes are also conducive to even more rapid spread of viruses, raising the risk of future pandemics in what is global.
 our greatest global security and existential threat. That is not my words, those are the words by our own Department of Defense. The need to act on all levels is necessary if we are to sustain ourselves and thrive and to grow our economy as well. El Paso is doing many things again to climate change. We saw...
 more resilient presentation from REAC and it's a testament to the will of individuals willing to set forth a plan to effectively set goals for our community and expectations for our local government to make efforts to minimize our own carbon footprint. Again, to make our efforts as effective as possible we must collectively act meaning
 representation from the private sector, government agencies, corporations, all individuals must work together because what is at stake is nothing less than our future and we must enact a comprehensive vision with the climate action plan. So what is a climate action plan? You can see here this is from the Citadel of Woodland, California. You can see here that it is a number of different ways to focus on
 reducing greenhouse gas emissions and preventive measures to address the negative outcomes of climate change.
 again the purpose of these plans is to support measures that enable the largest and most cost effective emissions reductions while remaining consistent with the strategic goals of our city ideal climate action plan would include an inventory of existing emissions specific goals on targets that address climate impacts of the region specifically enlisted targeted projects that complement the identified goals again we are already working towards that with the actions of this council
 Many cities enacted plans incorporating goals and met the standards set by the Paris Agreement Goal of carbon neutrality by 2050 to either make up for the lack of will from respective or state governments and with the ever-so-changing political dynamics of environmental politics. It is, again, more dire for cities to take the mantle championing these efforts and best practices to combat climate change are both universal and also target what is best on the local level.
 You can see here the three main objectives of the Paris Agreement to again limit average global temperatures below two degrees to enhance resilience to climate impacts, many of which will now be unavoidable due to greenhouse gases are emitted and also to align financial flows in the world with these objectives.
 Good news is that on February 19, 2021, the U.S. officially reentered the Paris Climate Agreement, and the current administration has signaled a movement to further support climate justice and a clean energy economy. And that was something that we talked a lot about yesterday at the REAC presentation. A clean energy economy means more jobs in our economy.
 which means more affordable power, and it means better, higher-paying jobs for a 21st century economy. Next slide.
 Here you can see the amount of cities already that have signed on to have created a climate action plan. Over half of the 50 largest cities in the United States have adopted local climate action plans. And almost all the cities which were included as 100 zillion cities of which El Paso is a founding member, have already created their own climate action plan. So it is a very good idea.
 You know, yesterday during the REACT presentation, there was discussions about how the incorporation of the City's resilience strategy into the strategic goals was an essential piece to moving forward with conceptualizing much of REACT's vision and the activating of the plan that need to be constructed. And while it was said that, you know, a certain Cadillac plan with consultants won't be used, I feel that we should not be having any sort of limiting approach to
 to what is desperately needed, which is a comprehensive strategy that will be wide and beyond what the municipality should do with its fleet and energy costs, but also what we need to do to be able to invest in by targeting the type of emissions in our regions and figuring out how to, again, mitigate these effects and work with partners across the public and private sector.
 We may not necessarily know exactly whether it will take a control or not, but what this item aims to do is review what other cities are doing for best practices and see what is needed for us to effectively enact our local regionalized plan. If we could go to the next slide, please.
 So these are some of the examples of climate action plans again in Texas. I'm glad that the resilience strategy was referenced yesterday as I think it should be the center to many needed conversations about actions that could lead to a possible climate action plan. So again, and this is not something that is commonplace.
 that are strange or different for our community. As recently as August of 2020, the U.S. Green Building Council hosted a chat among some of those cities that also included our Chief Resiliency Officer, Nicole Ferini. And it's really great that we're seeing people look at what our community is doing, but also as stated too, the Green Building Council, the City of El Paso is working on rolling out a climate action plan, which I think is the time to do it,
 and to move forward again with exploring this further to see what makes the most sense as well. Next slide. And so you all can just see here, again, another sense of what is currently going on across the Texas region. Next slide. So, again, the four key factors that a climate action plan seeks to address that some climate action plans have seen to seek to address is, one, looking at industry standards,
 building energy efficiency design, transport, energy sector, as well as the solid waste sector. And we have seen that in different parts, right? For Las Cruces, they aim to incentivize waste minimization by 25% by 2030 and 70% by 2015. Austin has stated a goal for Austin Energy to average 35% renewable energy by 2020 and 55% renewable energy by 2025.
 Transport, Charlotte had included over 100% of city-owned buildings and fleet be fueled by 100% zero carbon energy by 2030. Again, these aren't necessarily items that we should be doing for our community, but by us developing a climate action plan, we can figure out what makes the most sense for El Paso to be resilient and sustainable as possible. So again, next slide.
 Again, I want to reiterate this item was submitted for consideration to initiate this conversation about an overall comprehensive climate action plan that the City could enact because I do feel it is important, as do other members of this Council. It is time to integrate operations design and our investments in combating climate change
 yet bold manner. By opening up this conversation, I've had my colleagues also interject what type of goals they would like to see in such a climate action plan. Also like to hear from others as well.
 A cross-functional team was referenced to yesterday, which I think council representation would be nice as part of that REACT conversation. I'd also like to entertain efforts for public engagement with this. More importantly, I'd like to see this review of plans referenced in this language in other cities in 60 days so that we can include some of these ideal goals included in future action by staff. So I'd like to open it up to anybody else or any of my other colleagues at this time. Thank you again, Mayor.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. We have Representative Lasarga, who also signed on with this item, and then we'll go to Representative Vanello. Thank you, Representative Lasarga.
 Thank you, Mayor Leaser. Good morning, everyone. I think Mayor Pro Tem's floor is fine. He covered most of our thoughts about this issue in his presentation. Thank you, Peter, for your presentation. And together with yesterday's presentation from REAC about their strategic goals and my item from a few weeks ago about directing the city to take action on solar power generation at our facilities, we are on the right
 path to take important steps toward addressing climate change locally. El Paso is already in a desert. Our climate is already difficult.
 So we are very sensitive to the impact of climate change. That is why this type of action is so important. Of course, this is just the start. We are asking staff to conduct research and bring their findings back to us. And we will soon look to develop a far more comprehensive climate action change, climate action plan with concrete goals. Thank you.
 thank you representative the sadhya and i think you're you you're correct when you say that the city has started uh and and it's not just recently but has been working on a plan to bring forward so thank you again for for your comments and uh representative vanilla
 Thank you Mayor, thank you Representative Schwartzbein and Representative Lasada. I don't want to repeat any of the things they said, but playing off of what Representative Lasada has said, you know, in El Paso we've already seen an increase in heat waves in our community, right? We've seen the impacts of climate change.
 And as Representative Schwartzbein said, you know, these are things that we've been working on for years with our resiliency study, with our REAC, and it is time that we come to a comprehensive, actionable plan. So thank you for my colleagues. I also want to thank Districts 1, 2, and 8 staff for working on the presentations and coordinating with each other for the language. And thank you, Council, for considering this. Thank you. Representative Hernandez.
 Yeah, I wanted just to take a moment to thank my colleagues, Mayor Pro Tem, Schwartzbein, Anello, and Luis Herrera for sponsoring this item. And I agree wholeheartedly with the items that you described there. I am concerned about the non-attainable levels in our community, PM10, and any implications from transportation.
 because we lose federal funds if we're not in an attainable level. So as we're drafting these documents, I really would like to see how not only the city, but looking at this approach holistically and working with the MPO and other stakeholders so that we can try to get back to attainable levels.
 Um, so I think that's absolutely critical when we're talking about these climate plans, um, because vehicles, um, and transportation is, is really attributing to our binational community being, um, very close in proximity to another country. Um, so that, that was my only thought, um, that as, as we work with staff, um, let's, let's,
 consider, um, our attainable levels in the community. And then finally, um, I just wanted to briefly mention, you know, when, when we're requesting these plans, um, and these documents, you know, they come, they come with a budget. And so if, if this is going to be approved today, I'd like to see, um, more support from, or to hear from the city manager's offices. Is this something that we want to do internally? Is this something that we want to, um,
 hire a consultant to do because either way it needs to be a strategy that we can all accept. It needs to be based on empirical data. There needs to be benchmarks and goals and that is how we're going to have the most successful plan and so I just wanted to you know throw that out there to hear you know what the concerns are any challenges or what you need from council so we can make these plans come to fruition.
 thank you representative uh have done this and i think we did see a presentation yesterday that shows that uh they're looking at putting it into the budget and bringing items forward as they continue to build i think nicole ferroni perini is doing a really good job of working with stakeholders and city manager and his staff to make sure we have that available so mr gonzalez
 We would have to look at the program itself and analyze it before we come back and describe what the cost would be associated with it. So we don't have that number right now. We would have to come up with quick estimates in order to give an idea of how much that would be. But there would be estimates at this point. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Mayor Potem? Yes, sir. You were next. I just...
 I think what Representative Lozarga and Representative Inello and myself and our offices were envisioning with this item and both Representative Lozarga and Representative Inello can clarify. But the intent with the item here today is not is not to approve funding for a climate action plan. It is to engage is to have staff engage in further research.
 for the steps it would take for a climate action plan. And I think for Representative Manello, Representative Lozargo, and myself, it was very clear that this was about doing those next steps of research so that we're not spitballing or guesstimating the amount of hay that would need to be used or the amount of funds for that. It was about coming back.
 looking at best practices, looking at other cities, other climate action plans that could give a more informed opinion about what steps would need to be taken to engage with a more comprehensive climate action plan. And again, I want to thank my colleagues, Representative Lozardo and Representative Manello, for all of us working together in a very collaborative manner for what is truly a tri-district...
 item based on this. Yes, and I don't want my comments to be misinterpreted. I was simply responding to Representative Hernandez's question regarding cost and regarding the integration of this into a budget process. That's all I was doing. But in relation to the item itself, we've been doing a lot of work on different sustainability efforts
 As we reported yesterday, we've been working with the REACT Committee since February. We reached out to them in order to ensure that they could harness all of their talents and all of their energy and motivation towards this effort. And so we worked with them on a strategic plan that was presented yesterday. The reason why we did that is because...
 A lot of what's discussed, some can be done and other things cannot because when we compare, we compare maybe to other states and other states have different laws in place at the state level. In terms of the federal guidance, there's some movement afoot right now in terms of different actions that are being taken place.
 But we haven't had funding allocated towards that or a stiff policy change in respective areas that could help us make more progress. But what we did yesterday is we presented to council work that the REACT had done in conjunction with us working with them, items that can be done. So there's a level of frustration not only at the REACT level but also at the council level.
 subsides some and so that the council can see there are there are some projects that are being worked on there are some things that are getting done i do understand the breadth and scope of what you're talking about and what the other council members are talking about and the importance of it and i think that yesterday demonstrated that we we heard you loud and clear again i was just simply responding to representative and i'm just questioning
 City Manager, Mayor, I'm sorry, Representative. Go ahead, Representative Schwarzbein, and then we'll go to Ms. Farini. Yeah, I just wanted to add further clarification, and I don't think it would be appropriate or respectful for this body to guesstimate any sort of
 sort of items or budgets at this time, because again, we as council members that placed this item on the agenda really wanted to have this item be able to have staff engage again in a more robust manner in terms of further research. And again, you know, the strategic plan from the REACT was a tremendous step in the right direction. I think it was one of the most exciting presentations that we have had from one of our
 that we've had when you, you know, when you engage folks and, you know, come at that level and, you know, you, you,
 and you learn to listen and you listen to lead and probably a whole bunch of other sort of phrases that we could throw into this and analogies, good things happen. And so it definitely is a step in the right direction. With that, I think this item here is an ability to complement that work. Again, take these disparaged, these different elements that we've been discussing and looking at what is the best step forward and doing a little bit more research
 with the direction from council to sort of come out what it would look like again for a comprehensive climate action plan again not approving a budget for anything like that but understanding a little bit more what what it would take thank you for that it's for any for interrupting you there thank you sir i appreciate that uh miss farini
 Thank you so much. And I want to first thank Representative Swartzbein for spearheading this effort. I mean, anyone that has read the resilience strategy understands how much priority that we've placed on the issues that impact society.
 the climate crisis and really exacerbate the vulnerabilities that we've seen. We talked a little bit about it yesterday. I do want to be a little bit clear. I also am very excited about the strategic plan we presented from the REAC yesterday, and that is one gigantic step forward in this direction. I think that
 I'm very appreciative that if I understand the request today is that we do the homework, we do the research, and we come back to this council with a recommendation that is solid and data-based and says, this is how much we really need to pursue this type of effort. And this is how much of that the
 actions in the REAC strategic plan will take us there. I think we can give you a little bit more of a comprehensive reporting and a better direction. I do wanna be clear that a climate action plan is quite a large undertaking, and so we're really happy to be able to come back and give you more specifics about that. We'll reach out to our sister cities, my colleagues, my counterparts in those cities. I would request if the council is amenable
 If we could have 90 days instead of 60 days, I think that'll give us the opportunity not only to get the right coordination with our sister cities, but because this is the same staff that is really working with the 120-day energy plan, as well as working with the REACT to get some of that off the ground in the immediate future, I would just respectfully request that we can have 90 days, but I would be very excited to bring back
 some recommendations with some solid numbers in 90 days if that's amenable. Thank you. Thank you very much, Representative Inello. Thank you so much, Nicole. Thank you for that. I just want to be really clear about something –
 about this item. So I don't want to diminish what the REACT presented yesterday. I think it was so important. It was such an important step. But this is in addition to that, right? I think Representative Schwartzbein talked about the kind of stakeholders that we're reaching out to. And while the REACT portion and strategic plan is very important, this is not...
 is not a continuation of that, and that will not fully supplement what we're asking here. And I just want to be clear about that. I'm not trying to be aggressive. We do want to look at a full climate action plan, completely understand what you're saying. It does take a lot. We're not expecting you to come back with a full plan in 60 days. I think that 90 is fine. I think a really important part of the resolution in the backup,
 here are the other cities that were included that face the same challenges cities i know you have worked with nicole especially doing resiliency and all of these things um but looking at the plans and the funding that they put in place for this are going to be very important to get us to where we want to be so again not wanting to diminish what was presented and what is going to happen with the react but really emphasize that this is uh in addition to that and to work in tangent with that but the react strategic plan will not uh suffice to what we're looking
 for so thank you so much thank you is there any kind of motion that you all would like to make yeah i'll make a motion to approve second there's prime we need a motion to also first we need a motion to amend yeah sorry so i'm making a motion to amend to 90 days thank you there's a motion and a second to amend the item to read 90 days instead of 60 days on the amendment mayor pro tem shorts line aye representative anello
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Now we do have a motion to approve as amended. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anelo? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Aye. Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga?
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 16. This is discussion in action on a resolution that the City Council declares that the expenditure of District 7 discretionary funds to purchase a laptop to be used by City Representative District 7 staff serves a municipal purpose of providing better and more mobile communication with the District 7 office and District 7 constituents.
 There is a motion and a second to approve item number 16 on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthy. Aye. Representative Anelo. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Thank you, colleagues. Aye. Lizara. And the motion passes unanimously. Thank you.
 The next item is on page 16. This is item number 35 that was moved to the forefront. This is discussion and action that the City Manager be authorized to sign a First Amendment to a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and SDI Technologies, Inc. and El Paso Gateway, LLC. Motion to approve. Second. Good morning, Mayor and Councillor Denise Carter. With Economic Development, I do have a presentation available.
 If I can bring it up on the screen, please. Thank you.
 Staff presented this item in executive session a few weeks ago and council gave us direction to move forward with negotiations. And we are now bringing it back to you all in open session. This is a request to approve a first amendment to the Chapter 380 agreement with SDI Technologies. As a reminder, SDI Technologies is the leading global manufacturer in the consumer electronics sector. They opened their new distribution center here in El Paso in 2018.
 And we can move to the next slide, please. Here's an overview of the chapter 380 agreement. This agreement was executed in October of 2017. The purpose was to hire and retain 88 full-time employees. Applicant was eligible for 10 annual payments. The incentive package approved was for the dollar amount you see on your screen. To date applicant has collected about $91,000 in rebates. Next slide, please.
 Now, part of our duty as economic developers and employees of the city of El Paso is to support businesses when the market goes off and to stand by them as the economy recovers. Prior to the pandemic, SDI was able to activate the number of jobs required. Unfortunately, and as we've seen it due to COVID, they had to slow down the hiring. You know, the company did a review of their employment numbers and they realized they needed to scale back.
 The amendment request is to employ and retain 57 full-time employees. In consideration, their property tax rebate will be reduced by 36%. Now you might wonder why 36%. The percentage reduction in the property tax rebate equates to the percentage reduction in their employment numbers. We will not be extending the contract and all other terms remain the same. If we can go to the next slide, please.
 SDI Technologies, this particular agreement is part of our business retention and expansion portfolio. There are two main goals of a business retention and expansion program. One is to provide assistance with issues that could force a company to fail and subsequently close, and to prevent companies from relocating to a new community. SDI Technologies did invest more than they were contractually obligated to,
 The company covers 85% of the employee health insurance cost. SDI Technologies wants to stay in El Paso. They want to keep people employed. They want to continue doing business here. And it is important that we support companies like SDI Technologies because ultimately they become advocates for the city of El Paso. Economic Development staff does recommend approval. And with that, I'll open it up to any questions.
 We have no questions. We have a motion and a second. Yes, there's a motion and a second to approve item number 35 on that motion Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzlein. Representative Anello? Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizalda? Aye. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzlein? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 We now return. Thank you very much council. I do want to mention that Mr. Michael Kahn the director of supply chain did join us for the meeting this morning. I also want to thank him for allowing us to do a site visit with the district rep. Thank you so much. Thank you and thank you for investing in our community. Thank you.
 We now return to page 8. The next item is an operational focus update and this is item number 17. And it's a presentation and discussion providing the strategic plan goal team reporting series wrap-up. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Julie Baldwin-Munoz at the Performance Office. I, Tim, am going to go ahead and share my screen. Good morning. Good morning. Okay, so today we're going to go ahead and provide a goal team series wrap-up.
 And in terms of what we'll cover, I'll provide a brief process overview, but also zero in on a result snapshot and what that means in terms of a community-wide impact. And as Council knows, everything that we've provided up until this point, we always follow through with our vision blocks because that ensures direct alignment with our strategic plan and our safe and beautiful neighborhoods, vibrant regional economy, exceptional recreational culture and educational opportunities, as well as a high-performing government.
 So as a quick recap, over the last several council meetings, we provided an overview to kick off the series. This is our sixth cycle of going through and actually providing all of this information, as I mentioned, alignment with our vision block through our gold teams. And so over the last several meetings, you heard from all of our gold team leads and all the departments that directly support those gold teams, their key accomplishments for this reporting period.
 for FY21, an update on key performance indicators, as well as an update on key deliverables and some key challenges and opportunities. And so all that information was covered through the very detailed reporting. And so today that leads us to our series wrap-up.
 But when we take a step back and really look at our strategic planning process and the big picture that really guides everything that we do on an operational basis, it all started with the initial adoption of our strategic plan in 2015. And since then, we've had two session refresh cycles that created with the adoption by Council of our 2020 strategic objectives.
 And at that point as well, the inclusion of the resilience strategy that we discussed earlier today that was discussed as part of the council item, as well as the adoption of our 25 by 25 initiatives in 2019, that really gave us that forward
 looking horizon on key initiatives that are going to become the strategic objectives that shape the work moving forward. And so as we approach FY21, and which was really the first year of that 25 by 25 initiatives, we're beginning to gear up for our next strategic planning session that is slated for fall of 2021.
 So on the horizon as we talk about the strategic planning process, as you all know, our integrated budget process is incorporated as part of that. So every conversation in terms of the allocation of resources, key cost drivers and key considerations, including the chime in process that gives us the voice of our customers or residents is dialed into our budget updates on every council agenda, as well as our budget work sessions that are going to occur in July 2021. Also with direct alignment to our goal teams,
 So what I want to point out specifically, the voice of our residents, while this is something that also occurs on an ongoing basis, August through October, we're going to be issuing out a resident survey, having additional conversations and feedback sessions to really get another opportunity of cross-connecting all of those conversations as an input into that council strategic planning session that will occur in November. Okay.
 So back when our 2015 strategic plan was adopted and created, these were some of the things that were very much visionary, forward-thinking areas that were a focus for Council. And so if you look across those vision bubbles, you'll see the results that are now tangible strategic objectives completed and reported throughout the series along the way by our goal teams.
 But as we pivot into 2021 and beyond, and leading up to that strategic planning session in the fall, we've already seen several conversations around key initiatives that are going to be core and focal to our continued recovery, as well as seeing the continuation of groundwork that's been done in the previous 2020. So this just spotlights a couple examples. But moving forward, we're going to be solidifying and looking at those key focus areas for council as we gear up for our strategic planning session in the fall.
 So if we take a step back and think about the impact of our Gold Team series, our strategic plan, really at the core of it, it's having the ability to see the results community-wide and the impact that's been shared throughout the various reports that the Gold Teams provide.
 And so we always start with a performance excellence framework, regardless of what vision block we're focused on, regardless of which operating department that's providing an update during every council agenda. What you'll hear from all of our teams in our organization is we're anchored in process and systems. But also that as a result of putting those processes and systems in place, we've been able to focus on the results and that we take that step back to really look at exceptional service delivery.
 So a lot of the conversations yesterday during the work session, whether we're hearing from the youth of the community, whether we're hearing from REAC on specific items moving forward as well. It's all about building up that exceptional service delivery and how we tie that into our process and systems. And then lastly, that it's not just about our organization and isolation, but how we're continuing to grow in support of community excellence.
 And some very specific examples of that that you've heard through this reporting series is our partnership with UMC that has been a direct connect throughout our response and recovery efforts, as well as our partnership with the school district that directly supports not just our strategic budget advisory, but the youth advisory board that you heard from yesterday. So just two examples of the many that really feed into our performance excellence framework, supporting our strategic plan across our vision blocks.
 So as we jump into again a recap at a high level for safe and beautiful neighborhoods, everyone would agree that absolutely response and recovery has been core to that. And so incredibly proud to see that.
 the continued increase in our vaccination rollout programs, being recognized for that work on a national scale, and then also continuing to lead within that space at a state level because of all the focus by our public safety operations to ensure that that continues to be front and center.
 And so when we talk about public safety operations as well, you heard from police department about the last academy that just graduated in the fall, the 127th class and the 128th class that just started up in April. So building in that continuity and that focus.
 As we talk about capital project productivity and the infograph that's on the right side, you see that year over year there's been a focus on making sure that capital projects that support quality of life facilities and public safety continue to have traction. And so we see even just with FY 2021, we're already at 79.1 million. And we'll be talking a little bit about what that means in terms of continuing to champion community priorities.
 And we continue to hear also within our time and process and the update that you received recently from Nicole Cody on this last cycle of feedback that street infrastructure continues to be a high priority throughout the community. And so ensuring that...
 our operations really reflect that focus and so examples provided by our shooting maintenance department as an example of how they've completely improved their process to really look at pothole operations holistically starting from a baseline in fy 26 of 27 000 sites completed to closing out fy 20 with over 76 000 and then we'll be showing a little bit about the improvements that they've already focused in for this calendar year
 So this is a visualization of, again, community-wide impact when we talk about response and recovery. And this is not new to any of the council members. This is the DISH's dashboard update that's constantly refreshed and shared, you know, also during our cross-functional team. That really speaks to, again, that focus about ensuring that the vaccination programs continue to roll out and what that looks like from a citywide perspective. And then the fully vaccinated as well.
 But what I want to spotlight in particular is a quick comparative analysis when we talk about our targeted populations. And so this gives us a comparative analysis of San Antonio, which is our closest, largest Texas city. But we also incorporated, you'll see Germantown, which is connected to Shelby County and Fort Collins in Colorado, because those are Baldrige-best organizations. And so when we go back to that performance excellence framework, we always want to look at other communities,
 that follow that framework and look at that performance excellence for comparative purposes. And so incredibly proud to see that in our El Paso community, and as of today, it actually went up to 83% in checking our dashboard earlier today, that we have...
 are a senior population aged over 65, 83% fully vaccinated, which is incredible. And it really shows all the attention and detail throughout operations and throughout the leadership that's been provided to really ensure that we continue to have that focus. And so with the clinics that were brought on as strategic investments to also be preventative and continue to allow that focus throughout our community, you'll continue to see that focus supported in the months and years to come.
 So this, I'm gonna pivot quickly and so showing citywide investments, we talked about capital project productivity previously. I want to share just a visual representation of video of what that looks like throughout our community as we look at east to west improvements that are really dispersed as citywide investments that the council has prioritized and championed in order to ensure that our residents see the improvements throughout our community. So I'm going to make sure I get the audio and share a quick video.
 I think you're on mute.
 You all hear me now? There you are. Sorry about that. There you go. Thank you. Perfect. Thank you. Okay, so really important to take a step back and really visualize all the results that you've championed for the community. And I think that video really encapsulates that. And so this speaks to the numbers connected to the continued investments that are being made throughout this fiscal year and what you expect to see as well on all the capital improvement plan updates that are provided by CAD with one coming up as well.
 And that directly supports our continued longer term recovery in terms of what we've been hearing through the CFT as well, that it's critically important to also place a focus on the jobs that are being supported by the CIP and how we continue to directly support that through these initiatives as well. And this just shows that we see that growth.
 Euro year and targeted areas and also just a summary. And so the visualization of what you just got are completed projects. And as a look ahead in our active capital improvements in pre design bidding and construction phases representing over 200 projects that are coming online in various phases throughout the community.
 And so this just gives another snapshot of projects that are either in bidding, construction, and design over the various districts that our residents are seeing take shape that directly support the feedback that we're getting on the types of improvements that they want to see throughout our city.
 So this provides a quick snapshot of that. As we move along District 3 and District 4, you also see Veterans Recreation Center. So everything from our street infrastructure that, again, is a key priority for our community as well as continuing to see improvements throughout our various quality-of-life facilities. And then also, you know, the public safety focus that becomes core with the design of our Eastside Regional Command Center. And again, a heavy focus on street infrastructure and reconstruction improvements as well.
 And this captures as well our neighborhood traffic management programs and other recently completed restructuring projects, those two that are highlighted, Mimosa Reconstruction and Yarbrough, North Roadway Lighting and Median Landscape being the most recent as a spotlight and just again a visual snapshot of all the work that's been completed specifically focusing on the priorities that our residents have shared.
 throughout the direction of council. And then lastly, because we always have to talk about street maintenance operations as well, because that continues to be a focus. This just provides a snapshot of this fiscal year. And so this was also provided during the goal seven presentation as a snapshot. So it just provides some additional information. You see those improvements throughout and the improvements that StreetMains has done to really move forward
 from responding to requests as a primary reason to now the standard really being to work on those geographical grids. And only like if you see in FY21, only 2% being originated by service requests.
 That means that our patching teams distributed throughout the community and the corrals are practically going out and addressing those pothole improvements. And you see in the Northeast in particular that over 13,699 potholes were patched as part of a Stan Roberts Drive restoration project.
 So as we move into vibrant regional economy, you heard about airport development and also a standalone management update on that recently and those opportunities. In terms of international bridges capital planning, the fact that we're going to continue to look at ways to work with that steering committee to prioritize and to really phase in those key improvements that are going to continue to support operations moving forward. And also the focus on small businesses that's been such important.
 a center of conversation throughout not just our CFT updates, but as well as economic development initiatives moving forward, all connected to whether it's workforce training, retention or other areas of emphasis that are going to continue to be a focus moving into this upcoming fiscal year. And lastly, ensuring that we still have front and center El Paso as a destination through various efforts.
 So under the space of exceptional recreational, cultural and educational opportunities, we have 148 quality of life projects completed. The focus on projects and programming in particular, opening up those large recreational facilities that are going to allow for multi-generational programming, which is incredibly exciting to see and to see individuals respond to those facilities throughout the community.
 Also, the focus on public art that continues to support a visual image. And you also heard from the Youth Advisory Board yesterday that they're especially interested in continuing to find opportunities to celebrate work that
 highlight the look and feel of our community throughout and that we're consistently focused on continuous improvement. So within the space of our public art projects as a recap, 13 new public art projects have been completed between FY 20 and February of this year distributed throughout the community. And this is just again a visual snapshot of some recently completed projects.
 So as we anchor ourselves in our high performing government, because that all ties back to how we operate as an organization, the focus on sound fiscal management is always going to be at the core of how we talk about the allocation of resources moving forward and building that longer term financial sustainable strategy.
 that's shared with council throughout budget updates and that will be shared as the next item on the agenda as well. The focus on investing in our workforce you heard throughout goal six and the fact that that's been pivotal because it's critically important to ensure that we build up that intellectual infrastructure as well and provide opportunities to continue to engage our workforce to deliver that exceptional service delivery.
 and that we also take a step back to listen and deliver based on the feedback that we do receive through time in and other mechanisms. And so pictured here is also the year over year, significant increase in resolution rate, as an example, FY19, 91% to FY21 to date at night, just under 98% on closing out those requests that are submitted throughout the committee.
 So also as part of high performing government, it's also the alignment of the work that we are doing alongside the boards and committees such as the two that you heard yesterday to ensure that the direction that we're being provided from our city leadership is directly incorporated into items that we bring forward as tangible results through our strategic planning process, which leads me back to what I mentioned at the very beginning when I opened this presentation in terms of our process and what we have coming up that's going to directly connect
 We have our integrated budget process coming up, additional opportunities to listen to our voice of residents. It absolutely also includes the boards and commissions and tying in those plans as part of those conversations and leading up to a council strategic planning session to really populate those next vision bubbles and solidify our planning and our key strategic objectives for the years to come.
 So with that, that covers the recap of not just the Gold Team series, but also a look ahead in terms of our strategic planning initiatives moving forward. So that concludes the presentation. Welcome. Any questions or feedback? The only thing I would like to add to Julie's presentation.
 is that council can see that those vision bubbles that she shows you, those clouds, those are just ideas way back when, and now those have come to fruition, whether they're the water parks you just opened, the recreational centers y'all just opened. Those are real tangible examples of how you as a council and us as a staff have worked with the community to transform it, and it's very different today. Downtown's the same thing, but as you saw in this report,
 works getting done throughout all parts of the city. I know that in the past, people had said the city only concentrates on this part of town, that part of town. As you can see, we concentrate on all parts of the city. I think that's a tribute to the strategic plan. That's a tribute to your efforts and your advocacy in the districts. But the main message, again, I'll repeat, that we want to leave with you is that those ideas were just ideas, were just thoughts,
 and then you brought them to fruition. We brought them to fruition and executed. There's other things that you can bring to the table that we want to bring to the table. The community has brought to the table relative to thoughts and ideas they have that we need to talk about in the fall
 to make those changes, because that's the appropriate time as a council to add things on the strategic plan that you want to see accomplished. And again, this presentation is an example of how if you collectively say you want to go in a certain direction, that we work in that direction and those results actually do happen.
 Thank you, sir. And with that, we have – and I think we've seen just on, you know, the centers open. We've opened two centers in the last – or three centers, and we've got a couple more that will be opening here pretty quick. And it's –
 And right after they open, they've become a sellout in capacity. So I know that it's really great to see the community having the opportunity to enjoy some of the things that were voted on back in 2012 and executed very well and expanded on some of the things that was actually –
 brought forward. So Mr. Gonzalez, your team and yourself, congratulations on being able to expand and roll out a lot of these things. And I think that we did see quite a few items throughout our whole community. So we thank you for that. And with that, we have Representative Schwartzwein.
 Yes, thank you again, City Manager, and thank you again, City Staff, and thanks for this presentation as well. It's good to see this brief snapshot of kind of what we're focusing on. I did have a couple questions about some specific projects that I guess looked at an update. The Country Club Roundabout, I know, is one that is very close to District 8, if not entirely there, but both of our districts are.
 have residents that abut it and that are concerned about it. So it'd be great to sort of see what the status of the, that country club roundabout public art component that has been missing there for better part of a decade.
 The other comment that I had is it's good to hear this conversation about our upcoming strategic plan. I think it might have been made and mentioned, but Rula would like to sort of see how we can think about and expand our strategic plan. Possibly look, if it makes sense, to invite other institutions that we are partners with so that folks like Rula
 other major institutional partners that we have in this in our region are able to sort of see what we're thinking about, what we're discussing. Again, you know, not everybody is going to agree 100 percent all the time, but it's good to sort of have those voices maybe be there. If nothing else, they can be able to hear our voices and kind of what we're thinking about, you know, folks like everybody from the, you know,
 El Paso Water to the county to UTEP to Texas Tech. These are all major institutional partners, both in the public, you know, that that are in the public sector, that it would benefit every everybody in our community if we were working better and at least more aware of what
 everybody's sort of thinking, discussing as we move forward. And so that's just a sort of thought, maybe doesn't make logistical sense or operational sense, but I think our strategic plans are, I think our strategic planning sessions are really important. I also think too, they help to really guide the actions of this organization in the years ahead. And if we have the opportunity to look at maybe integrating the
 I don't know if it's integration or just awareness of these other institutions. I think it could only help and not hurt. And so that's just one comment that I have. Again, do what you will with it.
 I'm so glad you brought that up because it just brings attention to the work that y'all have done in the past. In 2014, we did reach out to all different stakeholders. We've strengthened that over the years as we've updated the strategic plan. We always reach out to stakeholders. In 2018, we did create the Communities of Excellence Initiative where we have now.
 over 20 organizations a part of that that includes everyone you just mentioned. You saw the youth advisory committee of which is a result of that and the kids have come back not only to give budget updates but now a strategic plan for their committee which is incredible and as we all saw the kids did an amazing job. We invite all the different groups that are on that Committees of Excellence to give us feedback and to participate in strategic planning session this year will be no different.
 We've already been talking to the staff to ask them to do that. In addition to that, we did not add a new position, but we promoted an existing person. So that wasn't an add to the budget. It was add in terms of additional pay for Elizabeth Trix, who took over for strategic partnerships.
 officer position. And now that position has been asked to look at not only all the utilities, but also all the communities, excellent partners and how we can work not only with our backyard in terms of our C. O. E. Partners, but
 But I've also asked her to work with other border cities to do the same thing and replicate that for them and for us to do best practice sharing, not only in our own backyard, but with all the cities along the borders as a jumping off point in order to continue to grow this concept. But absolutely, we do that. And absolutely, we will continue to do that. And thank you for bringing that up. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you. Great presentation. And with that, we have Representative Salcido.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good morning and thank you so much for this presentation. It was very clear and concise. I really enjoyed that everything was separated by districts. So it gives me a good clear picture of what has been done in my district and everybody else's district. So you could see it's been very equitable. Also, I'm just definitely looking forward to the next strategic plan session we have coming up. And so just thank you for this presentation. I really like how it was delivered.
 And that's it. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, we have no other questions. Ms. Prine, I think we need to go to Mass Transit. Yes, Mayor. May we have a motion to recess the regular City Council meeting? We are. Yes, Mayor. That brings us to the end of the agenda. May we have a motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the Mass Transit Department Board Meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 And the Mass Transit Department Board Meeting for Tuesday, June 8, 2021 is adjourned at 1056 a.m. May we have a motion to reconvene the regular City Council meeting? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 and the regular city council meeting is back in session at 10 56 a.m we're on page 8 item number 18. this is a budget update on the fy 2022 preliminary budget overview
 so good morning members city council i'm going to cover uh the first part of this presentation about halfway through and then i'm going to turn over to robert cortinas and nicole cody will also be available if y'all should have any questions during the rest of the presentation we have sat down with each and every one of you except for one to go over this budget already in years past we we do this exact thing we typically do it in late june because we present in july
 The reason for that is we don't get the appraisal numbers from the Central Appraisal District to the end of July, July 25th. So really it's better and appropriate to do once we get those numbers so we have a good idea of what those numbers are. As most of you know that when we get those numbers, if we're off on the projections, then we have to make adjustments. We either have to adjust the revenues or adjust expenditures and you have to make those changes.
 So the reason why we don't get too far ahead of ourselves is because you can't really, just from a sequential standpoint, do that. But we're going to cover some things that we've talked about throughout the year that will show you that we've been presenting the budget the entire year, and we've gotten into a lot of detail throughout the year, only that detail that we can feel comfortable about that we can share. We'll also talk about how we look at the future in the budgeting process and how we're
 strategic planning is involved with that. So can you move to the next slide please? So this is the agenda we're going to cover. And these are the areas that we'll be underscoring during this discussion. Next slide, please.
 So in the budget that we prepared in last year when we were prepping and responding to COVID, what we said in last year's budget is that we would not increase the tax rate. Mr. González, let me interrupt you, sir. We lost a quorum. We're missing. Okay, where are we going to quorum? We're just missing Reps. Anello, Rodríguez, and the mayor now. Thank you, sir. Are we at quorum now? Yes, sir. Thank you. You're welcome.
 So last year was an anomaly with COVID, as you all know. So when we discussed the budget and the different plans on how to react to that budget, what helped us quite a bit was a lot of the planning that had taken place prior to this last fiscal year in dealing with COVID. Had we not had a lot of the different plans in place and policies that we have changed in order
 To address the things we were faced with, we would have had a much more difficult time dealing with the COVID impact. In last year's budget, we said that not only was it important to take care of our community's health and respond to that, and as you know, we reacted to that in a way that really no other organization did. We put a cross-functional team together.
 and we did some alignment changes that really the state recognized and said to the federal government. If you recall, we were recognized by the Rockefeller Foundation
 in our vaccine distribution, in our rollout, as one of the best, if not the best, city in vaccine distribution. So we had a very strong reaction to that, and that reaction also included making adjustments to the budget. Those adjustments included unfunding some vacancies and making sure that we then shifted and pivoted
 to add over 300 personnel to react to the pandemic. So we added over 300 personnel to help the health department react to it. So it wasn't just the health department, but additional people that we added to the mix in order to respond to that pandemic. In that response, it not only included the community's health, but we also wanted to make sure that we were taking care of the community's financial health. So last year, we recommended a budget without a tax rate increase.
 Last year, I believe that we had some conversation about the property taxes for the seniors and disabled. This year, it was no different. It was not in place by Representative Hernandez on the City Council agenda. Council approved that. So this budget also includes a tax decrease for seniors and the disabled.
 So that's what we'll be looking at in this year's budget in terms of how we made the different changes to the budget and what our recommendation is based on the community's financial health. Next slide, please.
 So we didn't just unfund vacancies. We also took matters into our own hands and did some restructuring that not only included the areas that I just mentioned, but also some restructuring in senior management positions. We've been doing this as part of our succession plan and as far as our implementation of that succession plan. So we've utilized managing directors in order to save money and in order to add more duties to those personnel and yes,
 It did include a pay increase, but that pay increase was because we wanted to stay competitive in the market, and also they took on a great deal of additional duties. By doing this, we absorbed and saved $1.1 million in executive pay.
 So I think that's monumental. And I think that that shows that we were tightening our belts when at the same time we were looking at, you know, how we could best provide services to our community. We presented this multiple times to the council as well as to the media.
 And so this is something, again, that we did on our own based on the fact that we felt like we needed to do more than just, you know, depend on the vacancies that we wanted to do more in other areas of management in terms of being able to have those savings.
 At the same time, it gave people more opportunity to grow and develop as leaders. So this was a great opportunity all the way around, not only for those individuals, but also for the organization and the community to see us save money. Next slide, please.
 So these are the types of presentations we've given throughout the year. You're very familiar with cost drivers. What we mean by that are things like the contractual obligations and collective bargaining, the fixed costs like utility costs that we have. We've talked about state legislation impacting our revenues, how state changes have also impacted our expenditures. TxDOT no longer maintains the medians and the maintenance on the medians that they own.
 That's the equivalent of us saying to our citizens that we're not going to maintain our parks anymore, that they're responsible for that. That's what TechStock did in making that change. So that's over $2 million that we had to absorb. We've talked about the tax rate over the last 20 years.
 and how it was reduced in the early 2000s when they saw valuation increases in double digits. We're not seeing that right now. We saw 1.7% last year, 4.3% the year before, and this year, excuse me, 4% the year before that. And this year, we're looking at a little bit over 4% at 4.3%.
 We've also included quarterly reports to you on the financial front, as well as five-year forecasts. And you'll get a taste of that five-year forecast and what I'm calling the money slides that we're gonna show you that speak more about the next five years and what that looks like in terms of costs.
 And we're also going to talk about quality of life and how we're restoring that. And we talked about that in previous presentations, and we'll talk about that today, as well as capital projects. Next slide, please. So this is the money slide that I referenced. And if we made no changes and just brought us back to pre-COVID numbers, we would see a $22 million increase in next year's budget.
 And as you can see, that gets progressively higher each year. And that's because we have a lot of expenses that are climbing higher and faster than the revenues are coming in. And the reason for that is we have quite a bit of need. There was a lot of neglect that took place whenever the tax rate was reduced in the early 2000s.
 And that neglect primarily focused on police and fire equipment replacement, police officers and the numbers going down during that same time, streets not getting the attention that they need, as well as parks and libraries closed.
 quality of life departments not getting that attention either. Right now we have a slew of facilities that have roof issues, that have HVAC issues. We've addressed that over the last six, seven years after putting the strategic plan in place. But this neglect and this degradation happened over decades.
 not just overnight. And so I think that this council, previous councils, they've done a lot of work in order to address a lot of these issues. I believe that's why the community voted on the 2012 quality of life package. A lot of that included a lot of maintenance. There were some new things in there as well. There was a lot of maintenance in that 2012 package that included over 200 million for streets.
 that again was addressing that neglect that took place because of some of the financial decisions made prior to that. In 2017 and 2019, Council passed and approved more bonds that included certificates of obligation, mainly in infrastructure, but there was some money in there as well for quality of life departments.
 And then finally, the 2019 package that was approved by the public for public safety improvements. That again speaks to addressing a lot of the areas that need attention in the public safety arena. So this next slide shows you what we're actually putting in place. So as you can see, there's a big difference. So if you go to the previous slide, that's a $5 million difference there. The previous slide shows a $22 million difference. That's a big gap. So again, go to the subsequent slide, please.
 So this is the budget we're working with. And actually our budget's gonna be closer to 473 million when all said and done in terms of what we're gonna be recommending. So this is the reason why we're restoring in a responsible fashion our quality of life services. And you will see in slides that we show you that there's gonna be quite a bit of restoration of the quality of life services that we're bringing back. So this year's message in the budget is no tax rate increase.
 We're going to decrease the taxes for seniors and disabled, and we're going to restore quality of life services in a big way. And we're going to restore streets projects as well as restoring public safety equipment replacement. That's the main message of the budget. Next slide, please. So the other thing that the budget includes is investing in our workforce.
 and also focusing on the long term in terms of financial sustainability. So that's the next item I'm going to address is the financial stability and sustainability and the things we've done in that area. Next slide please. So as you know, we've added more dollars to the fund balance. We've also added a budget stabilization fund that was not in place before. We would have brought that to council
 six years ago, I believe. It wasn't ready at that time. They didn't want, it wasn't ready for approval. We then brought it back twice in 2019. Council asked for us to bring it back at their time because they had additional questions. We did in February, 2020, council approved it. And then the following month, the COVID-19 hit not only El Paso, but the entire world. So that was a good idea that
 We also utilized debt refinancing to help us offset increases in the future. We had some questions during our briefings with you. We've had information sent out to the public about the savings. What are we doing with that savings? Well, we've been working with the council on that.
 To put it directly in terms of how that does help the citizen is next year's budget would have included a $5.4 million increase on the debt side. Because of those savings, we're able to absorb that increase with those savings.
 So if, but for those savings, we would have seen a penny and a half increase to the tax rate. So we're listening to the council in terms of, you know, be creative, you know, look at ways to save money, look at ways to forecast out into the future so that when we do have these ideas, we do have these plans, help us fund them, help us address these issues and these shortfalls. So that's a good example of that. We've also talked about a continuous improvement philosophy. We presented that to you yesterday with,
 not only the youth advisory group, but how we use the youth to design future customer service initiatives and or programs. So we really take that seriously. When the water parks opened, I think I heard a lot of you talk about customer service was excellent. So that's what we mean by continuous improvement. We're constantly getting feedback through resident surveys and the chime in process and making adjustments. We're not perfect, but no one is.
 We've gotten a lot better, and I think you saw that in the earlier presentation from Julie, where we talked to you about how the strategic plan gets us results. And the city of El Paso never had a strategic plan until 2015, and we've been able to show that the council collectively can work together and not only pay attention to their district, but pay attention to the entire city. That kind of thought process in terms of being more strategic is how we went about the electric
 the negotiations that took place with the new company. The electric company was going to be purchased. We could not stop that. If this company would not have bought them, someone else would have. So we were taking advantage of that situation by getting as much revenue for the city of El Paso, making sure headquarters stayed here as long as they owned the company, and making sure we had a ring around the improvements that,
 in this city before any of those dollars went out to the board or anywhere else across America. So we had a lot of assurances in the contract, and there's a lot more stability there than we had before, quite frankly. We're still going to have challenges with rate adjustments, but we had those before this happened.
 The next thing that we're able to focus on in the budget is the unfunded issues with regard to the pension. We're going to have more dollars not only for police, fire, and for city employees. That's something that we brought up during the budget discussions and the bond ratings discussion.
 That's something that's been brought up by the bond raters. I know that Councilwoman Hernandez has brought that up to us before as well. So we're paying attention and that's in the budget as well. Next slide, please. So these are the priorities in the budget that I'm gonna highlight in the next slide. So go to the next slide.
 I mentioned how we get input from the chime in, but we also get input from resident surveys. We also use the student budget advisory committee and we use the information we received from the CR process, which is 95% effective, by the way. I know that we need to get better there, but 95% is an A, last time I checked, and that's pretty good. And we're always striving to get better. So we're going to have a CRM process that
 that was put in place or that's being worked on rather by IT and that should be in place by 2022. So this information in terms of the priorities are very similar. Even though the resident survey is something that's done across the board, you would think that we'd have different feedback in these other surveys that we do that are more anecdotal, but they're very similar. And these are the priorities on the left-hand side of this slide.
 So we're funding these priorities. And this next slide shows you how we're funding those priorities. As you can see with this graph, public safety is getting the majority of that increase, quality of life at 10.5, and CID and streets at 7.8 on the infrastructure side. Now, I wanted to show you this slide because a lot of you are visual. This kind of shows you where the areas are getting restored.
 The other thing I wanted to do on this slide, because there has been questions about how much funding the health department gets, and we've responded to that, but I don't think we've done it in a visual way like we're doing here. So as you can see, in 2020 and in 2021, there's been over $17 million in additional grants that they've received in the health department. And in 2021, we have almost $23 million that are budgeted for that year as well.
 So there's been a huge increase, an exponential increase in the health area. Also mentioned the additional 300 people that we hired in that area to help with the pandemic. We also had folks from the library department, from Parks and Rec help in not only the testing, but the vaccine distribution. So it's been an entire team effort. So really, this doesn't tell the true picture, just a graph alone. So we wanted to show you the
 the columns below the graph to show you how much we're investing in public health. Next slide, please. So this shows you in a different way what I just said. As you can see, the three areas of increase in public safety, quality of life, and infrastructure.
 So if you were to be asked, you know, why is the budget increasing $31 million? I think I read somewhere, somebody said $33 million. I don't know where that number came from, but it's actually $31 million from 2021 to 2022. But as I said, 2021 COVID-19 year was an anomaly. And so what I asked staff to do is show the council through a 2020 column, what was it prior to COVID-19?
 So as you can see on the 2020 column, which was more normalized, and then you compare it to the 2022 column, there's only a $15.2 million difference in terms of the increase. And really, when you look at that increase, the majority came from the areas that I mentioned are your priorities. That's public safety. And we all say all the time, and the council says this all the time, all of you, that we're always going to fund public safety and that that's a priority. And we need to continue to add more personnel. So that's the answer to the question.
 So when people talk about the cost of the budget and what's going on in our budget, the reminder that I would ask you to share with them is we're a little bit over a fourth of that dollar. We're not the entire dollar. We're not the entire taxes of the city. Half of it comes from the schools, and the other one-fourth comes from the county and UMC and El Paso Community College. We're a little bit over a fourth again of the tax dollar.
 So again, this column on 2020 compared to 2022 really tells the true picture. And when you look at the fact that 2021 would have increased slightly, then you're really only talking about a $7.5 million increase in 2021 and another $7.5 million in 2022 if you look at it from that perspective.
 But yeah, I understand from 2021 to 2022, there is a $31 million increase. That is correct. But again, the restoration of public safety equipment replacement, the restoration of quality of life services, the restoration of infrastructure services, all those are priorities of this council and of the resident survey, the chime in survey and the student budget advisory survey. Next slide, please. So in public safety, this is where the money's going.
 Again, collective bargaining, which all that is is the market adjustments. We have to remain competitive, especially in this day and age with the police department. I think we could have said that last year and the year before. I think now that's more true than ever before. We're going to have two police academies in the budget year and three fire academies in the budget year as well.
 adding positions to the 911 department. I think that's important in order to keep our police and fire personnel safe. When they get information, they need to have information that's thorough, that's
 That's good information, that's accurate. And so this is very important to make sure that we fight off the stress that happens in that department and make sure they have enough personnel to rotate, have vacation time off and things of that nature. The crisis intervention team at 1.2 million, we all know that's very important, especially as it relates to mental health issues in our community. That's something that's an issue across America and something that's important to this council and to us as an organization.
 almost $8 million in public safety capital replacement equipment. And so that is an increase from previous years. So that's good news. And then we've also placed money in there for data storage for body cameras. Should we get funding and we have a city match then at the state or federal level, and we're working on both fronts to get money for that. Next slide, please.
 So this slide talks about the importance of maintaining the funding for adding more personnel to the police department and really helping response times and really staying ahead of the curve, not only with respect to that, but as you can see, you know, we went back to 08, but you can go back to the early 2000s and barely in 2018 and 2019 where we were back then almost two decades ago. So that's kind of a...
 needed area of priority and attention. And it's important for us to continue adding more police officers because as we add the Eastside Regional Command Center and other facilities, the Central Command, we're gonna need those personnel added in order to have somebody in those buildings. Otherwise, we'll just have a facility with no one in it. Next slide, please.
 In streets, this is where the money's going in the budget, almost 5 million in residential street repair, as well as half a million for ADA on demand requests. If you recall, that wasn't in place before we put it in place, I believe, in 15 or 16 and has been in place ever since.
 It might have been in 17 when we did it, but in any event, it was around that time frame when we've had that in place for quite some time. The neighborhood traffic management plan is also receiving money at $250,000. That's priority for the council. Another priority for the council is that intersection safety. I think that there was requests from several of you, in particular, Representative Inello has been championing that as well as
 and others. So that's important for y'all and that's in the budget as well. Next slide, please. Again, this is the restoration in quality of life. To include the one and a half million for sport complex facility maintenance. I've already mentioned the ten and a half, almost 11 million in restoration of quality of life, as well as a pilot program that we're
 in each district. They want to show you how that can be a more cost-effective and a smarter way of irrigating our park system. We did that at a place I worked in the 90s, and it was about a $55 million project, and the park system wasn't as large as it is here in El Paso.
 So that would be a multi-million dollar phased-in approach over time, but that's something we absolutely need to look at and where we're 20, 30 years behind at the game in terms of how best to take care of our park system, especially since it's such a high priority for all of you and for our community. The last thing is we are bringing Winterfest back, maybe at 70, 72% on the funding side, but our staff's confident that we can bring it back where it feels like it's at 100%.
 So I'm very confident they can deliver that. Next slide, please. These are some of the highlights of some of the specifics relative to what we're opening. Actual names will be shared with the council so that you can share with your districts. This just gives you a snapshot of what's being funded in the budget already. 40 facilities have been reopened and 10 new ones will be opened for the first time. And in 2022, which is in this budget, this next year's budget, we're gonna, you know, that activates 32 more facilities.
 So again, the actual names of those facilities will be shared with the council once staff collects those and sends those to you, as well as all the questions that you asked before of us during the individual briefings. We'll share that with the entire council once we complete the ninth presentation with the final person we have on the list to brief as a council member. Next slide, please.
 So there's been some questions asked about the $154 million with the American Rescue Plan. And, you know, that's been spent three or four times over by all the requests and all the discussions we've had with various individuals. It's important to note that, yes, you can use that for a variety of things, including the things that are listed on this particular bullet list.
 Because there's concern of our community's financial health, I want to use as much of the $154 million as possible for operations in the general fund since that gets the most attention. That is the fund that collects property tax and sales tax
 to provide these services, to keep up with the things that I mentioned in streets and public safety and parks, quality of life, those kinds of things, to be able to look at how best to provide those services and not impact our community's financial health as best we can. This $154 million can be used between now and 2026.
 So we're going to spread these dollars out over that time, and we're working on a plan right now. And we'll share that, obviously, with the council on how that money is recommended to be spent. Some of that would include and could include things that I've mentioned already, whether it's in public safety or whether it's in other areas that are priorities for this council and for our community. So it's not just limited to operational costs. It could be used for some capital improvements as well.
 There's also these other two grants that are listed on here that the health department is receiving. So that's also gonna be wrapped into their budget as well. Next slide, please. I mentioned that we're going to focus on our workforce. We are giving up one and a half percent increase to our employees.
 Before the strategic plan was put in place, our employees had not received a pay increase in like six or seven years, and they received increases to the health insurance costs every year. So that in essence was a pay decrease. So we've really worked very hard to make sure that we stay competitive in our market here, and we don't continue to lose our employees to other entities like the county or the university or other places that they can go towards. We continue to fund the internal equity adjustments
 area. If you remember, we did a study and we've been we've been earnest in our efforts to fund that and to pay that. So we've
 There's no healthcare cost increase for our employees this year, although we're absorbing almost $2 million of that increase in the cost. We continue to fund the Shake It Up program, which is almost $2,000 a year for our employees. If they take an active role in their health, they can save that amount of money. If they use a consumer-driven healthcare plan, they can earn up to $500 or to $1,000.
 if their spouse is on it as well, and they can keep that money if they don't use it for health care whenever they leave the city. It's not an account we go in and sweep. They can keep those dollars. We also have other incentives that aren't listed on here that include things like the biometric exam, like doing the blood exam. If you do that, you get a discount on your health care as well. So we've been very aggressive with how we can attack the issue with health care costs as well as pay in compensation for our employees. Next slide, please.
 We've also spent money on training our workforce. I know that the council, and I want to thank the council for approving the recommendation we made of training for our staff. I think it was done this last year in December. And it's very important that we continue to fund professional development and training for our employees. Because in essence, that's what it is. How can we train them so they can develop professionally?
 And so we were able to do things like recover 19.2 million in funds that go back all the way to 2009, not only for textile reimbursements, but CDBG things that go back to 2003. No external audit findings for the last five years in a row. That's unheard of whenever we walked into 21 external audit findings for this community, for this city, which is also unheard of and shouldn't be occurring anymore.
 So our staff has not only excelled in the financial space, but also in the capital improvement space in terms of the improvements that they've done. So all these results you see is a direct correlation to that professional development and that training that we do with our staff, because that's what professional development is, is training our staff and building that intellectual infrastructure in order to make them better so that they can provide better services. I've already mentioned that we're adding back vacant positions. We are also funding
 CDL incentives as well as incentives in the comptroller's office. It's very important for us to maintain not only the training, but also retain skilled employees in accounting. It's also very important that we retain skilled employees in ESD and also in streets and also in the sanitation and the metro departments. So that's what the CDL will be paying for in terms of the incentive. Next slide, please.
 So that concludes my portion of the presentation. Robert's going to get into more detail by department after he talks about the revenue by taxes on the property side and the sales tax side. So he'll get into that detail. Unless you have any questions of me right now, I'll pause to see if there's any questions. And if not, I'll turn it over to Robert. So I'll pause for now and see if you have any questions of me.
 Thank you. There's no questions right now. I know that you've gone over this with all of us, and we thank you for your time on that. And with that, we'll go over to Mr. Cortinas. Can't hear you, sir. So you've heard the city manager cover a lot of the key areas. When we look at the general fund revenue overall, the big driver here, the big area of improvement that we've seen is on the sales tax collections. So when we break down the overall general fund revenue of $31.2 million,
 projected for FY 2022. 75% of that revenue increase is coming from our sales tax collections. I provided you some information over the last several budget updates. I have some additional slides, including the presentation that we're going to cover. You do have the variance explanations at the bottom of each of these slides that corresponds to each of these changes, but I really wanted to point out that sales tax, again, of the total $31 million that we just referenced, 75% of that increase is coming from our sales tax projected for next year.
 And again, that's based on our current collections through the current fiscal year. When we look at some of the other categories, our charges for services, you'll see a decrease there. And that's being driven by our external indirect cost study that's conducted. We have a little bit of a decrease in our airport and environmental services departments on what they reimburse the general fund for. The bottom line there, our operating transfers, as you all recall, is part of the adopted budget for FY 2021. We did have some one-time transfers. We did have a one-time transfer from our international bridges there.
 And that was from the cash deferential funds and additional funds that we had generated through the bridges. And that was used to offset the impact that we had seen from the decrease in the bridge traffic revenue. You can go to the next slide, Nicole. Some of the factors when we look at property taxes, again, the city manager referenced this earlier, and this is a very important point, is that we do not receive the certified values from the appraisal district until July the 25th. And so when we're developing the budget, we're relying upon historical data.
 We're also relying upon the preliminary reports that we receive from the Central Appraisal District. However, again, a lot of the information that we receive is not only preliminary, but is driven by the other factors such as the number of protests that are occurring. Those protests on the residential side are not completed until the end of May. Commercial will continue to protest through the month of June. So we want to ensure that we're being conservative, but again, it's not until July 25th that we get the certified values.
 And then at that point is when we'll actually calculate the overall tax rates that were required to by the state. You heard City Manager talk about the no tax rate increase again. So this budget, again, is maintaining the overall same property tax rate while providing lower taxes for our over 65 and disabled. So the other factors that we take into consideration when we're developing the budget is the 3.5% cap that was passed at the state legislation session in 2019.
 The recommendation we have so far based on the preliminary data and again, the overall tax rate, we are well below that 3.5% cap as of right now. But again, we will not know for sure on that until we receive certified values on July the 25th. And the final factor when we're looking at property tax revenue is the amount necessary for the capital project funding of what we're recommending. I have some slides at the end of the presentation that will outline our preliminary plans of what we're looking at as far as additional funding for our capital projects. If you go to the next slide, Nicole. Thank you.
 Looking at the historical taxable assessed values, so our historical property values going back to 2003, you'll see significant increase between FY 2005 and FY 2009. Again, this was due to expansion with the BRAC in the El Paso area. You'll see those increases when you compare those to our most recent, the last few years on the right-hand portion of the bar there, bar graph. Right now, we've moved to 4% that we're estimating still about half of what we're experiencing at the peak growth.
 The big point here is that if you look between FOI 2010 and FOI 2018, we essentially saw flat property value growth in the city of El Paso. So again, property taxes are the largest revenue source for the journal fund. And we did go through about a decade period where the average value was relatively flat, averaging around 1.5%. We've seen that trend change over the last three out of four years. You'll see that in FOI 2019 and FOI 2021, we did see 4%.
 And again, for FY 2022, we're estimating 4.3%. One of the main points here, and we have a slide here in just a minute, is on the property values. When you compare that to the change in the tax rate, to look at the overall property revenue being generated, at the same time, when you look at the corresponding between 2005 and 2009, you'll see decreases in the city's property tax rate, which means the city was essentially generating about the same amount of revenue or slightly more
 But at the same time, we know there's a lot of different areas, whether it's in public safety, streets, quality of life, our facilities, a lot of those main areas that have been neglected and not properly invested in for a long period of time. Go to the next slide. So again, one of the other factors, one of the items that's on the agenda for today, the introduction of the ordinance. This was an item that Representative Fernandez had put on the agenda back in April, and that's to provide additional tax savings for our over 65 and disabled homesteads. You'll see between our homestead exemption,
 are over 65 and are disabled exemptions that equates to $24.3 million of property tax revenue that's going back in the form of tax savings for those that have these exemptions. You'll see the green portion of the bar there are the over 65, and you'll see the increase from FY 2021 to fiscal year 2022 representing about a $1.2 million increase in the over 65. On the disabled, it represented about a $200,000 increase.
 and so overall about 1.2 million dollars of additional property tax savings for our over 65 and disabled. Next slide, thank you. So when we look at the number of homesteads that we have in the state of El Paso, we have 129,605 and of our total homesteads we have 51,491 or about 40 percent that currently have either the over 65 or the disabled exemption.
 And so that currently is the $40,000 amount. We do have the additional $2,500 recommended for the council agenda today. That public hearing and the adoption of that will be on the June 22nd agenda. But in addition to our homestead exemption, our over 65 and our disabled exemption, we also have our disabled veterans within our community that also receive
 the disabled veterans for our retired military that are disabled, the exemption based upon their disability ranking. And so we have currently just under 20,000 disabled veterans that are benefiting from the additional tax savings provided to them by the state exemption. And so when we break down and look at historically on the disabled veterans property tax savings, again, one of the things that we look at, not only when we're developing the budget for the current year, but as we're looking ahead for the next several years, is what are we seeing as far as the number of exemptions?
 on our homesteads, all over 65, are disabled, and are disabled veterans. And so this graph here, if you look at the blue line, represents the number of exemptions for our disabled veterans. And you'll see that over the last five years, it's increased by about 3,500. However, when you look at the actual tax savings, the actual tax savings has increased over the last five years from 5.1 million to over 10.6. It's more than doubled.
 And so that's due to the way that the disability, the disabled veterans exemption works is that the higher the disability ranking, the higher the exemption. Once you receive the 100% disability ranking, you don't pay any property taxes. So that's for our disabled veterans and for the surviving spouses of those disabled veterans. So this has a financial impact on the city. Again, it's a wonderful benefit for our disabled veteran community. It's what makes this community very special. We do recognize the benefit for our military members.
 However, there is a financial impact on the overall property tax revenue that we're collecting as we move forward. And you'll see from FY 2021 to FY 2022, the actual impact is about $1.6 million of additional tax savings for disabled veterans. And so that means $1.6 million of less tax revenue that we're collecting. So as we look at the historical property tax rate, again, when we think back to the slide I showed you a few minutes ago, the increase in the values between 2005 and 2009.
 You'll see here when we look at the tax rate, a corresponding decrease. So if you begin at FY2004, the property tax rate decreased, so it went down from $0.72 all the way down to $0.63 during that time span. So if you follow along, you'll see that that tax rate remained flat for the next years. You all recall, as you see in Maggiorefis earlier, in 2012, the approval of the
 property tax exemption increase for our over 65 and disabled which which took effect in fy 2016 we also have the 2012 court of life bond package that was approved by the voters and we also have the 2012 street cip package which was approved by the city council at that time and so you'll see the tax rate begin to increase gradually over each of those years and again this isn't um
 the main point here also on this is that not only looking at the increase of the tax rate but if you look at the the different components of the tax rate we've worked extremely hard in managing our debt portfolio if you look at the green portion of the bar there we've worked extremely hard in order to utilize all of the refinancing opportunities to generate more savings for the city and so the overall debt portion of the rate has remained flat really consistent we've seen slight increases there it's been on the operations and maintenance side so the general fund side and the blue portion of the bar is there where we've seen the largest increase
 and that again really being driven by the investments in public safety departments police and fire which make up over 60 of the general fund budget go to the next slide so again the other factor that we've talked about is being an impact on our property tax revenue the amount we have available for capital projects i have some slides at the end of the presentation so i'll skip this slide for now we'll discuss this at the end but again that refinancing that we did just recently
 is what is allowing us to not only minimize the impact on our taxpayers by not increasing the rate for the second consecutive year while at the same time lowering the taxes for over 65 and disabled and then on top of that with what we have built into the tax rate for next year as additional funding for more capital projects that we can continue moving forward with those projects so that we don't have to defer those any longer so as we look at sales tax again when we look back to last year
 And the estimate that we came up with at the time, again, we had just begun the impact of COVID, projecting out the estimated impact of what we were estimating at that point in time. Again, there was a lot of uncertainty about how long COVID was going to last, the impact related to the severity, not only from the health standpoint, but also the financial standpoint. One of the other challenges we deal with is the lag in real-time information from the state.
 So there's a multiple month lag in the allocation. So there's a lag in the time that we receive our sales tax. And so that creates a little bit of an issue, especially when we're projecting out not only where we expect to finish in the current fiscal year, but also where we expect to finish 18 months down the road as we're projecting the budget for the upcoming fiscal year. So as we look historically over the last 18, 19 months or so, we see the impact of COVID in March and April of 2020. You'll see the red portion of those bars there.
 But then you'll see a positive growth beginning back in May of 2020. So almost immediately after COVID, we began to see positive increases as you compare May of 2020 compared to May of 2019. And that positive trend continued up until October of 2020, when unfortunately we saw the large spike of COVID cases within our community. We saw the stay-at-home orders, the curfew that took effect. And so we did see a flattening out in October, November, and December.
 However, again, back in January, just a few months ago, we have seen an increase again for three consecutive months now. And so when I talked about the lag of real-time information, our last allocation from the state that we received is for March of 2021. So we're already a week into June. And the most recent data that we have received from the state for our sales tax is for the month of March.
 And so that creates a little bit of a challenge for us as we're projecting out, not only in the current fiscal year, but as we're attempting to project out for the next 18 months as we look ahead into the upcoming fiscal year. However, I will say that we're very confident in the estimates that we've come up with. We wanted to make sure that we're being conservative in those estimates as we develop the budget for next year, primarily for sales tax, since this is our second largest source of revenue. So if you go to the next slide, please. This is how we performed compared to FY 2019 and FY 2020.
 You'll see year to date for FY 2021 through the first seven months of this fiscal year, we are currently up $4.6 million or 7.9% through the first seven months. So through the first seven months of this year, we're up almost 8% compared to the same time frame in the prior year, which is very encouraging. We've seen, again, very encouraging news. We did see, again, that little bit of flattening off in October, November, December. But as we look ahead to FY 2022 and the projection, we're going to see a little bit of flattening off in October, November, December.
 We want to be conservative and right now we're estimating about a two and a half percent increase over where we're anticipating to actually finish over the next several months for FY 2021. So we're again, we're estimating about a two and a half percent increase. Again, not being overly optimistic. We know that there's been some assistance from the federal government, whether it's the additional unemployment or whether it's the direct assistance the federal government has distributed to homes. We know that that has had a positive impact.
 and so again as we move forward into the next 17 18 months we want to show that we're being conservative in these projections since this is the second largest revenue source for the city's general fund so the next few slides we have the detailed information related to the budget we have four slides related to the general fund broken down by vision block strategic goals and for the individual departments we have four slides on the non-general fund all of the members of council have received all this information you have your your budget binders with all of the detailed reports
 And so we go through these next few slides relatively quick and I'll point out some of the main variances which are highlighted at the bottom of each of these individual slides. So this is the vibrant regional economy for the general fund and you'll see the two strategic goals. We have goal one which is our economic development goal, our goal three which is our visual image strategic goal, and then the individual departments that fall within each of those goals. You'll see overall for this vision block though a decrease of 256,000
 The main explanation there again at the bottom, due to the compensation and equity adjustments for our city departments, the restoration of unfunded positions, and then finally with planning inspections, this is to aligning the current staffing within the planning inspections department with their actual staffing level. So there's not a decrease in the staffing for planning inspections. This is simply right-sizing the budget to match the actual staffing that they have at any given point in time throughout the year based upon their vacancies that they have.
 If we can go to the next slide, our safe and beautiful neighborhoods. Again, this is the largest portion of the vision block. It makes up $347.8 million total. It has our goal 2, our public safety, our goal 7, infrastructure, and then our goal 8, healthy, sustainable community. The largest drivers here, again, going back to the public safety related to collective bargaining, the additional academies for both police and fire, the additional public safety communicators,
 And then the set-aside funds, that $7.8 million total for the set-aside funds for capital equipment replacement for both police and fire departments. As you look at capital improvement departments, $787,000, this is funding their vacant positions. With the ongoing capital projects that we have in place, this will fund their vacant positions so that we don't have to slow these projects down.
 The capital project managers do track their time. They do bill their time to the capital projects. So there is a revenue offset from the capital projects to the general fund for these positions. As we look at the streets and maintenance department, $7 million increase on the far right-hand column there are the variants. Again, this is due to restoring $4.8 million for our residential street resurfacing projects. And that's combined with the current existing already $3 million that's built in. So a total of $7.8 million in set-aside funds for street projects.
 We have the $500,000 for our ADA on-demand requests. And then we do have $1.8 million built in next year for the new Vision Zero program, which is the traffic safety program, which the City Council will be seeing a detailed presentation related to that in the near future. And then finally, the GOLATE Healthy Sustainable Community, a slight increase in community human development. Again, they're primarily driven by federal and state grants. Their general proportion is just the small amount of salaries that are charged to those grants.
 Our public health department, again, very similar situation. A lot of their funding comes from state and federal grants that are awarded throughout the year. So although there's only a $224,000 increase in public health, they did receive about $9 million of grants that the city manager referenced earlier, and those grants are appropriated at the time of award. So they're not reflected within these budget numbers, but instead they're reflected throughout the year as those grants are received and awarded from the various entities.
 As we move to the exceptional recreational culture and education opportunities vision block, this is the quite of life portfolio. You'll see the four departments there. Again, when you look at the overall variance for this portfolio, $10.7 million. Again, the city manager showed a slide earlier. We will have further detail forthcoming on the individual locations. But again, this is restoring the quite of life services. It's opening 32 more facilities next year on top of the current 40 that have already opened or will open this fiscal year.
 And then it also includes the sports complex maintenance, the $1.5 million of set-aside funds, restoration. And then it does include the park management crews as well. And then the final general fund vision block, high-performing government. These are the internal service departments. These are two goals that are included within this vision block. Our goal five, which is our communication goal. Our goal six, which is our sound governance goal. Goal five is our information technology.
 Department, you'll see overall in the variance column on the far right hand side, $2.5 million increase. Again, this is for the investment in our software licenses and maintenance is citywide, all of those agreements. It's also due to the increase that we've had obviously with a lot of virtual usage, the number of licenses we need to maintain. And then it's also due to the funding of a couple of new cybersecurity positions within the IT department. As we look at goal six here, again, you have the variance highlights at the bottom of the slide.
 the city attorney's office increase of $747,000. Again, Carla Neiman did the presentation a few weeks ago for you all and did show that we've been able to reduce the amount of our outside counsel by about a million dollars in the current year. So with the staff that she's hiring, utilizing the expertise in house and doing that instead of having again, utilize the outside attorneys. And so there is an increase that's funding her vacant positions.
 The decrease in city clerk there is the removal of the election, which was included in the current year. There is no election planned for next year, so that saves $515,000. We have the city manager, the internal audit, the office management and budget, public information and performance office that rolls up under the city manager's budget. Increase of $101,000. Again, that reflects not only the compensation and equity adjustments, but it also reflects the funding of a vacant position within the performance office.
 You've seen a lot of the excellent work that Julie Baldwin and her team have presented. You saw the presentation today. You saw the presentation yesterday from Roman and Julie on all the various things that we're working on as an organization. So there's a funding for one of their vacancies. The Human Resources Department. This is an increase of $392,000. However, this goes back to some of what the city manager has already referenced. We've centralized our training function and so we've taken individuals who are doing training in various departments
 We've now taken them out of those departments and centralized them within the HR department, and then they roll up and report to our performance office so that we have a firmer grasp on the training that's being provided as an organization. And we have standardized training as an organization. And so we've centralized that function and moved them all within the HR department. The decrease, and this will be the last one I'll point out, the decrease in non-departmental of $4.4 million was due to some one-time expenses in the current year budget.
 The City Council will recall that with the current year, we did adopt a budget that increased our budget stabilization fund by $2.8 million. We also had a one-time credit for some outside legal costs related to one of our capital projects. And so we reimbursed the general fund for some of those costs. And so those were one time. And so those come out. And so we see a reduction of next year of $4.4 million. Overall on this vision block, a reduction of $709,000 for these departments. On the next slide here, we move into the non-general fund.
 So the non-general fund is the same way, broken down by vision block, strategic goals by department. So the non-general fund is going to include all of our departments that receive either enterprise fund departments, but they have restricted purposes of revenue that they receive, or special revenue funds which are allocated for specific purposes. And so these departments and this funding that you're going to see in these slides, again,
 are representative of those specific purposes related to the revenue collection that they receive. So the airport, for example, pointed fully by the fees that they receive at the airport, you'll see an increase there of $2.6 million. However, when you compare that to the FY 2020 pre-COVID, you'll see that they're still well below the revenues that were budgeted in the pre-COVID budget. However, we are beginning to see a little bit of an increase in our airport revenue. But again, overall, still well below where they were prior to COVID.
 And so that's incorporated for the budget for next year. As we look to Destination El Paso, this reflects the cost of their overall operations. Destination El Paso is operating the water parks for the city. So this includes the operational costs necessary in order to operate the four new water parks. On the Economic Development Department, $12 million increase. This is, again, capturing the El Paso Electric franchise fee revenue dedicated for economic development.
 It also includes the TIRZs, our tax increment reinvestment zones, and it also includes the state sales tax rebate that we receive. So we've talked a lot about the state legislation that we were able to get approved several years ago, where the state now submits to us, the city, the sales tax portion related to the hotels in the downtown area for those economic incentive projects. So we've begun receiving payments from the state on their sales tax.
 And so we have the revenue associated with that and also the expense related to those as they're dedicated for the economic incentive deals related for those specific projects. The final one I'll point out here is on the planning and inspection department. You'll see there was no budget prior to FY 2022. Again, this is due to a reorganization that we conducted as part of our code compliance review. The $1 million there is dedicated for our building inspectors. These building inspectors were previously within the environmental services department.
 And so we've moved them out of the Environmental Services Department and they now report to the Planning and Inspections Department. And so it's a reorg moving from one department to another. So overall in this vision block, increase of $20 million. Again, and this is the non-general fund portion of the budget that we're discussing. As we look at safe and beautiful neighborhoods, again, these are the three strategic goals, public safety, infrastructure, and healthy, sustainable communities.
 The increases here for the most part are going to be from the set aside fund restoration. So the way that we have those budgeted are we have the expenses included within the general fund as a transfer from the general fund and into a special revenue fund for fire, for police, and for streets. We do that so that we're able to track those costs because they are specifically set aside for the capital replacement for police and fire and for those street projects. And so you'll see within the non-general fund here this is the special revenue fund created
 specifically for those set aside capital equipment costs that we have budgeted for next year. As we look to Sun Metro and their increase, $3 million again really reliant upon sales taxes. You saw the presentation from Ellen a little while ago on the fair revenue. The sales tax revenue makes up a large portion of the revenue collected from the Sun Metro Department.
 And so again, that positive new is helping them not only continue to maintain their operations, but also helping to begin to implement a capital replacement plan for city buses. And so next year we have 12 bus replacements planned, including the budget for Sun Metro. And then finally on environmental services, increase of 6.5 million. Again, this is non-general funds, so environmental services, all of their costs are directly related to the fees and revenue that they collect as a department.
 and those increases are due to some of their capital projects that they have ongoing, and it's also due to the equity and also the CDL incentives that we have planned for next year. And then on top of that, we do have an increase built in staffing for environmental services, again in order to maintain the staffing level necessary to provide the services for that department. On the next slide, we have the exceptional recreational, cultural, and educational opportunities.
 These are the four Quad of Life departments. And so these departments do receive some special revenue funding. For example, the library has the passport program at some of their library branches. That program is fully funded by the passport program itself. So the fee and revenues that's collected is dedicated to pay for that program. A slight decrease there due to the actual usage. The museums and cultural affairs has a slight decrease. Again, just based on the art museum store closure and the hotel occupancy tax that's dedicated for MCAT programming.
 the parks and recreation received some funding from the environmental fee that goes towards the mowing and litter control so taking care of our city parks so there's a slight increase there and then finally the zoo has a slight increase overall but again if you compare to the pre-cova level still well below on the expectations for the revenue that we're anticipating to collect at the zoo so the final slide is for the high-performing government non-general fund portion of the budget again you'll see the departments here who receive either special revenue or restricted funds
 You'll see city attorney slight increase there related to the portion of CDBG funding that they receive that covers a portion of a city attorney salary. The human resources department, that $68 million budget includes our self-insurance fund, our healthcare workers comp, and unemployment fund. But again, overall, only a slight increase there. Non-departmental includes our TIFs, so our transportation reinvestment zones, which are dedicated to stay within those zones. We've seen an increase in values there of what we're projecting for next year.
 And it also includes the increase in the debt service amount necessary for the capital projects. Then we have planned for FY 2022, which are already built into the budget, already built into the tax rate for FY 2022. And again, allowing us to be able to maintain the overall tax rate as a result of the refinancing savings that we discussed. If we can go to the next slide. The next few slides are some information related to capital projects. We've presented this several times in the budget updates.
 San Rodriguez, the city manager, myself, I continue to work on the planned fiscal year 2022 issuance on the particular projects that we're going to be recommending to go forward with. If you can go to the next slide, please. When we look overall at the city's capital improvement plans, you'll see on the far right hand column there, the total makes up that $1.4 billion capital improvement plans from those various CIPs.
 Of that, we have the 2012 Court of Life. We have our 2019 Public Safety Bond. And then we have the various CIPs that have been approved, projects approved by the City Council. And so on this slide, if you look in the middle column there, the remaining authorization from these capital improvement plans, currently about $586.1 million remaining to be issued in bonds over the next several years. Of that total, approximately $330 million is from the 2019 Public Safety Bond Projects.
 and so we presented multiple times at any time the council approves projects we always show what the estimated debt impact rate is on the rate is going to be how we plan to phase that in over multiple years these projects in order to minimize the impact on the debt service rate and so with the 586 million particularly when we look at the public safety bond net those bonds will be issued over a six to seven year time period but again really working very closely with the city manager myself
 to ensure that we're developing recommendations that are based upon the preliminary values that we're estimating in order to allow us to continue as our goal again to minimize the impact on the tax rate and not have an increase in the overall property tax rate for next year. On the next slide, we have our preliminary FOA 2022 planned issuance. These numbers are preliminary. We'll be coming forward with the actual amounts for each of the various CIPs, what amount is going to be included and what projects will be completed with this funding.
 I will tell you that if you look at the overall bottom number, the $181 million, that is currently what is factored into the FOI 2022 budget. So this is $181 million of additional capital project funding. And again, that is already factored into the property tax rate that we've discussed. And so again, being able to utilize the refinancing savings to, again, hold the line on the tax rate again, provide the additional tax savings for our over 65 and disabled, and then at the same time be able to continue moving forward with these capital projects.
 so that we don't have to defer any longer and increase the cost of those projects in the future and at the same time taking advantage of the low interest rates which although they've come up slightly this would still allow us to take advantage of lower interest rates than what we typically receive based on historical information again this slide is preliminary as i mentioned the city manager sam mariegas and myself are working on finalizing the exact amounts for each of the different capital improvement plans for fy 2022. this slide is really intended to illustrate that other public safety bond projects thus far
 with the recent approval that the city council did on the 2021 issuance we've only issued or sold about 20 of the total 413 million that means that we still have 330 million dollars of bonds related specifically to public safety to be issued over the next seven years or so if we go to the final slide here
 So again, as we look at the overall estimated debt service rate, I'll be bringing more information back. I've presented in the past the long-term impact on our debt service rate related to all of these projects, factoring in the full $586 million. This is only going out to FY 2024. But the intent of this slide is to show that based upon that $586 million remaining to be issued, that there will be an increase on the debt service portion of the property tax rate.
 But similar to what we've talked about as what you all have seen is that we work very closely, the city manager myself on analyzing existing debt for potential opportunities to refinance to generate that savings that allows us to minimize the impact on future years. And then on the flip side, as I just mentioned in the current year right now, being able to take advantage of those low interest rates and again to lower the cost of these projects overall. And so, as I mentioned, the capital plan for FY 2022
 This is a high level look. Well, Sam Rodriguez and myself will be coming forward to actually provide more detail on the actual amount planned for FY 2022 for each of those capital improvement plans of those projects that have already been approved by council. And then at the same time, we plan on in August to come forward with the actual ordinances so that we can get those approved. Again, allowing us the ability to go out and take advantage of those low interest rates and again, lowering the cost of these overall projects. If you can go to the last slide, please. The last slide is just the calendar dates that we have.
 related to the remaining steps in the budget process. Again, as the city manager mentioned, we typically do this overview presentation in the month of July. We've done it today, just continue to build upon all the budget updates we've been presenting all throughout the year. A lot of this information was included in the five-year presentation that we did back in February. You'll see the remaining steps there, the July 25th and 29th are important dates. Again, that's when we received certified tax roll from the appraisal district.
 We'll come back later in the month of July, present that information to the council, and actually do the introduction of the ordinance to set the tax rate. And then in August, we have our public hearing, and then the adoption later in the month of August for the budget and the tax rate. So that completes the presentation. We'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Cortinas, for your presentation. We do have a couple questions. We got a bill. What was that?
 Okay. I do have a question, Mr. Cortinas. I know you showed that 65 and over we would be –
 being able to give a tax exemption this year and my question is we're only at 60 percent and for this year what would it cost additional if we gave everybody the same exception this year which is only 60 percent of the community left to have that exemption what would be the additional dollars that would cost to be able to give all the community that same exception
 We would have to go back and do that calculation, Mayor. I don't want to give you a number off the top of my head. I can go back and do that and give that information to you. Yeah, if you could share with council. Yeah, if you could just share with us, I'd appreciate it, because we're talking about 40% of the population is already getting that. What would it be? And also the next question to that same, could we use the American Recovery Plan program, which is $154 million? Could we use that additional $154?
 And I think it's only, I don't know, it's only 60% additional. So if we could see if we could use that to be able to do that, that would be great. So I would appreciate it and send us that information so we can consider it. So there's restrictions on how the American Recovery Plan funding can be used? Yeah, that's why I asked the question. I was wondering if we could. So if we can check on that, I'd appreciate it and bring it back or just email us. I would appreciate it. And...
 I thank you for that and I'm hoping that we'll be able to look at that to be able to do that and look moving forward to allow everyone to have that same opportunity since it's been a tough year for all of our citizens in the last year. And with that, we have Representative Schwartzbein. Thank you, Mayor. I just had a couple of comments and questions about this. Can we go to slide 12 by any chance? First of all, thank you, Mayor, for letting me speak. And thank you, Robert and Tommy, for this presentation. Yes, sir. Thank you.
 Nicole, can we bring the presentation up? Thank you. Yeah, so I appreciate you doing this. There are different kinds of learners and people that take in data different ways. I would love to see a follow-up of this that I know that we have. This is compared, the general funding increase is compared from FY 2021 to the proposed FY 2022 budget, correct? That's correct.
 So I don't know if we can color code it and possibly, again, do it from FY 2020 to FY 2022 or even FY 19 to FY 22. Because, again, I think last year was such an anomaly in terms of our budget, in terms of our proactive response to COVID-19.
 that when we're talking about an increase or decrease compared to last year, I don't really feel it's as accurate as if we compared it to our last quote, you know, normal year, which would have been the FY 2020 budget. So I think that would help to inform this body, but also the community as whole, what we're talking about in terms of increases or decreases with different budgets.
 strategic goals and departments. Sure, we can do that. Nicole, if you can go to the next slide though. Go to slide 13. Yeah. Yeah, we can do that for you. I'll just point out though, because that's an excellent point, Mayor Portemps. No, yeah, you have this here and it's all in numbers and I would love to see it as like a visual,
 you know, whether it's color coded or it's just set just like the slide that you had previously on slide 12, but maybe have it compare from FY20 to FY22, FY19 to FY22, so people can see historically kind of those differences in the numbers. This does lay it out exactly what I'm talking about. But again, I think showing it from a couple different ways, visualizing it a couple different ways, I think would be helpful. Yeah.
 Sure, yeah, I was just going to make a point for the community so that they can hear it. Yeah, we'll work on that slide. But if you look at overall, the bottom line there, so the $457.9 million in FY 2020 compared to the FY 2022, the $473 million, it's approximately a $15.2 million increase. If you look at public safety alone in that time span between 2020 and 2022, our public safety departments have increased by $21 million. That's $6 million more than the previous year.
 in the increase in that same timeframe. So that's an excellent point. We'll put that visual together. Great. I know we can go to slide 35. Mayor Pro Temp, before you leave, may I make one comment? Yes, sir. The budget we're recommending and the way we've structured it really puts the council in a good position for the additional increases that you saw in those two money slides. So can y'all go to those two money slides real quick?
 So this is when you get back to 100%. So once we start climbing on this, that number grows. And so it's my responsibility, our responsibility to tell the council to advise y'all correctly about the public safety increases, how they go up exponentially every year, streets, roads.
 And also the quality of life areas that we've been opening up, new things, and then taking care of things that currently exist that still need a lot of attention. So I just want to make sure you all see this slide. And then you see the following slide that shows how we're phasing things in and how it's helping, but there's still a trajectory on the expenses that outpaces the revenues.
 So just want to make sure I repeat that so that the council fully understands why the five-year projection is so important to look at, not just look at this year's budget. But the way we've always put things in front of you since 2014 is we've put in a five-year forecast that wasn't done before. And in the strategic planning process, we want to look at, you know, past five years and look at next 10 years. And I think council is...
 very much advocates of that kind of philosophy, and you all have actually championed those kinds of thoughts, and so we're following suit. My apologies. I know you had another question. I just wanted to make that point. Thank you for allowing me to make that. Thank you again, Tommy. Thank you again, Robert, for your clarification. Slide 35, and then after that is slide 40. But slide 35, if you could go to slide 35 real quick.
 So you mentioned that there was that there was a proposed right sizing of planning and inspections. And I would be remiss if I don't hear of issues relating towards planning.
 I guess the permitting process, the speed in which permits are being processed, especially with with in telecommunications within our city that I hear from constituents. And so I just want to make sure that if we're doing this, that that we have appropriate amount of responses, whether it's through the one stop shop or with the sort of hybrid virtual remote and in person
 that we're still making sure that those services are there because I do hear from some constituents the challenge in the permitting process for investment in our community and for business. Yeah, absolutely. So the Planning and Inspection Department is a revenue generating department. So they generate revenue on the inspections that they perform. And so we always work very closely with all departments, but we make sure that Phillip Etoway and his group has the resources that they need in order to provide the services.
 So again, there's no no decrease to the staffing level. Again, this is just right size in the budget. And this is the revenue generating department. So we always ensure that particularly with those, you know, very similar to the vacancies that we've funded in the past. If there's a revenue impact, we want to ensure that we're funding those items. So, you know, fill up and work very closely with the budget office, the city manager of the leadership group. And that's something that we review as part of our budget process.
 I'll just add to that, Representative. Kerry Weston, Senior Deputy City Manager. So to your point, we're doing a few different things within P&I. We are continuing to add more online capabilities, and we're also looking at doing more converting of combination inspectors so that inspectors that can be more comprehensive in terms of the inspections they can go out and do.
 So to Robert's point, we haven't decreased that. We're looking at ways to continue to build efficiencies and provide better service. Yeah, no, I understand that. And if it is an income-generating department, then I guess it would be looking, making sure we're staffed adequately and that we're not hearing these challenges from folks with some of the getting permits processed and executed. Yeah.
 So, that was one statement that I had. I also know with economic development as well that there looks like to be a restoration run funded position. I know it's probably already in my budget book, but can you talk a little bit about what that position is? Sure.
 Nicole, can you help me out with that one? I don't recall exactly what position that was, but I know that there was an unfunded position within economic development that we did fund going into next year. With the amount of TIFs that we've created, the TIRSs, they need somebody to help with the compliance standpoint. That's something that we've identified as an area we need to continue to get better at, especially as we not only increase our TIFs, but also just everything we're doing with the increase in the federal funding and utilizing those dollars for small businesses. They've got
 no different than a lot of our departments and some of these costs although they're built into the general fund some of these costs as you mentioned references we're evaluating as to what will be eligible for the federal funding and what we can move out of the general funding into the federal funding for next year that will actually free up general fund money that we'd be able to move around and have some flexibility what to do some other things for next year understood thank you and then um
 Because I know that with economic development, there's always been discussions about having an international protocol officer, somebody that can help with international development and working with our different programs that we have towards that. And I know that there has been discussions here past about a specific position for it. I know that that has not been budgeted, and I know that we're looking to be efficient, but that is a focus.
 a focus that I think we can always do more on, even if it's working with an existing position or person or, you know, within the economic development and international development department that we have. And I just wanted to say... Mayor Pro Temp, I apologize. I was on mute when I was answering your question. The position that was unfunded that we added was an admin manager position. Yeah.
 Last thing really quick, which is more respectable, I was tying slide 40 on the, I think it's the different decreases and variances with the different sort of quality of life portfolio. The 70,000, so we went from 245 pre-COVID to 142 in our library positions, which is almost a $100,000 decrease in the budget.
 What has been eliminated or changed to justify that? And then the other thing that I need to bring up as well is that another thing we're hearing, and this is in Destination El Paso, so I don't know how it works, but I do know that when COVID hit, we eliminated our film commissioner position and have not replaced or filled it up again. And as we are coming back online, I've had two separate people just this week
 to speak to somebody because the person that they had either isn't available or they can't get in touch with anyone. And so having a film commissioner there, understanding that film is economic development, which has been our position in terms of our state legislative priorities and others, is something that we need to be looking at as well. All right.
 Those are two separate things that one was on the top of my head. Brian Crowe is here from Destination El Paso. This is Tracy Jerome, Deputy City Manager. And Brian Crowe can address the question first about the film commissioner. Go ahead, Brian.
 Thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Good afternoon. Brian Crow with Destination El Paso. Representative the position for the film commissioner is currently actively in recruitment. We anticipate having the position filled this month. In the interim we do have someone covering the position Brooke Underwood our office has been handling permitting and inquiries for film. So if you have someone that is trying to reach us in that respect.
 If you would email that, send them over to me, I can get them routed to the right place. We have processed several permits and been involved in several different film projects, even though, of course, the last year and a half, even though that position has been unfilled. So we are still actively working in film without that role, but we do need it back. It is critical. We are seeing an increase in requests for information for filming in the El Paso area, which is why the position is currently in the process of being recruited and filled.
 And we're not going to, I mean, the person that we furloughed, we wouldn't just rehire them? Are they applying again? So we follow a hiring process. So the position gets posted. We have several applicants. We've reviewed several. We had an interview process, which is the final interview process now. Hope to have a recommendation in the next few days and begin the hiring process. So it should be coming along here very quickly.
 And Representative Schwartzwein, thank you for all your questions. If you do have any more questions, we'll come right back to you. We just have Representative Anello, and after Representative Anello, I'd be more than glad to come back to you, sir. Thank you. Can I just answer the question real quickly that Representative Mayer pretended to ask? On the library, so that funding, again, is $430.
 directly from the passport program that we operate. And so any revenue that we collect from those individuals that are getting a passport is what's going to fund that program. And so there's no reduction, there's no cut to that program. It's just based on the actual revenue they're collecting from those individuals who are taking advantage of that passport program that we operate at some of our library branches. Thank you for that, sir. Thank you for the answer. Representative Nonello, and thank you, Mayor Pro Tem.
 Thank you, Mayor. Robert, I know I gave you all some questions when we had our briefing, and so I'm looking forward to those answers. Something that I didn't ask for that I have asked for in previous years is if we could get a list of all of the department head requests, what was funded and what wasn't. And so, yeah, I'll just wait for that with the other questions I asked for our follow-up meetings.
 Yeah, so we wanted to compile all of the questions that we received from all of the members of council as we briefed them. And so we've compiled that information. We're getting the responses. Then we'll send it out to everybody so that everybody has a visual on all of the questions that were asked. Okay, so I'll hold my questions till we have those answers. But I would just like to get that additional information with that packet as well. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. Are you done, Representative Adonis? I'm sorry. Yes, sir. Sorry. Thank you. No, that's okay. Thank you very much. Now we have Representative Adonis.
 Thank you, Representative Nundish, and thank you, Representative Anello. Thank you, Mr. Cortina. Great presentation. So just a couple thoughts. I also do want to see Representative Anello's request for the unfunded
 a department request or just a department request along with these, um, any updated schedule fees. And then before in the past you would do like a red line of before, um, any increases. And so if we can see a red line, the most updated ones, if there's any changes or deductions or anything that we need to be aware of, um, any significant variances within the schedule. Regarding the series 2022 bond ordinances,
 So if I'm understanding correctly, it's going to be for this fiscal year, this budget season, you're going to be. So the way that we're going to do it, it really makes sense to do it this way. We've been wanting to do it for at least the last year or so is to get it in line with the actual budget adoption. So we have the ordinances, you know, that, for example, on the CEOs, we need to do a notice of intent publication for 45 days is the first step of the process.
 And then we need to come back with the actual ordinances to get the approval from the council to move forward with the actual bond issuance process. So our plan this year is to get that done in August. And then that would provide us the opportunity to move forward quickly if the market is still favorable. Take advantage of those interest rates. As I mentioned, we're working very closely with the city manager, myself and Sam, because we want to make sure that if we're going to issue an additional $180 million on top of what we just issued, that we can realistically spend that money within the next 12 months or so.
 We don't want to issue bond proceeds that we're not going to spend. We don't want to sit on that money. So that's what we're finalizing. And, again, we'll have that coming before the council here pretty soon on what the 2022 issuance is going to look like as far as the amounts for each of the CIPs.
 And then the projects that will be funded is included in those different plans. Oh, okay. Because that was, I need to be reminded on what the 2022 capital project list looks like and consideration for funding. So I'm not sure if you already have that or if you're going to bring that in August, but would definitely love to see that list again. Well, this is, no, this will be funding to complete the various projects that have already been approved as part of the 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 plans. Okay.
 Okay. For previously approved projects that have not been fully funded yet. Okay. I understand the request now. And then in terms of council budget requests, I had one that I wanted to make. Can you remind me or did the deadline pass or is there opportunity to submit? There's still opportunity to submit. And so one of the things for the council also remember is that that appraisal rule that we do not receive until the end of July is important.
 Because right now we're estimating that 4.3% overall increase. However, if the certified values come in higher, that would provide flexibility to make some recommendations and to address some of the things that you all have talked about. So whether it's adding additional funding for the residential street projects, which is something we had a couple of members of council point out, or funding some of the other things that you've identified as a priority through your council budget request, that would provide the ability to do that. Okay.
 And I'm going to repeat what you probably have already heard, but I do want to share one budget request. Just so when Council sees it come through the automated request process, you'll understand what I'm requesting. I had reached out earlier this year to Mrs. Prine and Mr. Gonzalez was included in that dialogue.
 looking at some form of repository specifically for any planning documents, any documents that are produced with taxpayer dollars. They can also include any studies that the police department conducts, any planning documents. There's really no like
 way. There's no there's no like website or there's no research website that folks, researchers or students or members of the public can go and look at. And I know we already have like a system where we can add most requested information to that system. And I forget what it's called. But if we can expand on that and really make concerted efforts that any new documents, anything moving forward that
 that it can be placed into some form of repository. I think it's really absolutely critical. I get, I struggle at times to look for some of these documents and you know, and I have greater access than most members of the public.
 So that's something that I'll be requesting. And just to convey again what my constituents have been asking for is the opening of swimming pools within local neighborhoods as well as our senior centers. And I know that other folks have been getting those same requests. I've also received petitions in favor of opening senior centers. And I know that we're still waiting for more support and understanding from our public health authority.
 But I want to ensure that that is funded in the next fiscal year, granted the public health protocols permit for the openings. And then senior centers, swimming pools, and then animal services. I see that there was about an increase of 160,000 within animal services.
 That is probably the third biggest complaint I have been hearing about. I have spoken to Mr. Herrera, and we've talked a lot about some of their programs, which I wholeheartedly support. I want to make sure that any of the unfunded vacancies that have gone for about a year unfunded are now going to be funded in this upcoming budget year. And so if we can just have a greater understanding of that as we have these budget discussions moving forward, I'd appreciate it.
 And those were my only thoughts I wanted to share. Thank you very much, Representative Fernandez. I'm sorry, Representative Fernandez. The schedule, the red line fee schedules were included in the email that was sent to all of council on May 28th. I just wanted to make sure that you received that as well as also just to remind everybody that the link for the council budget request is also in that same email. And we'll be receiving accepting requests all the way through the end of June. Thank you, Nicole. Appreciate it.
 Thank you for that. And thank you again, Representative Nunes. With that, Representative Mayor Potem, Shortspine. Thank you, Mayor. I don't have a lot of questions. That last question that we had relating to the $100,000 variance was slide, I guess, 40. So just help me understand a little bit. That was from eliminating the passport project that we were having at the libraries or?
 No, so we're not eliminating that program. We continue to operate that program. It's just based on the actual amount of revenue we're anticipating to collect from that program. And that revenue that we collect from the passport program goes to fund the positions related to that program. But there's no reduction in that service or that program at all. It's just based on the actual amount of revenue we're anticipating to collect from those individuals utilizing the passport offerings that we do have. Okay. Thanks.
 If I can go back to the mayor's mayor your request about the I want to make sure I'm clear So you were saying an additional twenty five hundred dollars for all of our homestead exemptions, right? What would be the additional base? We've already said what the forty percent for over sixty five if we were able to do the additional 60% of our constituents. It's It's not over sixty five. What would that be? So if we increase the homestead exemption by that twenty five hundred we're looking at about a three million dollar amount
 impact that's Additional three million or 1.8 million over the 1.2 that you originally discussed It'd be three million dollars total if we increase the homestead exemption from five thousand to seventy five hundred Okay, so it'd be for the total amount total so it'd be and I think you said that Over sixty five is 1.2 million. Was that correct? Okay, so it'd be an additional 1.8 million great, so
 I'll come back to that in the very near future. But to be clear with that, Mayor, you would not be able to specify, it would be, I'm thinking of the, maybe Maria can chime in, you could not say you're getting the increase with over 65, so we're not going to increase your homestead exemption. You would have to increase the exemption, homestead exemption for everybody equally. And that's why I want to make sure that when we come- You would have a $3 million impact if you went from 5,000 to 7,500. Okay, I appreciate that.
 That's exact. That was my question. So I do appreciate that. Thank you for the answer. Right. And that $3 million is approximately about eight-tenths of a cent on the tax rate, just for reference. Thank you for that. I appreciate that. And Mr. Gonzalez, thank you for your presentation. And Mr. Cortinas, thank you for your presentation. And that concludes that item. Thank you all.
 Before we go to a public comment, do you would you I'd like to make a motion to revisit agenda item 15 There's a motion in a second to reconsider item number 15 all in favor. Yes anyone opposed
 The motion passes and we're back on item 15. This is discussion in action for the mayor on behalf of the City Council to sign a letter by mayors united against anti-Semitism, united against hate, and declaring unequivocally that anti-Semitism is incompatible with the fundamental values of democracy.
 And I know mayor Pro Tem that you would like to allow someone to speak on on this item that Originally was going to speak on it Yeah, there was a there was a member of the member of the public who requested to speak on this and they had some technical Difficulties so miss prime if we can hear public comment right now, that'd be great. Thank you. Yes, sir We do have mrs. Jerry Helberg Harmon on the line. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. I
 Good afternoon, and thank you, City Council, for allowing me to speak. My name is Jeri Marie Hallberg-Harmon, lifelong resident of El Paso, Texas.
 In respect to cultural diversity and protecting all persons, and in respect to cultural anti-Semitism, which is a bane of our society, it is incompatible. Anti-Semitism is incompatible within free nations. I respectfully recommend again that our City Council vote in favor of the Council of Mayors
 declaring that anti-Semitism has no place in our nation, in our city. We are El Paso strong, and we are the personification and bedrock of E Pluribus Unum. From many, we are one. We live in harmony and we live in peace in El Paso because we embrace and celebrate diversity with dignity and respect for our multifaceted culture.
 I am for in favor of our mayor city council and the council of mayors to uphold the rights the freedoms protections and privileges of our great country by joining the council of mayors in denouncing any form of anti-semitism further to include the celebration respect and dignity which is due to all persons of all faiths including the jewish faith in recognizing his his
 historical fact that Jewish persecution must be stopped. Further, we recognize the multitude of contributions to humanity which persons of Jewish lineage and faith have bestowed upon humanity, including, though not limited to Rita Sotero Finkler, Gertie Fereza Corey, Gisela Pearl, Jonas Falk, Mark Lavery, Ivana Lang, Franz Mintler, and Ludwig Minkus.
 We seek common ground, interfaith cooperation, in elevating ourselves to be the best humanity has to offer. Yes, I, Jere Marie Hallberg-Harmon, am fully in favor of El Paso adopting all measures, abilities, sanctions, and protections in favor of our Jewish communities and in full resistance against anti-Semitism and for the protection of all Jewish communities.
 Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. And with that, council, do we have a motion to approve the item? I'd like to make a motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 15. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Liz Arraga.
 Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Can we go to call to the public, Ms. Prine? Yes, sir. Thank you. We now move to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons, and to be able to communicate with others. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons, and to be able to communicate with others. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons, and to be able to communicate with others. All persons in attendance
 without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's integrity or character which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon, we have two members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Mr. Stephen Stromer. His topic is Dangerous Cactus Artwork on Dallas and Montana. Good afternoon. Mr. Stromer, you have three minutes, sir. If you press star six, you can unmute your telephone.
 good afternoon sir mr strummer star six please mr strummer if you press star six you can unmute your telephone mr strummer will return to you shortly we'll move on to mr ron como his topic is elimination of city's animal services haas program good afternoon sir you have three minutes good afternoon folks uh i have some uh questions as usual
 A friend of mine did the foster program with El Paso Animal Services and received an A number on her foster after a few days. So I would like to go back to my question of...
 the difference between 2019 and now 2021 of the 750 dogs that were not taken in by animal services if the fosters are receiving a numbers it means these dogs are being listed as live intakes on the reports so these reports are supposedly reflecting the number of dogs that are also being fostered now that being said i also noticed as of today
 the job opening for director for the city of El Paso Animal Services is still not posted. I'm a little confused at that. And I'd like to say, you know, maybe I'd like to apply for that position because I have management experience. I have rescue experience. I have foster transport. I have dealt with sick dogs, injured dogs, abused dogs.
 i i i feel we need a change in the way our shelter is going haas program needs to be eliminated immediately before we have any more issues we as a group have lost more dogs this year by middle of may to parvo and distemper than all my years combined now is that because the shelter allowed unvaccinated unaltered dogs to run the streets of el paso i really wish the city
 would get up and actually check tapes from 311 calls. I'm going to ask this again, to see that these people are not taking in all the strays, even though when you ask them, they are saying they are. It's time we make a change for the better for our shelter. We need to put back in place the program, the plan that you, Mr. Mayor put in place,
 it needs to go back we need to eliminate haas we need to eliminate anybody that supports the haas program we need to find a director that will take care of the issues of the city of el paso and their animals and we need to stop what's happening every day every day this has gone on long enough i'm asking again for you to actually check
 Listen to the tapes from 311. Don't call Mr. Herrera and say, are you picking up all the dots? Because this has been a line that has been used by Paula Powell and now Mr. Herrera since this thing started. Thank you, Mr. Cuomo. Thank you, sir. You've reached the limit. The next speaker is Mr. Stephen Strummer. Mr. Strummer, star six, sir.
 Mr. Strummer, you're still on mute, sir. If you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. Mr. Strummer, you're still on mute, sir. Star six. May I believe Mr. Strummer is having technical difficulties. I don't see his microphone active yet. Thank you, Mr. Cronin. This will conclude our call to the public. Yes, that concludes call to the public. We'll return to the regular agenda. We're on page nine on the first reading of ordinances. These are items 19 to 23.
 DIRECTOR DEWOLF. NEW SPEAKER 2. NEW SPEAKER 2. NEW SPEAKER 2. NEW SPEAKER 2. NEW SPEAKER 2. NEW SPEAKER 2. NEW SPEAKER 2. NEW SPEAKER 2.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor Leaser. Concerning items 19 and 20, especially item 20, I'm concerned that we are discussing this issue today when it was only posted for introduction. I have a lot of constituents in the area who have contacted my office about this issue who were told that the issue wouldn't be discussed before the scheduled public hearing on June 22nd.
 and I am sure they would ideally like to participate in this conversation. Last week, my office, Mayor Leeser, thank you for setting up a meeting, and the Department of Community and Human Development met with the Housing Authority and with representatives of St. Clement's Church, the Kelly Memorial Food Pantry, and the neighborhood.
 The meeting was amicable and friendly and HACCP is working on some options for a solution that everyone is happy with. I respectfully ask that we please refrain from discussing these items today, both because it was not posted for any discussion, but also particularly because the plan as posted will very likely look different
 when it is eventually heard as HACCP makes those adjustments to address the community's concerns. I would therefore ask that we look to the City Attorney for information regarding the procedural aspect of introduction of ordinances and council discussions or staff presentations
 at the first readings of ordinances where there will not be an opportunity for public comment. Thank you, Mayor Leaser. Thank you, Representative LaSarga. And I think with that, we do have a motion and a second to approve the items as read into the record. If we could take that motion, Ms. Prine. Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 19 to 23. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzmeyer.
 All right. Representative. Mayor Lee sir I've made a request to speak. Oh you sure did. Representative Adnandez please.
 Oh, thank you. Uh, Representative Lisa- in response to Representative Rizal- Rizalot. I can't say your name. Representative Lisa-Raga. Um, so, you know, and I apologize if it's created conflict, but, um, we have historically, um, had presentations for first reading ordinances, but I certainly understand your concern for your constituents. But the other thing I'd like to mention is that the reason for our first reading of ordinances,
 is so if there's going to be any drastic changes, then you have to do the process over again. So there shouldn't be significant changes that would require another first reading of ordinances. And if that's what's happening, then you need to repost it to the departments that are doing it. And so that's what my concern is about making those changes is that there's going to have to be a change in the ordinance itself.
 And the other thing is, what I wanted to do is I wanted to listen to the presentation so I can better understand the issue, so I can better respond to constituents who are reaching out to our office. But like I said, if it's going to be significant changes, then we need to redo the process. But anyway, that was my point, and I'm happy just to approve the process without discussion. But I want to bring that to the attention of the city attorney's office because, like I said, if there's going to be changes, then let's have those discussions of what changes are going to look like.
 Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Yes, ma'am, please. Can I address Representative Zaraga and Representative Hernandez's questions? I would appreciate that. Thank you for that. So for purposes of the Texas Open Meetings Act, the city's agenda, as you all are familiar with, specifically states what the purpose of introductions are, and it specifies at the end of the introduction the list of items that are being introduced when council will be having those public hearings.
 So Representative Lizarraga is correct that for purposes of the Texas Open Meetings Act, the public relies on the statements that are on the agenda. I do agree that historically in the past, we have at times asked staff to present the presentation that is in the backup. But the reason that that's acceptable is because the public has the presentation and is available as part of the backup.
 The concern that I would recommend against having discussions is where council would like to deliberate during an introduction of an agenda item because it does fail to provide the public with notice that council will be deliberating and then the public would miss out an opportunity to come forward and say their piece about this proposal.
 Finally, as to Representative Hernandez's concerns that when an item is drastically amended, that it would result in having to start over, that has happened in the past. However, there have been instances in the recent past where council and the applicant of the zoning has agreed to down zone or decrease the impact that their proposed request is making on the floor.
 and it has been acceptable and allowed. So those are my recommendations that if council wants to move forward in terms of making deliberative comments or discussions during the introduction that we amend the specific postings on the agenda to allow for that.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much. And with that, we have a motion and a second. And I would like to take that motion and second. I'm not very clear on what the city attorney's recommendation was. You did say that historically we are able to have a presentation, but you're recommending that we don't have discussion. I think she said historically we don't, but we've had before.
 But I'm asking what her recommendation is today because the only thing I heard her recommend was to not have discussions. She didn't recommend that we don't have a presentation. So there's a request for counsel for a presentation without discussion. I think that would fall within the recommendation she just made today. So Representative Anello, yes, you could have just a presentation because it's already posted and available for the public to see.
 what I would recommend against this council engaging in any discussion about the presentation or the application itself. Thank you for that clarification. So if so, Representative Rivera made the request just to have the presentation without discussion, Representative LaSattiga, would you be comfortable with that? As long as there's no discussion. And like I mentioned, you know, everybody that's been contact, that's been involved in this process,
 They believe that this discussion is gonna happen on June 22nd and we're still in the process of negotiating items. So, you know, I didn't post this item and the applicant hasn't pulled the item. So it is proceeding for now, but there will likely be changes and we don't know exactly what the changes will be. Okay. Well, thank you. It may be the case that this has to go through the process again if the changes are significant enough.
 All right, and I think that's important but representative Nello if you would like to speak I'd appreciate if you do send me a message and you're on mute Representative Molinar. Yes. Thank you very much There's a lot of
 Disagreements here today which is OK. But I think I'm going to be in favor of Representative Liz Rodriguez if it's going to be changes the presentation is probably going to change. So today's presentation may change may not. But if it doesn't then we'll hear it on another meeting. If it does then we'll hear those changes and see those changes in a future date. So thank you. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Thank you.
 Right now we do have a motion and a second and Representative Sarga I will go with whatever you would feel comfortable with. Yes I would like to continue the vote Mayor. Thank you. So if we could do that please. Yes Mayor there was a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. I already voted. Okay just wanted to make sure your vote is still an aye. Thank you. Representative Anello.
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rodriguez? Rivera? My apologies to Representative Lizarraga. Lizarraga? Rodriguez? And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez is not present for this vote.
 And Representative Rivera, thank you for the conversation. Representative Hernandez, I think it's always important to have a conversation. And Representative LaSarga, thank you for your leadership on this. With that. Thank you, City Council.
 And Mayor. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. We now turn to page 11. We're on item number 24. This is discussion and action that the Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing Director is authorized to notify Cengage Learning, Inc. that the city is terminating contract 2019-639 Career Online High School for convenience. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 24. On that motion, Mayor Potem Schwarzwein.
 Representative Anelo. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Thank you. Rivera? Lizárraga? Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 25. This is discussion in action to request that the Director of Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing Department be authorized to issue purchase orders.
 To Smart Horizons Career Online High School, LLC, DBA Smart Horizons Career Online Education, the sole source provider for Career Online High School. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 25. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Aye. Representative Anello. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Liz Arraga. Aye.
 And the motion passes unanimously. We now turn to page number 13. The next item is number 27. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-1152, Oregon Street Lightened to Tri-State Electrical Limited. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 27. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Please. Item number 28 is an ordinance, this is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the conveyance of real property owned by the City of El Paso to the State of Texas for a parcel of land being a portion of Lot 2, Block 2, Butterfield Trail Aviation Park, Unit 2. Item 29 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the conveyance of real property owned by the City of El Paso to the State of Texas, this is a parcel of land saying
 Same being out of and a part of lot two, block one, Butterfield Trail Aviation Park Unit 2. Motion approved. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve items 28 and 29. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Potem, Shores Vine. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Rivera. Aye. Liz Arana. Aye.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 30. This is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from RF Ranch Farm and RFH Ranch Farm Historic to R3C Residential Condition and R3HC Residential Historic Condition. This is a property south of Americas Avenue and west of Socorro Road. And we do have public comment on this item.
 There's a motion and a second and can we take public comment, please? Yes mayor this afternoon. We have miss Sylvia Carrion that signed up to speak miss. Got you on star six, please. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon Can you hear me? Yes I just wanted I'm very happy to see that this thing will be motion to approve I've been dealing with the owners of the land of
 We decided back in November, October, it's been we've wrestled with this thing. The changes that were made from an R5 to an R3, reduction of the houses, the building of the two roads instead of one, made it very nice the way they did the plotting. So I'm happy that it'll go forward for approval. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you.
 The next speaker is Ms. Fabiola Campos-Lopez. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Can you all hear me? Yes. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Fabiola Campos-Lopez. I'm the president of the Corridor 20 Civic Association. Thank you for the opportunity.
 Since March 11, this re-zoning case appeal was presented to City Council. The recommendation at that time was for the applicant to come back with a less dense proposal, larger house plans, better connectivity, and livability for the future property owners, and including a detailed seismic. After several weeks and constant communication from the applicant to the civic associations in the area, a new renovated plan is being proposed.
 Quarter 20 Civic Association publicly recognizes the applicant's willingness and compromise to create a better plan proposal, including improving connectivity by opening the connection to Juan Diego Street, adding livability to the proposal by adding a part-time area inside the plan, making larger lots from R5 to R3,
 a detailed site plan and reducing house proposals from 61 houses to no more than 50 which we have expressed our concern to the applicant but we also believe in compromises and see and appreciate the applicant's new plan upgrade for a better quality of the future property owners quarter 20 civic associations agrees with planning department style recommendation and you all approval
 Our association mission is to ensure responsible growth in the Valley, which will provide public safety and a better quality of life for its residents. Thank you for your attention and time. Thank you all. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you, Ms. Prine. We do have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 30 on that motion, Mayor Potem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello?
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Pizarra? Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 31. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12, parking prohibited at all times on certain streets to add portions of cross street. Move to approve. Second. Second.
 There is a motion and a second to approve item number 31. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzmeyer. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Liz Arara.
 The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 32. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12 speed limits to clarify the language in the City Municipal Code regarding the boundary limits of the existing 35 mile per hour speed limit on Mottwood Drive. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 32. There's no public comment on that motion Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein? Yeah. Representative Anello?
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Lizara? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 33. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending the El Paso City Code Title II judges to allow for specified subcourts under the purview of the presiding judge and to provide updates, corrections, and clarification of municipal court procedures.
 Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 33. There is no public comment on this item. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rivera? Aye. Liz Arraga?
 And that motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 34. This is discussion in action on a resolution to approve the creation of one division within the presiding judge's court. The temporary court will focus on traffic, animal accident, pre-capias warrant, and environmental cases. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 34. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes.
 Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Liz Arraga? Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 36. This is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services to perform traffic engineering services to ACOM Technical Services, Inc., Consular Engineering, LLC, and Walter P. Moore & Associates, Inc. Move to approve.
 Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 36 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Representative Anelo. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molina. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Rivera. Aye. Lizardaga. And the motion passes unanimously. Is there a motion to retire into executive session? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor?
 Anyone opposed? And the City Council will retire into executive session.
 at 1.03 p.m. pursuant to Section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss any of the following. Executive Session Item 1, Annual Performance Evaluation for City Attorney under 551.074 and Executive Session Item 2, Annual Performance Evaluation for City Manager under 551.074. These matters are taken into Executive Session under 551.074 Personnel Matters.
 Council, I'll call you in shortly. May I move to reconvene? Second. IT is bringing up the screen. Second, we just... We just need to display a quorum on the screen, Council, momentarily. Second, we just...
 Thank you. Thank you. I see a quorum now. Move to recommend. So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the meeting is back in session at 3.15 p.m. Mayor Pro Tem, we're on EX1. No action. Thank you. EX2? No action. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye. And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, June 8, 2021, is adjourned at 3.20 p.m. Thank you. Thank you all. Stay safe. Stay in great pain. Thank you. Bye-bye. Godspeed, Henry Rivera. Thank you.