good morning this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday june 7th 2022 president presiding in council chambers is mayor liser accompanied by representative anelo representative hernandez representative molinar representative salsido and representative rivera representative lizardaga is joining us virtually this morning and representatives schwarzwein and rodriguez have requested to be excused it is 903 am
 Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police Chaplain David Mayfield. Good morning. I invite you to join me in prayer. Good morning, sir. Creator God, we ask your blessing on the people who have been called to lead the community in which we live and work and play. Keep us all mindful of the fact that we are not only leaders but also servants.
 and that it is their responsibility and ours as well to serve the common good of all. Grant us the wisdom and courage to know and do what is right and good and true. May we speak out when it is time to speak out and listen patiently and receptively when it is time to listen. May we always be guided by the spirit of community, by the spirit of justice and...
 more than anything else, by the spirit of love. This we pray in the name of all that we hold sacred and holy, all that we hold good and right and true. Amen. Amen. Mr. Rome, can you please lead us in the pledge? With allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, one nation, liberty and justice. Thank you again, everyone, for being here.
 I'm going to ask for a moment of silence for really all the senseless acts of violence that have taken lives within our country. And we're reminded how we need to make sure that we become nonpartisan when it comes to finding a solution.
 for protecting our children, protecting our citizens. And let's not talk about parties. Let's not talk about Democrats. Let's not talk about Republicans. Let's talk about why we took the oath. The oath was to protect our children, protect our citizens, and we need to continue to do that, whether it's in Texas or anywhere in the United States. It's really important that...
 we come to some solution of how we can protect our citizens. So I ask everyone to please have a senseless. Thank you all, and may God bless America. May God bless every one of you.
 With that, Ms. Prine. Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the Mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation this morning is Joe Venteria Boys and Girls Clubs of El Paso Week. Should we elect a Mayor Pro Tem before we go forward, Ms. Prine? Yes, Mayor. With the absence of Representative Shortspine and Liz Arrigal, we'll need counsel to elect a Mayor Pro Tem for this meeting. Can we have a nomination, please? Representative Nundis, okay, we have a motion and a second. Who is the second on this? Who seconded it?
 Thank you. Now we know who. There's a motion and a second to elect Representative Hernandez as the mayor pro tem for this meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? And the motion passes. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez. Good morning, Mr. Prime. Good morning, Mr. Renteria. If you could please approach the podium, Mr. Renteria. Who's that? Oh, thank you.
 Proclamation, city of El Paso, Texas, whereas El Paso native Joe Renteria grew up in El Paso and moved to Hollywood to become a successful actor, singer, writer, author, and producer, but never forgot his humble beginnings in this community with the Boys and Girls Clubs of El Paso.
 He moved to pursue his dreams, but his heart and mind stayed with his beloved community. And whereas he wants to invest and give back to his hometown by bringing Hollywood to El Paso and start a successful film industry that will develop the Latino talent in front and behind the scenes. And whereas Jorrenteria is getting the support and investment of other successful Latinos such as Pepe Serna,
 Edward James Olmos and Joaquin de Almeida to start El Paso Entertainment Company and promote El Paso worldwide as a film production city that is ready to write its own story. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the week of June 7th, 2020-22 shall be known as Boys and Girls Clubs of El Paso Week, signed the honorable Oscar Leaser, mayor, city of El Paso.
 Doing this for Mr. Renteria, by the way. He looks a little shocked because he didn't know that it's officially Joe Renteria week. We brought him here under the guise telling him that we're here to support the Boys and Girls Club. And as a former club kid, he's always about El Paso. And, oh, yes, I'll be here. We'll make sure we're here. But it is in his honor because he has done so much for El Paso and continues to do so and wants to do many, many things for Latino children in our community. So, Joe, please. Thank you.
 Yes, it did come as a surprise. But I'm honored to be here. And thank you, Mayor. And thank you, everyone who's having us here. Our organization is called the El Paso Youth Cinema. And what you touched on already in your presentation this morning is exactly where our heart. I grew up a few blocks from here.
 and have accumulated a lot of credits on film and television, as you mentioned, as a singer as well, in Caesars Palace in Las Vegas. I'm particularly proud of the El Paso Youth Cinema, because as the mayor was saying earlier, this is about helping youth, and we would like very much to change the lives of young Latinos in particular, not only in El Paso, but across the country.
 I happen to have my heart here because I am from El Paso and I am obviously a Mexican. My parents immigrated into El Paso, married here, met. I'm a first-generation product, a dream that came from my parents. I would love very much to be remembered, not for what you said, all those kind words, but for the fact that we...
 made an effort to change the lives of some young kids. In our particular field, we feel that because it is video, cinema, and as you know, all the kids walk around with phones these days, take photos, images, we know what that can do to change a kid's life. So we want to bring it to El Paso. And we want to give kids that may never get another chance
 at touching the film industry and to be touched by individuals who are successful. I'm not talking about me. I'm talking about the gentleman behind me, Mr. Pepes Serna, who has accumulated over 300 film credits, television credits. He's currently on a show called With Love for Amazon Prime. He just finished doing a film for Eva Longoria.
 her first directorial debut. Pepe is in the film as well. And he, in the last several years, along with Edward James Olmos and Joaquin de Almeida, have supported me in bringing Hollywood to El Paso. I'm proud to be here, and I'm particularly proud to introduce Pepe Serna. Thank you, sir.
 Congratulations, Joe. It's very heartwarming to see when the city celebrates their own. I'm from Corpus Christi, and I was member number seven in 1957. I know I don't look that old, but I am. But it was great being a product of the Boys and Girls Club, and
 My whole life has been performing since I was three years old. And for all of you in the audience, and you are more than welcome to come tonight or tomorrow night at the Plaza Theater where the documentary on my life will be shown. And it's about...
 creating stars, stars on the rise. And it's not about the typical, oh, the famous Hollywood star, the singer. It's not about that at all. You know, when they say, I wanna make sure that I reach at least one person in the audience.
 That's not it at all. We have to reach everybody. We have to let every single person know that they are the star. I've done motivational work for over 50 years, the improvisational workshops, and I like to tell the kids, hey, we are all the star, writer, producer, and director of our own life. It is, we see life through our own eyes.
 Without us, there is no world. So we have to let everybody know that they are important because we have to know that they have to know that they are the ones who are going to choose the future people who are going to be sitting where you're sitting and know why.
 they're voting for him and know why there is conflict. Because in families, everybody has conflict, and that's all good. It's good to have an opinion and fight for it and know why you're fighting for it. And so thank you so much for having us. And if you get a chance tonight or tomorrow night to come out to see
 Pepe Serna, life is art. You'll see that I've had an incredible life, and mainly because they took me to my wife's store the second day I got to Hollywood, and we've been together 53 years, and we've only been apart 20 days. And I'd like to tell everybody, you know why? Because I'm scared of them. So anyway, thank you all very much.
 Thank you. And I couldn't agree with you more that the children are, you know, not only will they vote and select us, but we're hoping that they will be up here themselves. You know, they're their future.
 of our city and our country and it's so important that we set a good example for them and you all you know with your leadership to the boys club it's important that they have some mentorship and they have some leadership so i thank you for that because they're they're our future they're the future of our city and our country i did want to tell you something that if i had a documentary of my life i think they would think it's a fairy tale because i've been so blessed by this country in
 that I believe I'm living the American dream for everything I've received from this country. So I am born in Mexico and came to the United States with very humble beginnings that I would think would have to become a fairy tale because no one would believe it. So thank you for sharing your story. And Mayor and Council, before we go, we do have some shirts for you in honor of our documentary. So kids, if you want to come up and bring them their shirts. I'd like a small since I'm trying to look like I'm working out. Okay.
 If they did give you the wrong size, just let me know. These are limited edition Pepe Serna Life is Art shirts honoring his role on Scarface. So thank you, Councilwoman Hernandez for holding that up for us. Thank you. Ms. Pryor, now we go to Representative Salcido. Yes, that brings us to the next proclamation for State Farm 100th Anniversary Recognition Day.
 Thank you. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas State Farm is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year, and whereas the City of El Paso recognizes positive impact,
 The company and its agents have been in our community as they have been taking care of customers. And whereas State Farm was founded in the United States on the 7th of June in the year of 1922 by C.J. Mershal, a farmer from Myrna, Illinois. And whereas we call upon the residents of the city to observe this day by demonstrating what being a good neighbor is all about.
 through acts of kindness and making people feel welcomed and now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and the city council of city of El Paso that June 7 2022 shall be known as State Farm 100th anniversary recognition day signed by the honorable Mayor Leaser Oscar Leaser thank you man good morning good morning my name is Linda and with me are my colleagues Dahlia
 Jordan and Alvaro, and we just want to thank you for this recognition today. We're here on behalf of the State Farm agents. They were not able to come. They are doing the 100-year celebration, so they're at convention. But we just want to thank especially the El Paso community for allowing State Farm to serve you and being able to help you. Thank you.
 with your customer needs and just, you know, sometimes the unexpected happens, and we're just so happy to be able to serve the El Paso community and just through, you know, the different organizations. So thank you so much for allowing us to be here today. Where's Aaron Rodgers? Thank you. Where's Aaron Rodgers? I'm sorry? Excuse me. Where's Aaron Rodgers? Aaron Rodgers? Yeah, I know. And Jake from State Farm. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 And the next proclamation is Elder Abuse Awareness Month. Representative Anello, please. Hi, y'all. Good morning.
 Whereas our elders have contributed to the general welfare of the state of Texas and the El Paso community by helping to preserve customs convictions and traditions and whereas these residents are vital integral members of our society and their wisdom and experience have enriched our lives and Whereas abuse of the elderly and domestic and institutional settings is a widespread problem affecting thousands of people across the country and whereas
 Elderly abuse is grossly underreported because the elderly who are being abused find it very difficult to tell anyone and are usually ashamed and afraid as many times the perpetrator is a caregiver or a loved one. And whereas elder abuse happens to men and women of all socioeconomic levels, all cultural and ethnic groups, where they are in good health or incapacitated in some way, in poor neighborhoods and in suburbia.
 And whereas many of the cases investigated by Adult Protective Services in Texas involve issues of self-neglect, and it is our duty as a community to reach out to people in need. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the City Council of the City of El Paso that the month of June shall be known as Elder Abuse Awareness Month, signed by the Honorable Oscar Leeser.
 Good morning, honorable Mayor Leesner, city representatives and city officials. My name is Grace Ortiz, and I'm the faith-based and community engagement specialist for Adult Protective Services. Thank you for supporting Elder Abuse Awareness Month with the city proclamation. Adult Protective Services is a state agency that investigates abuse, neglect, and exploitation of the elderly and persons with disabilities. APS serves Texas residents who are aged...
 65 and older, or those 18 to 64 that have a disability. Currently, there are 10,000 people who are turning 65 every day across our nation. There are nearly 4.1 million Texas residents that are 65 years of age or older, and 1.7 million people with a disability ages 18 to 64.
 The aging of the baby boom generation is projected to yield an elder population of 5.9 million, or 19.4% of the state's total population, by the year 2030. At this point, one in five people in Texas will be over the age of 64 years of age.
 Last year, APS investigated 3,539 people living in their home and found that 2,266 of them suffered from either abuse, neglect or exploitation. Self-neglect, however, was at least one factor for most of these individuals. Self-neglect is when an individual is unable to care for themselves appropriately, either because of age or a medical diagnosis.
 So June is Elder Abuse Awareness Month, and on June 15, 2022, next week, it's World Elder Abuse Awareness Day. We're asking the community to wear purple on this day and to show that you support our cause. We will be providing you today with a purple lapel ribbon pin. Please wear this pin and talk about why you're wearing it. It's really important for us. Make a difference in our community by getting involved. Be a buddy to a senior.
 We're all connected to somebody who's elderly, either a neighbor, family, friend. We ask you to check on them, especially in those really hot days that we're experiencing right now. Ensure that they're well. Remind them to take medications and run errands for them if possible. Together.
 We need to be the voice for those individuals that cannot protect themselves. If you suspect anybody who's being abused, exploited, or neglected, please know that you can call Adult Protective Services at 1-800-252-5400. Adult Protective Services is here to help, and we want to help. And one day, it's inevitable. All of us in here are going to be older Texans.
 My wish is that one day when I'm an older Texan, someone in the community, an individual, will have a voice for me. Thank you. I'd like my team to introduce themselves. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Ram Saenz. I'm one of the supervisors with Adult Protective Services. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Cynthia Noya, and I'm also a supervisor with Adult Protective Services. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Susana Saldana-Najera, and I'm a worker five with Adult Protective Services. Thank you. Good morning.
 My name is Brenda Leyva and I'm an in-home specialist three. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Melissa Martinez. I'm one of the supervisors with Adult Protective Services. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Claudia Loy and I'm an APS specialist three with Adult Protective Services. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Eric Ortiz. I'm APS specialist one. I got one. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Miguel Zuniga, one of the specialists. Thank you. Jesus Sanchez, supervisor with Adult Protective Services. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Now, Ms. Prine, can we go to item 22, please? Yes, Mayor. Item number 22. And then we'll do all at the same time. Yes. Item 22 is discussion and action to approve a resolution recognizing and congratulating Destination El Paso and the El Paso Association of Firefighters.
 IAFF Local 51 for their efforts to successfully secure El Paso as a location for the 2023 Texas State Association of Firefighters Convention. Representative Hernandez, please. So I'm going to move to approve this resolution. And if members of the Fire Association can come forward and destination El Paso.
 thank you the resolution reads as follows whereas the texas state association of firefighters was established in 1938 and is texas only professional career firefighters organization representing over 17 000 firefighter members and 173 affiliate locals and whereas the t s a f f objectives are to unify texas professionals
 firefighters to promote his interest to pass legislation on its behalf, defeat legislation harmful to them, to provide necessary services to member locals, and to establish the right of every Texan professional firefighter to bargain collectively and work under a contract. And whereas every two years delegates from over 170 locals in Texas meet at the convention to elect officers of the TSAF
 TSAFF and decide the goals and objectives for the following two years. And whereas the El Paso Association of Firefighters IAFF Local 51 represents El Paso within the Texas Association of Firefighters and works diligently to advance the interest of career firefighters within the city, and whereas the City of El Paso is home to approximately 880 members of the El Paso Association of Firefighters,
 And whereas Destination El Paso strives to bring new conventions and tourism to the city, and whereas the process to secure the 2023 TSAFF convention began more than a year ago by a delegation made up of 12 members of the El Paso Association of Firefighters, led by Paul Thompson, president of Local 51, and the City of El Paso's Destination El Paso team, who traveled to Rockwall,
 Texas to promote the city of El Paso as an outstanding choice for next year's convention and showcase the city's in its unique flavor with the help of local businesses and RAS the city of El Paso has not hosted the TSA FF convention for more than 30 years
 and RAS through their promotion of the city of El Paso and all its offerings, Destination El Paso and IAFF Local 51 are pleased to announce that the Texas State Association of Firefighters will be hosting their next convention in El Paso, Texas in July of 2023. Now, therefore, be resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso
 that we congratulate Destination El Paso and the El Paso's Association of Firefighters, IAFF LOCA 51, for their efforts and welcome the 2023 Texas State Association of Firefighters Convention to our city, soon to be signed by Honorable Mayor Leaser. Good morning, Mr. Thompson. Mayor, City Council, good morning. I wanna give a big thank you to Representative Hernandez and her staff for making this resolution happen.
 And I do have a press release that is about to go out that I would like to share with you. Please. This press release was just sent out to all of our media outlets and friends. So we are proud to stand here and officially announce that the 2023 Texas State Association of Firefighters Convention will be here in El Paso. This was our third attempt in over 12 years, and we made sure that we won this time.
 I graduated the El Paso Fire Department Academy in the spring of 1998 and was assigned to Central Fire Station downtown for approximately six years. Downtown El Paso has changed greatly since then, and we're eager to share today's El Paso with Texas firefighters.
 This was a team effort, and Local 51 would like to thank two very important sponsors, Bernadette Sanchez with Delectable Delights and Farmers Insurance, and Blanca Tapote with Blanca Tapote Consulting. Bernadette?
 We have to give a big thank you. Like I said, this was a team effort. We have to give a big thank you to Brooke Underwood, the executive director for Destination El Paso, and also Anthony Mancuso, director of convention sales and development. Anthony is no longer with the city, but...
 Those two were a team that were unstoppable during COVID. They promoted the city of El Paso during that hard time, and they did an amazing job. We also would like to thank the previous fire chief and now deputy city manager, Mario D'Augustino, current fire chief Killings and his team, and city management for supporting us on this bid.
 We have to also thank the local 51 Board of Directors and the amazing delegation of firefighters who traveled to Rockwall, Texas last July to ensure we won the bid, and especially Vice President Pete Fabella and Parliamentarian Jay Nicholson, who drove a truck full of supplies and food to Rockwall, Texas for the bid. I now would like to turn it over to Brooke.
 Underwood to say a few words. Now I can see him driving that truck too with the supplies. It was a big truck. We know that the weight of people's hearts is through their stomachs as well, so El Paso snacks are always a hit. I stand before you today again excited to be working with such an energetic local community
 willing to go out and celebrate our city to others and bring back convention activity for the city Obviously it impacts us all in one way or another but we truly had a fantastic and dynamic team With Paul Thompson and it's it's my pleasure and again, I take this opportunity to encourage other people that if you belong to an association I
 I want to help. We've got a wonderful team standing by. Valerie Garcia, our new director of sales is here and willing to step up with you and bring the convention activity back to the city.
 This is super important. I know Paul mentioned a couple of other things, but the economic impact from this convention will be over half a million dollars, actually over $600,000. And what Paul failed to mention and should have bragged about is that we also brought a state board meeting that will take place in April just prior to the July convention. So it was really a two for one. And they did a fantastic job and the lion's share of the work so it's my pleasure to work alongside them and hopefully bring the,
 TSAP back to El Paso again in the near future. Thank you very much. And I think this is another perfect example of how organizations that are part of our city and our community working together get things accomplished. So congratulations to Local 51, Brooke and your team, the city of El Paso, because again,
 you know working together i think we've shown more than once now that it really very effective and gets things accomplished so um thank you thank you mayor and um i almost forgot i need to give a big thank you to firefighter samson rivera
 He, along with a contingent of firefighters, showed up to a convention in their cowboy boots and hats, and I think they were the piece of the puzzle that put us over the edge. Thank you, Representative Rivera. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for Mr. Thompson for bringing that convention down to El Paso. It says a lot. But there's a common denominator behind you. Standing behind you is Miss Underwood and the destination El Paso. I think what you're on a roll. You just happen to be on a roll. And that points to our leadership at the helm there.
 That's great news to hear that they're coming back to El Paso. It has been such a long time.
 I know during my career, I didn't see the firefighters here and I know PD only had one convention, so hopefully you can keep bringing them to El Paso. And I like what you said about the changing landscape of the downtown area that council has been working so hard to do, to have some success in bringing these conventions to El Paso. So I commend you and I think Samson, we both live the same, huh?
 Thank you so much everybody for doing that great job great job everyone. Thank you so much and like I said it was a team effort we couldn't have done it with without the support of admin and fire admin and city management they they gave us all all of the tools necessary to win so thank you so much. Now you can only get your counterparts to do it too. Yes yes we will work with them and thank you so much mayor and councilman.
 Thank you so much. Thank you. And, you know, I was going to tell you, when you walked up, I almost didn't recognize you with a new mustache. I did not. I didn't know that is him. New look. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Molinar. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor.
 Mr. Thompson, thank you very much for everything at the board. Ms. Underwood, it's a great job. It's great to see everybody coming together for the good and the betterment for the city of El Paso. It's going to make great big strides across the state of Texas, and we know how big that is. People are going to be talking about El Paso for a long time for all the great and good things that we do each and every day. So my hat's off to the Fire Association, and we look forward there. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Again, thank you, Representative Hernandez. We'll have to go ahead and vote. Great job, everyone. Yes, there is a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve the resolution on that motion. Call for the vote. I need a verbal. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. Representative Lizada? Aye. Thank you. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you. Thank you.
 Now, can we recess to take pictures real quick? Yes, sir. Thank you. There's a motion and a second to recess. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the meeting is in recess at 9.37 a.m. in order to take some pictures with this morning's honorees. Okay, folks, I'm gonna have the Boys and Girls Club meet us outside. We're going to take a regular photo and a fun photo, so kids, start thinking of your funny photo.
 the rest of the folks are gonna start first with the first proclamation and the first two proclamations are the first the other two regular proclamations back here in front of the mayor's sign and get started we need motion to reconvene all right we do have a quorum is fine there's a motion to reconvene is there a second there's a motion and a second to reconvene the City Council meeting all in favor
 Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 9.53 a.m. Mayor? Oh, sorry. That brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez. Good morning, Mrs. Prine. The proposed revisions for June 7th?
 Item page 3 item 2 request to excuse absent City Council members That's to excuse representative Peter short point page 3 item 3 move to the regular agenda per representative Lisa Raga page 4 item 7 a revised per economic and international development and that revision is to the term of the agreement And that's to strike out 12 replaced with 24 and strike out a
 June 30th, 2023 and replaced with June 30th, 2024. Strike out two options and replace with the option. Page four, item eight, delete per capital improvement. Page eight, item 24, revise per Representative Anello. And that revision is to strike out lost dog.
 Page 11, item 30, revise per tax office. And that's to revise the district from district 8 to district 2. Page 12, item 34, postpone two weeks, June 22nd, per Representative Schwartzweil. Page 13, item 35, postpone two weeks, per Representative Schwartzweil. Page 13, item 37, move item to be taken at 1030 a.m. per economic and international development. Excuse me.
 Page 14, item 38, postpone two weeks per city manager's office. Are there any other items, members of council? Yes, can we please move item 33 to immediately follow the mass transit meeting? Which item 33? I thought that was postponed, wasn't it? No, 38 was postponed. Let me make sure. So it would be page 11, excuse me, page 12, item 33, move to immediately after mass transit meeting.
 yeah okay that was postponed two weeks ago correct thank you for that any other items those are all the revisions mrs. Pring we have a motion and a second second who's made the motion I made the motion okay there's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez seconded by representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion call for the vote representative Lee Zaraga she said aye you're on mute ma'am
 Thank you. She's saying aye in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. If we can now, would you like to take that item that was moved to the regular agenda? This is on page three, item three, and this is discussion and action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign the first amendment to the Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and Fly Zone LLC. Representative LaSarga?
 You're still on we can't hear you ma'am. We can't hear you still can't hear you. No send the saga I think it's frozen if you could log in log out and log back in. Can you call her in miss? Fine. Yes You can hear me. I'll go ahead and call you back into the meeting and see if that addresses the technical difficulties I'm calling her back into the meeting Representative Lisa can you hear us? I can hear you. Okay, perfect. We can hear you now ma'am. I
 We can't see you, but we can hear you. Go ahead, Representative LaSarga. Hello? I'm sorry. Can you hear me now? Yes, ma'am. Yeah, we can hear you, ma'am. Okay. I was wondering if I could see the presentation. Thank you. On the item. Thank you. I apologize. Ms. Gibson, good morning. If IT could please bring up the presentation for item three, please.
 Good morning. The item before you all is the First Amendment, a proposed First Amendment to a Chapter 380 agreement that the City of El Paso has with Fly Zone LLC. This is the iFly located in northwest El Paso off of I-10 in the Montecito development.
 Specifically, we're requesting that council consider a First Amendment between the City and Fly Zone to decrease the rebate incentive by 5% as consideration for a proportionate 5% reduction in the total investment.
 So just as a reminder about the agreement and the location of iFly. So this was part of the city's strategy to bring in out-of-market entertainment options for our community. iFly, if you recall, came in shortly after Topgolf.
 It is in the targeted smart code development, which is also an infill development, Montesio, a very difficult property to develop, largely because of the drainage issues as well as the limited access directly off of I-10. However, we were able to secure iFly in 2018.
 The agreement term is a six-year term. There are three annual payments associated subject to the applicant making an investment of just over $12 million in the property. In total, the grant amount approved by Council via the agreement was $162,000 in the form of property tax, or I apologize, sales and use tax rebate. There are no property tax rebates associated with this.
 and a one-time construction materials and sales tax rebate. In total, that $162,000 represents a little less than 1.6% of the overall investment. Since that time, the iFly has been constructed, and it has been continuously operating, with the exception that it was closed for a period during COVID-19.
 Through our compliance process, we found that they were short 5% on their investment, so invested a little over $11.7 million, just short of the $12.4 million commitment in the agreement. So here, as staff, we're recommending, given that the iFly is built, it is operating, it is a small, locally owned business, and understanding the structure of the iFly, we're recommending
 struggles that have been faced with respect to COVID. Staff is recommending that we amend the agreement to reduce the investment amount by 5% while as consideration reducing the total incentive by a proportionate 5% amount. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you, Representative Sadaga. Yes, thank you. Representative Sadaga, will you please turn on your camera, ma'am? You have to be visible. Oh, I thought I was. I'm on my...
 There you are. We can see you now. Okay, sorry. Are you on that skydiving deal? Yes. It looks like. Can you see me now? I'm so sorry. Now I'm on my city phone, but you are, are you able to see me? Yes? Yes, ma'am. Okay, thank you so much, Mayor. Thank you, Ms. Pryne, and thank you, Elizabeth, for your presentation. I just think it's appropriate to start by saying that I plan to support this amendment today.
 but not necessarily with great enthusiasm. iFly is definitely a destination tourism business that attracts people to El Paso from across the region and beyond. And I think that the original decision to sign the initial 380 agreement with them was a good one.
 and will continue to benefit El Paso into the future. I removed this item from the council meeting agenda two weeks ago because I had some heartburn with the fact that the company did not meet their minimum required investment under the terms of the 380 agreement, despite the fact that they only did so very minimally.
 380 agreements, the incentives they provide, are the resulting benefits to the community, are already often publicly misunderstood. And individual agreements are and should be scrutinized very heavily. Internally, we have an excellent team at the Economic Development Department who is very focused on compliance with the terms of these agreements,
 Agreements have been terminated before for significant noncompliance. Excuse me. It's something that we take very seriously. It is important to my decision today that IFLY is in perfect compliance, aside from this very small deviation from the minimum required investment. At the end of the day, I feel it would be incredibly harsh to strip them of a full incentive when they are otherwise in good standing. Okay.
 With that said, I think that we need to have a procedure for addressing this type of minor noncompliance included in our incentive policy. For full transparency, what I think would be fair in future cases is a reduction of the incentive amount by three times the percentage of noncompliance, narrowing the triple fees paid by those out of compliance in planning and zoning cases,
 When I say fair, I mean fair to the other businesses with whom we have 380 agreements, Chapter 380 agreements, who work hard to remain in full compliance with the terms they agreed to.
 and I will be working on that. An amendment to this incentive policy to that effect is something I will work on moving forward so that these situations and the resulting actions that we take will be properly codified. Thank you, Mayor.
 sorry because we don't currently have such language in place I think that the proportion proportional reduction we are considering today is appropriate and again I plan to support this item today Thank You mayor thank you
 Thank you. And I think it's so important as we go out and earn the business and the trust of companies to invest in our community, as we'll talk a little later, it's very important to us as a community to make sure that all these businesses that invest in our community and create jobs in the future for our community, that we make sure that they're doing the right
 they're successful and can be successful because if they're not then it really it's an impact on our community so this trigger thank you for
 standing here in front of us and and letting us know that uh you know covet was very impactful and as we know 80 of all the businesses in our community are small businesses and that's been our goal is to make sure that all these businesses continue to be successful and how we can work to make sure that there's a tomorrow for them so thank you for that mr and with that and with that i do make a motion to approve the item second there's a motion in a second mr prime
 Yes, sir. There's a motion made by Mayor, by Representative Lizada, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez to approve item number three on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Lizada? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously. Council, may we have a motion to recess in order to conduct the Mass Transit Department Board Meeting? There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? Aye.
 The regular city council meeting is in recess at 10.06 a.m. Good morning. This is a meeting of the mass transit. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 10.29 a.m. We're on page number 12 to the item that was moved immediately after mass transit. This is item 33.
 And this is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a franchise for Elite Medical Air Transport, LLC, DBA, Emergent Air, to operate a non-emergency ambulance transfer service. Chief. Good morning, Chief, again. Good morning, Council Mayor. Jonathan Killings, Interim Fire Chief, El Paso Fire Department. Congratulations again on your appointment, sir. Thank you, sir. This is a franchise agreement to include Elite Medical Air doing business as –
 emergent air into our franchise this is the same franchise agreement that we currently have with the current private ambulance services that are operating within the city thank you sir any questions go ahead representative anello public comment yes mayor we do have some folks that signed up to speak on this item the first person is robert campion followed by debbie baird rachel herrickson rudy gonzalez umberto enriquez thank you
 Good morning, Mr. Campion. You'll have three minutes, sir. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Rob Campion. I'm president of Elite Medical Transport. We've been an ambulance provider here in the city since the late 1990s. The past two years have been arguably the most challenging for EMS in our entire history. The pandemic, great resignation, and now hyperinflation have taken a tremendous toll on EMS providers nationally, regardless of whether they're public, private, or nonprofit.
 The financial support and staffing assistance provided to hospitals was not matched to ambulance providers. To a great degree, we've had to meet these challenges alone, and while our services were severely strained, we have continued to meet the needs of our community. EMS saw tremendous disruption in staffing pipelines as training institutions closed during the pandemic, and EMS providers had to leave the field for a multitude of reasons.
 There is good news, however. We are in the midst of a steady recovery and continue to see staffing improve, more units on the road, and a general climb to service levels at or better those pre-pandemic. While staffing improves, hyperinflation has presented the next major challenge. Fuel costs have doubled and equipment and supply costs have increased by a minimum of 25 percent.
 We're required to operate more efficiently as expenses quickly outpace reimbursements, primarily Medicare and Medicaid. We have to maximize our call volume to remain ready to meet the needs of patients. As an advocate to the consumer, I would also be remiss not to point out that the rates being proposed by the applicant here today are the highest ever considered by the City Council and the specialty care transport rate of $5,000 is the single highest base rate ever charged in the United States.
 Today you'll be asked to consider a fourth EMS provider in the city of El Paso. I'm asking that the addition of a fourth provider not be approved today. An additional provider will create disruption within our recovering EMS system and will have a detrimental effect on the high efficiencies necessary at this time.
 An additional EMS provider will dilute call volumes, rendering all providers, to include the applicant, struggling to meet the high overhead of EMS, and the approval will also allow a pricing strategy that I believe would be predatory. That concludes my comments. Thank you. Thank you, Chief. Can I ask you a question, sir?
 I'd ask Chief DiAgostino, I just want to make sure that, so if the City of El Paso uses this ambulance service, regardless of what they do charge, they cannot charge any more than the City of El Paso charges, is that correct? That's correct. When we call them to back up our EMS ambulance providing emergency services, they have to charge our rate that's designated by the City of El Paso.
 Thank you, Representative Nella. But that's the rate to the city, not to the consumer. Right, and so in regards to what we just heard from public comment, I have been reached out by actually administrators from hospitals in the area that are concerned about the specialty ground transportation fee that is going to be charged by Elite Medical. I don't know if there's someone who can speak on that, because there is concern throughout the city
 the medical community here that that is extremely high. Yeah, and when, so whenever a hospital is selecting a private ambulance to take their transfers, they're able to
 evaluate whatever cost that's going to be associated with that and then they choose which provider they would like to have make that transfer so just just like shopping around they're able to look at other providers and look at a competitor more competitive rate or cost-effective rate
 Sure, but if this is a completely inflated fee, and let's say a hospital does determine to use this, who's going to pay for that? It's going to be El Pasoans. We're an extremely medically underserved community. I've had to pay these fees. I've had to pay...
 out of pocket for a med flight. They're extremely expensive. So if I'm having hospitals say, this is the highest they've ever seen, I can't even imagine what that number looks like. And we're not stopping a hospital from using them, but we're passing that cost on to, let's be honest, low income communities here, right? And so my question is, why are these prices so inflated for this service versus other services? I don't have the information on that. But if there's someone that can, I would appreciate it.
 Thank you. Next speaker, Ms. Payne? Yes, ma'am, please. The next speaker is Debbie Baird, followed by Rachel Herrickson, Rudy Gonzalez. Good morning, Ms. Baird. You'll have three minutes. Good morning, counsel. My name is Debbie Baird. I'm from Jiminy Ambulance, and we've been servicing El Paso for 15 years. Good morning. Today, you are being asked to approve a franchise ordinance for an additional ambulance provider in the city of El Paso.
 under our franchise application it states that the burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish that a need in the community exists for their services it has not been relayed at this point that your current providers dominion ambulance life ambulance and elite medical transport have not been sufficient in meeting the needs of the franchise agreement and in servicing the community it is also stated
 To be granted a franchise City Council shall grant the franchise or Shall refuse to grant it in accordance with the council's findings as to whether considering the public interest will be served Currently you have three ambulance providers under the franchise that have been servicing the El Paso community Well, we all have been described by the fire department as working wonderfully together If an additional ambulance provider is granted into the franchise, please allow me to give you some insight on what will take place. I
 Your current ambulance providers will face disruption. The market will become oversaturated and result in a dilution of service due to EMS personnel staffing pool will cannibalize, and each EMS provider's call volume will not sustain. We need your support and assistance to not let this be the outcome of your three current ambulance providers. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Our next speaker is Rachel Heraksy. Good morning, ma'am, you have three minutes. Yes, good morning. My name is Rachel Heraksy, president of Life Ambulance. We have been serving El Paso for 38 years. Thank you for allowing me to speak today and we would like you to please vote no to item number 33. If Emergent Air is approved, once again, Emergent Air will be charging the highest specialty care rate in the country.
 I haven't been able to find one higher. Their rate is $5,000 for specialty care. They're going to be charging the citizens of El Paso $25 a mile, which is higher than anyone in the market. When a patient experiences an emergency or a major medical event, they have no idea what the provider is going to charge them.
 That's why we need to protect citizens of El Paso from this extreme price gouging. As an air provider, Emergent falls under the No Surprise Billing Act. This means no additional billing to patients for air transports only.
 Emergent ground transport charges for El Paso seem to indicate they are trying to make up their air shortfalls by overcharging our economically challenged community. This lack of compassion for our community
 I cannot believe and I can't imagine that I would be a patient being transported by emergent air, have a $30,000 air bill and then a $5,000 ground transport bill and then $25 a mile. Poor patient. I would like to summarize by reiterating what Rob and Debbie have said.
 The pandemic has had a major impact on the providers on us serving El Paso. In fact, the whole EMS industry has faced a major personnel shortage. A fourth provider will only compound this problem. An additional problem provider will dilute the call volume, rendering all of the existing providers struggling to meet the high overhead of providing EMS.
 We humbly ask council and the mayor to please say no today. Thank you for my time. Thank you for your time. The next speaker is Rudy Gonzalez. He will be followed by Humberto Enriquez. Good morning, sir. You have three minutes. Good morning, Mayor Lee, sir. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Humberto Enriquez. I'm here on behalf of Emergent Care. With me is Rudy Gonzalez. He's a nurse consultant with Emergent Air. And we have the operations manager, Mr. Walter Koikunkel. He will be able to answer more specifically some of those questions that you have. Emergent Air has been around for 15 years.
 They split off from Elite, who's here this morning. They kept the air transport services end of the business. Lee King and Dr. Jorge Saenz have basically operated Emergent Air in Texas and New Mexico. We're here this morning because the fire department has identified a need.
 for Emergent Air who's applied for this particular franchise application. They've got through it, it's been a grueling two years and we're here this morning to answer any of the questions that you may have. We're here to help and be partners
 with Elite, we're here to help and be partners with the other three transport services. We're not here necessarily just to compete with them or put anyone out of business. We're here to give El Pasoans a choice, to give El Pasoans a service. Having said that, let me have you meet Mr. Gonzalez. Let me have you talk to Mr. Coycondong and answer any of the questions that you may have.
 Mr. Gonzalez, you'll have three minutes, sir. Thank you, ma'am. Mayor and council, thank you for allowing us the opportunity to come talk to you. Now, I first want to start with the premise of what was said earlier as the council meeting started. The city's got to consider what's good, what's right, and what's good for the citizens. Now, there's been some comments by the other individuals here that don't want this franchise, making allegations about they don't know how this can happen, et cetera. The mayor...
 there was also an indication that proof that there's proof there's proof that emergency errors needed you all have been provided with a list a call list where the ambulance has been requested for transfer individuals and there's been delays not only about half an hour but two or three hours now we're talking about providing the citizens of el paso critical care service that is not actually being provided at this time by this i mean
 Elite Air will provide a nurse, also a paramedic, on transferring individuals that may need specific care, such as chest tube, ventilator or respirator, and also isolate for the pediatric intensive care children. Now, as stated before,
 by Humberto. We're not here to try to compete. We're here to try to provide the citizens of El Paso additional service that can be provided by a merchant heir. Now with respect to the pricing and all that, someone else here will respond specifically on that, that we're not here to try to destroy any company or to try to take advantage of anyone. We're here to try to provide the service that is needed. There's been
 numerous calls where individuals are going to be transferred from the hospital to the
 to the airport to another facility and there's delays this creates a critical problem for those individuals individuals that are citizens of el paso we don't want that to occur we want to be able to provide them that service and we're here to give that service and assist the city of el paso if need be to do 9-1-1 calls as well and with respect to the pricing that
 can be corrected and that's not an issue if you have any other questions please ask what be ready to answer but again under the premise that there is proof and that we're asking that the city council consider what's right for the citizens of el paso and do what's what's right for them provide the service that is needed thank you the final speaker is walter kukindal good morning sir you have three minutes
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, council members. Okay, so let me clarify real quick on the SCT rate. So the SCT rate provides a nurse, a critical care nurse, and a critical care paramedic. That's something that none of the other providers provide. So it is a different rate, and whenever you talk about, so that is a different rate. We provide that 24-7, so there will be a nurse on call 24-7.
 that will accompany these patients. Critical care patients, which currently I don't believe these guys are actually the ones transporting. I think the fire department is doing some of that.
 Whenever you talk about the facilities themselves, the facilities create a rate with us and they'll have an acceptable rate or they wouldn't sign with us. So that would take care of that. The other thing is that no balance billing that's gonna happen, that's happening in there, is coming to ground. So the citizens of El Paso will not see that. They won't get a bill, they're not gonna get an inflated ambulance bill. Their insurance, whatever their insurance pays and their deductible is all that they would pay.
 So that's coming, that's already in place for air and it's coming for ground. As far as interrupting the employee pool, we're trying to add to it. What we propose to do is create a school, hire people from the community and put them through the training. They'll work for us for a while and then at that point there would be more EMTs in the city and we've done this in other places and been successful.
 We are adding more ambulances, more expanding the capabilities of the transport service in here by bringing the critical care, the critical care ventilators, the critical care incubators, and things like that. We're also going to help bring in more from out of the area, more employees by offering better benefits, better pay, better training. That's our proposal, and that will help expand more employees into the pool. Thank you.
 Also with that, you guys were provided with the letters from other ambulance providers for the need. We have one of the services here won't even give us an ETA, they don't take our calls. We don't even ride with them. The other ones, we have five hour delays, and at that point, sometimes that interferes with weather, so if we're trying to fly somebody out, we don't have an ambulance, we can't get to there, then it will delay moving that patient for a day or two days if you watch the weather around Texas.
 So that's a real big, big selling point on this, is they will no longer have to worry about the airport transfers. We'll handle those ourselves. And that was supporting them. We also have the list of ETA delays of three, five, six hours on a consistent basis. And you guys can see those numbers. Again, our competition, Native Air, wrote a letter of support because they have the same challenges of getting ambulances two minutes from the airport to the hospital, hospital to the airport. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes.
 Public comment on this item. Thank you. Rep. Ciannonello. Yeah, I mean, I None of that public comment. I think changed my mind about anything. I'm also a little confused. I want this conversation about Critical care nurse on an ambulance is I don't understand what the difference between an actual EMT Who also has ventilators? I think there's a lot of I
 conversation happening here. There's obviously some infighting in between companies. That is none of my business and is not my concern. My concern today is the community in El Paso. There are clearly inflated prices with this company that if
 a patient has insurance will be covered if they do not they will have to pay for that and i you know we don't have uh the ability to tell hospitals which ambulance service they have to work with but this is where our power is right this is where we can protect the community and unless there was an adjustment in rates i'm not going to support this so thank you thank you representative rodriguez i mean hernandez followed by representative rivetta
 Chief Killings, just a quick question for you. I heard earlier that there was an application that came forward. Was that application on behalf of the fire department? No, so just to be clear, we didn't go out and identify a need. What it is is the application is made to the fire department for them to be part of the franchise agreement, and then we evaluate them based on the criteria. They meet the criteria,
 we approve the application. Now for services outside of the city, or maybe this might be a question for the business, prior to providing the transport, does the person, if they're able to communicate, are they the ones signing an agreement agreeing to the price
 for transport outside of the city? Outside of the city of El Paso services. I can, let me bring up Chief Tavares. He's over our ambulance billing and division. He'd probably be able to speak to that a little bit more. Sure.
 Chief Delade, so you said the question is the transport starts outside the city? Outside of the city services. So the services outside the city, when they fly in, that's two-part to the transport. There's a section that fly in, that's one part of the transport. That's one leg of the transport. The second leg of the transport would be the ground transport, which originates from the airport to the hospital or from the hospital to the airport. Okay.
 Okay, that's a separate service that they're providing. That's a separate service, yes. And then the service that we're providing to the city of El Paso, as it relates to the city of El Paso, is there a current gap in services that the fire department has identified? Yes.
 No. There's not a current gap. There's sufficient support currently on the ground for services. Yes, so currently the three services are providing that service. They provide that service in the event that, because that service, it has to be coordinated. There's delivery of the patient from the hospital to the airport for wherever they're coming from. There's the flight transport, and then there's the delivery of the patient from the airport to the hospital.
 So there has to be a lot of coordination in the event that, for whatever reason, there's no ground transport and they can't get ambulance transport for whatever reason. And they call the fire department and we do those transports so there's no delays.
 Okay, so in the event the other three providers are not available, the fire department will provide that transport? Yes. You know, we serve the community. We do that any time that there's a gap for whatever reason because we understand that, you know, at times, you know, there will be no ambulance. So we will step in when there's an urgent care.
 for transporting that patient will step in and provide that service. Now, there is a limited number of times that we've done that. So if we don't have a large number of transfers that we've done, then we feel that there's no gap in that service. Right. So in the event that everyone is busy, you can't, the fire department can't, do you all, if this franchise were to be approved, would you all contact this new provider to provide that critical care transport? Sure.
 No, so the flight company, so that is a transfer service. So the flight companies, they will do contracts with those providers and so they'll do their own agreements as they'll schedule their transports. So that is done between them. They only call the fire department when there is no ambulance and it's an urgency to get that patient when the patient's already on the ground.
 And it's an urgency to get that patient to the hospital. That's when they'll call the fire department. But any transfers that are done between hospitals or between the airport and the hospital, that is an agreement that's done between the providers themselves. Okay, and then without this franchise agreement, can this new transport service continue operations? Yes. They can continue operations without a transport agreement? Yes. And this franchise agreement would only be related to the city services?
 No, this franchise agreement is for private service. So this franchise agreement allows that company to provide service to the community. In the franchise agreement, it also allows us, the City of El Paso, to use that franchise as a backup to the city for two things. Number one, in the event that there is non-emergency transports that are coming through 911 calls, then each organization, each private ambulance is used as a backup.
 as a private ambulance to respond to those non-emergency calls and they'll transport those patients. Two, in the event that the city needs aid, the 911 responses and those private ambulances will be used as an aid. One example is August 3rd.
 In that event, we needed as many ambulances as we possibly could because we didn't know how many patients were needing services. So those franchise ambulances will step up and they will send as many ambulances as they can to provide that service. In the event that we have a lot of events going on, then those ambulance services will step up and they'll provide service to the city for that purpose.
 And what is the position of the fire department? Is this, are you recommending approval for this item today? So the organization has met the criteria as for franchise, so there is no reason to deny them a franchise. Okay, and so here's my position on the matter, and I can address Mr. Gonzalez, if you can come forward please. You mentioned earlier that there is,
 there's a concern as relates to the fee that whatever the acronym is yes and i wanted to clear that because there was a comment about the citizens of el paso would be responsible for the billing no they won't there's no there's not going to be a balanced billing
 And if the insurance pays great, if it don't, that's going to be it. It's not going to be a balanced billing to charge the citizens of El Paso. Can you give an example of what that looks like? Well, let's say the insurance will pay $3,000 only, and the individual pays.
 the bill would have been, let's say, $4,500. Well, that's it. Whatever the insurance pays, that's it. We're not going to go back to try to collect from the individual because that's no balanced billing. As it relates to uninsured patients? If it's uninsured, they can't pay. We're not going to be coming after them. The issue here is not to try to make money and get individuals to pay when they can't pay.
 The issue here is to provide the service that is critically needed. Now in that regard, there was a question about fighting about nurses. We're not fighting with anyone. We're not. We're providing a service that is unlike the service that's being provided. An example, what's the difference between an EMT, a paramedic, a nurse, and a nurse practitioner? Simple, education.
 A nurse is going to have either a two-year degree or a four-year degree, an associate or bachelor degree, where an EMT has six months or possibly a year training. The level of training that is required to attend some of these critical individuals is important for the citizens of El Paso because if someone is going to be transferred from the hospital to the ambulance to another hospital in Houston with a chest tube,
 It's going to require someone that has training to address the chest tube. And sometimes paramedics are not trained to take care of that. In addition to that, medications, if there's medication that needs to be given to someone that's having a heart attack and things of that nature, a nurse would be able to give specific medications where a paramedic may not be able to because the law does not allow them to do that.
 So in essence, it's a service that would be specific to individuals that need it, not to compete, we're not trying to put anyone out of business or compete or trying to
 you know, give exorbitant bills. We're trying to provide a service that's unique and that is needed for the citizens of El Paso. Thank you for that. Thank you, ma'am. I just wanted to share with you, Mr. Gonzalez, my grandmother actually died for lack of a service to transfer from hospital to hospital. So I take these matters very seriously.
 I believe that it should not be in the city's position to obstruct business. In fact, we should promote it. And so I see no reason why to deny that. But understand that there are concerns from the community about the pricing. But you're saying that you're providing a specialty type of service for this community. That's correct.
 with educated, licensed nurses. And so I get that. I understand that. But when you're working with members of the public that are unable to pay, you've set on record that that is not something that you are desiring to do. That there are no predatory...
 requirements here or predatory efforts or intent here and so I appreciate that and so in light of that information and in light of everyone's concerns I get that I get that but I also feel that we should not obstruct business we should elevate businesses we want to welcome your business we encourage you to hire more El Paso ins and provide skilled jobs and if it's a matter about
 you know, the lack of employment, a lack of trained employees. Well, we have borderplex folks in the room. We have workforce solutions across the street. We need to have educated pipelines prepared for businesses. We don't stall business. We should elevate it and promote it along with talented employees.
 I'm happy to support this today, but understand that there are real concerns from the community, and my hope is that you all can work together so that we can provide critical medical services for this city. But at any rate, thank you for your time. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Thank you. Mr. Gonzalez, I just want to, and I know that Representative Hernandez was very eloquent in asking, but I just want to,
 Kind of simplify a little bit. You're telling me if you have a patient that needs your services and doesn't have the ability to pay for it, you will transport? That's correct. And a merchant heir's position is that we're here to serve the community.
 and provide the service that may be needed with the level of training that we can provide, Emergent Air can provide. Is that part of your contract, basically, that you will provide in the jet care? Yes, sir. It is in your contract? I believe it is. So, yes, currently with the hospitals, hospitals are paid last resort. They set their rates to what they feel is comfortable. Usually it's in line with Medicare. Currently, Emergent Air, we do not have a –
 a policy in place to pursue people who can't pay. We don't have a collection. Well, I understand that, but if you ever get a process in place, I'd hate for it to say, well, it's not in the contract and we now have a process in place. So I want to make sure that statement is, you know, I understand what you just said to me and that it makes me a little bit nervous.
 So is it part of your contract that you will provide that service? And if it's not, I think it would need to be because if you do get that process in place, then that would create an injustice to the community based on your prior statement. Sure. And we haven't done it so far in the amount of time we've been in business. I get it, sir. I understand. And we don't have any projections to change that. Yes, sir. But currently, like our contracts with our hospitals, yeah, we do not turn down based on ability to.
 I just want to make sure that that is part of the agreement and not part of the handshake because the handshake would create an issue somewhere down the road. Sure, we can add that, no problem. Okay, and so let's say if I'm home and I call you and I don't have the ability to pay, you said from hospital to hospital, but from my home to the hospital, would that service still be provided?
 We would try and help you get an ability to pay, of course. And if we don't, then it's still provide the service. Yes, we would not turn down service. I just want to make sure that's part of the agreement if the council does agree. Yes, sir. Thank you. Representative Zubetta. Thank you, Mayor. That's basically where I was headed. Oh, and I could read your mind. You and Reverend Onnes have asked the key questions, though. But my question, again, to the chief –
 Do you see this need, and is there a tremendous gap in this business that we need to...
 provider to the pool for those instances that Chief Tavares was talking about where it's a large scale incident and we run out of ambulances or we're running low on ambulances and we need assistance from these for backup or for our lower non-emergent calls. We have another provider within the franchise area that we can rely on to pick up some of those calls.
 And I think it's also important to mention that the franchise agreements are reviewed every two years. And with this one, we're putting it on a schedule to be reviewed again in April. So if they're not meeting the guidelines that are set forth by council and then the billing aspects that are set forth by it,
 by council they'll be reevaluated at that time and we can we can remove the franchise that was going to be my follow-up question on the building if you were going to bring that information to us i'm glad to hear that you are um is there when when and also when you say that you you are given the el paso rate how what's the difference between their old password rate and their rate that they currently use so the el paso rate is 855 dollars and then uh 15 dollars per mile okay
 other than that everything's been answered uh thank you very much thank you so much thank you mayor representative followed by representative anello we can't hear you you're not coming across representing the saga you're still on mute ma'am i think mr prine's putting you on mute i did not you're on mute representatives can you hear me now yes sorry yes okay
 I'm so sorry. So I just have one final question. You know, do the other companies already operating under the franchise agreement, do they do back billing to the customer? Could somebody answer that for me? Ms. Burge, coming up. Yes, hi. Rachel Araxi. The reason why we're concerned about the back billing is we're charging – our SCT rate is $1,100. $1,100.
 Dominion's is like 790 and elite ground is like 1400 and so we do do some billing but our our our excuse me billing is not five thousand and twenty five dollars a mile but I want to clarify something that Walter said to you all if that's okay if I may
 Well, I don't think we want to get in the debate if there's something that a city representative has a question If you all do back billing great custom, yes but we for the majority of the we also do not emergency and we do 9-1-1 and the I
 The non-emergency portion, the majority of our bills are paid by either private pay or insurance, but we do not go back and back bill on the majority of our accounts, and it's on the ability for the patient to pay. A lot of times we will evaluate their ability to pay.
 But I just wanted to clarify something. When Walter was saying that the hospital is the pair of last resort, that means the hospital would be getting the bills. It is not writing off that account. So I just want to make sure that was clarified. Okay, thank you for that. Did I answer your question? I'm sorry. I think it was, ma'am. Thank you. Representative.
 thank you for representing thanks and i i really uh appreciate the last speaker because i was going to say uh a lot of this has been a little disingenuous on how the billing process works the representative hernandez asked about um you know how a patient chooses this it's done through the hospital right and there's been a little bit of a disingenuous conversation about what level of trauma that that is being dealt with here and how it's being dealt with um i'd also say if you just go to the uh
 The applicant's website, it literally says if you do not have insurance, your payment is required within 30 days. You can Google them and they use a collection agency. So, right, this is the conversation. This is how words are swayed. Just because they don't have a mechanism for collecting those bills, they use a service for a debt collection to obtain that.
 Every business does that. That's fine, that's not the question. The question here is the actual cost. If you have one ambulance service that is charging $1,000 and they're gonna put that to collection versus one that's charging 5,000. Again, I have also dealt with this. My husband was med-vac'd 300 miles to a hospital here
 and then transported to three different rehabs from an ICU. I've dealt with a lot of this billing. I've dealt with a lot of this paperwork. And I think a lot of the conversation up here has been disingenuous about how this process works. And this is the last thing I will say. Your city is asking for this franchise or allowing the franchise saying they'll only use it for emergency events. They use the August 3rd shooting as an example.
 Imagine that you are in a catastrophic public event. You're put in an ambulance, taken to the hospital, and then you get a $5,000 to $10,000 bill for that transport. That's the responsibility we have here today, is being able to say these prices are too high for the uninsured, underserved medical community that we represent. Ms. Anello, Representative Anello, if...
 If that scenario was to take place, they would be transporting under the agreement that they're following our billing
 guidelines through us yeah but through other situations so any any anything any transports that that that we're going to call uh for a backup within the franchise area they'll be following our building which is the 800 okay but i still just don't agree with this cost and again because the hospitals in this community are also concerned we should be taking a moment to say okay well who are they working with and what is going on um the fact that they got up here and said we don't bill if you don't have insurance you can't pay their website says differently
 I did appreciate that you said if this passes you will you keep us up to date on that billing and what happens and I'll Look forward to that. But but again, I'm I'm not gonna support this and I think the conversation has been you know Very disingenuous from the applicant. So thank you very much. Thank you represent Molinar and then we're gonna call the question Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor chief killings. So one more time you said as approximately eight hundred and fifty five dollars plus mileage We're let's just say
 motor vehicle accident someone is transported to a local area hospital right any franchise any anything that takes place within our franchise area whether that's meds uh an ivy or anything like that correct but you know since i've been in office we've had constituents call us and so whether they have the insurance no insurance they're uh i have medicare medicaid whatever the situation is but the next thing you know they're stuck
 they're getting this bill from the city, and they're trying to find out, what do I do now? And of course, who do they call? They call their representative. And one of the things that, what do you tell these people after you listen to them is like, do you eat? Do you pay your light bill? Or do you ignore this? Or do you pay half of it? Or you pay $20 or get a new payment plan or something? And it's really, really hard to listen to these people when you really don't have an answer for that. You just don't have an answer to tell them, hey,
 ignore that bill. You can't do that. As a city representative, I would be
 I would not be a good city representative if I told these people just to pay. They're looking for a way out. And it's not about not paying. It's just that they cannot pay that bill. And, you know, we're still coming out of COVID. This is going to be all around for a long time. It's just going to be a very difficult thing. So that's $855. So at $3,000, $5,000...
 I can only imagine what that bill would be if they couldn't pay. And, yes, and I understand when the gentleman said they're going to wipe it off. Okay, they're going to wipe it off. But still, that person, that customer, that person that was transported, they're going to feel like, what did I do wrong? They're going to be re-victimized. So I thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. There's no other questions. And I think it's important when we're sitting up here that we get accurate information to make all decisions. Okay.
 thank you for that for that mr. Pryne is there a motion we need a motion on the item move to approve second there's a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Tem Hernandez seconded by representative Lizardaga to approve item number 33 on that motion call for the vote representative Lizardaga aye mayor there's a tie thank you in the voting session and the motion fails with mayor Leiser breaking the tie
 We now go to page number 13, item number 37, that was also moved to the forefront. What item are we on? 37. I think we're gonna need to break at 10.30 and we've passed it. There you are. Is that what you're coming up for? Yes, item number 37 is discussion in action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a chapter 380 economic development program agreement between the city of El Paso and TransPerfect Translations International Inc.
 Good morning, Elizabeth Triggs, Economic and International Development. Could IT bring up the presentation, please?
 Good morning. The item before you is a resolution between the City of El Paso and Trans Perfect Translations International, Inc. to approve a Chapter 380 agreement that would facilitate the location of this company in El Paso, specifically in northwest El Paso. With the company's commitment to locate here in El Paso comes a $1.56 million investment. The
 the creation of 484 new jobs, along with a commitment to nearly $650,000 in training. So a little bit about the company. Originally founded in 1992, TransPerfect is a business services operation that focuses on translation, interpretation, and language services.
 They do serve worldwide and are located in more than 100 cities across six continents. Currently, they've grown significantly from a two-person operation in 1992 to more than 6,000 employees today, along with more than 10,000 network of subject matter experts in the area of interpretation, translation, and language services.
 I think what's really critical to highlight here about the company's decision to work with El Paso and to consider El Paso as its next location is that they're really taking advantage and building on our region's competitive strength, which is our bilingual workforce. When we are out talking to companies that are looking at El Paso, routinely one of the things that comes up as being something that is certainly an advantage for us, we're
 is our ability to speak two languages. Increasingly in a global market, that's really important. According to the most recent census numbers, El Pasoans identify, 40% of residents identify as bilingual, which makes El Paso the most bilingual city in the U.S. when we consider that as a proportion of the overall population. So that's huge. That's a really important competitive advantage we have for our community. It makes us a really nice match for TransPerfect,
 for TransPerfect. So a bit more about the project summary. As I mentioned, the company is committing to $1.56 million investment, primarily in the form of computer furniture, fixtures, and equipment. They are looking at leasing an existing building again in northwest El Paso, which is currently vacant. The following slide will show you a closer look at where the site is.
 And so in addition to that investment, however, they're creating a significant number of jobs for our community, more than 480 jobs over a two-year period, so a very quick ramp-up period. In addition to that being more than 480 new jobs for our community, what we're looking at there is a nearly $16 million annual payroll. What that means for us is that there's an increased spending power within our community.
 That spending then cycles to other local businesses as people are able to purchase their goods and services. So it's important to consider the project not just from the capital investment aspect, but from what it does for the individuals within our community and from the multiplier and spinoff effects it has for other businesses.
 The company is creating quality jobs. The average hourly wage, starting wage, is $15.66. This is higher than both our median area wage as well as the local median wage for customer service representatives, about 12% higher than the median wage for customer service representatives here in El Paso. And then finally, committing to 80% health care benefits covered by the employer. Thank you.
 Another important component to this project is that TransPerfect is investing in its workforce and its future workforce here in El Paso by committing to nearly $650,000 in employee training dollars over the next two years. That's a huge benefit for our community.
 not only is our community able to take advantage of positions that promote the existing skill set they have, but through this training they're able to grow that skill set, which translates to future opportunities in the language interpretation and translation services area.
 So this is an image on the left side, an aerial of the location. Again, the company is looking at leasing a 43,000-square-foot vacant building in northwest El Paso located at 1015 Belvedere Street. This is the former Alorica and previous to that west site.
 With respect to local incentives, so as consideration for TransPerfect's investment in our community, the city is looking at also investing in the project in an amount not to exceed $26,424 over a five-year period. This is a performance-based incentive.
 It is provided in the form of a 60% rebate on the new property tax revenue generated by the project itself. So again, it requires the company to invest, hire, train, and once those metrics are met, then the rebates begin.
 yesterday the County Commissioners Court also improved a county incentive capped at twenty four thousand eight hundred and six dollars split between a property tax rebate as well as some assistance in the form of a training grant the total local incentive is just over fifty one thousand dollars again over a five-year period again performance based representing a little bit less than 3.3%
 of the company's capital investment, which again does not include the training dollars or the commitment to hire more than 480 employees for our community.
 And so on this slide, just very briefly, this is a net new tax revenue generator for the city, even with our investment over the term of the five-year agreement. The city does generate new tax revenue, property tax revenue, as a result of the project in the form of just over $17,000. This does not include the new sales tax revenue that's generated by that increased spending power from the 484 positions created by the company in the nearly $16 million
 in payroll. All other taxing entities also benefit from this project and those dollars are then reinvested into our community.
 And so just very briefly, this final slide summarizes the benefits of this project and our commitment to work with TransPerfect to bring a new location to El Paso. I think importantly it builds on our local bilingual strength and provides the opportunity to grow the skill set of our community members, provides more than 480 quality jobs to our local workforce, again, with strong wages and benefits package.
 contributes to the local spending power in the form of new wages, which then result in spinoff effects for other local businesses in El Paso, and then finally results in new tax revenue for all taxing entities, not just the city, in the form of new property and sales and use tax revenue.
 And so with that, we are asking council today to consider approving the Chapter 380 agreement between the city and TransPerfect Translations International Inc. in support of a project that will create 480 new jobs for our community. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. There's no questions or a motion. I move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve item number 37. On that motion, call for the vote.
 Representative Lizárraga? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously. Is there a motion to recess? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1120 a.m. Mayor, do you want to recess until noon for a call to the public? Yes. Yes? Okay. The meeting is in recess until noon for a call to the public. Thank you.
 Thank you. Council, may we have a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 12.03 p.m. We now go to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens, and these meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic brought forward be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon, we have 11 members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Wally Sheck. I don't see her in the audience. No, I don't see Ms. Sheck.
 We'll move to Carlos Saenz. I'll call her. Followed by Lizbeth Berkley, Brandon Carrillo, Sharon Bonnard, Efrain Saucedo. Mr. Saenz's topic is Wellington Chiu Senior Center. I don't see Mr. Saenz. Okay. We'll move to Lizbeth Berkley. It's Lizbeth Berkley. If you'll unmute your telephone, you can press star six to do so.
 Ms. Berkley's topic is Pat O'Rourke, Recreation Center Reopening. Good afternoon, Ms. Berkley. You have three minutes, ma'am. Good afternoon. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay. All right. Thank you. Yes, this is Elizabeth Berkley. I'm a member of the El Paso High Neighborhood Improvement Association. And today, like you mentioned, we'd like to address the Pat O'Rourke City Rec Center closures.
 This center was within walking distance of my house and for many years I have been a user of the weight room and attended yoga classes and other things until it closed two and a half years ago. Obviously that was because of the pandemic. And we've been waiting now for it to reopen as many of the rec centers in the area have.
 You know, it's very busy there. When my kids were younger, we frequently used the pool in the summer. Oh, my goodness, it was just packed. I used the weight room year-round. I'm now a senior, and so there's all of the services for seniors, too, and in the summer, folks would go there to cool off.
 This neighborhood, which El Paso High is our neighborhood, really has no other facilities
 and not having access to pedal work, we've been gaping wound in this neighborhood. It just, it feels abandoned. And we have as an organization tried to contact lots of folks in the city, well, a phone call, which we never returned to continue to settle that. And then a letter, which was sent almost two months ago to Mayor,
 Ms. Berkley, you're back on mute. Star six will unmute you. I'm sorry. Go ahead, ma'am. I'm sorry, is my phone off? No, you still have a minute left.
 I just wanted to address that we did send a letter and not just the El Paso High and Season Association, but we contacted the Downtown Church Connection, Sunset Heights Neighborhood Association, Houston Park, Current Place, Sunrise Civic Group, all of these organizations co-signed a letter on the 25th of April. We never got an answer. We.
 We sent it again and never got an answer to that. So then we re-sent it, finally got an answer, and one of the folks on this call will probably tell you exactly who it was from, but it was very a pat answer. You know, it's closed because you can't afford staff.
 So all the other rec centers that have reopened, I think we'll be able to afford staff. And I would just like to say that we really would like the city to re-open. We miss our neighborhood association, and we miss having a place to gather. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Berkley. The next speaker is— We have Mr. Science just walked in. Okay, Mr. Carlos Science. Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, Mr. Science. You will have three minutes on your topic of Wellington to Senior Center.
 afternoon sir go ahead sir well first let me say God please give me the patience and calm me down a little bit in this request or talking to you ladies and gentlemen I am here representing Wellington elderly Center in request and in petition for our safety in hopes that we can get the work done in a timely manner we have been requesting this work to be done now for about seven months
 working with each supervisor director and so on so forth nothing has been done we made this petition four months ago and which I believe and also I believe each one of you has a copy of the petition and a letter in front of it and it has about I think about 200 signatures on there please take a hard look at it and read it
 please give us a response in a timely manner or have this and and have this taking care of us for us as our city representatives now on a personal matter behind this petition behind me coming and talking to you I also hope that I am not harassed coerced intimidated by bringing this matter and other matters in the near future from to City Council from Parks and Recreation okay
 there's another thing which i also strongly believe that the elderly centers and the parks recreation should be divided and under different roofs different directors being that there's too much things going on that are very improper okay and uh there's been some recent changes but uh in particular one person was in charge of the elderly center and some other department which is entertainment i guess and uh
 this person shouldn't be there period he should not be there I'm led to believe there was an investigation going on with him and yet he's being promoted all over the place so please and I'm referring back to the cameras now we really need him I'm led to believe they're doing a survey for something that's common sense they should be implemented the two cameras should be implemented in both parking areas
 because there's where people have been, cars have been vandalized, people have fallen, have gotten hurt, not able to get up from between the cars, and it's happened to me that I had to go out and help a lady, help pick her up in between. Now, if the cameras were there, we'd have a better idea, not only who's fallen, but who's gotten hurt, okay, and go out there and help them immediately. So thank you very much for your time, and if there's any questions, no? Thank you, Mr. Steins. Thank you.
 Thank you. We'll move on to Ms. Sharon Bonnard. Her topic is thank you to our police department. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I'm Sharon Bonnard. I'm also a member of the Women's Club of El Paso. On May 27th, the remains of a vagrant squat were found at the side of the Women's Club building. A call was made to the police department. Two officers answered the non-emergency call.
 There was fresh filth, evidence of vagrant habitation on the riverside side, a river street side of the building at 1400 North Mesa. This is an area with El Paso Country Day School, the Woman's Club Building, and Cathedral High School, all of which are vacant at night, leaving these buildings at risk of trespass, vagrancy, destruction, and arson.
 Although these buildings are not in the downtown historic area, two of them, Cathedral High School and the Women's Building, are historic. Cathedral High School was built in 1925, and the Women's Club Building is on both state and federal registers as a historic place.
 The officers not only arrived quickly, but they also offered to help load the leavings of the vagrant squat into one of our members' trucks because we were informed by Waste Management that they would not pick up the trash and remains of human function for a week. The person contacted at Waste Management also stated that they were seeing an increase of vagrant squats.
 This is not the first time, nor the last time, this type of trespass has happened in this area. Again, I want to thank the police officers who put on rubber gloves and helped move the waste and garbage. Their response and assistance are sincerely appreciated. Thank you to our police department for hiring and retaining community-oriented officers. Thank you, counsel. Thank you, Dr. Bonhart.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Efrain Salcedo. I don't see him. We'll move on to Wesley Lawrence. Mr. Lawrence, star six to unmute your telephone. Wesley Lawrence. His topic is thank you, Mayor Leaser. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes.
 thank you and good afternoon members of council and of course mayor leaser i'd like to start off by thanking you mayor leaser for showing true examples of good governance and listening to your constituents who overwhelmingly elected you to be our mayor in november of 2020. your courage for vetoing the city manager's contract extension twice is much appreciated by myself but also the majority of el paso
 I can confidently say this as a member of many organizations throughout the city of El Paso who have reached out to voters and constituents throughout the city to ask them their feelings about the city manager's contract and extending it. I know this wasn't an easy decision for you to make as vetoing things typically can be blamed on politics, but I knew it would also bring criticism from members of council and we are now seeing that now.
 I would also like to thank you for staying through the end last night at a town hall meeting and listening to the hours of constituents who are willing to fight for gun reform in the state of Texas after many senseless tragedies that came not only to El Paso, but to our state as well.
 I only wish that other members of council had the opportunity to be there to learn about the different things that our state can and cannot do. And again, I thank you for that. Lastly, Mayor Leaser and members of council, I would like to ask you to please consider forming a task force, a committee, or even simply just having a roundtable at the city level to evaluate gun violence in our community and to come up with reasonable steps to address that. Thank you and have a nice day, everybody. Thank you.
 And the next speaker is Lisa Turner, followed by Jason Jones, Elena Lopez, Veronica Carrillo, Vanessa Johnson. Ms. Turner's topic is failure. Good afternoon, Ms. Turner. You have three minutes. Failure. Failure to follow the rules that you have set down for yourselves. You have a code of conduct for the behavior of city council. Yesterday it was not followed.
 Ms. Prine here, before anybody starts, before we start talking, she goes through these things that what can and cannot be said, and basically there's two sets of rules. If you come up here, you have to be nice and behave yourself and civil. If you sit up there, as we saw yesterday with the District One rep, oh, they can attack anybody. I saw him viciously attack my mayor. I heard him make an accusation without proof
 And over here sat an assistant city attorney and the city manager, and over here was someone from the city clerk. And they were quiet. It was like no sound whatsoever could be heard when somebody should have spoke up. Nobody over here spoke up because they worked for who? Mr. Gonzalez, who works for you? One set of rules for everybody or there are no rules. Nobody's asking for anything special.
 Just follow the rules. No more personal attacks from, say, District 1 onto the mayor. That's unacceptable. It looked like a two-year-old child yesterday who should have been set over in the corner for timeout until he cooled down. I don't like reading what I read. What was it, KVIA, the accusation he made against the mayor? All I know is this.
 you got an accusation you failed to report it didn't happen if it was important you would have reported it but it comes down to this you guys had rules please enforce them i expect more from you all i expect you all to set the standard for everybody else in here to follow that's your all's responsibility and if you can't get the people who should be passing it down because you're not allowed to speak
 interact with staff anymore everything has to go through our city manager that's how it was set up something has to change no more of this double standard the council member cannot behave himself then they need to leave just like if i couldn't behave myself you'd escort me out of this building that's the way it should be thank you mr turner thank you mr turner the next speaker is jason jones
 Followed by Elena Lopez, Veronica Carrillo. Mr. Jones's topic is noise ordinance. Good afternoon, sir, you have three minutes. Good afternoon again, sir. I'm here again to talk about noise ordinance and talk a little bit more about A-weight versus C-weight and how the city uses A-weight and how A-weight just cancels out the sounds that are prevalent from bars.
 They use sub-bass, which is very low frequency, completely cancelled out.
 by a weight. Okay? So I'm going to read to you guys. Well, and first off I'll say there's about a 20 decibel difference between a weight and C weight at my, in my backyard. Okay? So if it's 55 decibels, it's 75 decibels in C weight in my backyard where there's no reading in my bedroom for a weight. There's 50, 55 decibels of reading in my bedroom with C weight, thump, thump, thump, thump all night long until 2am. Can't sleep there anymore.
 So with that, I'm going to read to you guys a little bit of documentation I have. And so, for instance, it's extremely important that sound level measurements are made using the correct frequency weighting. Usually A weighting, for example, measuring a tonal noise of around 31 hertz would result in a 31 decibel error if using C weight instead of A weighting. That's the difference. I mean, this is real. C weighting.
 is usually used for peak measurements and also in some entertainment noise measurement where the transmission of bass can be a problem. Obviously there's a problem where I live. Sound levels can be measured using frequency weighted filter which provides more suitable indication of low frequency content for the purpose of evaluating bass sound which may travel and penetrate farther than treble sound.
 Sounds measured in this way are designated in units of C weighted decibels. And this is from the National Institute of Health. I'll read a couple things here. High levels of low frequency noise may excite vibrations in the human body, particularly the chest region, which resonates at a range of 50 to 80 hertz, very low.
 There's also a 30 to 40 hertz of resonant frequency in the forehead and face and an 80 to 90 hertz frequency response in the back of the skull. Try to go to sleep with that. My daughter flew in today. She's here for the summer. It would be really nice to sit out in the backyard in the evening and not have to listen to rap music that pertains to fornication.
 fornication, fellatio, really, really, really, really wet vaginas. I'm tired of it. I don't want to hear any more of that. We need some peace here in El Paso. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Elena Lopez. Elena Lopez. We'll move on to Veronica Carrillo. Ms. Carrillo, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Veronica Carrillo, star six, please, to unmute your telephone.
 Ms. Carrillo's topic is newly reorganized association. Good afternoon ma'am you have three minutes. Hi thank you. Yes I my topic is hello from the El Paso High Neighborhood Improvement Association and also
 to address what Libby had mentioned about the Pat O'Rourke Recreation Center. We've tried contacting the city to find somebody who can help us advocate for the reopening of the Pat O'Rourke Recreation Center. We sent our first communication on April 27th, like Libby had mentioned, and it was signed on by the Downtown Church Connection, the Houston Park Neighborhood Association, the Current Place Neighborhood Association, the Sunrise Civic Group,
 and also the Sunset Heights Neighborhood Improvement Association. We've made six attempts to contact somebody who can work with us to reopen the powder work center booth.
 It took us until April 25th to hear back from the Parks and Rec Center. And we were really hoping to work with our city representative, city representative District 8. We'd like to sit down and find a way to reopen the Powderwork Center for the summer. We understand the reasons that have been given for why the Powderwork Center has been closed since March 2020. Of course, it started because of the pandemic.
 Other centers have reopened as Libby had mentioned, and the reasons that we were given for why the PowerWorks Center hasn't reopened is because it can't be staffed. It's hard to find people to staff, and we're, as a neighborhood, very...
 much interested and willing to offer any support we can to help stop the Powder Work Center to get it open. The second reason that we've been told that it's closed and why it will remain closed until January, February or March of 2023 is because it's going to over, it's going to undergo minor renovations.
 our ask and what we want to work with somebody with and sit down and have a conversation about is how the those minor reservations to the powder work center can be delayed um just push back a little push back a little bit they're supposed to be taking place i think starting in in july but if that can be pushed back a little bit so that the power work center can be open at least for the rest of the summer
 that would be a huge benefit to our neighborhood. My contact information is on file with the neighborhood services. Like I said, our neighborhood association was recently recognized. So you can find my contact information also living with the neighborhood services department. And we really look forward to hearing from somebody who can help
 us in our efforts to open the Pat O'Rourke Center before July 1st. We're eager and we're immediately available to jump in on this and to partner with whomever can help us with this issue and we really look forward to hearing from you soon. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Vanessa Johnson. Ms. Johnson's topic is Pat O'Rourke Senior
 Good afternoon. Yes, good afternoon. You have three minutes? Yes, can you hear me? Yes. My name is Vanessa Johnson and I would like to also address the continued closure of the Padua City Rec Center.
 in our Rio Grande El Paso High neighborhood. And I'm speaking today both as the mother of two children who are five and 10, as well as an advisor of the neighborhood, the El Paso High Neighborhood Improvement Association. So since the city opened this rec center, I've faithfully used this facilities, principally the swimming pool and the gym. And I've also observed all the other activity and my neighbors who have used it for basketball games,
 children's sport leagues, yoga classes, meetings, as a cooling center, as Libby pointed out, for games and activities for seniors, and as a general spot to meet in the neighborhood. During the months that school is out, the center was always particularly critical in providing a healthy and a social outlet for teenagers who didn't have other places to go.
 And it was also an important venue for families with young children who wanted to teach their children to swim or just beat the heat during our 100 degree plus days right now. And we are entering the third summer that this rec center has been closed, despite many others throughout the city having reopened.
 I actually approached Representative Lizette Agha's office in March with a phone call, and I was told that they would investigate why it hadn't reopened and that they would get back to me. And I never received a response by email or phone. And our neighborhood coalition, as you've heard right now, has repeatedly reached out as well. And if the city isn't saying that it's going to remain closed for some work to be done, I just want to respectively ask the city on record today to reconsider this decision and to delay the work until the fall.
 so that the community can have the benefit of this facility for what promises to be a very hot summer. We are a critical neighborhood bordering downtown that is underserved by the city, and we're currently organizing to have a stronger political voice on behalf of our residents and on behalf of those who don't have the time or the ability to come down here to speak. Thank you, and have a great day. Thank you.
 And the final speaker submitted his comments to be read into the record. This is from Brandon Carrillo, which reads, The Paddle Rock Center in District 8 has been closed for years, and our neighborhood would love for it to open again this summer. Please consider postponing renovations until the winter so we can have an air-conditioned place to swim, exercise, and play basketball indoors. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Thank you very much. If we may return to the...
 Top of the regular agenda. Yeah, Representative Salcido? Yeah, Mayor, I just wanted to see if we could take item number 23. Yes, ma'am. We have a presentation. Yes, ma'am. We've been waiting. Thank you. Thank you. Item 23, would you like to go to that next? Yes, ma'am.
 That is discussion in action following a presentation by moms on board regarding the request for the Parks and Recreation Department to provide additional all abilities, playgrounds, shade structures, restrooms, and other family-friendly amenities. This item was placed by Representatives Lizara and Salcido. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Thank you Mayor Leiser, council members and the city manager along with his team for all you do for this community. My name is Adrian Moody and I am the executive director for a lovely organization called Moms on Board or as the community calls us the mob. I am also here with my amazing partner Leila Zaidan Zafa the chief operating officer. Next slide please. Oh it's not on. IT will you please bring up the presentation for item 23. And go to slide two please.
 MOB is many things, but one of the biggest things we are proud of is fostering an online networking platform platform of over 11,000 family members in El Paso. Our members help share resources and make MOB family for families for El Paso a safe place to navigate family issues. Some would say it takes a village to raise a family But these days we say it takes a MOB. MOB has had so much success working with Citi in the past and we're excited to be here today.
 Layla and I are here because we want to talk about our favorite topic, parks. Next slide. Council. You know what's so amazing about parks? It's where it all begins. It's where we learn to become community members. Parks are the microcosm of our society. Children develop fundamental skills at the playgrounds, such as social, emotional, physical, cognitive, and communication skills. If you think about it, children first develop these skills at the playgrounds.
 When children start playing at parks, all these skills begin to form. Parks are an important pillar of our society. They are one of the building blocks we need to have a thriving community. Parks are where you learn to socialize, you learn teamwork, you learn how to take risks, you learn to stand up for yourself, but most importantly, you learn to get up and dust yourself off again. I was at the park the other day with my son Preston, and he said to me,
 Mom, let's clean up this park so we can keep my earth healthy. I thought, how sweet that he had a chance to learn something at school and bring it to the park that day. They had a lesson on Earth Day. And I'm sure that goes for many children. Parks help children put their skills to use. Parks are where families celebrate. It's where memories are formed. It's where you get to know your neighbors and develop lifelong relationships. It's one of the biggest resources for physical and mental health. Where did everyone run to when COVID was at its peak?
 They went to the parks. Where does an over-exhausted parent go when they just need a break? The park. Where does a kid go to escape the challenges of a broken home? A park. Council, what are your fondest childhood memories? I bet some of them could possibly be at the park. I asked our Facebook group of 11,000 El Paso family members what they thought about their neighborhood parks. Not only have we been posting about it, but we've had various community meetings and received community input. What we are here to tell you is that the community loves its parks.
 But families can't enjoy them to the fullest when basic needs aren't met. They want more shade, they want more restrooms, and more all-ability designs where every child can play. They are also asking for more parks with unitary surfacing. It's MOB's dream to have the sand and wood chips a sign of the past. Yes, parks are where it all begins, and planning our parks is also planning the future for our children. But are we generally considering all children? Yes.
 Studies have found that children with disabilities are excluded from play significantly more often than their peers without disabilities. However, it has been shown that children will play with children with disabilities if they can engage in activities together without significant changes to the play environment. Mindfully planning and choosing to create an inclusive play space benefits the entire community because it recognizes everyone as an important member who is valued.
 Inclusive playgrounds become a space for everyone to enjoy, socialize, create healthy bodies, and experience meaningful fun together for every body.
 An inclusive playground environment offers many benefits, including a safe place where children with and without disabilities can be challenged and have the option to choose how they engage in play, increased overall participation and usage in play and community recreational places, a place where no one is left out, where all children, regardless of ability, can feel included and play side by side, a better atmosphere to meet the whole child's development needs, including physical, cognitive, sensory, and social development,
 A multi-generational place where children and families can play together. Here is what MOB is requesting for Council to consider. Upgrade 2-3 playgrounds at neighborhood or community parks to all rubber surfacing per budget cycle. Add shade structures to 2-3 existing neighborhood or community parks in each district in the highest utilized playgrounds per budget cycle. Add restrooms in all community and regional parks. Start with the ones that already have plumbing infrastructure in place.
 Create a PR campaign highlighting the Park Partners program and educating communities on how to take ownership of their neighborhood parks. Create PSAs highlighting this program. A relationship with the Parks and Rec's department and MOB to provide opportunities for community meetings with the MOB community. Parks and Rec to update their website with a grading system that lists the amenities at the parks to include shade, restrooms, water fountains, and the unitary surfacing.
 With all these requests, we would like for you all to consider adequate staffing and allocating the proper amount to maintenance dollars. MOB is requesting that these items be considered for this year's budget and future budgets. And finally, MOB would like Council to begin the planning process to ensure that there is one all-abilities playground in each district, preferably located at community or regional parks.
 We have created direct links to the conversations we've been having so that you can review them later. Please read these comments so you can understand what the community members feel about their parks. You will also come to the same conclusion. We love our parks, but we need more amenities.
 Here are a couple of quotes I pulled from our mob Facebook page. We would love to use our parks more, however, there's no cover, so on hot days, it's too hot for my kids to use it because the playground is boiling hot and there's no restrooms, which means that my daughter, who is three, absolutely peed herself either at the park or on her way home because she cannot make it back the couple of blocks. Another quote, comment. My children have burned their legs using the slides in the summer. Another one. Restrooms and shade. Okay.
 A lot have porta-potties but nowhere to wash your hands. But try using a porta-potty in this heat with children, with little kids. Another one. Restroom and shade are my number one. During hot summer times, I feel like I have to limit my time at the park to the last evening hours because the equipment is too hot to even touch without shade. Even when we can go with shade, lack of a restroom will cut us short nine times out of ten.
 Lack of shade. It's way too hot and the sun is killer, literally. We live right across from a park and the equipment and zip line are maybe less than a minute walk. But we only have a small time frame in the day to use it comfortably. Throughout the day when we can see from our window, kids try to play at the playground but they won't and jump right off because the metal and seats are probably burning them. They are very well maintained but shade can go a long way.
 Council, MOB's membership represents the largest core user group for parks and families with children in El Paso. Our members use parks every day, and as a result, we are the eyes and ears for what they need at parks and for what they want. This community is asking for the bare minimum at public parks. They are asking that their city tax dollars be used to meet these basic needs.
 While incremental progress has been made over the years, there are still many parks that are lacking basic infrastructure. Even the parks that have good playgrounds need these basic amenities to be fully enjoyed. It doesn't serve our community in any way if citizens don't use their parks to the fullest.
 And with that, we would just like to take this time to thank Parks Maintenance for a great job. We know maintaining the 300 parks is no easy task, and as has been mentioned, they have been doing a wonderful job. Thank you all for your consideration, and we trust that you will serve our community well. Thank you. Thank you both for being here, and thank you for what you all do. I know it's very important to our community, and I had the opportunity to go to one of your groundbreakings and see what you all do, and it's so important to our community and
 Thank you again for your volunteer time. And how many, I know you two, but how many actual people do you have that work with you all that are volunteers? Well, volunteers fluctuate with what we need. We can call on our members on our Facebook page and say, we need this, come to this community meeting. We have a board and about three committees. So every month there's about 20 of us just working on these issues and making sure everything's progressed.
 Well, amazing, and thank you for what you guys do, and I know I told you that last time. I thought you were sisters originally. I know everyone thinks that too. Thank you. I'm going to start with Representative Lasarga.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. I won't say too much. I think the excellent presentation from Moms on Board largely speaks for itself. I want to say thank you to Moms on Board, to Adrian and Layla for presenting today, and also to their entire membership for the suggestions and feedback they provided. This has been a great program.
 collaborative process between Moms on Board, my office, Representative Salcido's office, and the Parks Department. I'm glad that they have arrived at a set of requests that I think are reasonable and accomplishable and that will make the amenities at our parks more accessible and enjoyable for El Paso families.
 With that, I'd like to make a motion to direct the City Manager and staff to develop a plan to fund these requests, including but not limited to the possibility of utilizing a combination for the FY23 capital plan and budget.
 and other future year budgets for the ongoing expenditures and or potential general obligation bond issue. And to return with draft options and recommendations either before or during the plan FY23 budget hearings. And I believe Representative Salcido wanted to say something, thank you, Mayor. She was trying to second it, but go ahead. Second, Ceci. Go ahead now, Representative Salcido.
 Thank you, Sissy, for all those great comments, and thank you for Moms on Board and Adrian and Layla for here to be presenting to us. I think you all are doing a great job in hearing what the moms want to see in these parks, families, and it brings a lot of people together. So it's just the bare minimum that we spoke about that we want to talk about, that we want to share.
 enhance the parks and I think the all abilities is very important so that we don't exclude anybody from these parks and everybody can enjoy Them so so I great presentation I also would like to support this item and for us to look at ways that we could you know fund these these small ask And also include the all abilities playground and thank you so much for all your hard work Thank you Nilo
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you both for being here. This is a great presentation. I've just lost my train of thought. I think this is a really good conversation. You all brought up shade structures to us a few years ago. It was really the first time we heard from users of playgrounds because mostly we think of children and they're not really at that age not engaged in council yet. But it's really important to consider other users than just
 your child when you're talking about playgrounds. And I'll be honest, I never thought of that. And so I've always been really grateful to you all for doing that and opening up a network that we can communicate with openly. It's a really great resource to have. And I think it's...
 well past time that we do this I know you were all very successful on your all abilities playground on a scatter day congratulations you should be very very proud of that but that's now a standard and we're well behind because of the work that you did and so right it's time that we we catch up on that and I would also I don't know representative of the sonica if you would be open to this if this is the the right time to do it to amend it but I also want to
 look at our standards for playgrounds, right, for new builds as well. And I'll tell you because when I spoke with Moms on Board last month, we talked about the designs of playgrounds, right, and so I started Googling playgrounds, and then I've, like, since been kind of driving around the city, like, our
 playgrounds are kind of, yeah, it's like a slide and a swing. And what they're doing in other cities is really incredible. And each park has kind of a different system. And I remember growing up like that, right? Like I don't wanna go to the park down the street. I wanna go on a couple blocks away today because it's a little different. And that was a different time where I would just walk by myself to a playground.
 But, you know, I think it is time that we also revisit kind of what our standards are when it comes to replacing or just in general our existing playgrounds. We really need to up our game. Moms on Board has done a better job than us at their one playground, and we are a –
 you know, public governmental agency. We really need to level up and get on your level and be doing as good as work as you are all doing. So Representative Lozada, I was just asked to add that into the motion to, I guess, look or I said it perfectly the first time but now I can't think of it. To revisit the standards for this template. Yes, Representative Anello, I just wanted to tell you that we are working on a future item to address
 park design standards and we'll be happy to include you then yeah that'd be great we can just wait for that then thank you okay um but thank you all again for the presentation i'm happy to support this and and work with you all moving forward we're excited to work with you too thank you thank you representative molyneux
 Thank you very much mayor ladies. Thank you very much for your presentation great job Mr. Gonzalez or mr. Fife if you're on the call by any chance just does anyone have a ballpark figure no pun intended as far as what this may incur as far as You know adaptable playground equipment Canopies and things like that, sir. So I'll let Ben had anything that he may feel like I left out but we have
 We've done a lot of work with regard to shade structures in our community, in our playgrounds, excuse me, in our parks. Also in our playgrounds, we have rated D and F playgrounds. We did several of them several years ago, but now it's time to do more.
 We've also had new amenities that we didn't have before, in spray parks and water parks. Those are heavily used, I think, also by families. But I don't disagree with the recommendations and the presentation. We're woefully behind, have been for decades, in the parks area, and in a lot of other departments as well. So we've had that conversation with the council during various budget updates, not only in,
 only with the parks but also with streets and public safety but we've made a lot of progress and and I think we can come back with a plan to see what we can do for this next year we also recently if y'all remember the council approved all the basketball all the courts to be resurfaced I think 84 throughout the city so there's a lot there's a lot to do and there's still more to do so yeah that's a very strong recommendation one which will work on a plan and bring back to council for consideration
 okay well right and i would i would like to add if i may uh just
 First of all, I want to thank Moms on Board. I also want to just thank both the offices of Representatives Salcido and Visaraga for really starting these conversations. We met and had conversations with Moms on Board several times, including the community forum. These were really good, constructive conversations, and I talked to our staff beforehand to say we're going in understanding that we all want to be better,
 And so it was really entered into in that spirit. I think what was really exciting was a lot of the ideas are things that we're already working on.
 And so, you know, as the city manager mentioned, over the last five to eight years, we have upgraded over 50 playgrounds and canopies throughout the system. Keep in mind there are 177 playgrounds throughout the entire system. We also, and I hope everyone will be excited about this and will remind everybody, the All Abilities Playground at Ascata, they will be very exciting. But we've already got three that we are working on right now.
 Joey, Barasa, and Dino, the All Abilities Playground there, should be finished next month.
 And we have two additional ones, one for Eastside Sports Complex and one for Shawver Park that are in design right now. These were playgrounds that we are leveraging funding from the state to be able to do so. And so I will say, you know, one of the things that we work really hard at with our colleagues from Capital Improvement is figuring out alternative sources to be able to utilize whenever we have these challenges ahead of us.
 So we're excited for these conversations and to be able to come back to the council with more plans on this. And Representative Molinar, I'm a little hesitant to give you prices right now on everything just because every day there seems to be escalations. But we'll work with the CID department to be able to provide the council that when we come back with a plan, sir.
 Yes, Mayor, I just wanted to address Joe's question because the motion is just to ask staff to develop a plan and to come back to us with a plan which will include those dollar figures. So thank you, Joe. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you very much. Representative Sautica. Another quick question. Do you guys endorse or help out DOB? Do we endorse what?
 Dad's on board? Oh, sure, absolutely. We're a very inclusive group. You've got to have some levity here. But anyways, thank you very much, ladies. Appreciate everything. And Mr. Pfeiffer, yes, you are absolutely correct. The climate of our economy changes left and right. And so, yes, we look forward to the presentation coming back as far as items from Mr. Gonzalez and the Parks and Recreation. Thank you, sir. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ladies. Thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Representative Molina. Thank you, Representative Lizarraga and Sucedo for sponsoring this item. I just wanted to take a moment, because I know you all have been waiting all day to say thank you. The way that we bring change is through the power of our constituents and residents, and you all are doing such an amazing job. I know it's a lot of sacrifice to do what you're doing,
 And so, but also congratulations on your new roles on the board. And so super proud of you. Excited to support this today. Let us know how we can help your, any endeavors that you have, any projects that you have. I know that this body is really supportive of Moms on Board and thanks to your advocacy. Good job. Thank you. Thank you, Rich. And on this, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say thank you for the presentation as well. That was great.
 really enjoying to see that you guys are cool getters aggressive and just want to make the the park parks better than uh just as we do sorry excuse me but thank you very much for the presentation thank you thank you so much yes sir we have miss lisa turner that signed up to speak on this item thank you again for being here good afternoon miss turner good afternoon good afternoon mayor good afternoon miss turner i think this is a just a fine ideal
 And I'm looking forward, come budget session, to see money in the parks budget for taking care of all those items. I do not find any one of them to be a stretch or outside of the realm of the city's power to do. You can do anything if you want to. You just have to want to do it. The mob, I've got to tell you, I love it.
 I just see I can see somebody coming up and knocking on say Mr. Gonzalez's door the mayor's or one of the city reps the mob is here to see you and then they're diving out the window thinking that there's 500 people out the door or what is it 11,000 11,000 and change so no it's a good thing especially for those of us
 I'm a little on the grown side, but who are children who have disabilities. I mean, something as simple as this sidewalk out here is like a 50-foot concrete wall when you're disabled and you had difficulty walking or if you're in a wheelchair. You're just done for. They're children. They deserve the right to go and play at the park as any other child. So I really hope to see that money.
 come budget session available because i don't see anything unreasonable about this i don't see anything that would prevent you from doing it other than a lack of will thank you thank you mr turner and with that miss prine yes mayor there is a motion made by representative lizard seconded by representative salsido
 As read into the motion into the record by Representative Lizada to direct the City Manager and staff to develop a plan to fund these requests including but not limited to the possibility of utilizing a combination FY23 capital plan and budget other future year budgets for the ongoing expenditures and or a potential general obligation bond issue and to return with a draft plan
 on options and recommendations either before or during the planned FY23 budget hearings. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. I'll need a verbal. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. Representative Lizardaga? Aye. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. We now go to item number 21.
 which is discussion and action on a resolution condemning the may 24 2022 attack at rob elementary school in nuvalde texas and expressing condolences and deepest sympathies to those lost injured and impacted by the horrific tragedy tragedy this item was submitted by representatives rivera hernandez and shortswing representative rivera please thank you mayor thank you thank you uh
 Just to see how we all light up when we talk about children is really amazing. It's one of those precious gifts in life that we as parents enjoy and remember most and always claim to be the best thing in our lives, which is true. Unfortunately, this is a sad resolution that I placed. We decided to place, and I thank my co-sponsors, Representative Fernandez and
 Representative Schwartzfein, and I know if I was allowed to ask the whole council, they would have signed up as well. This item was placed on the agenda for Pasadena State United with Wally, Texas, during the trying times that is extremely unfortunate that we are now linked as communities of mass shootings, not since Sandy Hook Elementary.
 Has the United States of America been so united as far as gun reform? After our own horrific tragedy here in El Paso, our Texas governor, Abbott, promised us reform laws and instead signed HB 1927 into law removing the safety net of licensing and training to carry a handgun in the state.
 I know as elected officials, it is our duty to continue to advocate for immediate legislative actions to be taken at all levels of government for stricter and reasonable measures that limit access to assault weapons and implement processes and procedures to prevent further gun violence. We must do more to protect our Texas citizens as well as other communities, especially our children, children who, as they stated and as we all know,
 really couldn't defend themselves at that situation that those that survived experienced and those that didn't Are grieving by their family by their families as we speak so early in life This this item also is a message for us to send to the community of Valdia of our love thoughts and prayers of being with them as from our own experience
 to the first responders, to the medical providers, to the community members, and thank them for doing everything they can to support one another up there, just like we went through that same experience here in El Paso. I understand Ms. Turner was going to speak on this, but before she does, I'd like to have you come up and say something if you want to. I see you signed up for it. You know, before Ms. Turner comes up here, we keep talking about that it's time now,
 Time was a long time ago. You know what it's time now to do is to stop talking about it and acting. And this is one of the things that, you know, our lawmakers continue to talk about it and don't act on it. So the time is long overdue. And, you know, I did hear Representative Ortega last night talk about,
 She said that after the massacre here in El Paso in 2019, we really believed that something was going to happen, and again it didn't. So the time has come now for our elected officials, and I think I said that earlier today, that it needs to become a nonpartisan and that we need to come together, and it's time to stop talking about it and actually doing something about it. Right, and I'm glad you mentioned Representative Ortega because I still remember her words.
 being visibly upset in her interview and saying how the governor turned his back on us on El Paso after that incident. And there's a lot of pressure going on for gun reform, which we all agree. And most of the talk is, of course, upping the age to 21 and extensive background checks. So I'm sorry, Mr. Turner. Go ahead, and I'll make my motion after Mr. Turner speaks. If you really want to do something,
 If you really, truly want to do something, then you're going at it the wrong way. As it stands now, we have politicians on the left and the media on the left raising cane about those on the right. Then those on the right respond. Nothing will ever get done because the money is going to the left and the right on this issue. The money the media gets from the revenue and all this by running it all day long,
 They're not going to give it up. They're not going to give up the free FaceTime on TV. This is an issue that can be solved. First off, poverty. Now you tell me what kid is going to look out there and see like the drug dealers have all the money, they have it, and what do you think they're going to do? They're going to pick a life of crime. They're going to pick a life of violence. Talent is easily distributed. Opportunity is not. As elected representatives,
 It's your responsibility to make sure opportunity is there, not just for the rich folks over there on the west side or the well-off ones on the east side. Everybody, everybody. Right now there's a child, multiple children, going hungry in this community.
 We talk about, oh, it's the guns. Children are going hungry. What do you think that says to a child when nobody cares about them, when they're going hungry every single day? In this world, a child dies from hunger every six seconds. 75% of those deaths are children under five. We talk about guns. That's just an easy solution. The solution is gonna take hard work. It don't get us time on TV.
 And if we can't get time on TV and we can't get money for our campaign coffers, we're not going to do it. You talk about raising the age. The average age of soldiers killed in Vietnam was 20. We send 18-year-olds off to war to fight and die. I'm of the belief that if you can send an 18-year-old off to fight and die for this country, they have every right to buy a long gun. They have every right to sit down and have a beer.
 They're not chattel to be sent off and sacrificed in a war. Not some 18-year-old, not some 19-year-old, not some 20, not some whatever. That won't solve the problem. You say take away the guns. You don't solve the issue. The issue is somebody who feels like it's okay to take life. That's where the issue is. That's where the starting point is. That has to be addressed. Thank you, Mr. Turner.
 And with that, Mayor, I'm glad to say that we live in a country where we can make our choices. And in this case, we don't live in a country where we're mandated to. We used to be drafted back in the days. And so nowadays here in America, of course, if they want to go military, they go military. Perfect. Support them. If they don't, they decide to go to college, support them. But, yeah.
 You yourself, I caught a bit of that on the news media last night where you were at, and people are afraid, and right now is a time to unite with our fellow community in Uvalde, Texas, not in a celebratory way, but also in a way that we had no choice. El Paso didn't plan to be part of that group. Yeah.
 i'll pass it to my colleague and see what she you know before she starts one of the things she said there was a teacher there last night it was very touching and she said her um her kids asked her mom her grandmother said they asked her they said what would you do if an active shooter walked into your room she's a kindergarten teacher she said i'd give my life for those kids and that was very that was very impactful yes representative nundus
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I know we know the hurt too far well. We share this unfortunate kinship with the city of Ubalde. And just so time and time again, these shootings are happening. And sadly, this time, innocent children, young children, children who had the world in front of them. And so, you know, we want to send our heartfelt condolences.
 sadness and our love to the children, to the teachers, to the family members. Our hearts go out to them. These incidents of terror, they are happening far too often. These painful events, they leave injury. They leave long-term physical injury, long-term mental and emotional concerns for all.
 We have teachers who are scarred. We have children and parents who are traumatized. My children were trying to plan a walkout. I have a six-year-old who's saying, what can we do to make sure that our state
 elected and governor and representatives are putting our lives as a priority over this so quote unquote need for these weapons of war. And so unfortunately our thoughts are
 resolutions our prayers social media and postings is not enough we need change we need change today we needed before buffalo we needed it before santa fe we needed before el paso we need it now and unfortunately that's not happening and so we're hoping that through this the through this message through the work of our state delegation that we can bring change if our
 If our federal electeds do not come forward with a bipartisan solution to end shootings, it'll keep happening over and over again. We've seen it this weekend.
 And so we urge and we call to action that you all call your elected officials and hold every single person accountable, get involved. This discussion should not end today. We need to take proactive measures locally so that we can support not only our children but folks who are shopping at a grocery store, nightclubs. Everybody in this community should feel safe and unfortunately that is a sentiment now as Texans is that they're starting to feel unsafe.
 But we want to thank the men and women who protect us on the streets.
 who are serving in the El Paso Police Department and our Fire Department. We know that your job is not easy, but we are asking for support for you so that you can return to your homes safely and so that our citizens can feel safe. But at any rate, today we want to honor and always remember those children and every single person who has died from gun violence in our community and across this nation. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Nella.
 Thanks, Mayor. Representative Hernandez mentioned a lot of what I wanted to bring up, but I'm actually going to talk about myself a little bit, which I know I don't do that often. I actually left council early that day, and the reason is I have a very, very good friend who is a teacher in Uvalde who has a three-year-old daughter in school there. I did get word that they were okay. He teaches at a different school, but it was a lot for me.
 right and so I did leave early. It was a lot for my husband. Almost 20 years ago a good friend of mine was murdered at Virginia Tech and then in 2019 we had our situation and people who know me really well know that I don't like crowds. I have a lot of anxiety. I don't go out a lot and this is a part of it and this is something our community deals with. It's something our state deals with. It's now something children are having to deal with, right? There are strong repercussions and
 Well, I don't necessarily agree with what Ms. Turner said. Sorry, Ms. Turner. I do agree that there are other things that we need to look at too. The long-term trauma that is caused in our community when something like this happens is important to talk about. We have a state delegation that after August 3rd cut our mental health funding across the state almost in half.
 When we're talking about reform for guns, we also have to remind them that they have a duty to help the children and the people in communities who have dealt with this. We need to put funding into places to help people grieve. When something like this happens in Uvalde, people in El Paso are impacted.
 you know they feel that again in a way that maybe a community who has not had a shooting deals with and so I just I want to thank you know everyone I wasn't able to be at that meeting last night thank our state delegation I know that they have fought very hard for this community you know even stepping up in light of this incident you know obviously sending all of the support to to anyone in Uvalde impacted directly or not but reminding that
 the individuals at the state that we need to respond to the children who are dealing with trauma. And I'll add one more anecdotal thing. Our new superintendent for EPISD had a program called Hopes and Dreams, where she put teachers, students, and community advocates together to figure out what they wanted for their schools. And the number one request from teachers and students was mental health support.
 children understand that they are being impacted like this and it is going to affect their entire lives. And so I just want to acknowledge that this is something we should also be advocating is the return to funding to help our communities heal. So thank you very much, Representative Hernandez. And I know that Representative Schwartzbein is not here, but he also signed on to it. Thank you.
 With that, Mayor, I'd like to read the resolution, and I'll pass it off to my colleague in the mid-term, mid-choreograph. The resolution that I'm asking for, I will be making a motion to approve. It reads as follows. Whereas on May 24, 2022, an 18-year-old armed with an assault weapon.
 which he purchased the day after his 18th birthday, and another rifle purchased three days later murdered 19 innocent children and two teachers, and injured 17 others during a mass shooting at Robb Elementary School in Ovalde, Texas, and whereas the United States has seen more than 200 mass shootings in 22 alone, with 27 occurring at schools, and
 Whereas firearms are now the leading cause of death for American children, according to recently released data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And whereas on August 3rd, 2019, the city of El Paso and our sister city, Ciudad Juarez, faced a horrendous tragedy that shocked the city, state, nation, and world when a gunman traveled 11 hours through Texas
 just to an El Paso Walmart store, killing 23 and injuring 23 others with semi-automatic rifle in.
 And Representative Hernandez. Whereas the City of El Paso on waiver and lead condemns the senseless act of on Uvalde, Texas and all mass shootings throughout the nation. And whereas the City of El Paso strongly affirms the urgency for immediate legislative actions to be taken at the local, state and federal level for reasonable measures that limit access to assault weapons and implement procedures to prevent future gun violence incidents. And whereas the City of El Paso extends its compassion, support and prayers to the families
 and loved ones of the victims and the entire community of Uvalde, Texas. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso condemns the May 24, 2022 attack at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas, and expresses condolences and deepest sympathies to those lost, injured, and impacted by the horrific tragedy. Pass and approve this day of June 7, 2022.
 Signed to be signed by honorable mayor Oscar Leeser and with that I make a motion to approve second And you know Thank you all for putting the item on the agenda and there should never be any teacher that feels that they have to Give their life up to protect any child and we should you know again and I'll repeat what I've said many of times no parent should ever have to bury a child and
 It's our responsibility as elected officials to protect our citizens young and old to make sure that this never happens again So thank you again Thank you very much, mr. Mayor
 So many of you already know that I served in the El Paso Police Department. I also worked for the Socorro Independent School District Police Department, and so I did work in the schools. And it's very different working in schools going from, let's say being on the regular police department and going into the schools and having to serve a community, if you will, built on four walls. And I can only imagine, and really I can't even, I'm sorry, I can't imagine,
 the absolute horror that a nine-year-old, a ten-year-old is living while they're inside that classroom. And there is a shooter there. And to see, and I'll stop being graphic about it, but, you know, when I go to bed at night, I say pray for those children, those two educators that died in the line of duty.
 You know, we need to do more than everything that we possibly can. We talk about different things about guns, but, you know, there are laws in the state of Texas that protect us, let's just say firefighters, peace officers, when they're in the line of duty. I'd like to see some type of legislation passed that when a teacher, an educator, a counselor, a volunteer, a lunchroom monitor,
 that if they should pass while doing their duty, their job, that they do get some type of compensation for their loved ones, for their families, and things like that. And so I'll be reaching out to my representative, Representative Lina Ortega, to try and pass some type of legislation for that. And it's really need to be done. But we can talk about gun violence all day long, but unfortunately we just weaken...
 It's just horrific here in Socorro. We had five different shootings involving young youth, and it's not acceptable. So I will be supporting this resolution. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Prine? Yes, sir. It's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve the resolution. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Lizardo? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously.
 that brings us to item number 24 and this is discussion and action formalizing the name of the city of el paso open space preserve to read naplan nature preserve representative oh thanks mayor um yeah this is just i know there uh had been a lot of planning on this with frontier land alliance i know there's been conversation with parks and with legal um the the
 the name that they finalized with public input was the nap land nature preserve and so we just wanted to finalize that in official process by putting it on council so i will make a motion to approve we do have a public comment yes sir we have mr rick bonart that signed up to speak on this item dr bonart
 Thank you, Mayor and Council, for letting me speak on this item. I actually signed up when Lost Dog was included on this. But I can also address this a little bit. I have not been contacted at all regarding Lost Dog and would have some input as to what I think the name should be. And I think that when you're naming these things, you want to make sure that you name them so that marketing of these in an ecotourism standpoint will be...
 easy for the public that does not live here, or even the public that lives here, to find these facilities. To that end, like I've said, I named my veterinary clinic Belvedere Animal Clinic because I was located on Belvedere Street. So when you would name something, you might want to include the activities that are available at that site.
 I would also urge you and have urged in the past that the Open Space Advisory Board actually have a webpage in the city's webpages so that when people from out of town come here, they can search for activities that they might like to do. You're bringing conventions here
 I can tell you one of the choices that I look at when I go to a city to do a convention to maintain my veterinary license is what am I going to be able to do there? And these things are widely advertised within these conventions. So the naming, although it may sound trivial, is not. It helps you market what you're trying to do. And El Paso is relatively new to this, and I think this would be a big help to you to
 create these items. As I mentioned to someone else earlier today, say I want to go ice climbing, for instance. I know where I'm going to go now. I don't have to put in Euray Colorado ice climbing. I can just Google ice climbing and Euray will pop up.
 It would be nice if I wanted to go mountain biking, if I put in mountain biking, that El Paso, Texas might come up, that Los Dog Trails would come up, that the Knapp properties might come up. So properly naming will help you with that. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Monard. Ms. Prine? Yes, Mayor. There was a motion made by Representative Anelo, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve Item 24. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Lizardaga?
 aye thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to item number 25 and this is a presentation and update from home a Texas Municipal Housing Authority formerly known as the Housing Authority of the city of El Paso good afternoon everybody
 I want to say thank you so much for allowing me to stand before you. I know you guys are saving the most important things for the last part of the day, so thank you for all of that. I wanted to go through a bunch of stuff that's happening within housing and with home to kind of give you a state of kind of where the city is right now.
 Also regarding our construction and a couple other things that I think are very very pertinent to you and your constituents In every single one of the districts across the city So one of the things I did want to chat with you about it kind of goes into your last conversation about law enforcement As you know, the Housing Authority is very active in assisting law enforcement with training and
 So the Housing Authority, as we did a lot of the construction, has found itself in possession of many units that can be used for SWAT training, bomb training, fire department training. And so we've let law enforcement utilize our facilities. If they break it, it's okay because we're going to fix it anyway. And we've been doing this for like the last eight years. We also employ about 40 off-duty officers here.
 And we're looking at trying to increase our budget to almost $600,000 a year that is not compensated by the federal government, but more cops on the streets to help not only home but the surrounding areas. So I just want to let you know that law enforcement is very important to us. We think that the community policing is a critical thing amongst our communities. A lot of our officers have been with us for like 17 years, so they know the families, and it's quite nice.
 So, I want to chat with you about 500 new jobs, because that's what we're going to create over the next three years. I'm going to talk to you about $130 million in new monies coming into El Paso, about 700 families that are going to have housing that currently don't have housing, and then ultimately
 that we find ourselves in as pertains to the plan. So if I might, as you know, we currently house 6% of the total population of El Paso. We house about 45,000 people right now. Majority are unwed single mothers, lots of kids. A lot of them are working. There's a misidea that somehow our people are not doing much, that's not true. A lot of our elderly don't work based upon their age.
 And we house currently about 20,000 people in what had been traditional public housing, about 25,000 with 4,000 landlords that work with us. So I'd like to talk to you about the good stuff. Let's chat about the new stuff we just finished and the $127 million in quality affordable housing that we're bringing to El Paso. If we could put the video up real quick, I'd appreciate it.
 So the first video here is Jackie Robinson on the west side. This is actually in the shadow of the Topgolf. This is about a $20 million project. This is currently under lease. We actually picked the colors so it's similar to what Jackie Robinson wore when he was playing baseball. And this is a development from 1970s. It's completely gutted and rehabbed. As you can see, we put a lot of money into the ADA so that everybody can get around. We fixed all the sidewalks.
 brand new roofs, brand new everything. And so this is an example of the kitchen. This is actually what we've been doing across the entire city. This is actually a demo unit. As you can see, it's a beautiful community, refrigeration air with Energy Star appliances throughout.
 So, this is right across the street. This is Machuca, right on the corner of Sunland Park and I-10. This is 146 units that is currently abandoned. We have it boarded up. We have competed with and won $20 million to redo this particular facility. This is in the shadow of the Best Buy right there off of Sunland Park.
 amazing development around it, great access to schools, Coronado, Zach White Elementary. It's going to be a great opportunity. As you can see, it's a tired property. It needs a lot of work and we're going to step up and do that for that community. This is what we tore down over at Nuestra Senora, right in the corner of Montana and Campbell. This is what was there.
 And this is the site of our new community that's been called Nuestra Senora. So this is what it looks like right now. This is cat-and-cornered to the new EPISD headquarters. This is gonna be 80 units with off-street parking for 65 units. Access, as you can see, the access to downtown, this is gonna be approximately 200 families that we'll be putting within five blocks of downtown for those amenities.
 Patriot Place is brand new construction right on the corner of Hondo Pass, I'm sorry, of Kenworthy and Diana, right next to Sooyoung Park. This was the bridge to nowhere, which is now a bridge to somewhere, and it's going to be painted military green. It's brand new. It looks just like the same architect down the west side behind the Coles. This is but phase one of, we believe, three phases to provide affordable housing.
 because it's right across from community college right down the street from walmart sam's club access to 54 with with great opportunity poolie you might remember is one of the ones that we fought about for a nine percent this is one of the ones that we were really worried about right in the shadow of the medical center that is 120 units for elderly and disabled families this is what it looks like right now and so inside uh from 1964 when it was built
 this is this is the the current conditions that we're gonna fix we raised 20 million dollars to build that and this is something that's fascinating and really gets my heart going this is a stem facility that right now was the old headquarters to the Housing Authority built in 1938 a trost building that with CDBG money will provide science technology engineering and math to the kids in the Chama's all and in Saguna Barrio working with UTEP
 and the philanthropic organization and the community foundation to take care of the kids and hopefully get them up and out of their current conditions and become amazing and productive members within our society. This is what it's going to look like at the end with solar panels and everything else. And here, one of the most challenging ones is Salazor.
 When you come over Paisano right at the bottom as you come towards Bowie High School, you see this community. This is big. It's over 300 units. Really really tired in a challenging area. Right where we built, about 400 units across the street. But the greatest opportunity to provide a significant number of houses for people in need. And so we competed and won over $50 million to make this a reality and to fix this.
 there's a problem as there always is as there's a housing authority involved you can stop the video so as you know the housing authority we do great stuff
 but we're not like normal developers right normal developers may be fred astaire but we're ginger rogers right we're doing it back backwards and high heels because what we have to do the regulation we have to go for the lack of rents that we can charge make everything so much more difficult in order to do this now we're very successful i'm not going to say we aren't but it's also very very difficult to make this thing happen
 And the reason why I say that this is a challenge right now is that the Fair Housing Department of HUD has determined that Machuca, on the corner of Sunland Park and I-10, and Western Senora, right on Campbell and Montana, and Sun Point, which is in the Angels Triangle, are unfortunately too Hispanic.
 Yeah, I know. That's not a drum roll for a laugh. That is actually legitimately what they've said. They said that, unfortunately, because we're putting minorities in a minority-majority population, that, unfortunately, fair housing under the 1964 Civil Rights Act should kick in. And so the census tract on Machuca, for example, is the area right around St. Jude's.
 So, you know, St. Jude's right out the back door, right there off of Donovan, is an area that is predominantly Hispanic, as all of El Paso is. And it's a relatively poor census tract, even though everything on the other side of Donovan is $300,000 houses plus. Everything by Best Buy is all market rate. HUD has determined that it's not a good area, even though it goes to Coronado and it goes to Zach White, which are two fantastic schools in El Paso. They've denied our application. Same thing has happened with SunPoint.
 Even though there's been great development, you guys built an amazing transportation facility just down the street. We're building Patriot Place. You've got community colleges. The federal government has determined that, again, it's too Hispanic. So not that we're saying everything is lost because we don't believe it is. We believe that we're going to get there. We believe that, you know, as we always do as we deal with all this, like HUD tried to shut down our RAD program in the very, very beginning, that we will persevere.
 and we will do fantastic things but I wanted you to know and I wanted to thank the mayor for his letter of support for the strategic plan that you guys passed regarding housing remember the bubble map and everything else where you said listen this is where we want to go so your Salazar's you know estrus in your all fall into those areas of town that you said you want to revitalize we are using what you have passed and we've used what the mayor has written and
 As support for us, not to mention the downtown management district and all of their work and other areas of town in order to show that these are fantastic areas, that this is a lot of money. Remember, none of this money is taxpayer money. All of this money that we're raising, this $130 million that's going to put 500 jobs on the street, we're all done through public-private partnerships with no taxpayer money.
 So we believe we're going to be successful, but I just wanted you to know that right now that these are challenged. Now, one of the other concerns we have is the cost of construction is going up at 2% a month. And so with the pandemic and with everything stopping us and with the escalation, our bonds are burning off as early as August. So some of these monies that are competitive, it's not like we go to Austin and they just give it to us, that they might be lost if we can't get HUD to move by a particular time.
 All right, now to make a shift. The state of housing is something you all need to know. It's bad out there. And as bad as you think it is, it's a lot worse for the people who are poor. People you're hearing from are probably not the 40,000 people that I have on my waiting list. I have 40,000 people just on the waiting list for one bedrooms. 40,000 people. I house 45,000 total. Of that, let me just make it worse for you, people wait three to four years to get a voucher.
 but when they get that voucher they have 120 days to find an apartment right now 60 of them cannot find a place to live and they lose the voucher so they wait four years to get a chance to have a place to live to stabilize a house for their children go to a good school district and they can't even find a place to live because there's no apartments i don't know if you know but there's a lot of people moving to el paso that are that are taking up some of the housing opportunities that used to be here back when we did a housing study
 We said that we were 3,000 affordable housing units short by 2025. Those numbers are now woefully short. The amount of housing that you need has increased precipitously. I will let you know, just for example, not that there's anything wrong with this, I just want to say it, but the greatest number of people moving to Texas from California are coming to El Paso. They're not going to Austin. They're not going to Dallas. They're coming here.
 That's one of the reasons why your housing crunch is happening. That's one of the reasons why you're seeing massive changes as quickly as they're happening. Now, home can only do so much. We only have so many resources. These 700 units that we're trying to build are additional units that we've been able to create through RAD. The only reason why we can do a pulley, for example, this is only a benefit to a pandemic.
 is that everything shut down and the federal government gave us money for public housing that we couldn't convert. And that money is going to be used to address the financing shortages on the bonds. Otherwise, Pooley couldn't even be a reality. So as I talk to you, we are statutorily obligated, because we are a government entity, as a housing authority inside the city, to provide you information as to what is occurring inside the jurisdiction that you all oversee.
 So, I am going to work with HRNA again to do another study for housing for El Paso. And I would like to bring that to you, and I would hope that we could probably have further conversations about what the needs are for El Paso and how we can look at it. Because a lot of the housing and the demand is not just what you're seeing, but at the lower level it's getting critical. For example, you have a home ownership plan in the city.
 And it's for basically houses under $150,000, $160,000. With a housing authority, they can actually use a voucher to help pay that mortgage. With the amount of stock that's out there, it won't even pass the environmental. They even have the ability to even buy a house. Our housing acquisition for homeownership is basically zero. So we're going to try to alleviate what we can.
 how we can but we are limited in what we can do we're a non-taxing entity we can only do what we can do through public-private partnerships I would ask that that as you move forward with strategic planning future budgeting that we could we could have these conversations see where other cities do to try to address the particular need because it is it is significant
 So we got great stuff happening, federal governments trying to make it a little bit more difficult, but we'll get there and we'll have amazing things occur. Just like we did with opening all the UMC clinics at our elderly facility in a partnership, and Mayor thanks for coming and speaking at it. The county judge was there and so was Mr. Cintron, to take healthcare from the hospitals and put it right where the people are living. And with that, I'll open myself up to questions. Thank you. Thank you. I just want to make a few comments.
 i think you and i had this conversation before it's not affordable housing it's quality homes quality housing and i mean by that pictures you showed us it's very evident that it is quality housing and that's what our citizens deserve and then one of the good news that you know you always say there's a problem and i knew it wouldn't be you without a problem so i'm glad you didn't let me down here for a minute
 But the good thing is that the price of lumber is the lowest it's been in 2022. And we're in June, so it looks like the trend, and while you were talking, I was making sure of my information. And it looks like the trend is going in the right direction when it talks to, you know, the price of homes because the lumber is starting to adjust a little bit. And it is the lowest it's been all year. So that's good news. See, we do have good news for you.
 we do thank you mayor appreciate it thank you and thank you for what you do and thank you for for um working really close with us absolutely representative molinar followed by representative i should say mayor pro tem adnandus
 Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Jerry, thank you very much. Presentation, great use of the drones. And so a couple of things. So I just want to be sure I don't think Representative Bennett and I heard correctly. I'm going to talk about the Sunpoint Apartments. For those who don't know, approximately 4,700 block of Hondo Pass. And it's right on the dividing line between District 2 and District 4. But the purpose that the federal government is giving you is what?
 So it was denied based upon it being too Hispanic. Too Hispanic. And then the census tract, they talked about the poverty rate.
 And because they they came back to us back and forth and well I mean obviously with the new development with the Walmart opening with a lot of opportunity being placed there with the the Transportation quarter created by the city. I Think it's a great area to build. I mean access to 54 and so we're very optimistic We are partnering with Penrose on that. We have all the financing lined up. We've got all the money people lined up We're ready to go. We just need HUD to say yes, and we'll probably start construction the next day. I
 And so what do you need from the federal government for them to finally say yes? They need to retake a look at – so we resubmitted.
 OUR APPLICATION FOR THE SITE NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARDS, WHICH IS UNDER FAIR HOUSING, AND HAVE THEM REVIEW IT AND SAY, YES, THAT IT IS A GREAT COMMUNITY AND WE SHOULD BUILD IT. AND WHAT IS THE TIMELINE ON THAT, MORE OR LESS? SO THAT ONE IS CHALLENGING. BECAUSE IT GETS REALLY, REALLY COMPLICATED. BUT YOU HAVE TO BE PLACED IN SERVICE BY JANUARY 31, WHICH MEANS YOU BASICALLY HAVE AROUND 18 MONTHS TO DO ALL THE CONSTRUCTION.
 18 months to do all the construction on a rehab, because you have to gut it down to the studs, you have to get rid of all the asbestos, all the lead-based paint, and then rebuild everything. You're looking at a very tight timeframe.
 And so I'm thinking if we can't get up and going in the next 60 days, 70 days, that it's going to be a challenge to get across that finish line. Okay. Let's move on to Patriot Place. I know you mentioned right now phase one. Do you have a tentative date for a grand opening celebration or anything like that, Reverend Cunningham? So, yes. By the end of this year, Patriot Place will be beginning leasing and open. Hopefully the wait list will be open in the next 30 days.
 And that one's on track. It's on schedule. Obviously, the budget with lumber and everything else is difficult. With the other ones, remember, say the cost of commodities comes down, the cost of money is going up.
 So as interest rates go up, unfortunately, it's costing more, even though the cost of the product itself is going down. So Patriot Place will be open by January 1 of next year, sir. Thank you. And last question is, can you give us a brief update at the 5200 block of Lou Brock that's located in District 4 off Sean Haggrey or Russian? The address? 5200 block of Lou Brock. I don't know what that community's name is. Do you have a community name? No.
 It was a baseball player, but it's over in District 4, like near Rushing and Sean Haggerty. What's the name of the community? What's the name of the community? I believe it's Jose Cisneros. Oh, Cisneros. Yeah. Cisneros. Oh, yeah. So that one HUD made us split. We had together with Gonzales, which is another community over by the Tegua Reservation. We were –
 The federal government refused to let us do it as one transaction, which would have been a lot cheaper and a lot easier because of proximity. So we had to break the transaction into two, and we should be beginning construction on that probably in the next 60 days. How many days? 60. 60 days. All right. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Mullen. I'll represent the Fednundus. Thank you. Thank you.
 So just wanted to say thank you for being here. I think that the Housing Authority is doing nothing short but remarkable in this community. You all have done amazing transformations and giving opportunities for families, the same opportunities that everyone else has supported too. I just wanted to ask regarding the statistics.
 um you mentioned 3 000 by 2025 do you have updated numbers on the shortage of housing rentals i don't that's why we're gonna go back out and do another study okay um there was another statistic um that went beyond 2025 do you remember what that shortage was for i believe there was a longer term statistic i don't remember uh i can pull that information and get it and get it back to you if you want me to
 No, I think it's really important right now as we're going into the budget season and we're trying to understand what the housing crisis is because I do understand there's a shortage of...
 I am hearing from the public that you know rent is going up and there's just no availability Within the proximity to their neighborhoods and so they're having to go beyond their neighborhoods So just to have an understanding of that. I know that we partnered with you in the past and so I would like to see Something in tandem with the city to get that information because it is critical for our community But at any rate, thank you for all the work that you're doing very remarkable work. I
 Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Representative Arnella. Hey, Jerry. So you just told Representative Molinar that if you don't have funding for the location at Hondo Pass or you don't start construction in 60 days, you think it's going to be a problem? And this is the first we're hearing about it. Yeah, they just denied it. It just happened in the last 14, 21 days. Is the property on Dyer also impacted by this? I'm sorry, I couldn't hear you, ma'am. Is the property on Dyer also impacted? No.
 So no, the property on Dyer is something completely different. And so that one we're going to try to fund and do something different.
 okay i mean we've been waiting on that property uh since 2017 when for some reason the former district 4 representative and the mayor decided to pull that even though they didn't represent the area so still a little uh impatiently waiting on that yeah we're still working and as you know with with development it's very very difficult things keep changing especially when you're dealing with with the federal government it gets it gets difficult but again we're still committed to redoing the entire parcel uh we've torn down that uh old bar
 that was dilapidated. It was very problematic. We've also provided security at night. So between 8 p.m. and 4 every morning, we have a security guard on site at that location
 Well good for us that the new regional HUD secretary grew up in the Northeast so I'm sure that you have reached out to her For some assistance on this. Yes. I've seen her in person Well eager to see these projects I also would love to get some updates on the new portions of district 2 and some of the housing authorities South central that are now reside in my district. So we'll reach out sure thing. Absolutely. Thank you representative South Cedar. I
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Jerry, for such a great presentation. I definitely have actually seen some of the projects that you've rehabbed, and they look great. I grew up in the Eisenhowers, and I don't recognize them anymore, so you all really do put a lot of...
 investment and making them actually look better and they look a lot nicer from what I remember so I think you all are doing a great job in addressing that in our community I know you mentioned that you want to talk a little bit more about doing a study yes so I mean as you know so housing is a critical part it's not just critical to from an affordable housing perspective right because once you're once you're rent burdened you'll never get out of poverty
 I mean, if all of your money is going to rent, like, I mean, it gets really, really difficult, especially if you're jumping from place to place, trying to find an apartment, destabilizing your kids. But there's a second thing. Housing is also economic development. They go together. That's why if you look at the Amazon location, that there's all this multifamily housing being built next to it. And then from that also spurs all kinds of different economic development in the area, right, from restaurants and eateries and other different things, right?
 And so as we think about housing, we need to think about housing and economic development as a symbiotic relationship that ultimately drives other things. And with that, so for example, right, you're working on housing in downtown. Obviously, it's difficult to do housing downtown. As you know, Blue Flame was very, very difficult. Parking is difficult. There's a lot of different issues. But Uptown is not very far away.
 But as you start to do it, as the city starts to put infrastructure, it makes more and more sense to do multifamily housing where before you couldn't do so. But some of the properties, like this one called Nuestra Senora, is very expensive to do, almost more difficult to do than Blue Flame. And so as we think about housing and as we think about the economic development that surrounds housing, we also have to think about the overall cost and the impact upon the developers in order to make this a reality.
 because there's only so many dollars, right? There's only so much that you can do with the money that you can raise in rents. But a relationship between public-private partnerships, even more like a municipal partnership, whether it's a tiger grant with parking or whatever, can alleviate a lot of the burden that would go in upon doing housing, which would then spur different locations. For example, another amazing location that you have is 911 Rainer at Five Points. You've already got an organic living...
 Area around it and that could be augmented with parking and with multifamily in the particular area, right? It's these type of things that as we as we have these conversations that can lead to great economic impacts not only Not only for the individual restaurants, but for also the tax base and also for the community as well. I
 Great. Those are great suggestions. I'm actually, like you mentioned, looking forward to sitting down with you, talking a little bit more what you kind of see housing authority expanding. Also, more in particular, District 5, kind of seeing the needs of District 5, if there's any. And, yeah, just having a conversation with you about further. I'm available any time, ma'am. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. And with that, we appreciate your time, sir. Thank you so much. Thank you for everything you've done. Thank you for all of your time. If anybody needs me, just feel free. Call over at the Housing Authority. I'm the only, or home, I'm the only Jerry there. Thank you. Thank you so much. Take care. Bye-bye. That brings us to item number 26 on the agenda, and this is a council briefing from the Bond Overview Advisory Committee. And this is Jerry DeMuro. How are you, sir? He wasn't the only Jerry in the room. Just a second.
 Anyway, the chair of the Bond Overview Advisory Committee is here today to brief council on the progress on meeting our quality of life issues. I should also mention that another BOAC member is also in the audience, Dr. Richard Bonhart. Thank you. This is Rudy Barba from- Thank you, council, district members. I appreciate your time. I appreciate your service. If we could bring up the presentation, please. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Thank you.
 Thank you. As Jerry said, I'm here to represent the BOAC, the Bond Overview Advisory Committee. The presentation is broken up into four basic parts. As you all know, in 2012, the governing resolutions for the BOAC are for us to advise and help city staff for expenditures and implementation of the program. And this is a current list of BOAC members.
 I'll leave it up there for a couple of seconds. This is a summary by category, basically by department of the funds for the budget and contracted work that has been completed, expenses, and the balance that's left. To date, there's been 169 projects completed. The history of those projects is shown on this graph along with the funding that has gone along with those projects.
 To date, it's just over 248 million, or almost 249 million. With 169 projects, there's a long list, so I've got a few pages of projects listed. I won't bother reading them. As pictures are worth a thousand words, there's a lot of pictures for these projects. There's more images of the projects that have been completed around the city. Continuing the list of 169, there's more photos of the different projects
 The list continues. Here are other images of different projects across El Paso, continued with more photos. And if you haven't seen some of these facilities or been in some of them, you ought to. They're amazing facilities. You all have done a lot of really good work. I have to compliment city staff that we work with at our BOAC meetings and all across the city that have allowed these projects to continue. Here's a quick snapshot of where we're at today with the projects.
 Again, we've spent the $248 million. We've got one project on hold. Under construction, there's 23 projects worth just over $92 million. Excuse me, let me get my glasses. And there are five projects in bidding at almost $3 million worth of value. And the projects in pre-design and design are 27 at almost $35.4 million. Here's a few other images of some of the projects.
 There's a partial list of the 25 projects that are in pre-design or in design that city staff is currently working on. Approximately the second half of that list and down at the bottom the project that's on hold. Again, currently the five projects that are in the bidding phase and the projects that are currently in construction. One point that we wanted to bring out is how much the city has done in the last couple years.
 this is a list of projects completed in 2021 and 2022 and representing the boac the boy wanted to make sure you all knew um how well city staff has been doing their their abilities to pivot and to effectively make the decisions on the funding that that we have for these projects there's a summary here i don't want to bore everyone reading them a couple of highlights
 at the Pataroq Recreation Center, looking at what's actually happening and what's actually being used and taking funds from the racquetball courts to focus more on the pool and improvement areas. There's different issues like that throughout the program that they've been able to better serve our community. And there are another few examples, and there's many more than what's listed here,
 And as you know, we've all been affected by COVID many different ways, some more seriously than others. For the city, bottom line, there's a lot more cost that's been brought on by COVID. You all know it as much as anyone else does. A few of the recent recommendations that BOAC has made, we requested of city staff that they take 3 million from the quality of life acquisition fund to purchase the 1100 acres.
 of land at Northeast El Paso. We've had a lot of discussions on the mountain to river trail and trying to focus so that we get the best value. And instead of spending money on paving, trying to keep some natural terrain. Let's see, and there's a few other examples here. The city listened to us when we asked them to redesign the Bear Ridge Trailhead. They've done the best possible. They keep listening to BOAC. It's basically listening to the community.
 And with that, that's the end of the presentation. To give you an update from the BOAC. Is there any questions? We have no questions. And we do appreciate your time and your service. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Any public comment? Yes, Mayor. We have two individuals that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Lisa Turner. No. She says no. No. Then we'll go with Mr. Rick Bonert. He says no, huh?
 I said I'm going to keep you here another hour. And IT will need the Elmo. Dr. Bonart will be using the Elmo for this presentation. Welcome back, Dr. Bonart.
 Thank you for your time. I think the overarching theme that you hear from everybody that makes presentations here is how scant the dollars are and how important it is to spend those dollars responsibly and to get the biggest bang for the buck. And to that end, I would like to make a little presentation to you. Most of the recommendations that you saw were
 on one slide, I think I can do a better job of maybe honing in on what those recommendations are, how they would benefit the community, and why there's money already available to do them as long as we spend those dollars wisely. So the first slide, if you'll turn on the Elmo, I guess. It's interesting. Yeah. So
 i guess one of my complaints too is long going that we can't submit powerpoints to you guys as the members of the public which is kind of sad because this is what you're reduced to seeing if you can read that one of the most important parts of what we're supposed to do is to provide new information regarding project expenditures and implementation of the project
 This is from the bond ordinance itself, and I want to highlight a couple of things in there. For some reason, the use of the money has been transformed from trails and trailhead expenditures to paved trails. Nowhere in this ordinance or in what people voted for in 2012 was only for paved trails. Now, I don't have a problem for the public.
 for the things that you've already done. I'm not asking you to rebate those dollars, but what I would like to do is use some of the remaining funds and concentrate on some amenities that are natural that other user groups might like.
 And so these were the recommendations that you were presented to earlier. I won't go over them, but I'll deal with them one at a time, which was of course the $3 million for the Northeast. It's kind of a moot point at this time. So we need to reprogram those funds to some other open space opportunities. The second issue is the mountain to river trail, I believe. If you'll pull the next slide up and
 That's it right there. And this was a presentation that showed the natural open space through that area that's available to be used. And for us to concentrate on this is what the recommendation was. Now what I'm concerned about is, which shows what you're actually trying to do is still concentrating on a paved trail.
 Why are we going after money for a paved trail when there are other opportunities? Thank you, sir. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to have a motion to suspend the rules to give Dr. Bollinger some more time. You know, I think we ought to be careful when we do stuff like that because then that becomes the rule and not the exception. Okay.
 i think we're going to be real careful when we do that dr bonad i think we how much longer do you have left just a very few minutes minutes or seconds three three minutes huh three three more minutes yeah i don't think you should do that either that from now on we need to give everybody in the public six minutes all right well thank you thank you that's it but i'm sorry that brings us to the first reading of ordinances these are items 27 to 30. second
 There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 27 to 30. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Lizárraga? Aye. Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present. We now turn to page number 11, item number 31.
 And this is discussion in action on the award of task order 6B-1 for solicitation 2021-0811, Fire Station 21, renovation to Valise Company, LLC. Move to approve. Yes, please. There is a motion made by Representative Hernández-Equinez by Representative Molinar to approve item number 31 on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Lizárraga.
 Aye. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present. Item number 32 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022-0574 on call demolition to Alamo Environmental Inc., DBA Alamo 1. Mayor, I just have a quick question. I'm sorry if this was already repeated. Are the facilities already selected?
 for this contract or is this just an on-call contract? Jared Miro with Capital Improvement. This is strictly an on-call contract. Typically it's used for buildings that are falling down or insecure. They call them bored and secured and the building commission typically recommends
 demolition of those buildings then we recover the cost through either a lien on the property or directly from the owner this action doesn't approve the demolition of those facilities it just approved it approves the contract for demolition okay does not approve any facilities but the list of facilities is that already predetermined no it is not okay thank you move to approve there is a motion made by representative Hernandez
 Alternate Mayor Potemar-Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item number 32. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Lizada? Aye. Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously, Representative Salcido not present. The next item is number 36.
 and this is discussion and action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to sign a chapter 380 economic development program agreement between the city of el paso and chaplain cable texas corporation a wyoming corporation miss gibson welcome yes sir elizabeth triggs with economic and international development
 The item before you is the second resolution today authorizing the city manager to sign a chapter 380 agreement between the city of El Paso and Champlain Cable. If IT could please. Thank you. So under this agreement, Champlain Cable is looking to expand its high performance wire and cable manufacturing capabilities in our region by expanding their wire mill facility located in the Mission Valley area of El Paso.
 What this does for us is it not only adds jobs to our region, new investment to our region, but it also adds to the supply chain within the advanced manufacturing industry cluster, a strategy that Council has taken a number of actions on recently to really push forward the growth of that industry cluster in our region, including authorizing our participation in a regional bid for a $100 million grant.
 to advance the growth of that cluster with a focus on aerospace and defense manufacturing. And as you'll see in this presentation, Champlain Cable is a really unique company for our region. The majority of the work that they do here in El Paso supplies auto and commercial vehicle manufacturers with a focus on electric vehicle manufacturers. And so having that supplier here in El Paso does a lot for us.
 when we're looking to attract companies that are also involved in electric vehicle manufacturing. In addition, Champlain Cable supplies the Navy with the communications wiring necessary for its naval ships. So again, another place where there's opportunity for growth, especially in the defense manufacturing area for us.
 So a little bit more about the company. It was originally founded in 1955. It currently has a total of 227 employees company-wide. All of their products are manufactured in the U.S. About 70 of those 227 employees are located here in El Paso. As I mentioned before, they're a manufacturer of high-performance wire and cable service serving markets.
 They serve the EV manufacturers, including several such as Tesla. They're also a military, specifically the Navy supplier, as well as other commercial vehicle rail and data communication wiring and cabling needs.
 They are one of only two companies in the world that produce this type of high performance wire which can withstand very heavy heats. Again, really critical for several different industries including automotive, commercial vehicle and military manufacturers.
 As I said before, all products are produced in the U.S. across four locations. They do have two locations, both in the Mission Valley area here in El Paso. They have one location that they recently acquired in Houston, and then the other location is where their headquarters and R&D capabilities are located in the Northeast U.S.
 They are a quality employer, providing their employees insurance and health care benefits. In addition, they provide 401 opportunities, tuition assistance, and a safety equipment allowance. And I think one of the things that I saw when I visited the company is that they are very strongly aware of safety requirements within their facilities and really careful about that with their employees.
 strong employer for our community. So Champlain Cable again originally established themselves here in El Paso in 2007. They've since expanded a couple of times looking at another expansion. This time under the Chapter 380 agreement they are committing to a minimum investment of $5.686 million. The majority or 85% of that going to machinery.
 Again, it's a manufacturing facility. They use very large machinery and so that is where the significant portion of their investment will go along with some building improvements to the building that they are leasing as well as computers.
 This is a wire mill expansion, again growing that supply chain capability for El Paso and the advanced manufacturing industry cluster. With respect to employment, through the agreement they agreed to retain the existing 70 full-time employees that they have here in El Paso over the term of the agreement, while also adding 29 new FTEs and bringing them on at a starting hourly base of $15 per hour, which does exceed our median county.
 area wage. With respect to the local incentive, so as consideration for this investment and this company's commitment to retain and create new positions in El Paso, the city is looking at performance-based incentives capped at $285,000.
 over a 10-year period. These, again, are performance-based, primarily in the form of a property tax rebate over years 1 through 10 on a portion of the property tax revenue generated as a result of the project's investment in our community. The county is also approving a Chapter 381 agreement
 Capping the total rebate-based incentive at $54,000. Again, this is a rebate for years one through five on 50% of the county's portion of new property tax generated as a result of the project.
 We're looking at a local performance-based incentive of just over $339,000 over a 10-year period. This represents about 6% of the overall investment of the company. So again, a very large return on investment for us.
 In addition to the employment considerations, this investment for the city does represent a net new property tax revenue for us even during the term of the agreement. We can expect to increase our property tax revenue by $144,000 as a result of the project.
 All of the other taxing entities, again, as a result of our commitment to this project and as a result of the company's commitment to our community, will also see increases to their property tax revenue, which is then reinvested into the community. And so just to close this presentation, I think a few project benefits to highlight
 First, this company is now one of our own. They've been in our community for many, many years. And so when we think about this project, rather than thinking about it as just simply a business retention and expansion project, we're thinking about making a commitment to a company that is here in El Paso and has done a lot of good for our region.
 Third company expansion in our community over the last couple of decades, retaining 70 quality jobs and adding 29 new jobs for a total of 99 positions here in El Paso.
 Secondly, this does contribute significantly to our larger strategy of advancing the advanced manufacturing industry cluster for our region. And specifically, I think you can see that this is a strong supplier for the types of companies that we are also going after.
 And then in addition, once you see this company start to grow, there are opportunities for them to contract with local businesses here already in El Paso, contributing to their growth as well.
 Supporting local small to mid-sized business, this is, although it is located in a couple locations across the U.S., it is a small business. We can see that we're supporting them by our investment, and as I said before, there are multiple effects that are produced as a result of their growth here in our community as well.
 And then finally, we're strengthening an existing community relationship. There are opportunities down the road for us to continue to help make this company successful and for them in return to make our community successful as well. And so with that, I'm happy to take any questions. There is no questions or motion. Motion approved. Second. Thank you. Mr. Cronin.
 There's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Hernandez to approve item number 36 Yes, Anello I'm sorry representative Anello Yes, ma'am Motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Anello to approve on that motion call for the vote representative Lizalga Thank you in the voting session the motion passes unanimously representative Salcido not present
 That brings us to item number 38. Well, that was postponed two weeks. Item 39 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign an advanced funding agreement, amendment number one between the city of El Paso and the state of Texas for the Shawn-Haggerty Drive Extension Project. Move to approve. Second. Mr. President Hernandez. I'm sorry, I haven't had an opportunity to look at the background. What is the source of funding?
 It says TxDOT, doesn't it? It should be TxDOT and matching. Is there any matching dollars from the City of El Paso? I don't know for sure. I'd have to find that out. Yes, the government participation amount is $1.4 million. Correct. So where is the funding coming from? The funding is primarily through TxDOT. No, I'm saying the city's participation. This funding is through our MPO match. It's our MPO match dollars? Are those certificate of obligation dollars? Yes, they are. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Nundes. With that, Ms. Pryor.
 Yes, there's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 39. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Lizárraga? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Calcedon not present. That brings us to executive session. Is there a motion to retire? Motion to retire to executive session. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor?
 Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss Executive Session Item 1, City Attorney and City Manager Annual Performance Evaluations, Matter Number 21-1043-688, under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney, and 551.074, Personnel Matters. It is 2.15 p.m.
 IT Council is getting ready to reconvene. Thank you. Is there a motion to come out of Executive Session? There's a motion and a second to come out of Executive Session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 3.40 p.m. We're on Executive Session Item 1, Mayor, and we do have public comment on this item when Council is ready. Please, let's, can we take it please? Yes, sir. We have Ms. Turner signed up to speak.
 good afternoon miss turner you have three minutes right after you okay since i wasn't privy to the conversation oh there's no action oh i thought he was being real no okay well if you're not going to take any action oh there's my earring ah you know yeah i must have jumped off my ear which one i've lost the other one too okay no thank you
 Alternate Mayor Pro Tem EX1. No action. Thank you. There's no action on EX1. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is adjourned at 3.41 p.m.