Ms. Bryan, we have a quorum. Thank you, sir. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, June 4, 2024. Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy is present and presiding in council chambers along with Representative Acevedo, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rivera, and Representative Canales.
 It is 9.04 a.m. Mayor Leaser has requested to be excused from today's meeting. Now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain Rabbi Levi Greenberg. Good morning. It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you for having me. Before beginning the invocation, I would like to do a mitzvah, an act of charity, placing a dollar into a charity box. Sovereign of the world.
 Look favorably upon all of us gathered in this chamber and bestow upon us the joy of life, good health, and prosperity. Bless these distinguished individuals who have been chosen to make laws and decisions for our city with wisdom and understanding in their noble pursuit of justice and equality. Next week, the Jewish world will start celebrating the two-day festival of Shavuos.
 the anniversary of the Revelation at Sinai, which occurred 3,336 years ago. During that historic event, God communicated the famous Ten Commandments as they are recorded in the Bible. Our tradition reflects on the fact that these Ten Commandments contain lofty theological messages, as well as obvious and self-understood prohibitions against murder and theft.
 This teaches us that trust and faith in the Almighty are truly genuine only when it is evident in our everyday behavior. Conversely, the constant awareness of the Supreme Being is what can truly motivate a life of morality and purpose. In a few moments, we will proudly proclaim this recognition and our commitment to unity and justice in our nation's Pledge of Allegiance.
 One nation under God with liberty and justice for all. It behooves us to reflect on the statement, In God we trust, printed on our currency, to appreciate that all our success is a blessing from above, and we ought to utilize these blessings to spread goodness and kindness, one routine action at a time, thereby fostering unity and friendship,
 preparing the world for an era of true peace and tranquility. Please, God, give strength to our elected officials to be cognizant of your presence, that they have the ability to elevate the quality of life for everyone in our region, and to inspire us all to come together in unity, that we truly care for our peers, for society, our environment, and work together to make our world a better place for all.
 May our borderland regions serve as a beacon of light, strength, and moral courage as we do our part in preparing the world for an era of global peace and tranquility. May this occur speedily in our times. Amen. Chief Rivera, do you want to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance? Chief Rivera. Of the United States of America, into the republic for which it stands, one nation, liberty and justice for all.
 Before we start, I just wanted to, good morning. What time is it? And for the record, Representative Fiedro joined the meeting at 9.08 a.m. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Prine. I wanted to check my clock. I wanted to say happy birthday to my staffer, Victoria. Victoria, will you stand up? I told her it was my job to embarrass her as much as possible today, so this is about all I could do. Happy birthday.
 Okay, we are ready for proclamations. Yes, sir. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations The first proclamation is Pride Month. I know that's okay Okay, we'll go to it we'll go to the second one first, which is El Paso high mock trial team day you're here yeah Representative at none this join the meeting at 9 o 9 a.m. My apologies. Good morning. Thank you all for joining us today. I
 Thank you, Mayor Pertem. Proclamation, City of El Paso, whereas Pride Month symbolizes the enduring spirit of the LGBTQIA plus community and commemorates the bravery and resilience shown during the Stonewall riots,
 June 1969 a pivotal moment in the fight for LGBTQIA plus rights and whereas this month among the rest of the year is an opportunity for education and awareness initiatives to dismantle harmful stereotypes and combat prejudice fostering a culture of empathy understanding and acceptance and whereas
 The local LGBTQIA plus community organizations, El Paso Sun City Pride, the Borderland Rainbow Center, PFLAG, Mountain Star Pride, and EPGSA Board are working in collaboration to uplift the El Paso region
 And, whereas together we passionately commit to cultivating an environment of unwavering inclusivity and respect where every individual, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, is celebrated as a valued member of our community.
 And whereas the city of El Paso affirms its resolute support for the LGBTQIA plus community and proudly recognizes Pride Month as a time to celebrate love, authenticity, and commits to advancing justice and dignity for all. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of June shall be known as Pride Month signed by our honorable mayor, Oscar Leeser. Congratulations.
 Thank you, Council. My name is Christopher Egg, the President for El Paso Sun City Pride. I just wanted to thank on behalf of El Paso Sun City Pride and all the LGBT orgs up here, wanted to thank you all for your commitment to the LGBT community of El Paso, especially those that did pledge to contribute to the historic event of lighting the star rainbow. That was an initiative developed by the El Paso Chamber, Eliano Noguin, as well as El Paso Sun City Pride. But
 It took all of you all who pledged, which I know I see a few on my list. But thank you for not rainbow washing our event. So many out there do rainbow wash and say we're pro, we're pro, we'll take your money, but never really contribute and give back. But thank you, council, for really standing behind us and backing up your words.
 good morning council i'll make this brief thank you thank you for all that you do thank you for these moments that remind us that el paso is not only progressive but incredibly inclusive and that we truly do believe in family so thank you also i'm amber borderland rainbow center sorry good morning my name is andrew nunez rupert i'm the co-founder and president mountain star pride again
 saying exactly what the rest of the people here are saying. Thank you all for committing to the inclusivity and creating a diverse and safe environment for everyone here. We really appreciate it, thank you. Good morning, I'm Aurelio Valdez Jr. I'm the founder of the El Paso Genders and Sexualities Alliance Board. Thank you all for this proclamation. I know we've come a long way to get a lot of things passed. We still have some work to do, but I know that for what we have done so far,
 We've done a lot so far, so thank you for that, and have a great month.
 And for those of you receiving recognitions this morning, you will have six minutes to address council and the six minutes can be distributed amongst those in your group. And the next proclamation is El Paso High School mock trial team day. All right, welcome everybody. We'll read first.
 Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the City of El Paso takes great pride in recognizing the outstanding achievements of local students whose successes have brought great honor to our community, fostering a spirit of excellence and a commitment to academic and extracurricular activities.
 And whereas the El Paso High School mock trial team, under the dedicated guidance of their lawyer coaches, Judge Selena Solis and Chantel Cruz, as well as sponsor Don Zumar, has demonstrated exceptional skill, perseverance and teamwork. And whereas,
 The team's dedication and rigorous preparation, which included open auditions and intensive weekly and weekend practices, culminated in the team placing first in the regional competition, qualifying them for the Texas High School Mock Trial State Competition held in Dallas.
 And whereas at the state competition, the El Paso High School Mock Trial Team achieved a commendable third place finish from a field of the top 24 teams in Texas, a testament to their legal acumen, teamwork, and commitment to excellence. And whereas the individual members of the team, Claire Ansell, attorney, Madison Cerda, witness, Madeline DeRosa, attorney, Olivia Gallinar, witness,
 Camila Gutierrez, witness. Olivia Guzman, witness. Madison Ihorn, witness. Keller May, witness. Sophia Reese, attorney. Leslie Rutledge, timekeeper. And Leila Unterrecker, witness. Each played a crucial role in their remarkable achievement. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that today, June 4th, 2024, shall be known as El Paso High School Mock Trial Team Day.
 signed by the honorable mayor oscar lisa would you like to say a few words yes thank you representative first thank you for your support thank you city council um mayor pro tem really
 the coaches did hardly anything compared to what the students did. They worked so hard and I'm very emotional right now because this is, thank you, it means a lot but they worked so hard, they made themselves vulnerable, they exposed themselves and without knowing really what to expect and this is significant because it's the first recognition that the award that the students have brought home to El Paso High, home of the Fighting Tigers.
 And so 2011 I think was the first team in the ISD history, Las Americas won state and went to nationals. But as far as El Paso High is concerned, it is the first time. And to be able to be in the top four to state in the field of Dallas teams was an accomplishment. So I applaud these students for all their hard work. I know I read out the names.
 Can we all just take a moment to introduce yourselves? Oh, absolutely. So I'm Judge Solis. Co-coach with? Chantel Cruz. I'm the stand-in. Ms. Zumar could not leave because it's finals, so I'm her stand-in. I understand what it's like to be the stand-in. Hi, I'm Sophia Reese, and I was the lead attorney. Claire Ansell, and I was an attorney as well. I'm Madeline DeRosa, and I was an attorney as well.
 I'm Camila Gutierrez, and I was lead defense witness. My name is Madison Cerda, and I was a witness for the defense. My name is Madeline Eichhorn, and I was a witness for the plaintiff. My name is Keller May, and I was the main witness for the plaintiff. And he had an Australian accent. My name is Olivia Guzman, and I was a witness for the defense. My name is Leslie Rutledge, and I was the timekeeper. We have another one.
 I'm sure we'll see more. First, it kind of freaks me out, Judge, that I'm here and you're there. I'm sure later this week we will switch positions. One thing I'll pass on to know how to do is argue. And...
 But if you do go on to be an attorney, we have some great employment opportunities at the city attorney's office, which is a great place to work. I was just going to say don't ever lose sight of your dream on this. Some know that I went to law school at 59 years old and followed my dream, and along the way was on my law school's moot court negotiation team.
 which we ended up winning the international championship in Oslo, Norway for the United States. So you guys are way ahead of where I was. So I expect to see law graduates and many more things from this group. This is great. Judge, what a great team and what a great job.
 And I do want to say it's particularly important that the defense witnesses are well prepared. I'm just saying that. Anyway, thank you all. And, Judge, thank you for everything that you and your team did because it's quite an honor to bring it home. So thank you. Judge, can we hear that cloud again, please? Thank you so much.
 Usually I do on my tiptoes. All right, ready? One, two, three. Pretty good. Awesome. Thank you all. Thank you. No, no, no, no, no. And the next proclamation this morning is Franklin High School Mariachi Estrella del Oeste Week. Come on up.
 Whereas the Franklin High School Mariachi Group Estrella del Oeste directed by Mike Hernandez is in its second year of participation in the Texas State Mariachi UIL competition. In February, the group made history for the El Paso Independent School District by receiving a superior rating, the highest honor at the UIL competition.
 They are the first in the district to achieve this honor, and despite being one of the youngest mariachi programs in El Paso, they have high school student rankings in the 2020 for all region mariachi competitions, and whereas the group has achieved the following accolades.
 Why? 2023-24 UIL Region 22 All Division, 23-24 High School All Region Mariachi One Rating, 22-23 State Mariachi UIL Distinguished Performance, 22-23 UIL Region 22 All Division One Ranking, 22-23 SISDAPRE UIL Majority Division Number One Ranking,
 22-23 High School Area Mariachi, 22-23 High School All-Region Mariachi, and 21-22 High School All-Region Mariachi. And whereas in addition to their first state championship, the group is frequently invited to perform at various public events across the city, they were recently invited to perform with the Mexican pop star Yuri on her national tour at the El Paso County Coliseum. By the way, job well done.
 Yuri mentioned it. Mariachi is offered to allow students to perform in an ensemble with selected memberships specializing in both beginning and advanced level mariachi, along with performing and competing.
 Mariachi Estrella del Oeste learns the history, tradition, and repertoire of mariachi ensemble literature, and whereas director Mike Hernandez aims to demonstrate an understanding of the form and structure of mariachi music, foster proper habits in mariachi music playing techniques through performance, ensure the correct performance of nuances inherent to mariachi music, and further develop skills to compose and arrange music, enhance individual playing skills through participation in a mariachi ensemble,
 teach students to evaluate performances through self-evaluation process, prepare students for post-secondary mariachi performance experiences, and develop attitudes that enable continued participation in musical experiences throughout life, and explore career opportunities in the field of music. Mariachi Ensemble consists of six to seven violins, two to three trumpets, one harp,
 one guitaron, one viola, and one guitar. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and city council of the city of El Paso that June 3rd through June 7th shall be known as Franklin High School Mariachi Estrella del Oeste Week. Signed by the honorable mayor, Oscar Leeser.
 Thank you very much. Thank you for having us. My name is Mike Hernandez, I'm the mariachi director at Franklin High School. We're very excited to be here. The mariachi group at Franklin High School has had a lot of great achievements this year. We are the youngest mariachi program in high school this year but we won't be for very long due to the partial success of the students.
 and what they have achieved at EPISD. They were the first mariachi ensemble at EPISD to win superior ratings at the Texas Mariachi UIL concert and contest, and so with that achievement, they're the first mariachi state champions
 in EPISD history. And they are the youngest program and they have been with me for three years. We've had the program at the high school. And I just want to say that, you know, the students achievement is partially due to the advancement of mariachi education in the state of Texas and in this city and aren't in our community.
 And I just want to thank everybody here at the City Council Board for acknowledging their achievements and their hard work, because without acknowledging their achievements, we cannot get.
 support in the community and in the state of Texas for more mariachi education. And it's very important as it represents our region, our culture, and it represents who we are as individuals to a certain extent in our musical-like future. So thank you again, and without further ado, I'd like to show the board a little bit of what we did at the state contest.
 They're going to be playing one of their contest materials called Así Son Los Hombres.
 Thank you all very much. Don't go anywhere. You need to back up so we can get a picture taken. I would like to mention that the mayor, Lisa, is not the only person that gets mariachis here, okay? All right, ready? One, two, three. Thank you. And the next proclamation is Chapin High School Boys Basketball Team Day.
 Appreciate it. I'm excited to read this proclamation and to see so much great stuff happening at EPISD three in a row. So I will read the proclamation and you can have some remarks right after.
 Whereas the Chapins high school boys basketball team was ranked number four in the state since December 23 and had back-to-back elite eight appearances and Whereas the Chapin Huskies controlled the action from start to finish during their playoff game to win their fifth straight by district championship Following that they won their fourth straight area championships and moving on to their fourth straight regional tournament appearance.
 And whereas the Chapin boys basketball team made it to their second regional championship game as district champions and went undefeated against all El Paso teams during the season with the 73 game win streak. And whereas in district one five A, senior Brandon Himes was selected as El Paso Times all city most valuable player of the year. Senior Mudia Boa, I hope I didn't mess that up,
 was selected El Paso Times All-City First Team. Senior Bryce Prather was selected as Third Team All-District. Junior Jayden Leverett was selected as El Paso Times All-City Defense Player of the Year. Junior Savion Jordan was selected First Team All-District. Sophomore Jacob Garcia was selected All-District Newcomer of the Year. And Senior Peyton Parker and Sophomore
 Xavier Stewart received honorable mentions and whereas Coach Lewis was selected as all district coach of the year for the fourth time in a row and won the 105th game this season, ending the season with a record of 34-5 overall. And now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that June 4th, 2024 shall be known as Chapin High School Boys Basketball Team Day signed the honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser.
 First of all, we appreciate being here. It's just hard to follow that mariachi band. That's awesome stuff right there. I mean, I don't know if we accomplished that kind of stuff. And congrats to the El Paso High team right there. EPISD doing big things. But first of all, as a coach, we're honored to be here. And I'm proud of these guys. I would like for them to introduce themselves to you. Start with my captain. Bryce Prather. Brandon Himes. Moody Agboa. Savion Jordan.
 Julian Pacheco. Masaya Wilson. Jacob Garcia. Quichon Lawrence. Xavier Stewart. Carlos Fuente. Coach Mary Martin. Coach Daniel Castillo. Coach Justin Croft. Jose Carlos, campus administrator. And I'm Coach Rodney Lewis, thank you. Coach, it's a great job. I was wondering if we could set up a scrimmage with the city council basketball team. We are led by our captain Art Thunder Fierro, who is also our center, so.
 I think that'll be a good game. Let's just take the picture. Thank you.
 Maybe? I think so. Can I get you guys to all push back? We need to get the jerseys made. Can we get the middle section to scoot back just a little for me? And then everybody kind of squeeze in. Awesome. Ready? One, two, three. One, two, three.
 3,000 more. We're going to go play basketball with council after this? I'm talking about. You got this last one? I'll just shoot with that right there. You might need the ladder. I'm going to keep it right. Thank you. Thank you.
 And the final proclamation is Women Veterans Day. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas for 248 years, women have proudly served in the United States Armed Forces in both unofficial and official capacities to secure and preserve. Can you hear me now? Yes.
 Sorry about that. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas for 248 years women have proudly served in the United States Armed Forces in both unofficial and official capacities to secure and preserve the freedom and liberty of the people of the United States,
 And whereas in 1948, Congress passed the Women's Armed Forces Services Integration Act, allowing women to serve as permanent members of the United States military by restricting each branch to 2% of women, as well as restricting their promotions to no higher than Lieutenant Colonel. And whereas an estimated 11,000 women volunteered to deploy in the Vietnam War, 90% as nurses, and withstood the horrors of combat while saving countless American civilian lives.
 yet their service was dismissed or outright denied. And whereas since Desert Shield, Desert Storm, over 340,000 women have served in Iraq, Afghanistan, and throughout the Middle East, placing themselves at risk and executing courageous actions, resulting in additional opportunities for women by way of lifting all combat restrictions, graduating over 100 as Army Rangers and other possibilities formerly prohibited.
 And whereas women veterans account for an estimated 1,000 killed in action, 100 prisoners of war, 25 missing in action, countless wounded in action, and while continuing to face barriers to equality and recognition amongst their male counterparts, today they declare they will no longer be invisible. And whereas we recognize and honor the service and sacrifices of the women who volunteered to serve in the United States military services,
 Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that June 12, 2024, shall be known as Women's Veterans Day. Signed the Honorable Mayor Oscar Alisher, City of El Paso.
 Thank you all so much for this year making it a proclamation. We appreciate it from the bottom of our hearts. This morning, there's also concurrently an unattended veteran burial going on, so many of our supporters weren't able to make it. I wanted to go ahead and say what I'd like to say. I didn't know I got five minutes, but that's okay.
 I will make it five minutes. Six minutes. Six minutes, okay. So as you heard in the proclamation in 2017, Governor Abbott signed into law June 12th as Women Veterans Day. And as June 12th, 1948 is when Congress passed the Women's Armed Services Integration Act giving women permanent military status.
 However, women could not command men, be promoted above colonel, and each branch could not have more than 2% of women, among other restrictions. Over time, the armed services fought against removing restrictions. The VA fundamentally did not treat women as veterans and argued against reforming its medical system. The census did not ask women their veteran status until 1980.
 Lack of representation and being made to feel as though their service does not matter are some reasons why women veterans feel isolated. This is a barrier to learning about and using benefits.
 So until our service is equal to that of men, we will continue to celebrate Women Veterans Day. And I address this because I have been asked, most times not so tactfully, why celebrate Women Veterans Day? Well, this is why. I find myself very often having to reach out and ask people, can you please include more women, or include a woman even, in your representation of our service members or veterans?
 And I'd like to have just a moment of silence for some of our missing women who are missing in action. I don't have all 25 names. I have 18 who went missing on a single flight.
 So I'll go ahead and start off. The C-47B, number 44-76406, took off with a crew of three and 18 passengers from Accra, Ghana on a transport mission to Roberts Field, Liberia. For an unknown reason, Maydays were heard from the C-47. They disappeared and are believed to have crashed into the sea near Takordi, Ghana. All 21 on board were lost.
 18 Women's Army Corps members and three crew members went missing and are still unaccounted for. Sergeant Doris Cooper. Private First Class Flossie Flannery. Private First Class Freda Friend. Private First Class Mary Gollinger. Corporal Velma Holden. Private First Class Odessa Hollingsworth. Private First Class Alice King. Private First Class Wilma Lyles.
 Private First Class Evelyn McBride. Private First Class Alice McKinney. Private First Class Rose Puchala. Private First Class Mildred Rice. Private First Class Pearl Rumsberg. Private First Class Helen Rozelle. Private First Class Leona Seifert. Private First Class Ruth Warlick. Private First Class Bonnie Williams. And the crew members, excuse me.
 First Lieutenant Alfred Ellis, F.O. Robert Mulhern, and Corporal George Schiffman. So I ask you all please, whenever you think of a veteran, include women. Include them in your minds and in your hearts and in your representation of veterans. Too often we're forgotten and I guarantee you no one in this room knew about 25 women missing in action.
 So thank you again for this proclamation. We will certainly be honored and I hope to see you again next year, thank you. We spoke previously about women in service and I thought it was always interesting that women in MOSs that weren't considered combat MOSs were standing right next to the men who were in combat MOSs. It was just because they were classified incorrectly.
 that it's not like they weren't in the fight because they always were. And I'm glad there's recognition. Yes, absolutely. Thank you.
 Continuing on Council per the rules of order no use of personal cellular devices nor personal communication should take place on the dais while the meeting is in session once you obtain the floor from the presiding chair you will have up to 10 minutes for debate and you may speak twice per item. Please speak into the microphone and refrain from sight conversations while the meeting is in session. For those of you joining virtually please make sure you're on mute to reduce any background noise. That brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Temp. Alternate Mayor Pro Temp. Good morning. Can you hear me?
 Yes, sir. Proposed revisions for June 4th, 2024 at 830. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse absent city council members. And that's to excuse Mayor Oscar Leaser. Page 3, item 3, revise per airport. And that revision is to strike out the word lane and replace with drive so that it reads 23 spur drives. Page 16, item 26, postpone for four weeks per economic and international development.
 Page 16, item 27, postponed for four weeks per economic and international development. Page 17, item 29, postponed for four weeks per tax office. Page 17, item 30, postponed for four weeks per tax office.
 Page 18 item 33 revised for capital improvement department. And that revision is to strike out $2,894,250 and replaced with $2,941,500. Is there any other revisions at this time? And may I pretend we do have public comment on item number nine from Ms. Patricia Osmond.
 And item nine is a board appointment for Christine Elizabeth Foster-Loveridge to the zoning board of adjustment. Since this was brought by my personal representative in District 2, I'd like to find out. Ms. Foster, is she related to Paul Foster or De La Vega Foster? None whatsoever? No. I just want to make sure that the constituents know who it is that you are.
 You're appointing. She's not related to. Any of the fosters. No she lives on Elm and Gould. OK. Thank you. That concludes public comment on the consent agenda items. There is a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Lina seconded by Representative Piero to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to item number 14. Item 14 is discussion in action to approve a resolution declaring the expenditure of district seven discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed sixty two hundred dollars for the purchase of digital sound level meters for utilization by the El Paso Police Department's code enforcement division serves a municipal purpose by implementing effective code enforcement strategies to reduce nuisances and improve overall health and safety. This is Representative Rivera's item.
 Yes, sir. I believe we have speakers on this correct. That is correct. We have miss Osmond that signed up to speak on this item Can we hear the speaker school first? I'm actually signed up for 14 and 15. So I'll just do this both together I want to thank mr. Rivera for using his discretionary fund for actually something that will benefit the citizens not a trip elsewhere not something that benefits them in a personal nature and
 that doesn't actually benefit the citizens. I would like to ask legal representation, city manager, whomever, whether discretionary funds are supposed to be spent for personal enrichment, for a representative's personal enrichment that does not actually do something for the citizens, as versus Mr. Rivera, who is actually spending those discretionary funds
 for something that does benefit our citizens. Let me clarify it. Say if Mr. Acededo wanted to pay a coach to learn how to play wash us, because he does a lot of his community meetings at the senior centers, would that be allowed? Or if Ms. Alcido wanted to take a knitting class, so she could also be more,
 more connected with citizens or her constituents. Would that be allowed as far as discretionary funds? Can I ask, is comment supposed to be restricted to the items that are on the agenda? Well, this is all within discretionary fund spending. Is it, it's not related to the item that's on the agenda. Okay, these are all discretionary fund spending. This is, but this item on the agenda is a specific expenditure and the public comment should be related to that specific expenditure.
 I would say these specific. I can speak to the items that are listed here. The items here serve a municipal purpose. Yes, and I agree with that. Perfectly allowable with discretionary funds for the item that's posted. Okay, and I wanna thank Mr. Rivera for actually, each time you've had another thing, this speeding monitor, your spending has been very citizen-based. I wanna thank you for that, regardless of what other,
 what other things citizens may think. I do wanna thank you for putting on the agenda and spending your discretionary funds for something that benefits the citizens versus yourself. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor Patel. As I stated, this is for the expenditure for police equipment to...
 Register the sound the digital sound meters that we you know We're trying to supply most of the officers that go out and respond to the calls in these so This is why I put it out in there and spend my discretionary funds on that So I would ask for your all support on this. Thank you. I make the motion to approve. Thank you There's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Salcido to approve item number 14 on that motion call for the vote. I
 In the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Item number 15 is discussion in action to approve a resolution declaring that the expenditure of District 7 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed ninety thousand dollars for the purchase freight and installation of canopies for existing picnic benches at Thomas Manor Park
 serves a municipal purpose of enhancing the quality of life for the citizens of El Paso through promoting community recreation and by fostering community pride and encouraging civic engagement. And this is also Representative Rivera's item and we do have public comment. Yes, so we have Ms. Osmond and Ms. Turner, Lisa Turner. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Good morning. My question is this, is it still $10,000 a year to the...
 The council members? Yes, ma'am, it is. Yes, it is. Okay, so we're basically looking at 10 years where no discretionary funds were spent. So is there any way that within 60 days of the coming fiscal year, if there's any money left in the discretionary accounts, that that will in turn be sent back to the general fund? I don't see why money can sit, taxpayers' money can sit there
 in an account for nearly 10 years and not be used. My other thing is, I'm sorry I didn't sign up for 14, is I take great exception that you have to take money out of a discretionary fund to pay for the things that should be coming out of the general funds budget for these sound meters.
 I take great exception to that because that's your responsibility to provide your people who work with the tools that they need and not go dipping into a council member's discretionary funds. So I have this problem. I really don't think you should be sitting on that money for years. I think it should go back every year. If it's not spent, it should go back to the general fund. Just my opinion. Thank you. Representative Rivera and then Representative Hernandez. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem.
 Actually, this is the spending that I chose to do within my district. That park is heavily used by not only District Seven, but by District Three constituents as well. That is a item that's kinda touchy because you have a lot of elderly people, kids, that actually walk that park and they need the canopy over these benches. Otherwise, they could injure themselves with the heat.
 of the sun and furthermore, I call it wise savings where others might wanna spend it immediately. If I can help the departments within this community to assist my district, I will do so and that's why they're called discretionary funds for me to carry out and do what I can to help those in not only my constituents but if I can help parks
 complete that project why not that's why I decided to spend it and save it spend save it and spend it in that direction I make a motion to approve representative Hernandez I'm gonna address that first but there's a lot of questions about discretionary funds so I just wanted to add a little bit of context the savings are not just accrued by discretionary funds that we receive in our budget annually September 1 is our new fiscal year so we'll get that allotment September 1
 However, if you have savings in your departments, whether it be overhead whether it be from salaries those are Then transferred into like your overall fund for discretionary So there's a lot of discretion within every City Council's office budget and it's you can't just spend it on anything You we got to go through a three prong process to determine. What is the public good? What is the municipal good?
 Are we there's a benefit to the taxpayer? It could be Going to conferences to enrich yourself so that you can better serve your community or it could be a direct expenditure in your district but that is why Those type of expenses are permitted Similarly to all departments that they get a travel budget City Council doesn't get a travel budget. So we utilize our internal budget so
 just so you're aware of kind of that process internally. But this park, I was really excited about Representative Rivera, and you're too modest, and I wanted to share a little bit about the overall change because before it was just a park, I don't even, it wasn't really green, and then you let the effort to work with El Paso Water,
 and the city of El Paso and the Parks Department and you all entered into, the city entered to an agreement where it completely transformed this ponding area into a pond park, which is now next to a wonderful improvement from Ysleta ISD, so now they have this beautiful park. It has been the greatest asset to that neighborhood and we share the boundaries. The park is literally boundary, but all of my constituents on the west side of the park
 are direct beneficiaries and they're very, they're proud is the best way I can say. They're really proud of the park. They even have those burrowing owls that are protected. And there's a lot of vegetation and a lot of educational placards that explain the purpose of revitalizing that park.
 And then what it's missing is exactly what you're proposing here. And so you could have used those discretionary dollars for any other reason. So I just wanted to thank you on behalf of the District 3 constituents for investing into the park. It is the way it is today because of your tenacity and because of your fight to make sure that that neighborhood in the lower valley receives the same type of
 public assets and care than they see throughout the entire city so thank you and I support this. So there is a motion made by Representative Rivera seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve the resolution on item 15 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Temo may we recess for mass transit at this time? Yeah we'll take it do we need a motion to recess? Yes.
 There's a motion and a second to recess of regular city council meeting all in favor. Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is at 10.05 is in recess at 10.05 a.m. in order to conduct the mass transit department. It's adjourned at 10.13 a.m. Thank you. Is there a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting all in favor. Anyone opposed?
 And the meeting is back in session at 1014 a.m. We're on page number eight, item number 16, and this is presentation and discussion on the report by Moss Adams LLP on the financial and grant audit of the city of El Paso. The report to city council will include the audit opinion regarding the city financial statements and a brief overview of the financial results for the city for the fiscal year ending August 31st, 2023. Well, good morning.
 My name is Corey Hogan. I'm a partner with Moss Adams and I'm here this morning to report out on the audit of the financial statements of the city for the fiscal year ended August 31st, 2023. We did present a month ago on May 1st to the FOAC in a more detailed report out on this audit. So this morning it'll be an abbreviated presentation of that presentation. There we go.
 Just have a brief agenda this morning. We want to summarize the reports that were issued, the results of the audit, talk a little bit about what we actually audited, the scope of our audit, and then we did have a few recommendations that came out of our audit process this year. The conclusion of our audit, we issued two standard reports on the financial statements for the city, which, as you know, our financial statements are included in the annual comprehensive financial report, which is the...
 the lengthy document that's put out every year by the city that summarizes the financial results and various statistics around the performance of the city's departments during the year. As a result of our audit, we issued what's called an unmodified opinion on those financial statements that the accounts and transactions that were reported on were presented accurately and completely in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP.
 We also issued a second report that's required under government auditing standards on internal controls over financial reporting. And as a result of that report, we had no material weaknesses or significant deficiencies to report. We also issued a separate single audit report that's over the federal and state grant programs that are received by the city.
 This year we audited two federal grant programs and one state program, which were by formula designated to be major programs this year. It's a very formula driven process where the larger grant programs are audited on a rotation cycle as dictated by the federal and state agencies. As a result of that audit, we had no compliance issues to report as a result of the state's program, the state and federal programs.
 Here's the programs that we audited this year. For the two federal programs that were audited, the Emergency Food and Shelter National Board Program, which had about $13.6 million in expenditures during fiscal 23,
 The COVID-19 Coronavirus State and Federal Fiscal Recovery Funds Program. This is the wind down of a lot of the money that came through during the COVID pandemic. $23 million in grant expenditures during fiscal 23. And then there was one Texas state program that met the threshold for audit requirement in 23 and that was the Texas anti-gang or TAG program and it had expenditures of about $5 million.
 As part of our engagement with the city, we also issue four other reports that are required by various state and federal agencies. We issue a separate audit on the Passenger Facility Charge Program at the airport. We issue a report on the Asset Forfeiture Program at the police department.
 Passenger facility charge program is required by the federal government, by the FAA. The asset forfeiture report is required, is submitted to the state of Texas. The TCEQ local government financial test report is also submitted to the state of Texas. And the national transit database at Sun Metro is a report on the reporting of public funds for public transportation. And that goes to the Department of Transportation.
 As a result of the procedures that were performed on those four engagements, which are defined by the agencies that require them, we had no noncompliance findings to note. As part of our audit, we consider internal controls of the city, this is a significant part of the audit work we do. Our consideration of internal controls is focused on financial reporting, as I mentioned earlier, on the systems and transactions and processes and procedures
 that are in place to produce complete and accurate financial statement numbers and balances. Findings would fall into two categories that would be reported on your report on internal controls. The most severe significant finding would be a material weakness. And that's the risk that there's a reasonable possibility that internal controls would fail to prevent a material misstatement to the city's financial statements.
 significant deficiencies, not as severe as a material misstatement, but again, this would be something as pervasive and a failure in internal controls that merited reporting to end this report on internal controls. Both of these would be considered called findings. They show up in that government auditing standards report on internal controls, they become public information.
 and they're more formal in that they require management to acknowledge the findings, provide a response, and a corrective action plan and require follow-up. I'm pleased to report that we had no material weaknesses or significant deficiencies to report this year. We did have three recommendations this year. Now, recommendations were reported in a separate memo to the FOAC and to the City Council.
 These are not findings, they're recommendations. They are merely best practices, things to consider. They don't present a risk of material misstatement to your financial statement, but are things that the city should consider and address. The first recommendation we had was in looking at the processes around...
 fraud and reporting of potential fraud or risk In particular the fraud hotline, which is a very effective tool that the city has in place That's administered through the internal audit department which is again, I think a first-in-class internal audit group from our interactions with them and considerations of the risk assessment reports that they have produced during the year and
 However, what we found is when looking at the processes that are in place for how items reported through the fraud hotline are submitted, we found that they go to internal audit and there's also a linkage through HR.
 And our recommendation was, and based on what we've seen when we audit other cities and local governments, is to add a routing that comes through to the FOAC or to another person just to be able to track and monitor resolutions of any reported fraud through the hotline.
 Again, I don't believe anything is broken here. It is just and it's in no consideration of personalities or the internal audit group That's in place now. It's just considering Too deep coverage to person deep coverage to track any reporting that comes through the fraud hotline second recommendation we had related to inventory physical counts of capital assets this would be vehicles equipments computers and
 any equipment or furniture within the city. And there is our policy in place that require physical inventory of these items in each department annually. We found that by and large these counts are taking place now across the various city departments
 However, what we found is that in in certain cases the discrepancies that were noted as a result of these physical counts weren't resolved with the differences variances noted weren't resolved or reconciled to the Amounts the balances on the books. It was not significant again or a material misstatement in any other
 but our recommendation here was to strengthen the procedures and internal controls that are in place to reconcile and resolve differences there, follow up on them, and if necessary, post adjusting journal entries to the balances on the books.
 Last recommendation we had was in the IT area. As part of our audit, we bring in a team of IT consultants and IT audit specialists to look at the city's systems that are important to the producing financial results primarily and then they consider the other IT framework at the city and the IT general controls that are in place.
 What we found is that one of the standard controls is in place is a annual review of segregation of duties and segregation of duties is the system of reviews and authorizations that should be in place for allowing users access to the system or making changes to the system or or doing backups of the system and and
 We didn't find any issues with segregation of duties that merit reporting, otherwise it would have been a finding. But what we weren't seeing was clear documentation of this review having taken place.
 We had some recommendations around that and one of the recommendations was perhaps putting together an organization chart showing who does the various sign offs and being able to clearly see in visual format the segregation of duties that's in place for the key functions around the IT structure. Again, we issued these findings in a separate memo along with the required audit communications and recommendations in a memo dated February 23rd to the FOAC.
 That's my short and sweet presentation this morning. I thank you for your time and again want to thank the controller's office the city finance department in the in the finance folks from across the city at the various departments that worked with us during the audit provided information and And took a break from their daily jobs to answer our questions and provide information that we needed to complete our audit representative Hernandez
 See you here every year and I really think all of the recommendations that you provide to City Council Very very pleased with your the overall services from your company One of my concerns that I had addressed last year was like, you know I'm really concerned about federal the federal funds these once-in-a-lifetime injection of funds that the city of El Paso and other municipalities would receive and
 And I noticed that you did do a review of COVID-19. However, you have not identified any material findings.
 WERE THERE ANY OBSERVATIONS WORTH NOTING ANYTHING THAT WE CAN LEARN FROM OR ANY COMPARISONS THAT WE CAN DRAW THAT OTHER CITIES ARE DOING SO AS WE ARE NOW RECEIVING ONCE IN A LIFETIME FEDERAL INVESTMENTS FROM THE BIDEN INFRASTRUCTURE PACKAGE ALONG WITH ARPA AND COVID FUNDS, IS THERE ANYTHING THAT YOU WOULD RECOMMEND TO THIS COUNCIL THAT WE CONSIDER AS IT RELATES TO THESE FEDERAL FUNDS? THE COMPLIANCE TESTING AND CONTROL TESTING THAT WE DO
 programs are very much defined by the agencies that award them and you know they dictate the random samples that we select they detect the controls that they want us to test what we found is that the city has by the time we come in and do the audit the city has their t-square
 Crossed their eyes dotted they are able to provide information. They're able to show us supporting documentation again. We're taking random Samples and doing walkthroughs of the controls and processes. So for this year. No, we didn't have any Findings or any recommendations for for the federal funds the materiality threshold is extremely low I mean it really does
 Require us to if if we see anything we almost that's a question costs or something that could be unallowable To unless it's very de minimis. We need to report that out and we didn't find anything of that nature this year I always double ask if there's anything That you would recommend
 THAT THE CITY COUNCIL CONSIDER FOR, WE'RE COMING UP IN BUDGET SEASON. IF THERE'S INVESTMENTS THAT WE CAN MAKE, TECHNOLOGY THAT WE CAN CONSIDER, I ALWAYS LIKE TO HEAR FROM THE OUTSIDE CONSULTANTS ON IF THERE'S ANYTHING THAT WE CAN DO TO IMPROVE. I'M SO PROUD OF THE DEPARTMENTS AND NOT HAVING ANY FINDINGS. BUT I CONSIDER THAT THE EXPECTATION. SO WHAT IS THE STANDARD, THE HIGHEST STANDARDS THAT WE CAN ACHIEVE? ANYTHING, ANY OTHER WORDS OF WISDOM THAT YOU COULD SHARE?
 We don't normally make investment advice or do that outside of that would be outside of the scope of what we're doing With the audit so as it relates to the audits that you have identified today. I I think that we find that the various departments that we've interacted with are very attentive to What they need to do and the compliance requirements they have to to do their duties at least on the financial reporting side and
 Don't have any recommendations in that area to share this morning. Okay. Well sounds like You all know what you're doing and you're doing a great job. So congratulations I'm gonna keep that in the team any other any other questions may approach and we do have public comment on this item We have miss Osmond. I did listen through to his presentation the last time and So there were a lot of questions from that which led me to speak to our internal auditor and
 in regards to that. So part of his recommendations, as Ms. Hernandez was asking, for more recommendations. One, are those recommendations ever implemented by the city of El Paso? Two, he also stated the fraud hotline, but in my conversation with the internal auditor, that fraud hotline is only for employees, citizens. There's nothing set up for citizens who find fraud to report.
 So I think that's a big recommendation in loophole that is not being considered. As far as other
 budget information in software and AI. I actually had that conversation with Mr. Rivas, who y'all did a proclamation, he was here, at one city council, y'all gave him a proclamation, part of the Auditor's Association. And he and I were discussing that software and AI has advanced to the point where there should not be a sampling, there should not be a rotation of every three years, that quite frankly, the software does exist, that it can be done yearly.
 It doesn't have to be a sampling. It actually does exist. If you contact Mr. Rivas, he'll let you know. So as far as budgeting, I do feel that the city does need to budget for that type of software. And speaking to the internal auditor, he said yes, the software does exist. So as versus a rotation,
 of every couple of years, every three years, which leads to two years that misappropriation of funds can slip through the cracks. Sampling misappropriation of funds can slip through the cracks. If you do the investment of the software,
 and do the auditing every year through that software that already exists. You could speak to Mr. Rivas. You all have already had him in here, so you have his contact information. You could speak to an internal auditor. He knows that the software exists. What he is stating is that the city does need to invest in that software and to bump up your servers.
 That is what you need to do. So if you want to be more fiscally responsible to the citizens of El Paso, invest in the technology that Ms. Hernandez is discussing because it does exist so that we can rein in any misappropriation of funds because it really does exist within the city of El Paso. Thank you very much, do we have a motion?
 There is no action on this item. No action, just report? Okay, thank you. Yes, sir. That brings us to the introduction of ordinances. These are items 17 through 22, and we do have public comment for a couple of the introductions. Mayor Pro Tem, on item 17, this is the introduction of an ordinance amending Title V,
 business license and permit regulations chapter 5.12 dealers in secondhand goods dealers in crafted precious metals coin dealers and pawnbrokers to amend hearing officer to a municipal associate judge Miss Osmond signed up to speak on this item like my question is this I
 On the appeals, in this kind of, I'm going to put this through for 17 and 18 because you have the same recommendations as far as from hearing officer to municipal associate judge. One, was a hearing, who is the hearing officer? Is that a city employee too? Is that hearing officer just administrative as versus is the municipal associate judge more?
 More on a criminal aspect. If there are other issues, can they handle that? Or is it just a matter of appeal? You know what? This is an issue. You were violated. That prom broker is going to appeal. And then they have to go to, what is the difference between the hearing officer and then you all now switching to a municipal associate judge? Okay.
 Lillia world from the Municipal Court a hearing officer We did have a hearing officer and it was a city employee but under contract, but we did not renew the contract the municipal associate judges They all have to be attorneys licensed in the state of Texas and we do have a full-time associate judge Monday through Friday 7 to 4 that's so if there are any criminal aspects That you find out within the appeals process is that reported though? Is that a
 As most judicial, some of us who worked in the field should know that we do have a duty that if we find criminal activity to report. So if within that appeals process there is something found, I would feel more, I do feel more comfortable with the municipal judge, but then do they have a duty then to report to local law enforcement?
 If there's an issue. And I say that because there is an issue that I had to report outside in regards to a local pawnbroker gun shop, both to the TBAC, to the state comptroller's office, and then they dropped their licensing and then another family member picked that up. So, kind of curious. Yes, I would say that would be their duty to report it. Mm-hmm.
 Well, then I thank you all for actually making sure that it's going to get a higher standard now. And Ms. Osmond also signed up for item 22, and this is the introduction of an ordinance. You know what? It's pretty much the same questions. So as long as it's going for a higher standard, I'm very happy that y'all are actually putting that forth.
 Ms. Osmond, this is a sale of land, item 22, is an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a purchase and sale agreement to convey approximately .17 acres of land described as track 5D1, block 1, Upper Valley Surveys in the city of El Paso, El Paso County, Texas. You know, I was just kind of curious, where exactly, I understand.
 that legal aspect, but where in general is that located? I was trying to look that up on CAD to try to figure that out, and I wasn't too sure what this property was. Yes, Representative Canales. It's near the corner of Sunland Park Drive and Emery Road along the Montoya Lateral.
 Ellen Smyth chief transit and field operations officer typically on introductions we don't answer the questions at the podium but yes it's right off Montoya it's landlocked. There's no access to it and the buyer is the adjacent landowner. Mayor Pro Tem there is a motion made by Representative Rivera seconded by Representative Fierro to approve the introduction of ordinances item 17 to 22 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session.
 And that motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item 23 and this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2024-0356R ELP solar covered parking, CONRAC to GS solar LLC DBA Big Sun Solar for installation of a covered parking solar photovoltaic array on the top level of the existing parking structure at the consolidated car rental agency complex at the airport.
 Good morning. Christophe Basse with Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing. This item is linked to strategic goal number one, create an environment conducive to strong sustainable economic development. The linkage to the strategic plan is subsection 1.4, grow the core business of air transportation. This is a new contract for a solar covered parking at the Conrack at the El Paso International Airport.
 This contract will start June of 2024. This is a request for proposal procurement. There were 27 views online. Three proposals were received, one being from a local supplier.
 No protests were received for this requirement. We are recommending award to GS Solar LLC, DBA Big Sun Solar, the highest ranked offer based on the evaluation factors established in the evaluation criteria for this procurement and the proposal submitted by Arrow Building Corp be deemed non-responsive for failing to provide a proposed cost on the prescribed form included with the solicitation. Representative Hernandez. I have a question for the department. The,
 We're going to put the solar panel, but where is the generation of the power going to? Good morning. Shane Brooks with the airport. It'll go to offset the terminal consumption. The same. Can you repeat that? I'm sorry. It goes to offset the terminal consumption. So what's generated is what we're using at the terminal. But it's not being taken. The energy is not being reallocated or redistributed back into. No. So then we're going to use that.
 Energy and then redistributed throughout the terminal. Yes. Okay. Yes. Do we understand? You know what kind of savings that could bring we have projections We're expecting to see a reduction in bills at the terminal. So no, no, I mean, I think these are the type of Investments that we should be celebrating and start to earmark and start to dictate with all of our inventory and all of the assets we have at the city and
 how we are nominally and now with these type of solar panels, how we're saving the taxpayer electricity and the usage of that. So we'd like to start to identify all of those savings so that we can report end of year, how the city is leading by example. We'd love to see this model.
 Like at City Hall at other places throughout the city. I think it's a really great investment Yes, ma'am. We will do and then you'll see us in a couple weeks with short-term solar also So we will be monitoring the energy produced and the savings generated so it's gonna be exciting couple years Thank you airports looking at a lot of different initiatives to your point whether it's more energy efficient lighting which really adds up in terms of the savings over time to a
 photovoltaic solar to even looking at some initiatives going forward in the future on possibly digital twinning and as well as microgrid efforts and so there's a lot of you know potential for us to be able to look at the airport in terms of catalytic projects that we can expand throughout the city and
 But we're also looking at just their location into what the Department of Defense is wanting to do we're waiting for their energy strategy to come forward to see if we can get into some partnership just because of the Geographic location of the airport to the installation as well So there's a lot of exciting initiatives in the future really tip my hat to the airport for taking the lead on it Do do we know when we will start the installation the construction? I?
 Doesn't show on your possible. So we'll get the contract awarded today We'll start doing all the pre work as soon as we can and okay just as soon as possible sounds good Keep us on notified on on the progress of that, please. Thank you. I move to approve mayor pretend We have public comment on this item from miss Osmond I realized that this is gonna be done at the car rental agency. So basically a commercial private location was the same done at the public parking area there at the airport and
 Or is it just the commercial area? She just mentioned short-term rental is next, right? Okay. Correct, yeah. This is going to have benefit. Just to be clear, this is going to have benefit to reduce costs overall at the airport. So even though the photovoltaic panels are there, it's going to reduce the energy costs that our airport has to absorb. Okay, I understand that. But what I'm curious of is also...
 We have a climate sustainability department that was put together. Instead of the city, are these funds coming out of the general fund? Or is this going to be grant funds? This is coming from our airport enterprise fund, so it's not general fund. Okay. Are there any grant funds? Are there any grants that could be applied for this? I can have the airport.
 Talk about that. So that it's not necessarily taxpayers that are paying this, or at least local taxpayers, because all grants are. Taxes will funnel up at some point anyway, along with everybody else in the country. That's a great question. All of this is being done in a combination of grant funding and through our airport enterprise fund, and it won't have an impact on our taxpayers. Thank you. Yes, ma'am.
 Yes, sir, there was a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 23. On that motion, call for the vote. Thank you, Representative Fierro. And the voting session, and that motion passes unanimously.
 Item 24 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2024-0071 domestic fine art shipping to Iron Mountain Incorporated DBA Crozier Fine Arts. This contract will provide the Museum and Cultural Affairs Department a specialized fine art shipper in order to safely and securely transport artwork used in exhibitions. I believe we have public comment on that. Yes, sir. We do have Ms. Osmond that signed up for item 24. Thank you.
 I'd like to find out is this the exact same solicitation or is this an additional solicitation for the same type of shipment that was approved previously? Good morning Claudia Cardoso assistant director with museums and cultural affairs. It's a different solicitation. The previous solicitation was for international shipping.
 So this is just internal. Is that bringing artwork into the city or exporting city artwork elsewhere? Because I know it's done under the premise of promotes El Paso's unique identity and offerings. So are we sending our local artwork elsewhere? It's possible that we could also loan out artwork in addition to bringing in things for exhibits. So we're...
 So we're spending all of this to bring in artwork that's not necessarily showcasing El Paso's unique identity, just giving citizens an opportunity to see something else from other people's unique identity. Is that where I'm getting at? If you could address that to council, because that would be a council issue. So are these funds gonna be for bringing in artwork for our local citizens to view? But why?
 We're spending millions on shipping to bring artwork here. That's not showcasing El Paso's unique, how do you pronounce, oh, unique identity and offerings when we're bringing in everybody else's artwork here. Now, if you wanna say that we're trying to provide our local citizens
 with a broader scope of what the rest of the world offers, I do understand that. But this really isn't an expenditure in the way in which it's listed. Well, I can speak to that. This is no different than any other city museum that likes to showcase artwork, not just from El Paso, but from other locations. I think it's important for everybody to have variety in what they see with the collections.
 And it's very typical from what's done at any museum throughout the country. So the answer is really that it's both. Okay, thank you. Representative Canales. Thank you, yeah, I'll add that we have some excellent museums, municipally owned and run museums that do a great job here in El Paso. They loan items out to other museums across the country. They bring in items or traveling exhibits from other locations as well.
 There is across the country a big exchange of items and traveling exhibits that crisscross the country so that people can enjoy them in different places and that includes El Paso showcasing ourselves and our culture and our arts to other locations. With that I move to approve. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Canales seconded by Representatives Rivera and Fierro to approve item 24 on that motion call for the vote.
 And the voting session and the motion passes 7 to 1. Representative Molinar voting nay. The motion does carry. That brings us to item 25. Item 25 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2024-0233R health insurance benefits administrators to the following suppliers
 Aetna Dental Inc., Aetna Life Insurance Company, Colonial Life and Accident Insurance Company, Dearborn Life Insurance Company, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas, Deer Oaks EAP Services LLC, Healthcare Service Corporation, DBA Blue Cross Blue Shield of Texas, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, Dash Safeguard Health Plans Inc., and Wex Health Inc.
 Good morning, Council Mayor Wiggins, Chief Human Resources Officer. If we can bring up the presentation to go over. There we go. Okay. So today we're here to talk about the medical and all the different auxiliary insurance coverages. And it's just going to go down. We did the RFP for all of our different insurances coverage, and so we're going to talk about that today. Maybe I just... There we go.
 So, the RFP is related to strategic goal six, which is setting the standard for sound government and fiscal management. It also falls under implementing employee benefits and services that promote financial security and ensuring continued financial stability and accountability through sound financial management, budgeting, and reporting.
 We're talking today about the discussion action on the RFP. I'm not going to read all of these because we're going to go through each one individually, so I'm just going to go on.
 This is a replacement contract for health insurance benefit administrators. There were a total of 36 views online, and we had 23 proposals that were received, none coming from local suppliers. It's important to mention that whenever we have the bids that came in, not all 23 bid on all services. One may bid on dental, one on vision, one on
 life and so forth but there was a total of 23 and there were no protests received we want to point out that we did combine solicitation number 2024-0233-R to afford the vendors the ability to do what we call bundling so they could you know submit like four different things and give better pricing and this helps us to be able to be competitive in our pricing and to streamline our solutions
 And so any contracts that are awarded will go into effect on December 15th, 2024. That will be the first pay period of the 2025 calendar year. So our first recommendation for award goes to Aetna Dental Incorporated. So the committee, which consisted of an outside consultant,
 Human Resources personnel fire police and water department So we had a committee that evaluated all the proposals and the highest scored will be the ones that we are submitting to you for Recommendation so to Aetna we are recommending administrative services only medical because we're a self-funded plan This is a they would just do the claims processing the underwriting and so forth pharmacy coverage and
 our fully insured under 65 medical plans, our Medicare Advantage, which is for our fully insured retirees as well, our health spending accounts, our HSAs,
 Fully insured dental PPO, this is fully paid for by the employees. It's a voluntary coverage. And administrative services only dental and vision, this is for our uniformed police as part of their CBA. It's also self-funded so this is just the administrative piece.
 One thing to point out that in Aetna's bid, they did upgrade us to the concierge service, which gives us a higher level of customer service and engagement for our employees. That is the top tier, so that was thrown in. We have higher wellness points. As you all know, we use our wellness dollars to build gyms.
 We have enhanced blood pressure machines, we have our Shape It Up program, we have our health fair. We're bringing in annually now, not annually, but monthly, we're starting to have different yoga relaxation during lunch at some of the departments. So this, having the higher wellness dollars, helps us to be able to reach our employees and provide a better level of service for them as well.
 In this award, it is for three years with two two-year extensions for a total of seven years if we choose to extend. For an annual estimated award of $76,365,548. Also to note, this includes claims. This is what we are forecasting for our services and for the claims would be in that time period.
 Our next recommendation is to Deer Oaks. This is for our Employee Assistance Program. We currently have the program with Deer Oaks, so this would be a seamless program.
 transition. We would just be renewing the contract for an annual estimated award of $69,495. Just to point out, this has become a very important service to our employees, especially after COVID. This has become invaluable. We're having a very high usage, and so we're excited to still be able to continue to provide this to our employees.
 Our next recommendation is to Colonial Life and Accident. This is for our short-term disability program. This was previously with Trustmark, but this is being recommended for Colonial Life at this time. The annual estimated award is $141,212. That's also a completely volunteer benefit, so all of those premiums are paid exclusively by employees.
 Next recommendation is to Dearborn life insurance company. This would be for basic life supplemental life and for fully insured vision and this
 Life insurance is paid for by the city. For most employees, it's a $50,000 life insurance policy that's completely paid for by the employees. For the supplemental life insurance and vision, that will be fully, not fully insured, but that is completely paid for voluntary by the employees.
 I also want to point out that as we award this to Dearborn, which is the current vendor as well, generally when an employee gets hired by the city, they are able to do a one-time option of doing supplemental life insurance of up to $200,000 without an evidence of insurability, which means they don't have to go to a doctor and prove that they're well.
 When you're hired, you have that one-time shot. After that, you can only add $10,000 each year with no evidence of insurability. But if you go above the $10,000 each year, then you would have to go through an underwriting. And then you can also get it for your spouse up to half the amount that you elect.
 Well, as we renew this contract, Dearborn is offering us once again a one-time opportunity as we go through open enrollment this next year for all employees to have that chance again to do a supplemental life insurance up to $200,000, as long as they haven't been previously denied. But they'll have that opportunity once again. So we're excited to be able to offer that to our employees. Thank you.
 We are recommending next award, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, the Fully Insured Dental HMO Plan. Again, this is completely paid for by employees. It's voluntary coverage. And the annual estimated award is 122,940.
 We are recommending to WEX Health the flexible spending account. This is not a very high usage item, but this is paid for by employees and the annual estimated award is $772. Cobra Administration, we are recommending award to Blue Cross Blue Shield. And this is again, not a very high usage item for an annual award of $6,000.
 SO THE TOTAL RFP AWARD THAT WE ARE RECOMMENDING IS AN ANNUAL OF 78 MILLION 127 738 WHICH AGAIN INCLUDES OUR CLAIMS OUR FORECASTING CLAIMS BASED UPON PAST CLAIMS USAGE IN THE PAST COUPLE OF YEARS WITH A TOTAL SEVEN YEAR OF 546 894 166 QUESTIONS REPRESENTATIVE HERNANDEZ
 Thank you for the presentation. So you've identified the different vendors that you have secured that process. What is the difference between the current state of services to what's being proposed? Are there any difference in carriers?
 The difference in which carriers that are awarding it to or the services themselves? Both. So are there any major changes that city employees should be aware of about their provider itself? Okay.
 For, trying to think to go through each one, for Aetna it was the changes that I mentioned, a higher level of concierge and engagement with the employees that, and there's different programs that are in that. One of the things with Aetna that we also added in the last couple of years is we added a peer support group for our uniform employees.
 And so that also is going to be coming with the Aetna plan for our peer support group. We have a higher amount of the wellness dollars to spend. There was a diabetes program that's going to be enhanced. So there's a couple of programs that we're going to be able to hone in on some of our major diagnosis, I guess you would say, you know, for employees. But the higher level of concierge is, I think, the main thing for Aetna.
 One thing I also want to point out as I had met with each one of you at that time We weren't sure exactly what we were going to be doing as far as our premiums Whether or not we would be having an increase to employee premiums next year. I am happy to report that
 um that last night we met um and the decision had been made that employee premiums will not be going up next year so we will the city will be holding tight on the whatever the deductions have been and so that will be staying consistent in the upcoming year the dental plans everything is pretty much primarily the same i'm trying to think natalie is there anything i'm missing
 I believe everything is pretty much the same. Like for the dental, you have to, there's like a list of dentists that participate. Did any of that change? No. Okay. Were there any changes in the carrier, the provider itself? Like will there be a transfer in the new enrollment period with a new provider? Because I don't know who the existing one is off the top of my head.
 So the main one that I can think of that changed was going to be from Trustmark to Colonial, which is going to be the short-term disability. Oh, okay. Yeah. And they will take on, you know,
 The eligibility that we had previously, they will take on. So if you were qualified before, you're still qualified. It's the same eligibility. It will be seamless to employees. The only thing, you know, like for the disability that might would change is if there was somebody physically on disability getting payments on January 1, we would have to make that transition for them. But we'll know who that is in advance and we'll be contacting them and make sure that that's a seamless transition. So it will be?
 the transition will not happen in new enrollment, it would happen in September? Correct. So they'll go through open enrollment, we'll probably do it around October, November, we'll do open enrollment and then everything will go into effect December 15th. So all of this is getting ready to gear up for that because it's a long process. But the short-term disability happens in September? It happens in January. Oh, okay, I misunderstood.
 We talked about short-term disability yesterday. Can you clarify again for city employees listening? I can, yes. So on short-term disability, we have different options, and I'm going to do my best to remember these. So whenever you go to elect short-term disability, it has many criteria. So it's going to – it's this –
 based on your age, it's based upon your salary, and then you get to choose. So there is, you choose like the benefit period and the waiting period. So for example, we have a six month benefit period, which means you would get paid for six months, we have a 12 month, and we have a 24 month. So when you're electing, you're choosing which one that you want, like should you need to go on short term disability, you're choosing the one you want.
 There's also different options Like one is after you don't start getting paid till after seven days one is after 14 days and one is after 30 days So when they go to elect they're choosing which? Which one of those they want the waiting period and then they chose choose the corresponding Benefit period so should someone choose we talked about you know in
 specifically for someone for birth of a child and so in those instances is how long that the physician keeps the employee out so you know if it's a regular birth and everything goes great which of course is what we hope for generally at six weeks so they would receive the six weeks but if there was complications that went along with it then as long as the physician is keeping the employee out and it's all related to medical physician notes
 depending upon which one they chose so if it's six months then they could be paid up to six months okay if there was something that was seriously wrong and it went one year then it falls into that but I mean it it is for the medical you know reason so there would have to be a medical reason but they have those options they can choose to help them during that time period in case they don't have
 the funds to be able to you know have paychecks during that time. And they would get compensated directly from the provider? Correct. And it would be up to sixty percent of the wages? It is sixty percent and so
 Yes, 60% of their wages that they have at that time, there's maximum benefits. And so just for an example, I pulled one yesterday and of course, am I going to turn right to it? No, I'm not. But it was like for somebody who made like 35,000, their benefit would be like 1,700. And so it's just, it lasts for as long as they choose. So you get the option of selecting. Yes. Okay. So those were the questions I had related to the benefits.
 I have I know I'm running out of time. I think Mrs. Prine, I'm not sure if your timing is But I did want to address the the how we got here city manager Weston you know, there was little input and little participation for members of council and
 And I think that we have a lot more to say about what we expect from our insurance providers. There has been no vetting with city employees. In fact, when this was posted, we started getting all sorts of calls and concerns from city employees.
 So what I see that you're recommending three years with two term options. My preference would be to only elect three years because
 Would like to have a more robust discussion with city employees and members of City Council Before you issue out an RFP so that we have a more understanding of what the scope of work would be So when you're drafting that scope of work and for the services that we need I would like to understand more the impact on the services the deductibles and what we can expect with co-pays and have those discussions early on at least estimates or forecast and
 Before it even goes out for an RFP. So now, you know in hindsight, I don't have any discretion to change anything unless we direct you To come back with some options And this is more than just providing gender-affirming care, which was my concern yesterday It is making sure that our city employees have a voice and what their concerns are with their insurance provider I personally don't like the services that I receive with this insurance company, but I'm not making decisions based on my personal concerns
 I'm looking more about the benefit to employees as well as the overall cost to the city And so I'll have more questions about purchasing but I did want to express that We just need to do a better job at asking City Council. What are your concerns? What can we do? How can we participate a little bit more? without getting too in-depth into the purchasing process rather just identifying
 identifying what our concerns are and how we can better serve our city employees. Did you have a response? I don't want to take up too much of your time because I know you've got more questions. Sure. I'll come back around. But real quickly, Mary, if you could just talk a little bit about when you developed the scope because the timeline for this solicitation goes all the way back to the fall of last year. Yeah. It was not that much. So there was a lot of thought and a lot of effort that went into developing the scope. It wasn't just Mary and her team alone. We actually have an outside consultant that tried to or did assist in the best way possible to ensure that a lot of the areas that are of concern for our employees were addressed within the scope.
 touch on that a little bit pretty quickly for it was a long you know process it was much like birthing a child it was about nine months and so it was a long process and we did put a lot in and but I do hear you're at Fernandez but I do want to point out that.
 Aetna, we are self-funded and they are the claims payer, not to reduce that, sorry. But we make the decisions on the deductibles, the co-pays. All of that is the decisions that we make. Right, but that was made.
 internally without any input from city council. You know what I mean? Right, but that doesn't have to stay with the RFP. That has nothing to do with an RFP. So, I mean, if we wanted to up or lower them later, I mean, those decisions on what those are
 is it affects budget and so that's how those decisions are made but that doesn't affect the RFP if we want I think it does I think it does and it goes hand in hand you know you project what available funds are going to have and then you try to identify what what is the magic number you're trying to achieve for an out-of-pocket expense for a family what what are we trying to achieve so that we can better convey to our providers what we're trying to achieve
 And like I said, you all done all the work.
 WITH NO INPUT FROM CITY COUNCIL WHICH IS WHY I WOULD PREFER NOT TO BE LOCKED IN FOR A LONG-TERM CONTRACT AND ONLY DO THREE YEARS. BUT THAT'S JUST MY PERSONAL OPINION. AND WE ONLY LOCK IN FOR THREE YEARS. WHENEVER THREE YEARS COMES, THEN WE MAKE THE DECISION. SO WE DON'T HAVE TO LOCK IN TODAY FOR SEVEN YEARS. IF WE WERE TO SAY THREE YEARS AND THEN WE'RE DONE, WE WOULD HAVE STARTED THE RFP PROCESS A YEAR PRIOR.
 However, if you have a two-year extension, then we're always like on a mad dash trying to get a renewal because we failed to do the RFP process. But I'll come back around and ask questions. Representative Acevedo. Thank you. I had questions on Deer Oaks. And I think this is great services, but I'm trying to break down the –
 the amount of the annual estimated award so about how many employees use this benefit
 I don't have, I mean, like how many are able to use it or how many use it? How many are actually using it? I don't have those numbers in front of me right now. I can get those back for you. But, I mean, we have lots of individuals, and, again, that has gone up exponentially in the last few years. We also bring them in if there are accidents that occur, you know,
 If the accidents occur, we bring them in for group counseling. If we have deaths, we have group counseling. So they are very responsive to the needs of what we have. But I would say it's continuing to increase more and more.
 I'm just trying to kind of understand a breakdown per employee like if 200 employees are using it That's roughly about 350 dollars per employee, which is fine I'm just trying to understand budgetary wise how that that is there and I understand that There's unprecedented things that may happen like you just said, but I think it would be helpful to have that Yeah, I can definitely get those numbers for you, but I can tell you that this is a
 a foundational key benefit that employers offer. To not have that would be, you know. Yeah, no, and I'm definitely not arguing not to have it. I just wanna have a better breakdown of it. I can get that for you, absolutely. And then right now we have one employee that works for Aetna at the city? Two. Two, okay. And what is their,
 kind of rule in doing this? So with Aetna, part of our scope, and this was part of our scope before and it's still our scope now, is we have a, and that was what we asked for, so we have a customer relations representative. So when our employees call customer service, they don't call 1-800 and get a different person every single time. When they call 1-800 or when they call customer service, they get Mandy.
 They get Mandy, unless she's sick, they get Mandy every time. So Mandy knows our benefits inside and out and she only works for us.
 As a note, that is part of the CBA as well. So the fire and the police CBA have that listed in there that they will have a dedicated customer service rep. And so that's always been included as part of our scope. So Mandy is available for customer service. And then our other person that we asked for in our scope is our wellness coordinator. And that's Ms. Christina Chacon. I know some of you, I know Ms.
 and Sacida Rep. Sacida does the Shape It Up hour sometimes and watches Roman and Christina on Thursdays at noon. Everybody should watch it. We've even had Mr. Cortinas on there once before as a guest speaker. So they bring in some really great information. But Christina has very implemental in helping us to organize our wellness plan and to help get our employees healthier. She helps us organize our health fairs.
 We now, we do an annual large health fair at the convention center, but just, and I believe it was last week or two weeks ago, we felt like that wasn't enough, that we are seeing, you know, so some other things coming up in departments. So we are now doing little small mini health fairs
 I'm not sure if it's monthly or quarterly. I don't remember, Roman. But we're doing more mini health fairs now where we're going out to the departments, and we're actually having health fairs in the department. So we did one at communications for 911 employees a couple of weeks ago. Great turnout. Heard really great.
 results from that and so we're meeting them where they are. She meets, she's helping us with our maternity program, you know, she helped get all that, we're organizing it for our expectant mother so we're getting in front of it, not just after they have the baby, but we're doing things for them in advance.
 With the funds that we are being awarded with Aetna, we're going from like $100,000 to $500,000. We have great plans and it's plans that she's had for some time but we weren't able to do. We want to start having specific diabetes programs and so she goes and she meets with these employees individually.
 because we as an employer cannot do that but because she is a vendor she is able to go and help us manage these programs and try to get our employees healthier so those are our two employees that come with the Aetna contract and with and as a huge company right so I'm just trying to also get over the the sticker shock of how expensive this is right all health insurance is expensive yeah so
 I guess with these employees, they are paid through this contract as well? Correct. Then they're on a three-year basis and then two-two? Correct. Yes. So with the customer service,
 this concierge program is going to look a little different than just the general customer service that you were saying, or is that the diabetes program, but that's the wellness program? Yeah. So what is the concierge program? It's a little bit of everything, and I'm not sure, Natalie, if you can speak to the – so this is Natalie Haskett. Natalie is with Gallagher Consultants. A lot of you met –
 Reagan, thank you. Reagan and our meetings, but Natalie is here today. Just in case we have questions I can't answer, and so I'm going to let you speak to the concierge. Sure. Good morning, everyone. So this really, instead of, you know, Mary mentioned that you do have, you know, you're on site that your employees have really become accustomed to, and we want to still promote that. But if you have someone that is dialing the number on the back of their card, instead of going to Aetna's general customer service where, you know, it could be,
 a pool of a thousand plus reps this smaller concierge service actually has a pod that is dedicated to just a few clients i'm not just going to say to the city of el paso they have a few but nine times out of ten you you will speak to the same three or four people every time you call in so the hope is you're establishing that relationship and they can have some scripting to when you're calling in they've seen that maybe you haven't had
 service, your well-women exam, whatever that is, and maybe they can help you schedule that or talk you through some wellness or get you in touch with some other organizations. They'll also have a phone tree when if someone's calling in and that conversation leads to questions about dental, they're going to warm transfer over. If it becomes maybe counseling, they'll put them in touch with the EAP or Behavioral Health. So it's just a nice bridge.
 Just kind of a value add that came with this solicitation. So would it be correct to say that in addition to the two employees that are here answering questions for employees directly, this concierge service is going to open it up to three or four other people in a pod on a national scale? Correct. It's a little bit of an extended customer service experience. And these two employees that are at the city currently, they have excessive –
 calls all the time that this would help alleviate them or is it just a perk that came out of this i think it's more of a perk i mean i don't know that they have excessive that they can't handle the calls um i one of the other things if i and correct me if i'm wrong but i believe we also get
 customized like communication so like letters that we send out to you know employees where now we we just get the standard Aetna whatever but now with the concierge we can have the ability to customize different things that are sent out to employees so it's just a higher level of service I'm not sure if it was also with the providers that were able to look at accessibility of providers and such so I would say it's a perk more than anything
 Okay. And I think that overall one of the things that I've been hearing a lot from different employees is that the quality of our insurance is not great. And I think when we're looking at this, I know you were saying that it took nine months and there was a lot of hard work that got put into it.
 I do hesitate a bit with this breakdown that you gave me. I appreciate the old Aetna contract versus what the potential new Aetna contract is and kind of putting them side by side. I wish you would have done that for the presentation so the entire public could see this, right? And the employees that are watching as well because it's gonna affect them. And I think that that's what's not clear. And what I'm seeing right now is that we're not necessarily getting
 quality out of this new contract. It's just little upgrades here, the perk of having a pod of people, a little bit more money in the wellness contract, different communications, some of the member programs, but I think the overall root cause of what a lot of people have concerns about is not necessarily being addressed through this potential new contract. Representative Canales.
 yeah thank you miss wiggins and especially also to everyone at gallagher natalie and reagan i think bringing them on board has been a big help throughout this process and i would venture to say that the most comprehensive process the city's ever gone through for procuring our health care coverage i did ask you some questions and thank you for getting back to me with information about the the breakdown of costs and i know i heard the word sticker shock mentioned earlier
 The numbers are big numbers, but again, we're a self-funded provider, right? We're funding the claims for our own employees for medical and for most of these services. You provided it to me. Can you talk a little bit about the breakdown of what are the administrative costs that we're paying to Aetna?
 for the medical versus what the amounts are that are just us paying the claims. Cause those projected claims are rolled into that big number. Correct.
 what we're actually paying to aetna for their services is a much smaller number yes thank you so um what rep canales had asked because you know there was such a it's a large number of millions um that we're awarding an annual for the medical administration so just to break it down so you understand what is the fee and what is the claims that we're forecasting so on an app on an average
 For the first year one through five for Aetna, the service fees that we would pay to Aetna to administer the plan is 1,894,020 per year. So it's less than 2 million. So of that, and I think it was 76 million, if I'm not mistaken, but of that 76, only 2 million is the fees for the administration. The rest is the claims that we're funding, that we're forecasting that we're gonna have to pay.
 The next year was $1,960,000, and then the final year was $2,032,000. But they're all under $2 million for the administration of the medical claims. Still a large number, but, you know. Right, but it makes a big difference when you're talking about procuring the actual services. These are the more realistic numbers as opposed to paying out on the claims. That's what we're paying for the service. The other is the forecasting of the claims. And then there's...
 You know, it's not all self-funded. It is a mix. So we have the under 65 medical for retirees and Medicare Advantage for over 65. The dental PPO is fully insured, correct? Yes. And vision. Right. Supplemental life insurances, the FSA, those are all paid for by the employees, correct? Correct.
 Right, and so we are paying basically only the administrative cost. Correct. And in some of, I think, on the dental, in the dental we're actually not paying the administrative cost. Right, that's completely voluntary. We pay nothing towards the dental, for the dental vision, the FSAs, all of those are paid for strictly by the employees.
 And then we had a conversation too, and I know we spoke about it a little bit earlier as well, but about the inclusion of gender-affirming care and some other services that we don't
 Insurer at the moment that we don't cover at the moment. I think we'll be looking to yes Incorporate those into the future that doesn't necessarily play into the decision today, correct? Those are decisions that we will need to make in terms of what we choose to cover as a as a self-funded insurer Correct. So it's our decisions what we cover and what we do not cover based upon of course budget and budgetary impact and so
 The award that comes before you today is strictly for the administration. If we choose to add benefits or to take benefits away, you know, in the future, whoever we award it to will comply with whatever we say is covered because we choose what is covered and what is not covered. So that doesn't affect if we make a change for January 1, we're able to do so.
 All right. Well in that case, I'm sorry that I'm sure you want to be done with This conversation for a little while anyway for a couple of years. Yes, but we'll probably keep that conversation going to make sure that through the through the budget process and into The next opportunity where we have to make a change we can look to To add those those additional services and
 That's all. Thank you again for the hard work in getting here. I know it's not a simple process and even the information that we get in from the bidders is very complex. So thank you again to Gallagher and everybody. Yeah, big thanks to Gallagher because we, you know, they made it much more palatable. Like I said, they broke everything down into English because otherwise, you know, it was confusing.
 Okay, that's all. Thank you. Thank you representative Fierro and then representative Hernandez. Thank you mayor Pro Tem Thank you. First and foremost for all the work you put into this you mentioned nine months of work to get where we are today I think we can't overlook that and and I
 When you mentioned earlier about potentially there could be no increase that the employees are going to see when the new budget starts, that's amazing. It's amazing. And Representative Acevedo mentioned sticker shock and how he would prefer better insurance for employees. Absolutely. We all want better insurance for our employees. But we also have a budget to live with. And when we talk about adding benefits.
 That's absolutely a discussion that we can talk about in the future, but it's also a benefit that we're going to align on, an increase that we're going to have to talk about. So thank you for bringing that up. Thank you. And, you know, we, I think it's amazing what you've been able to do in that short time because it's, well, it's amazing because I can't believe that we're going to go into next year without an increase.
 I end with that mayor Pro Tem I want to make a motion to approve Representative Hernandez. Yeah, the final questions were related to purchasing. So like if you just look at the bid tabulation There are some there's some drastic changes between the value of between Blue Cross and Blue Shield compared to Aetna and
 So just like on the medical, there is an $11 million difference between Blue Cross Blue Shield and Aetna, Blue Cross being $11 million less. But the points are significantly less in that category for funding for financials for medical. They get a 79, Blue Cross Blue Shield gets a 79, and Aetna gets a 95.
 However, they're 11 million dollars greater. And so when I had asked a question to Gallagher They had said that component was not part of your assessment. It was the purchasing department and You know, I just want to have a conversation about you know How did these numbers get to that place because I can't see like all the scoring But again this this is our number one economic driver for our budget and
 So these discussions are imperative to have as a body. And that is why I'm advocating for more discussion as opposed to just being presented the overall plan. Can you just briefly describe, you know, why Blue Cross Blue Shield scored significantly less and they have the same scores, I don't know, ironically, coincidentally, 79.47 in one, two, three, four, five, five categories.
 And the reason why I bring up six categories, excuse me The reason why I bring up my concern about cost and affordability is because I have a personal experience Where some of my children have Blue Cross Blue Shield and my other children have Aetna and I can tell you hands-down you're gonna receive some kind of bill the minute you leave a doctor's office or a clinic's office and
 And I understand that there's a deductible that has to be met but these bills are extreme they're like really expensive and it's not affordable coupled with the high premium you have to pay for a family and
 Most families are disproportionately paying more money to their insurance benefits than what they're taking home. Like, there's a great disparity. That is my number one concern, is the cost. And if it's not through the provider, then it's through our budget, then we need to have a conversation about where we can strike that balance. But can I hear from the purchasing department on why those categories were scored so low when the expenses are significantly lower than Aetna?
 Good morning, Paula Salas with Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing. Okay, so based on this RFP, we did have several evaluation factors. There were six of them. The fee proposal, technical solutions, quality of response,
 financial stability, those were all scored by the consultant, those four. The last two, which is the experience and comparable contracts and references, the experience, those are scored by the committee, which was, like Mary mentioned earlier, there were city staff, HR, we also had fire, PD, and water.
 And then the references, those are done by purchasing. So what the vendors are supposed to submit is the experience comparable contracts with their references, meaning any point of contact
 which they did provide it in this case, Blue Cross, Blue Shield, they did have, they didn't include summary in there. That's why you cannot see it in part of the packet because this is part of the evaluation process that we do.
 So that's where they lost points. And we do have a notation on the form to state if failure to supply or provide additional information, it will be reflected on their scores.
 So that was the main reason. Right, and so you're talking about references and the summary and the quality of the response, right? Correct. And so that dinged over almost 30 points. And so, 20 points, excuse me, 21. What I'm saying is the weight should be better distributed in points towards the affordability of the plan.
 Mean and I understand we always have a conversation about rubrics and the weight that we're giving towards the financials and then these other references I mean a loss of 20 points for being more affordable I mean to me that's just like we got we got to go back and look at our scoring process and the methodology because it makes no sense that you you've cut it by 20 points and
 And I understand you have to meet that criteria. My concern is the actual framework that we set aside and we provide, and you cut all those points over a reference, they didn't provide a reference. One of the national insurance company didn't provide a reference, which we can go to the county and get a reference from them. So that was what I wanted to express to the public. That even though there's a more affordable plan with better services,
 we have knocked them on points for not complying with your purchasing process. So is that a fair assessment? Well, I can also include that references was only worth the 10 points, which they did provide. And I went ahead and called their references.
 So the problem was on the experience comparable contracts. So they were supposed to provide a summary for each of those references, which they did not include. Oh, I understand now. Okay, so it's not that they didn't provide the references, it was the explanation on the references. Okay, and that was worth how many points? That was the 10 points. 10 points, okay.
 Yes, ma'am. All righty, well thank you for the information and I know that we're going into budget season and so I know that's a conversation that members of council and I, we can present some more affordable ideas as well because it's inevitable. I've heard today that you're, we're not planning on increasing insurance rates but the trend nationwide is that they're going to increase rates and so the notion that the next three to seven years that there's not going to be increase is not true.
 There will be some form of increase and if there is not an increase it's because council has set aside proactively funds to hit that, to get that expense so that we pay for that expense as opposed to the employees. But with that comes with an extreme amount of funding that we need to set aside in our budget and find an affordable plan and provider.
 Thank you for your point. There's there is and to be very very clear. There's an increase every year and and The increase this year we're estimating at about 4.2 million dollars from last year Estimate based on claims that the city's continuing to absorb this with the sixth year that we are absorbing this But I but I agree the costs continue to go up year over year with that miss prime. I
 Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Canales to approve item 25 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes 6-2. Representatives Acevedo-Hernandez voting aye. Representatives Kennedy-Molinar, Salcido, Fierro, Rivera, Canales voting aye. The motion does carry. Thank you, counsel.
 Items 26 and 27 were postponed for four weeks that brings us to item number 28 And this is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning from a to SC apartment special contract in a to HSC apartment historic special contract to see one SC commercial special contract and see one HSC Commercial historic special contract. This is south of La Morenita circle and west of Socorro Road motions approved. I
 There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve item 28. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Items 29 and 30 were postponed four weeks. That brings us to item 31.
 And this is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the submission of an application to the United States Department of Defense fiscal year 2024 defense community infrastructure program Requesting funds in the amount of seven million dollars with a three million dollar match required from the city for the aerospace and defense technology Training Center project. I believe we have public comment. Yes, sir. We have miss Osman that signed up to speak on this item. I
 I was curious to see this since city council reached out in regards to UTEP and everything that had happened with the aerospace program and the person that was assigned there. Is this trying to buffer the fact that the county, the recommendations that were used
 with UTEP and the professor there in regards to aerospace program, in regards to the county. Is the city now trying to take up that mantle for that? No, ma'am. That partnership still exists. This is always something that we've envisioned in working not only on Build Back Better, but with the NSF grant to develop not only the Advanced Manufacturing District, but the Innovation Factory.
 Coupled with the training center. So it's always been a part of the plan for us to do this So in regards to aerospace, what is the vision? Is it because? Division is to create Not only a strong ecosystem and really bolster our supply chain here in El Paso That's a lot of words settled but what I'm saying is are you actually envisioning that we're gonna have manufacturing plants here
 Or is it just something because, hey, we have Bezos over here? No, not at all. I mean, it's a fair question. We have already, when we opened the innovation factory a year ago, we've already filled it up with nine different companies that are subcontractors to major Department of Defense contracts. We have 17 companies in the queue. And so the vision is to create a manufacturing district at the airport, specifically tailored to that industry. Okay.
 So just on airport property? Or is that going to be something just outside of
 Outside industry. I love this. There's gonna be I mean when you're saying that at the airport It's just gonna be commercial you're bringing in so that we're gonna have future jobs for citizens How you're paying as versus keeping our city at a low wage poverty wages? So that we can fill you know Bezos other Amazon they're all they're all jobs that are just constant
 They're all private companies. So everything we're doing there is to bring private industry in to fulfill a lot of these needs within our community. Hopefully that will expand past the manufacturing district at the airport. That's the goal. As long as this has nothing to do with everything that happened at UTEP and, you know, the city council going and trying to speak up for a professor that got bumped. Representative Hernandez.
 I'm really excited to see Fafa here today, a graduate student at UTEP. I would love to hear your presentation. Good morning. I will be presenting on the Department of Defense Community Infrastructure Program,
 So this project fall on the following goals. Goal 1 create an environment conductive to strong economic development. Goal 1.4 expand import development and goal 6.1 to recruit and retain skilled and diverse workforce. This is the agenda for today's presentation.
 So the defense community infrastructure program DC is designed to address deficiencies in community infrastructure supportive of a military installation in order to enhance military value installation resilience and military family quality of life. There is currently 100 million appropriated for this year and this grant does require coordination of Fort Bliss and Whitehead missile range.
 We did apply for a DCEP grant last year, but we were unsuccessful. This year's application incorporates some of the comments and feedback from last year's debrief, and we do have a stronger commitment from Ford Place, as well as we are operating under revised scope. This is the current grant timeline. The notice of funding opportunity was released sometime in March,
 We are seeking council approval to submit the grant application today and the application deadline is coming up on June the 17th. We are projecting the project selection announcement for the fall and estimated award date in the winter of this year to 2025.
 So, a full list of the white paper detail the needs for an educational, the educational needs for mission required post-secondary programs and personal testing. They also detail a lack of consolidated training space as well as multipurpose lab and testing facilities. This project is set to help increase military value through improved efficiencies and hence readiness and increase retention.
 So this facility is set to meet current training demand. There is 5,000 service members operating for Fort Bliss every year and 3,000 of them make El Paso the permanent home and they are considered a highly trained workforce. So we are calling the training facility the Aerospace and Defense Technology Athletic Training Center
 The budget for this project is 10 million. We're requesting 7 million in D-CIP grant, as well as a 3 million match from the airport enterprise fund. So the scope of work for this project is the phase two, which is to the construction of a training campus. The cost estimate and design schematics are in progress. We are currently securing MOUs with universities such as UTEP.
 The ATT&CK is also set to supplement Fort Bliss training facilities via an intergovernmental support agreement. Today's Council action is a resolution authorizing the submission of an application to the United States Department of Defense
 Fiscal year 2024 defense community infrastructure program DCIP Requesting funds in the amount of 7 million with a 3 million match required from the city for the aerospace and defense Technology at the training center. Thank you. I guess I still have the floor I
 I'm really excited that we're bringing other employees to present before Council. You did a great job. Thank you I just wanted to Give a couple of comments about the overall strategy from the city the concept came from dr. Chidori and I remember meeting him several years ago and
 with this initial concept of collaborating between public, private and public partnerships between UTEP, the Chamber and others.
 I do want to give credit to Mr. Chidori and despite those circumstances, the city is very committed to working with UTEP because advanced manufacturing and aerospace industry is the future for our region. I've also had the opportunity to look at the San Antonio model that they have,
 I mean, it's great. It's such a great opportunity. And so I'm happy that you all came back to apply for this because it's going to be a game changer. And so for those who are not aware, we have an abundance of land on airport land. It doesn't just, it's not just around the airport. It goes all the way to the Global Reach area, into the Butterfield Trail area. That is all public land. And this is a great example of how we are turning public land into economic,
 opportunities to scale small businesses and to bring innovators to our innovation factory. So this is all part of an ecosystem that is going to bring high paying competitive jobs and these type of facilities are going to provide that roadmap so that we can get there. So overall really pleased with this direction and so I just wanted to share those comments for the public. Thank you, Fafa.
 With that Ms. Prime. Yes sir, the motion was made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares seconded by Representative Fierro to approve the resolution on item 31. On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously.
 Item 32 is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the submission of an application to the US Department of Transportation fiscal year 2023 active transportation infrastructure investment program requesting found funds in the amount of 1.5 million dollars with no match required from the city for the Stanton, Texas active transportation project development study. I
 Yes, sir, the motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 32 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously.
 Item 33 is discussion and action on a resolution to authorize the city manager or designee to sign an advance funding agreement between the City of El Paso and the State of Texas for the congestion mitigation and air quality program grant improvements for the traffic management center upgrade phase 3 project which has an estimated total project cost of $5,361,500.
 with estimated local government participation amount of two million nine hundred forty one thousand five hundred dollars. Move to approve. Yes sir the motion was made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 33 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Council would you like to recess for 13 minutes. Move to recess until noon.
 There's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting until noon. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the City Council meeting is in recess at 1147 a.m. until noon. Is there a motion to reconvene? Move to reconvene. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? May. The meeting is back in session at 12 p.m. Mayor Pro Tem, that brings us to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council.
 All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council...
 May propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have eight members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Elizabeth Crawford. Ms. Crawford's topic is Humility Month. Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. I would like to speak as much of the world is celebrating what's called Pride Month. I would like to speak about humility. The Lord Jesus Christ himself is the example of humbling himself. We're
 We're told in Mark chapter 10, and they brought young children to him that he should touch them, and his disciples rebuked those that brought them. But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased and said to them, Suffer the little children to come to me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God.
 Matthew chapter 18, And Jesus called a little child unto him and set him in the midst of them. And he said,
 Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as his little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Matthew 21, speaking about Christ's entry into the city of Jerusalem. Tell ye the daughter of Zion, behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek, humble, sitting on a donkey, and on a colt, the foal of a donkey, a beast of burden."
 This month of June, I am thankful for a Savior who humbled himself, who left his glory to become a man, to die the cruel death on the cross, to save me from my sin, from my rebellion, from my pride, who is now risen and exalted at the Father's right hand. I take pride in the gospel of my Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you so much. Hope you have a great day. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como, followed by Benjamin Alva, Hilda Villegas, Patricia Osmond. Mr. Como's topic is Exercising My Right Provided by the Constitution. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Thank you. Two weeks ago I read a passage out of the Constitution that we have the right to demand change if strays are dying, being killed, death in any way, shape, or form basically. So I'm here to demand change.
 We have policies and procedures in place at the shelter, like finder to foster, that has lost Lord only knows how many dogs because the director doesn't remember. We have dogs and cats that are missing out of the shelter. This information comes out of the shelter reports. I have to keep saying that because I guess people don't understand where I get my information from.
 They disappear. The population manager and the director need to figure out what's going on. Not that it works out. It don't work out. We followed it. We have owner surrender for euthanasia in 2022, and I am repeating myself. We had a total of 10 more owner euthanasias than what was turned in in 2023, and now we're having more than that every month. I did get some kind of a blah, blah, blah, blah thing. It didn't amount to anything, which is normal.
 That's either I don't remember or let me make up something. We have a problem. You know, we're sitting here where we need to try to plan on success and we're working on failures. I've been told to plan for the school on what they're planning on doing. Let me tell you right now, it's going to fail. They're not using their heads.
 We're gonna move everything from here over to there and hopefully we'll have more people because it's where people can get to it. So you need more employees, you need more kennels. I've discussed that we need to house the strays that are picked up on the west side there so that the people in that community don't have to drive to Fred Wilson to look for their strays. We've got a facility over there, let's use it. I got a call this morning, we're gonna work on Sallyport again. How many times are we gonna work on Sallyport?
 We're gonna close intake because we're working on Sallyport. We've got this huge building that's capable of housing all kinds of strays. Why don't we get it done? So for the record, when I get home, I'm shutting down my Facebook page. I'm turning my phone to a different phone number that nobody has. I'm tired of fielding calls for complaints from our shelter. That's your job, not mine. I'm tired of it. I've had enough.
 I'm pulling off. I may not get away from this because you guys need to know what kind of disaster we've created, or you've created, sorry. But I'm out, I'm done. Thank you, Mr. Como. The next speaker is Benjamin Alba, followed by Hilda Villegas, Patricia Osman, Lisa Turner, Marcy Chavez, Michael Nagler, Benjamin Alba, I'm sorry, Benjamin Alba? Yep. Hilda Villegas? So they go first? Yes, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am, yes, ma'am. Hilda Villegas?
 She will be followed by Patricia Osmond. If you're in teams, please make sure you're on mute. Good afternoon, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, my name is Hilda Villegas and I'm from Familias Unidas del Chamisal Neighborhood Association.
 We're here to address, to speak against the fire that just happened last week in our community. We are very outraged that the recycling facilities in our neighborhoods continue to put our families of the Chamizal in danger. The Chamizal community is surrounded by many sources of pollution to include the commercial truck traffic and the recycling facilities that should not be allowed to continue damaging the health and residents of our community.
 The Chamizal community is also part of the city of El Paso and should be afforded the same protections as other communities within the city. According to the EPA's Environmental Justice Screen 2, we are in the 99th percentile of environmental justice indexes that include diesel particulate matter, air toxins, cancer risk, and traffic proximity.
 The massive fire that we experienced is a perfect example of environmental injustices we are subjected to because these industries and macula truck traffic continue to expose us to harmful levels of ultrafine particles and fumes from their neglect.
 It's not the first time we have protested this facility because of a fire. They should not continue to operate as they are. We want the city to shut down their operations and a proper investigation be conducted. This industry should be moved out of our area. We also want the city to support the option to remove the commercial truck traffic from the international port of entry.
 This is a public health concern that has been highlighted by numerous studies of similarly situated conditions as well as by the EPA. The Maquila truck traffic and these recycling facilities should not be allowed to jeopardize the public health and lives of our residents. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Patricia Osman. Ms. Osman's topic is ethics, misleading comments, and misappropriation of funds and fiduciary duty to all citizens.
 GOOD AFTERNOON. YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES. PART OF WHAT SHE READ ON PUBLIC COMMENTS IS PARTNERED TO CITY BUSINESS. I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW A COUNTRY THAT WAS BUILT ON SEPARATION OF CHURCH AND STATE AND IS NOT CITY BUSINESS, MS. CRAWFORD KEEPS SPEWING HER RELIGIOUS BELIEFS. BUT THEN AGAIN, YOU ALL PRAY EVERY TIME IN HERE. I DON'T KNOW TO WHO'S GOD. OKAY? PLEASE DEFINE TO WHICH ONE. YOU'VE GOT OVER 2500 BIBLES.
 This is the thing, aside from that, it's rather sad that Mr. Cuomo has been here, as he told you all, for years, and he's deciding to stop. You know why? But that's the point. That's what you all want. But I want you all to realize, with all the religion and the people with their fake preaching, donations do not save you from damnation, okay? Whatever trips you take with your discretionary funds,
 In the end, it's not going to save you. You think, hey, you know what, live it up right now. Maybe, because quite frankly, it's fake belief. But I'm going to tell you, for the people who have asked, because I did post a lot of stuff online, and I'm making as much of the documents that I find public, because we can, as, yes, people ask, I filed two ethics reports. One of them.
 What ends up happening is if it's a city employee, although under the code it states ethics complaints, officers are employees, but yet you all have stripped the ethics commission from actually handling ethics complaints from city employees. Why? Because let's keep it under the table. Let's push it over to HR. That department can keep it out of the public eye.
 And then they can just say, oh, well, you know what? It's internal matter. We can't tell you what happened, what the status was. So that most of the citizens don't understand the actual complaints that are going in. So yeah.
 I WILL BE HERE AND I WILL FILE AND IF I HAVE TO I WILL KEEP FILING THE ETHICS AND PLANS I'LL POST EVERYTHING THAT I FIND PUBLICLY ON EVERYBODY EVERY EVERY EMPLOYEE AND EVERY REPRESENTATIVE IN THE CITY BECAUSE IF YOU DON'T CARE ABOUT THE CITIZENS YOU DON'T CARE ABOUT YOUR OWN SALVATION BECAUSE YOU'RE GOING TO COME IN HERE AND BLAST BE BLASPHEMOUS ON PRAYING
 When you really don't care about the lowest among us. You don't care about who's getting poisoned because you're taking donations from Marathon and that. And I know because I have those contracts. The next speaker is Lisa Turner. Ms. Turner's topic is textile operations on Mesa Street. She will be followed by Marcy Chavez. Good afternoon, Ms. Turner. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I was having difficulty accessing my own home because TxDOT had decided to block off Bartlett Drive from turning left off of Mesa. Everybody else could go through the intersection, but you could not turn left. There was no structural reason in the street not to be able to do so, which meant I had to go all the way up Mesa.
 to Ressler, from Ressler to Sunland Park, Sunland Park to I-10, I-10 to Red Road, and then from Red Road go up Red Road and then turn right on Southwestern Drive and then come in the back way. There was no way for any of the dozen or so individuals who are confined to wheelchairs in my area to make it across the street because it was impossible
 for a wheelchair or a scooter to cross the street. Still is. The closest place one could get to cross the street, to get to the other side because there's a lot of doctor offices on the other side, on Remcon, is to go all the way up to Ressler and Mesa and then cross on the north side of the street there and then come all the way back down. I had called to express my concerns to TxDOT and I never got a call. They were non-responsive. They don't care.
 I don't know who's controlling traffic, but there is I'm told that they're El Paso Police Department But I can guarantee you I didn't see a patch on anybody's sleeve saying that they were El Paso police In fact, I didn't see a patch on any of these individuals who were supposedly police officers other than police written on the back of a vest so I don't know who's directing traffic but it endangered the lives of everybody who lived in that area and
 because you couldn't get a fire department or police down Mesa because of the traffic. You can't move two miles of traffic out of the way on one lane for a fire truck to get through. So they had to do the same trick I do if they had to make a run and that was come in a backway and you know I kind of sit with I got there's a fire station just up the street on Mesa and then there's one down there by Donovan and Country Club right there on the corner
 IT WOULD PROBABLY TAKE THEM A GOOD 10 MINUTES TO GET TO YOU. NO ONE TAKES THAT INTO CONSIDERATION. AND WHY YOU DO IT DURING THE DAY WHEN YOU'VE GOT ALL THAT TRAFFIC, WHEN YOU'VE GOT THREE LANES OF TRAFFIC COUNTING TWO TURN LANES TO GET OVER ON RIMCON. THANK YOU, MR. TURNER. A QUICK THREE MINUTES. THE NEXT SPEAKER IS MARCY CHAVEZ. MS. CHAVEZ'S TOPIC IS COST OF LIVING. GOOD AFTERNOON, MS. CHAVEZ, YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES. GOOD AFTERNOON.
 My subject here is about cost of living. As we know, all of us that are living out there, the cost of living has become ridiculous in El Paso. San Antonio knows, California knows, even Washington, D.C. knows. We are one of the highest cities here in Texas that is paying high costs. And when I say high costs, it's utilities.
 We get charged all kinds of fees, and this totals amount higher than what the usage of the utility that we use, which is, while we charge this, God only knows, you all make up these rules or add these fees or whatever. I just got my water disconnected
 I have a small house and I'm paying $400 to $500 a month on just utility. That includes electric, water, and gas. And somebody that is in fixed income, am I too loud? That is on fixed income, well, guess what? I'm not the only one on fixed income here. I'm just here because of the grace of God.
 And my faith stands with him, which I come to you all because it's shame on you that I don't know if you all are living the life, but we sure are not. You go to the store, how much is it for $200? A gallon of milk, maybe eggs, because we can't afford meat anymore.
 At the same time, you're misspending our funds, our taxpayers' money, and all these immigrants that are pouring in here. And they're in the hotels living the life. They're in the churches living the life. And you're honoring millions of dollars because, oh, they're taken care of in a humanity way. What about us? Aren't we humans? Yes.
 So anyways, this is just part, and it's also part of exploitation. You have exploited the people for way too long. So it's time for you to wake up and fear the Lord, because your time is coming. You may, like the lady says, you may be enjoying yourselves right now, but your time is coming. And it's not going to be pretty. And that's all I have to say. Thank you. The next speaker, also on the topic of cost of living, is Michael Nagla.
 Thank you. He's not here. We'll move on to the last speaker, which is Benjamin Alba. Mr. Alba, if you're in the Q-star 6, please do unmute your telephone. And his topic is loose cats and dogs. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay. I went to animal services yesterday, and I knew it was going to be heartbreaking because I knew I was going to see defenseless animals in cages, animals that did not know anything,
 What was going to happen to them? I saw a man with a small cat kennel, and I figured he was going to maybe adopt or see what kind of help he could get for this cat. It turns out this man had a female cat with a litter of kittens. When I asked him what was happening with these cats, he told me he had found them.
 and was bringing them over to animal services. I knew right then and there this man was lying to me. I've been doing this for a long time. This is the trap neuter in return for a long time. I knew with almost 100% certainty this mama cat and kittens belonged to him and that he no longer wanted to take on the responsibility.
 I understand there are people who are that way, responsible pet owners. I understand there are a lot of people who no longer want to take on the responsibility of taking care of an animal. But what I don't understand is why El Paso Animal Services did not want to take on the responsibility of having an animal shelter that should be doing its job. I just, I don't understand that.
 You know I keep thinking to myself why a few years ago El Paso Animal Services stopped accepting cats and dogs from coming into the shelter. Cats and dogs who were turned over by irresponsible pet owners or from people who were just trying to do the right thing by taking in a stray animal and taking them to to the shelter.
 People were told they would have to, they would either have to keep the animals or they had the option of letting it out loose. It doesn't make any sense. This created an abundance of loose cats and dogs. Everybody knows we have an abundance. We have, it's overwhelming the amount of cats and dogs that are out there loose, especially the cats. My goodness, this created the problem we are now facing. I'm asking our city leaders to,
 Please help us so we can stop this influx of loose cats and dogs. We can do this by listening to the rescues who have been doing this animal stuff for years and have the experience in running a shelter.
 We are not going to be able to fix the problems animal services created a few years ago, but we can learn from the past. I urge you to please. Thank you, Mr. Alva. You've reached three minutes, sir. Thank you. Council, that concludes call to the public. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 and the city council meeting for tuesday june 4 2024 is adjourned at 12 22 p.m thank you council