Good morning, Mayor. Yes, sir. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, June 11, 2024. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding in council chambers along with Representative Acevedo, Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares, Representative Salcido, and Representative Rivera. It is 9.01 a.m.
 Will everyone please silence their electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Senior Chaplain David Mayfield. Good morning, sir. As we gather here today for this council meeting, let us pause for a moment to reflect, seek guidance.
 Creator God, keep us mindful of the principles of servant leadership, which call us to serve our community with humility, integrity, and a genuine desire to uplift others. May we approach our responsibilities with a sense of duty, always striving to listen, understand, and respond to the needs of our constituents.
 Let us commit ourselves to act with compassion and empathy, recognizing the diverse voices and perspectives that make our community vibrant and strong. May we be guided by the values of respect, fairness, and justice, ensuring that our decisions foster a sense of belonging and well-being for all. Grant us the wisdom to navigate the challenges we face, the courage to make difficult decisions with conviction,
 and the patience to work collaboratively towards common goals. May our actions today reflect our commitment to serving others and building a better future for this city. In the spirit of servant leadership, then, let us now begin our work with open hearts and minds dedicated to the service of our community. Amen. Amen. Thank you for being here, sir. Amen.
 With that, I pledge allegiance, and I would love to have Mr. Wayne Thornton lead us, please. Mr. Thornton. I pledge allegiance to the nation of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. For the record, Representatives Hernandez, Canales, and Mayor Tim Kennedy have also joined the meeting. Representative Rivera.
 Good morning, everyone. I'd like to thank everyone that's here. This is, you know, it's always special when we have people here that want to learn about what's going on. And I see that a lot today. I see some kids here, kids that really reflect the future of our community. And, you know, the future has never been brighter for El Paso.
 I do want to thank everyone for being here. I know that we have a few of my favorite people today here, which would be, you know, no, it wasn't Ray Adalto, but that's okay. No, obviously the Hall of Fame has some, will be inducting a couple people that really have done a lot for our community.
 Actually do the Hall of Fame which is Wayne and Ruben. I thank you all I know that It's a non-paying job and I know Ray you guys put a lot into it to make sure that the people that do a lot for our community and Not only in sports, but also in support of sports means a lot So I want to thank you all for doing that. I want to thank everyone for being here and it's um I'd like to have a moment of silence for our
 everyone that's here, but also that we live in a great country. We live in a great city, and I'd like to have a moment of silence for peace on earth. Thank you. May God bless America, and may God bless El Paso. And with that, Ms. Prine. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning to you. Good morning, sir. I also want to note for the record that Representative Fierro has also joined the meeting. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is National HIV Testing Day.
 Mayor Patel? Yeah. Okay. Thank you, Mayor Patel. Proclamation of the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health and HIV Prevention provides free HIV, syphilis and hepatitis C testing, and whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health collaborates with local physicians, clinics, community health centers, Ford Bliss, Dona Ana County, New Mexico.
 Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, and other organizations to promote a healthier, safer community through community education on HIV prevention. And whereas getting tested and knowing your HIV status reduces the spread of HIV, testing is critical to HIV prevention. And whereas the Department of Public Health joins the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in recognizing the importance of HIV testing and controlling the spread of HIV.
 Now, therefore, it will be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that June 27, 2024 shall be known as National HIV Testing Day. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you, Representative.
 Thank you, Mayor and City Council for this proclamation. My name is Sara Gutierrez. I am the HIV prevention program supervisor. National HIV Testing Day is observed every June 27 since 1995. It is a day to encourage people to get tested for HIV, know their status and get linked to treatment.
 There are approximately 2,455 El Paso County residents living with HIV, 109 of whom were newly diagnosed with HIV in 2021. And we want individuals living with HIV to know they are not alone. The El Paso community has resources where they can find a helping hand.
 The theme for 2024 is Level Up Your Self-Love and Check Your Status. This theme emphasizes valuing yourself, showing yourself compassion and respect, and honoring yourself with self-love. This is why we are encouraging everyone here and those who are watching us virtually to get tested for HIV and know their status.
 Everyone has a status, whether it's HIV negative or HIV positive. We empower everyone to know and or update their HIV status every three months.
 We invite everyone to get tested for free at 701 Montana Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 11.30 and 1 to 4.30. Those who get tested on June 27 will receive a free gift card, no appointment necessary. Together we can end the HIV epidemic and the first step is to get tested and know your status. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 You know, I think it's, as you talk about, that people can live with HIV now. You know, back in the, I guess, 80s when it became part of our community,
 People we didn't have the medication. We didn't have the testing and I think Magic Johnson from the Lakers kind of showed that If you do get tested if you do get proper care, you can live with it and live a normal life And so it's really important and I thank you all for being here because awareness is so important and understanding That you can be tested and there's medication that that will help you so you don't have to have
 live in fear really and I think that like I said Magic Johnson broke the barriers for for everybody and thank you all for being here and making sure that the public's aware of this they have options and they're great options thank you thank you so much oh thank you Sarah
 And for this morning's honorees, if you're receiving a proclamation, your group will have up to six minutes to address council and you can distribute those six minutes amongst members of your group. Following the proclamation, council will have an opportunity to take a photo with you in chambers. And the next proclamation today is El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame, Class of 2024, and El Paso Sports Commission Week. Representative Mayor Potem Kennedy and Hall of Famer.
 Thank you, Mayor Leeser, also a Hall of Famer. It's because of our athletic prowess. Boy, that's not true. Whereas the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame was founded in 1955 to honor those athletes, both men and women, who have in their athletic fields of endeavor brought great credit upon themselves...
 and the El Paso County, and whereas El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame honors each year the Ray Sanchez Memorial High School Student Athletes of the Year, and the class of 2024 under President Ruben R. Ramirez, and has two endowed scholarships with UTEP under John Burkhead Jr., Dick Chenault Scholarship, and the El Paso Hall of Fame, and whereas this year the inductees are Patsy Norman Brunson,
 Rena Benavides Delnoy and Bobby Stives in the Living Athlete category. The coach administrator, to be honored, is Michael Williams, and the coach is Kimberly Phillips Gomez. In the official category, Kenneth E. May is selected, and Jerry Rubin is in the Supporter of Athletics category. I don't know what took us so long. And Pablo Doranco in the Posthumous category.
 The banquet will be 6 p.m. Wednesday, June 26th at the El Paso Community College Administrative Services Building, Building A, 9050 Vicon Boulevard. And whereas the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame has inducted 409 men and women into the prestigious organization, and thanks to the University of Texas at El Paso, the individual plaques are proudly displayed on the concourse of the Don Haskins Center and on the UTEP campus.
 And whereas the title sponsorship of the El Paso Sports Commission and President Omar Rappelli and their great staff, along with the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame's yearly efforts continue to provide fond memories for decades to come for El Paso, Texas, the region, and the nation.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the week of June 10th through June 14th, 2024, shall be known as El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame 2024 and El Paso Sports Commission Week. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor. My name is Ruben Ramirez. I'm the current president of the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame and a proud 2005 inductee.
 Thank you, Mayor Leaser and City Council for this great honor in recognizing the Hall of Fame for the class of 2024. Thanks to our Hall of Fame Vice President Ray Adalto, our committee members, Secretary Donna Carter, Treasurer Wayne Thornton, Parliamentarian Ron Lyman, and immediate past president Dr. Scott Stein. Special thanks to our title sponsor, the El Paso Sports Commission, and President Omar Ropeli, Communication Strategist Tony Rodriguez, and Janet Vargas,
 who is here also with the sports commission as we introduce our eight new members. Before I say anything further I'd like to have the members of the class of 2024 that are here to each come up and introduce themselves. Thank you. SPEAKER 7 Good morning. My name is Bobby Stives. I'm being inducted in for a living athlete. I am also going in as bowling and I'm also the current principal of Irvine High School.
 Good morning. I'm Rita Benavides-Valdujia. I'm also inducted in the Living Athlete category, and I'm a distance runner. And after, yeah, that's it. Hey, good morning, everyone. Adrian Seiss. I'm here on behalf of my grandfather, Pablo Darancu. Thank you.
 I'm Jerry Rubin and I just want to tell you when Scott Stein called me and he said you're going to be you were nominated by the mayor to be in the Hall of Fame. I said wait I didn't play football basketball or baseball. And then I thought for a second oh finally they're going to honor me for being a yo-yo champion when I was 12 years old. So at the school. So thank you all very much.
 I just want to recognize the people that weren't able to attend today's meeting Patsy Norman Brunson who is also in the living athlete category Michael Williams and Kimberly Phillips Gomez who are in the coach administrator category and Kennedy may who's in the official category Just a little bit about the inductees that introduced themselves today miss Rita
 At UTEP was a five-time Division One All-American from 1987 to 1989 and holds the UTEP school record in the 3000 and 5000 meters. Rita has also competed with the Dutch Dutch National Track and Field Team and is one of many great legends of UTEP women track and field history. Mr. Stives in the living category as well.
 Another great bowler from El Paso to be inducted in as Stives has bowled over several 300 games and won many city, state, regional, and national tournaments. Mr. Stives still bowls today and has had a great career as a bowling administrator and is currently the principal at Irvin High School. In the supporter of athletes category inductee is Gerald Rubin. Mr. Rubin, who built the Helden of Troy softball complex at UTEP.
 and to many is looked as one of the saviors of the annual Sun Bowl football game while sponsoring halftime shows for the game. He has also donated to hundreds of charities in the community and is a true gift over, a true gift giver, and tremendous ambassador for El Paso, Texas and beyond. In the posthumous category we have, I'm sorry, you know I'm not good at this, Mayor. In the posthumous category we have Mr. Pablo Duranco,
 And he was represented by his grandson Adrian signs and his and his daughter let these have the Ronco Mr. Duran coo is well known for being an amazing competitive cyclist on an international and national level He has won tune he won two national senior games cycling competitions on the 40 kilometer in a 40 kilometer road race
 Just want to remind everybody that on June 25th, we will also honor the Ray Sanchez Memorial High School student athletes and teams of the year at the El Paso Community College with a ceremonial induction ceremony with the class of 2024. On June 26th, we will induct the class of 2024 at our annual banquet also to be held at the El Paso Community College.
 Again on behalf of the El Paso source Sports Commission El Paso athletic Hall of Fame We want to thank you mayor Leeser City Council very much for having us here today and for more information on the rich history of The hall or to purchase tickets to our banquet, please go to El Paso athletic Hall of Fame Thank you. Well, I'd like to congratulate all the people that are being inducted into the Hall of Fame and and
 as I had the opportunity to vote and look at all the candidates, this by far, and I've been doing this a little while, was by far the toughest, toughest class and the toughest nominees I'd ever seen, and I know that
 All of us that had the opportunity to vote for the people that were coming in the athletes and everyone coming into The Hall of Fame it was the toughest toughest and the best class in my opinion we'd ever seen So you all are the best of the best and and I want to congratulate you all and I know Jerry that when I noticed that
 You were inducted for the yo-yo championship. No, I turned in this packet. I have the opportunity to turn in the packet. To start with, I couldn't believe as much as you've done for the community, the Sun Bowl, the Helen of Troy, and everything else, that you weren't in the Hall of Fame. So I started talking to people, and I said, Hey, I'm going to nominate Mr. Rubin. And they go, He's already in.
 It's one of those deals that everyone thought so you did so much for the community that you were already in and so
 It was an easy nomination because of all you've done and continue to do. And, you know, when you don't do it for recognition, you do it because that's something that you feel is important in our community. And it was such an honor to be able to nominate you and be able to see that you're getting into the Hall of Fame because everyone I talked to, everybody thought you were already in. So congratulations and thank you for caring so much about our community. Thank you.
 Mayor yes, sir before we leave I have two quick presentations one for yourself and one for Representative Brian Kennedy mayor Lisa you were elected to the Hall of Fame in 2020 where your plaque along with Representative Kennedy who was inducted in 2022 2022 resides in the Don Haskins Center at UTEP. We would like to present you both with a
 microphone tag from the Hall of Fame and Sports Commission. Thank you for everything you've done for the Hall of Fame and continue to do for the Hall of Fame. And again we appreciate everything you do for us. Thank you so much. Thank you. Mayor Potem.
 I was going to just quickly say that some of the people that were not elected were amazing also. And like you said, it was the toughest voting class I think I've ever seen with the quality of people. And if I didn't mention very quickly that Ms. Vargas right here, who's representing the Sports Commission, was my admin for about a million years. And Bo Bagley, who's hiding in the back, was one of our driving forces for sports tourism. So I just wanted to thank everybody. You won't be. Don't worry. Thank you.
 Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Just one quick word here at the end. I wanted to give a special shout out to Kenneth May. In my other life, in my other work, I work as a professional soccer referee. When I first moved back to El Paso, I was just breaking into the business, into the
 And Ken May had been the long time high school soccer assigner here in El Paso and welcomed me back here warmly and so it's wonderful to see him being recognized as an official. Sometimes the officials don't always get the recognition they deserve.
 But the commission has been wonderful, and I think it's excellent that every year there are officials being inducted into the Hall of Fame as well. So thank you for that, and thank you to Kenneth for all the work he did in soccer in El Paso. You know, Representative Canales, it's great to see him inducted in the Hall of Fame. Now he won't be always known as Harriet's husband. Right over here. Could I get somebody to grab the proclamation, please? Yes.
 And then could I get everyone in the front to just kind of scooch over this way? I could take it for you. Are you sure? Okay. Big smiles right this way. Ready? One, two, three. One, two, three. You need to take them from up here. Are you good? Ready? One, two, three. Thank you. My pleasure. Anybody else? No? Thank you so much. Great to meet you. Thank you. And the next proclamation is Juneteenth Independence Day.
 Who's got the next one? Representative Canales. All right, welcome. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas, whereas in 1863, President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation declaring all slaves free. However, this freedom was not made known to many enslaved black Americans until two years after its passage, and whereas Juneteenth recognizes that on June 19th, 1865, the United
 The last enslaved people in Galveston, Texas were informed that slavery had been abolished and black Americans who had been slaves in the Southwest celebrated June 19th, commonly known as Juneteenth Independence Day, as inspiration and encouragement for future generations. And whereas, Juneteenth provides an opportunity for the city to celebrate black American heritage and honor the lives, sacrifices, and contributions that are woven into the American fabric.
 and acknowledges the United States commitment to liberty and equality in accordance with our Constitution, along with the Emancipation Proclamation and the 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery, ratified by Congress on December 6, 1865.
 And, whereas, the candid acknowledgment of this history is necessary if we, as a nation, state, and city, are successful in our effort to build a truly equitable community that exemplifies and promotes the fundamental American values of freedom, diversity, equality, liberty, and justice.
 and whereas the city of El Paso recognizes Juneteenth Independence Day as a day to celebrate the culturally important role of emancipation and the work toward the liberation in our past, present, and future. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that June 11, 2024, shall be known as Juneteenth Independence Day, signed by our Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Good morning. Good morning. Pleasure seeing you again.
 thank you everyone we would like to thank the city council for this proclamation and the entire city of El Paso especially those who are working hard to bring forth our Juneteenth celebration that's taking place this Saturday before I say a few more words I just wanted to give a few people who are with us who celebrate Juneteenth and educate others about Juneteenth a few words to say
 SPEAKER 2 Good morning. SPEAKER 3 Good morning. My name is Benny Jhené. I'm the music editor for Black El Paso Voice. I'm also local here. I was born and raised here. I graduated with my bachelor's in commercial music from UTEP last fall. I'm currently pursuing my graduate studies in composition at UTEP.
 And I just want to thank again the city especially the Paso Parks and Rec for their push in the Juneteenth celebration events that have been taking place all month. I recently gave a lecture on Thursday Friday and Saturday
 about the artistic importance of cultural celebrations. And I would just again like to encourage everyone to attend these Juneteenth celebration events the lectures the performances. I will be performing at the Juneteenth celebration this Saturday as well as on the streetcar on the 22nd.
 And I really hope that everyone takes away the fact that it's so important to celebrate culture and history, especially the diversity of it here in El Paso. We have such a rich and vibrant and colorful culture in many different communities here. And it's very important to highlight and celebrate that. And that is all. Thank you.
 How you doing? My name is Gabe Della Fuente. I'm a longtime resident of El Paso, Texas, graduate of Cathedral High School. There I did learn it's important to celebrate each other's achievements and defeats because at the end we're all in it together. As an adult, I've learned that
 We need to, as importantly, celebrate each other's history by highlighting a day. It not only gives a chance for celebration within the community with different cultures, but it does highlight the history behind it that not a lot of people do understand and know. And it's just a great opportunity for El Paso to have something that just offers a little more inclusiveness for El Paso. Thank you. Thank you.
 um i would also like to say um thank you to um the deputy city manager dion mac who assisted um with her departments with the museum and the el paso parks and rec to make this happen el paso parks and rec they have been amazing they allowed me to
 help give them information and understanding about why we celebrate Juneteenth, why it's important to be representative of the United States because it's about the freedom of black Americans. And that's why the national colors are red, white, and blue. And this isn't the forum to give a whole lesson on it, but I would invite you to learn more about Juneteenth.
 and find out why we celebrate the way that we do, why our colors are red, white, and blue, why it's important for Texas, and that star on the Juneteenth flag is important because of Texas. We had our Juneteenth flag raising ceremony on Saturday the 8th at the McCall Center, and the flag, along with the American flag, will be raised for 30 days
 and representative of us celebrating our freedoms and our Emancipation Day. We still have a lot to learn. We're just grateful that the city is participating with us for this Juneteenth celebration and sometimes it can be difficult to make people understand that it's you
 Yes, it's American history. It's not Black History Month. And that's where the education needs to come in for our city. We did inform people that because the city is collaborating with us this year, there will be some feedback that could be negative. And sometimes it is.
 People have commented and saying, why are we doing this? What's the use of doing this? So it takes all of us to educate the entire community about why Juneteenth is important.
 Because 1776, yes, we celebrate that on July 4th, but all of us, all of our ancestors weren't free then. So this is important to our entire community. We're a community of various cultures. We tell people with Juneteenth, the biggest celebration actually will take place in Mexico. They have a huge Juneteenth celebration because of the history of slavery.
 So we invite everyone to contact us if you would like for us to come and educate various departments or people about Juneteenth. We're here to do that. Again, there's not enough time to just share everything, but we invite you Saturday. And if you can't be there Saturday, we have another opportunity Friday. That's our kickoff at the El Paso Museum of History.
 And also on June 19th at the McCall Center, Black El Paso Voice will be presenting the state of Black El Paso because we have internal work that we need to do. And we also want to share with the city and county on how you can assist us with helping to educate the community about our culture. Thank you.
 And I want to thank you. I think it's, I mean, you all said it so perfectly and beautiful. It's about our culture, our history, and then education. People need to know about our history. And I was very honored to be able to sponsor the event, one of the sponsors of the event on Friday at the Plaza Theater because it's important that we learn about our history and about El Paso. So thank you very much for being here.
 Ms. Pryor. The next proclamation is El Paso Executive Forum Day. Representative Salcido. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas Executive Forum was incorporated in July 1984 by five founders and to date has 136 members. And whereas Executive Forum is a network of professional business persons dedicated to the economic, civic, and cultural development of the El Paso metropolitan area.
 And whereas Executive Forum promotes the expansion of professional opportunities for its membership. And whereas Executive Forum enhances the effectiveness of El Paso's leaders through programs of leadership, human relation training, business and community awareness. And whereas Executive Forum encourages the support career planning and development activities of El Paso's youth,
 And whereas Executive Forum is an organization of dynamic leaders dedicated to empowerment of women who work to impact the economic, civic, and cultural landscape of this region. And whereas Executive Forum is an organization of women working for women. And whereas Executive Forum is celebrating its 40th anniversary with 136 members strong. Now therefore it be proclaimed by the Mayor and the City Council of the City of El Paso
 that June 18, 2024 shall be known as El Paso Executive Forum Day. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leiser. Good morning, ma'am.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Leila Melendez, this year's President of El Paso Executive Forum. It's my honor to receive this proclamation on behalf of Executive Forum. This year we celebrate our 40 years of the Forum, a membership organization that was formed in 1984 by women executives and community leaders dedicated to the empowerment of women who work to impact the economic, civic, and cultural landscape of the El Paso region.
 Executive Forum provides a supportive place for women in formal leadership roles to share experiences, leverage their expertise, and amplify their influence. Today we have over 130 members that include current and former executives,
 including our founder, Katherine Brennan, a lifelong art and civic advocate, former El Paso mayor, Susie Azar, former city manager and deputy city manager, Joyce Wilson and Debbie Hamlin, county administrator, Betsy Keller,
 El Paso Electric CEO Kelly Tomlin, former judge Kitty Schilt, who was the first woman elected to the bench in El Paso, El Paso Inc. editor Secret Wareit, Texas Tech leaders Ursula Kripa and Stephanie Woods, many business owners and leaders including Patty Holland Branch,
 Susan Eisen, Aldiana Apodaca, Lorraine Hewitt, Marina Montesvalles, Cindy Maestas Henry, and several non-profit CEOs like Tracy Yellen, Susan Goodell, Laura Ponce, Lisa Salcedo, and Mayor, your Chief of Staff, Estrella Escobar. There are many, many more members that I didn't include here because we'd be here all day reading that roster, but there are several members here with us today that I'd like for them to just introduce themselves to you. Thank you, ma'am.
 Good morning. Elsa Borrego with El Paso and Fighting Hunger. Good morning. Good morning, Judge. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Judge Anna Perez. I'm the judge of the 41st District Court here in El Paso. Good morning. Renee Nour, proud member for 13 years. Good morning, ma'am. Good morning. Estrella Escobar, City of El Paso. Hi, good morning. Susie Collins with El Paso ISD. Good morning. Good morning. Susan Goodell, CEO of El Paso and Fighting Hunger and proud board member of Executive Forum. Good morning, ma'am.
 The circle of support and mentorship that El Paso Executive Forum allows us to refuel and re-energize every time we come together, knowing we have each other's backs as we continue to lead and make a positive change for El Paso. I'm so proud to represent El Paso Executive Forum and honored to celebrate our 40th anniversary. Thank you all for this proclamation. Thank you, and I wanna, I know that I have the opportunity to serve on your board, and I wanna congratulate you on the incredible job you do for the community.
 I can tell you that there's no one better in this city that does what you do and could do the job you do, so I want to congratulate you for the great job that you do.
 I really respect everything you've done and continue to do. And everyone, all of you out here, congratulations. I know there's 130 members current and past, and we could name every one of them, but every one of them well-deserved for being leaders in our community and making a difference in our community. So thank you all. Thank you. Representative Furrow?
 Thank you, Mayor. I'd be remiss not to congratulate you on the great work that you do as an organization. And just give a shout out to Judge Perez for apparently going to executive forum meetings twice a week for the last two years. Yes, we're very busy. Thank you for all you do for us. Thank you. Judge Perez did not smile, by the way. He just thought I'd let you know. Anyone else on here? I might have hit it twice. Representative Kennedy.
 I just wanted to say thank you for everything that you guys do. Judge Pettis for tolerating your husband. It's always weird when one of the judges comes up here and I'm sitting up here. Also, obviously, I'm well informed. My wife, Denise Knight, is a member, and so I get to hear about the executive forum on a regular basis.
 at those twice-a-week meetings they go to. But I just wanted to congratulate you on all the work you do, starting from the original organization to where you are now. You've never lost focus of your goal, and I think that's incredibly important. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you all. Thank you. Look at us. Oh, thanks, guys. I feel so supported. Look at this women supporting women. I love it here. I'm like, I will break your fall. Thanks. And then you'll get time off. We're having a women's conference. Smart. Let's not fall.
 Do we have the proclamation? Right this way. Ready, one, two, three. Yes, perfectly. 17 more. She wasn't joking. Getting a leg workout. Can we do one with just the women from council? I'll do one with just men right now. Give me a second. All right, right this way, ladies. We still see a few gentlemen. We're up here. One, two, three.
 Any more? Yes. Thank you. Ms. Prime. And the final proclamation this morning is Phil Hatchday. Representative Nunes. May I please call forward the Montwood alumni, Montwood alumni in the house. They're making their way up.
 Good morning. Hi, good morning. I'm Brenda Medina, a former Montwood High School student, a student of Mr. Phil Hatch. And just to let you all know, we're just thankful that we're able to honor him today. He did not know that we're doing this.
 It's a surprise to Mr. Hatch, so he arrived here and I told him, you know what, I want you to join me next week at a city council meeting because they are going to be doing something special for Montwood High School, and since you were a huge part of Montwood High School, we want you to go ahead and join us for that. So he had no idea that this was happening this morning. Thank you, and then, so what I'll do is I'll read the proclamation, but first...
 Surprise, Mr. Hatt. You were nominated for this proclamation by our former representative Claudia Rodriguez and our state representative Claudia Ordaz, both Mountwood alumni. And so it's my honor to read this proclamation into the record.
 And it reads, whereas Phil Hatch, a beloved El Paso educator, first came to the Sun City on an athletic football scholarship to UTEP from his hometown of Mobile, Alabama, where he attended high school during the time of segregation. And whereas he began his career in education in the 1970s at Terrace Hills with EPISD, and three decades later, during the early years of the new millennium,
 retired from Montwood High School and the SISD as the campus principal. And whereas he has continued to serve as an administrator, athletic coordinator, and most recently as a substitute administrator,
 During the past five decades combined in El Paso's biggest school districts including SISD YISD and EPISD contributing to the education of generations of El Pasoans and Whereas he has participated as the head football coach for the East versus West Greater El Paso football showcase and
 East is always best as head coach for more than 20 years at annual games and whereas all who know Phil Hatch consider him an El Paso legend for his generosity his kindness his exemplary leadership and his love for the many friendships he has built with thousands of students athletes parents staff and fellow educators but most importantly Mr. Hatch is an El Paso legend for his advocacy of
 R-E-S-P-E-C-T, respect. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that June 11, 2024, shall be known as Phil Hatch Day, signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leiser. Congratulations. And just a few words really quick before we allow other people to talk, and also, obviously, Mr. Hatch. He...
 He was an amazing administrator. I graduated class of 2003. He still keeps in touch with us and thousands of other students and really impressive of him. He knows pretty much all of us, if not all of us by our first name. How can you forget about administrators? You know, you pass by him at Walmart
 People still talk about just how much he knows a lot of us and still keeps in touch with many of his students. And that's what we felt, you know, it's very important to let him know just how much we appreciate him. The reference to that R-E-S-P-E-C-T, that song would play at Montwood High School every morning. So every time any of us hear that song, we obviously think about Mr. Hatch and the great leadership role that he played while he was at Montwood High School. Come on up, Coach. Coach, come on up.
 Good morning, Coach. Good morning. How you doing, Oscar? Fine. Nice to see you, Coach. And the rest of the committee, city council. I'm taken back for words to say, and I know they say that's not like me, but one of the things I felt like was very important as you work with young people is to know their names and make sure that they know that they were somebody
 that would be in, that you cared for. And we had like about 3,300 students a year, which was a massive number. And people ask me, how did you know that most of these students by name, I even had a superintendent ask me one time, we were walking around the campus, and if we passed 90 students, I probably knew 89 of them by their first name. He said, how did you do that? And I told him, only God knows.
 And that's really the truth. Only God knows. He's the one that equipped me to do that. But I felt like it was very important for me to be able to address these students by their name and also make sure that they got the best out of the system. We wanted to make sure they had a wholesome day when they came into the building and also when they left the building.
 I tried to do everything from directing traffic to whatever it took to make sure that they received the best. And I just can't say enough about the group that's here and the people that have been around me for so long and know me. And I still try to preach R-E-S-P-E-C-T. I think if we get that back into society...
 If people would stop being Democratic and Republicans and be respectful to people, I think we would be just fine. Coach, congratulations. Go ahead, ma'am. Go ahead. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Thank you all for having us here today. Thank you, Representative Hernandez, for your support.
 doing us this honor of honoring Mr. Hatch. He really is a beloved member of our community. He is a great hero to me personally. I am very grateful for him. He taught me a lot while I was in high school. He is a very unforgettable person in my life. So again, thank you and he means a lot to the Eastside. He means a lot to Mountwood, to a lot of the constituents over there. So thank you all again for having us and for honoring him, thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, Mayor Osterlizer and city council members.
 I know Mr. Hatch back when I was a student at Jefferson High School and back then he remembered our names. But I have the honor of being his secretary at Mountwood High School for many years, to which I am very grateful to him because he allowed me to finish my degree in college and become an administrator myself. So this man has been awesome. He is a very caring person and this honor today is well deserved for Mr. Hatch. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Hello, ladies and gentlemen, council. My name is Bo Bagley here on behalf of the Greater El Paso Football Showcase. Very rarely in El Paso do we get to talk about foundations and how a foundation is laid. Well, the Greater El Paso Football Showcase started in 1992 with this gentleman right behind me as a head coach, a volunteer head coach, for 25-plus years.
 And when you talk about the foundation, what the Greater El Paso Football Showcase has done, it's raised over half a million dollars of scholarships for local athletes.
 and then 15 million dollars worth of scholarships from universities and colleges around the country and coach I'm gonna refer you as coach hatch coach hatch was integral in starting the greater El Paso football showcase and what it is today so on behalf of the football showcase the combine the all-star game coach hatch thank you for everything you've done thank you hey coach
 Had the honor of sponsoring the greatest showcase football all-star and I got to meet you and I consider you my friend. I um, he coached with one of my coaches and one of my favorite people in the world that Unfortunately lost his life to cancer but he was a good friend of yours and I love to see the way you and coach Brooks interacted and
 and sit there. I was back there with you all during the draft and while you selected. And, you know, the respect was so mutual between you and Coach Brooks. And, you know, I know on the football field that, you know, you coach to win, and you coach to make sure the players are safe and do the best they can. But after the game, you and Coach Brooks really showed a lot of character and respect for each other. And, you know, he was my coach in 1971. I know I don't look that old, but...
 No, it was what a great honor to watch you all and watch you all doing the showcase of the, as I think someone said, you did it voluntarily. And you did it to make sure the kids had that opportunity to showcase their talent so they could go to the next level. And we had scouts and we had a lot of people there.
 I thank you. Like I said, the first time I had the opportunity to meet you was there, and I was there quite often, and you were there every time. So thank you for everything you've done, Coach. Representative Rivera, followed by Representative Molinaro. Thank you, Mayor. Every word that's been said is true about this gentleman, his character, and I'm glad I got to know him before you guys did.
 because he had that lasting impression on everybody. And so when he was a Jeff as well, and later on in life through the administration, we worked at Eastwood, right? You worked at Eastwood for a while, and then you went to Mountwood, and you teamed up with Mr. Reyna. That was an awesome team there. No wonder that these ladies and this team
 we're we're honoring you because you do you did remember me from the get-go you never forgot who i was and so we work together and everything and everything that's been said so far is so true sir uh congratulations bachelor's that you're finally honored and keep up the great work thank you so much thank you very much mayor good morning thank you very much for everybody being here today coach
 if you remember me or not, but you was my coach at Terrace Hills in the early part with Coach Willie Vasquez. And anyways, but having worked at Mountwood, go Rams. Thank you. Thank you again. Congratulations. Well deserved. And with that, Ms. Pryor, we'll take a picture. Come on, Coach. I'm here for the new top. I'm doing my sister's work. I'm going to say just hand it up to me, and I will take it. Thank you. Absolutely.
 And we forgot to present the plaque on behalf of the Alumni Association. So it's right. It's right. Claudia is gonna read it for me Hello
 So this is in recognition of service to Phil Hatch for your unwavering commitment and passion to the education in El Paso Texas. Your dedication for the past four decades is appreciated by so many. Thank you for being a guiding light in our schools. On June 11 2024 the mayor and council of the city of El Paso proclaimed the date as Phil Hatch Day. SPEAKER 7 COUNCIL can we take a photograph for Father's Day with just the men.
 Thank you, appreciate it so much. I gotta make it up to the men. Yeah, up there. Yeah, no, no, no, up there is fine. We're at Rivera, we're just missing you, sir. No, it's good there, yeah. You sure, now you do. Enjoy the day. All right, one, two, three.
 Ms. Pryne, we're ready.
 10 o'clock. Yes, sir. Council per the rules of order no use of personal cellular devices nor personal communication should take place on the day As well the meeting is in session once you obtain the floor from the presiding chair You will have up to 10 minutes for debate and you may speak twice per item Please speak into the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the day as well The meeting is in session for those of you joining us virtually, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise. I
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Temp.
 Page 7 item 18 postponed to August 13th. And Mayor Pro Tem that is item 18 delete per El Paso water? Yes ma'am. And it will be postponed to August 13th. For El Paso water. Page 13 item 32 revised and postponed three weeks per planning and inspections. And that revision is to the applicant name to strike out David Ballard and replace with Martha M. Santana.
 Before I know there's public comment by Miss Osman. Yes, mayor. We do miss Austin signed up to speak on item number four item four is solid wastelands Actually, there's a few items on the consent agenda Yes item for the solid wastelands. I spoke previously in regards to the solid waste link lanes that happen and
 And I behoove all of my city council members to use some of your consent your Discretionary funds as versus for Easter eggs volunteer time for stuffing Easter eggs for PR stunts to set something up like that for local residents and
 clean up the yards in the area. I'm sure in your district, if y'all put out a notice, hey, you know what, is there a senior citizen, is there a disabled individual who needs their yard done? Put that out there. Maybe get some volunteers to do that, to do something that actually is something good for the community so that some of these homeowners don't have to incur these liens. I'm not on there, but the thing is is that I look at this
 And I realized it's not as, some seniors, some disabled individuals don't have other people that are out there helping them. Mr. Acevedo had mentioned that his abuelita takes care of his kids, does babysitting.
 I don't have kids. Okay. Well you had meant you had mentioned something similar to that You mentioned something similar to that as far as I will eat. I know, you know staying out of so I'll pull that up on another In the past. I love my grandma and okay very close to her and spend a lot of time with her But so either way you had mentioned you had mentioned her in the past okay, so I would think that you go when you help her with her yard and
 Okay, but not everybody does have that not everybody does have family and because of our brain drain here in the city In our youth having to leave Not everybody has Family to help them out go do that not not all neighbors help each other out Like I have that in my neighborhood on my block
 We do do that for each other and we've done that for decades. I have the same neighbor for 40 years and he and I have helped each other out for 40 years. Please do something like that so that these citizens don't have to come up here and y'all don't have to put a $300 lien for picking up trash on their homes.
 Ms. Osmond also signed up for item seven, and this is a resolution to adopt the 2024-2025 annual action plan, including budgets and projects to be funded under community development grant, home investment partnership, housing opportunities for persons with AIDS, and emergency solutions grant programs. So there's two separate, seven and eight. So I will speak on them a bit separately. I tried to speak on seven,
 in regards to the same item with number seven, when it was up for introduction. I don't know when it went from introduction, skipped regular and straight to consent. I've been here every city council session since. I've yet to see it be on the regular agenda. So now I have to speak here. But just so that we are clear, this is the page from community human development where it states the minor repair grant is under
 that block grant. Okay, so that we are clear with everybody. It would behoove our city council to really question what's going on with the grants. What's really going on with all of these grants under Committee on Human Development because under that administration,
 There have been a lot of issues that I have given you all proof of. I've shown proof here in council so that the public is aware. I've posted it to the public and various people have reached out to me as to how is this legally happening. I can't tell you because our city council members will just approve motion to approve second and then you know go straight to the vote.
 but I would ask every citizen to read the employee handbook, all right, because that one individual within that department that was trying to shut me down and succeeded that time, and I have had to file ethics complaints on not only that person, but another person that's actually in this room as well.
 individual who was trying to, who got our city attorney to shut me down by lying, also tried to get me on one of these block, on one of these grants, my grant, to sign a scope of work, a scope of work that was not sent out on the walkthrough to all of the contractors. This wasn't sent out, yet they did a walkthrough under this, one of these block grants.
 under a different scope of work, yet he was trying to force me to sign it. So the illegalities, the misappropriation, the issues within that department, community human development, and the administration that is allowing all of these issues, and quite frankly, misappropriation of funds, it is a corrupt system that's going on in that department, and it's in tandem with purchasing.
 It really needs to. Thank you, ma'am. You have three minutes on that one. Number eight is a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign all contract amendments and related documents. You know, one thing I do wanna, if you really believe that it's corrupt, I do suggest that you file a police report, maybe with the FBI.
 But you know, you come every week and talk about the corrupt system. I suggest that if you really believe that, that you go out and file a police report. And you and I have discussed that that whole packet is going to the FBI. We've already discussed that when you called me at home with the city manager on the phone. I know. But when I'm when you're talking, I didn't discuss this. And I want to know that that is that is in the works.
 Well, I wish you'd go ahead and do that because you come in every week and talk about corruption, and the FBI does have a department for corruption. The police department has a department for corruption. So instead of just talking about it, you need to do something about it.
 Please and I have and I have reported miss Osmond the next time they're assigned up for so number eight Excuse me The red item eight is a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign all contract contract amendments and related documents to receive an allocated 493 thousand eight hundred thirty four dollars in 2024 2025 homeless housing and services program funds from the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs and
 You have three minutes, ma'am. Because of my experience with that same department, I would like to ask, since these funds are going to help homeless individuals and so forth, is there a list of individuals in the funds that have gone out that any member of the citizenry,
 can go ahead and make an open records request to get that list so that there's a full accounting as to where all these funds are going.
 Miss Osmond, those funds support organizations that then support individuals. You know, excuse me, she's addressing the council. So then we can get a list of that. So you'll address the council if somebody needs to get with you after your time's up, then they'll be more than glad. Okay, so then we can do an open records request to get a full list of where, a full accounting of it.
 Every penny of all the funds coming out of community human development for all their part all of their their funding including This one. Yes from the elder dresser with you. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am And the final item that miss Osman signed up for is a board appointment for Sylvia They're not to the fair housing task force by representative Josh. I said it I
 Mr. Acevedo, I've got a question as to what her qualifications are. In regards to the Fair Housing Task Force, what exactly does that task force do? So the task force meets on making housing better in general. And that's the very easiest way of explaining it to you.
 equitable and bringing those people together with Sylvia Cerna she's worked at the County of El Paso for many many years and so she's been a public servant in the community and has a lot of background she used to also work for another judge did a lot of work with veterans and so she was a good fit she's also a district to resident okay
 Thank you, ma'am, and I'll make sure that someone gets with you and gets you that information for you. Thank you. Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir, there was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. In the voting session, and that motion passes unanimously,
 That brings us to page number 6, item number 16 on the regular agenda and this is discussion in action to approve a resolution declaring that the expenditure of district 6 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed $2,000 to help sponsor the coffee breaks at this year's Mexico USA business summit.
 taking place June 26th through the 29th, 2024 in El Paso, serves the municipal purpose of fostering local and international business growth by promoting the city of El Paso as an investment destination and presenting information to potential investors on economic incentives provided by the city for economic development. And this is Representative Fierro's item.
 Good morning, sir. Thank you mayor. Yeah. Thank you for very much mr. Prime for reading that this isn't I'm very proud of Our community is really in need of bringing more economic development more businesses in Helping us with our tax base This council has done a great job and holding the line on on our property taxes and I dare say that we'll do the same again, this summit will help encourage businesses from Mexico to to
 to learn how to do business in the United States. They'll learn such things as accounting, taxation, have immigration lawyers there, and learn about the city and county incentives. One of the things we need to realize that Texas is really the hub to coming into the United States from Mexico is,
 But Laredo is really the number one bridge to come over. And we need to help educate and encourage the Mexican companies to come over through, especially the Tornillo Bridge, which is a lot cheaper and has a lot less waiting time. So I'm very proud to put this on. And a second would be. Is there a motion? My motion is to. Thank you. Thank you.
 I second this motion in a second the prove item 16. Yes, sir. We do have miss Osman that signed up to speak on this item I understand that $2,000 gonna go out of your discretionary fund. Mr. Fiat. Oh, okay I was just curious one $2,000 is quite a bit so I was just wondering, you know as because it's not really to something that really does help benefit citizens, but I
 I was just curious why why Perhaps you weren't able to get a corporate sponsor like miss Hernandez has several times with marathon So one of the ways for us to lower our tax rates our property taxes and I've heard you complain about yours over and over Actually, I've never complained about my taxes Miss Osman, please
 While they're speaking, please don't interrupt. One way to lower is to bring businesses into our community. So this is a way to bring businesses to come into our community, pay taxes, pay property taxes. So absolutely.
 And that's why you have discretionary funds to be able to do things like this. Every year they get a certain amount and once they run out they can't, obviously they'll be out of money. And I'm aware of that, but it seems as though the things that are purchased and spent through those discretionary funds, a lot of them really do not help the citizens of La Paso. Now mind you, I understand a lot of those are donations or savings within your office.
 But I think like how Mr. Rivera does in spending some of those discretionary funds on things that actually benefit the citizens. And when you bring in corporate dollars into the city, or and they get, what they're getting is,
 citizen welfare because they end up getting tax incentives tax abatements So you stating that bringing that business here is gonna help the city it it really does it it cost the taxpayers far more Thank you, ma'am. There is a motion made by representative federal seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy to approve item number 16 on That motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously
 the next item is 17 and this is discussion in action to direct the interim city manager and city attorney to identify appropriate cross-cutting solutions to long-standing hazards related to environmental conditions in the chamisal neighborhood with specific emphasis on addressing the public health concerns of residents further to collaborate with affected property owners and return to council within 30 days with proposed recommendations for remediation and this item was placed by representative acevedo
 Thank you, I I think we all saw the horrific fire that happened a few weeks ago at PCM in South El Paso and I think that when we look at that fire I don't know if we have completely determined that it is the worst fire in El Paso's history if not one of the worst and I think that when we also look at this business it has gone up in flames
 more than one time. And so I brought these items to see what we can gather from the city manager's office, from the city attorney's office, on gathering information on seeing what our options are for this particular recycling plant. If you look at it, it is full of cardboard. That's why a lot of it went up in flames. The people that are living in the Chummeysad neighborhood
 And I represent a small fraction of them. Representative Canales represents most of them. I have the San Javier neighborhood.
 but I was getting some texts from constituents all the way to the Jefferson area, and that's quite a bit away from where this factory is. And so I thought that it would be prudent for us as a city to see what kind of remediation we can do, what kind of state laws are in place, municipal codes are there.
 on the legal front to see how we can enforce these, and then just also work with the city manager's office and see what other options we may have in terms of providing short-term and long-term solutions to really hopefully eventually work with this business to see how we could move away from being in this area. And I don't know if you had a question or something. Thank you, sir, Chief, and I know I saw you talking
 the neighborhood and some of the people there so I thank you for that yes sir good morning Chief Killings El Paso Fire Department Fire Chief so yes this is a very important issue and this is going to be a multi-agency coordination joint task force we're gonna bring in multiple stakeholders and we want to look at all the options I do respectfully request that we go a hundred and twenty days instead of thirty days just to give us enough time to put to
 put this all together and be able to appropriately coordinate and get all the information so that we can come back with a really informed decision. Thank you Chief. I'll go with Representative Molenhart followed by Representative Canales. Thank you very much Mayor. Chief Killings thank you very much for that information. I too was worried about the 30-day period so Representative Alzabela I'll make an amendment to do the 120 days. Thank you.
 And with that, we have Representative Acevedo. I mean, I'm sorry, Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, a large majority of the Chamisal neighborhood is in my district. This is not a new hazard. It's something we've been aware of for a long time, and I know there's been past enforcement with this business in particular, but also others operating in similar areas. Yes.
 So thank you for the work you've already done on it and I look forward to what we can come up with to make this better I do want to thank for example Your department but also there there's been some cross department work that's already happened Planning and inspections has had their eye on this for a long time as a potential issue in the next I
 budget cycle I'm looking to potentially fund an area plan for the Chummeesun neighborhood that I think can address some of these things. So thank you for the difficult work of fighting the fire first to you chief and to everybody in your department. I know it was a difficult difficult day.
 And a very difficult emergency So thank you for the the hard work there and I think we have a lot of hard work going forward to make sure that This is a hazard that gets remediated for the for the neighborhood. Thank you Thank you mayor, sir, first and foremost, thank you represent us I've ever for placing this on the agenda This is well well needed well needed plan. I thank both you and representative canales
 for listening to the constituents there and uh my my concern on this is you know uh this is what the third one chief third fire there or something like that uh i i i believe there's more but yes there's one that's multiple fires and with that said with the chief saying that that's my concern is that i do not one one day god forbid find out that one of our firefighters loses his life over that blaze
 that takes, you know, took you what, three days? And then some, correct? So I hope you find some sort of solution when you look at that, how to handle that situation and bring it to us, you know, that we can somehow enforce in this community. That's...
 That's very disturbing. Having grown up pretty close to the area, that's pretty disturbing that this place even exists in that location. I thank, again, I thank both of you for putting it on there and Chief, for you for being so involved in this. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. And, Chief, I know that we talked about this already, that we all gave a report on it of over 200 firefighters that did fight the fire. And, you know, it's very interesting.
 It was that high impact and probably a total of 300 people involved trying to put out the fire. And then we had a week where you all had to come back in because there was a hot spot. And, you know, the firefighters went in there with forklifts and tried to break up the fire, which is very dangerous, as we all know. But that's what they signed up to dedicate to protect the community.
 And so not only the neighborhood really, we're very concerned about the neighborhood, but also concerned about the safety of our men and women that signed up to,
 protect us and be the firefighters because going in a fire that hot and putting out a fire like that I'm very thankful that training y'all have given the firefighters that no one got hurt because of the great training and and the great leadership y'all had out there but it you know if something was to go wrong it'd be really awful for our community so thank you for that and I think that 120 days we can come up with something to prevent something like this ever happening again
 Thank you, Chief. Yes, sir. Thank you. Representative Acevedo, followed by Mayor Pro Tem. And I'm okay with 120 days, and I thank you for suggesting that and really seeing this through. I think the 120 days is also ceiling, so if you do it at 90 or 60, please feel free to reach out and we could come back the sooner the better. But I completely understand where you're going, and I think the important thing here
 Is also the cross-cutting solutions part right where I think that this is a great opportunity for our departments to collaborate You know police fire I could think about economic development I think there's a lot of different Aspects that can can come into the fold on on this and I had seen mrs. Farini get up. I don't know if you had something to say or you I
 I saw you approach the microphone and then you sat down so I don't know if you were going to say something.
 Good morning, Nicole Ferrini, climate sustainability officer. No, sir, I just wanted to make myself available because I think that when we heard public comment on this issue, we heard a lot about environmental issues, and I think there's some longstanding issues with the neighborhood. Familias Unidas de Chamizal is a neighborhood association, and so I just wanted to make sure that I was available to provide community development support in the areas of climate sustainability, neighborhood engagement, and otherwise cross-cutting solutions. So thank you for that. Thank you.
 Thank you, ma'am. No, I appreciate it, and I think that that's where we got to think about outside the box, right? We're thinking police, fire. We're thinking economic development, climate sustainability, all of those departments really coming together and finding that solution, of course, with our legal team. So that's where I'm going with it, but thank you for offering the amendment, Rep Molina, and for seconding it, Rep Rivera. Thank you. Mayor Potem? I was just going to ask the chief, what else can we do to help? I mean, we're—
 you know, kind of falling in line with what you were probably doing already anyway. And I would look to the pros and say, if there's other things we as a council can do to help assist on this, let us know. Yes, sir, you know, and we appreciate all the support and we couldn't do what we do without the support of the council, city leadership, and everybody involved.
 We're gonna really take a deep dive into this and look and see what we need to do in the future to really Be able to address the issues that everybody has with with with the property and and how we can better Improve that area in the neighborhood and the way that they're doing business down there we're working with property owners already on coming up with short-term solutions and You know just continue to support and do it do what you guys do and
 to help us move this forward with whatever recommendations we bring. And I know that you're going to be working with the city attorney and staff to work with this. I would also say if you run into hurdles, to not wait until you're trying to get the entire report done. If there's something you need further assistance on, come on back and let us know because we want to help you do your job. Absolutely. I appreciate that. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I think that I know that you're working very closely with Chief Diagostino, who happened to be the fire chief prior to you, and now oversees police and fire. So he couldn't have better guidance and leadership helping you make sure that whatever you need, you have the resources. So thank you for that. Representative Nundas.
 Thank you, Mayor. First wanted to thank Dr. Acevedo for bringing this item to the forefront. This has been long overdue. And thank you to all the first responders who fought fiercely in that fire. The one thing that I wanted to highlight was, and I appreciate that, Ms. Ferini, you mentioned this, is I really wish that Familias Unidas were here today because this is the exact type of action that they've been asking the city of El Paso for.
 But with working with advocates and our neighbor neighborhood services including our associations Comes with the need to be sensitive to our not only the city's position but being fair to the owner of the property You know, they they have a long-lasting footprint in this community don't want to demonize anybody in this process, but we all need to have hands on deck and
 be solutions oriented and bring forward something that can appease and meet everybody. So if we can strike that balance, I would be supportive of that. I just did not want the tone to be that we were against the ownership, rather that we are with the community and bringing solutions forward. So thank you to Representative Canales and Acevedo on this.
 working collaboratively with the community in the fire department and I have a lot of assurance that we're gonna have a wonderful Resolution to this and so thank you to all those that are involved and I hope that everybody at the city of El Paso will have Hands on deck and providing a solution in this Thank You chief Thank You ma'am representative Rivera, thank you real quick mayor. You need more drones I
 You know, I don't know if you saw any of the video, the footage from the fire, but yeah, the drones played a significant role out there. Oh, absolutely. And they were essential. That was your 300 men, right? Right, yeah, no, they were essential in helping identify those hot spots from the air and really get strategic on how we placed those water towers. So yeah, it was great. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you again, Chief and everyone, and look forward to working together. Ms. Prine? Yes, sir, we have Ms. Osmond that signed up to speak on this item.
 Good morning again, you have three minutes. Good morning, ma'am. Mr. Acevedo, I do want to thank you for actually listening to the citizens that came out in protest to ask for something to be done. Mr. Hernandez, you are correct. I wish they had been here. When I saw this on here, I wasn't too sure whether they would be here. That's why I did want to speak on there. But for a bit of history, fires like that at recyclers took out the Texas Street Bridge off of Piedras, out of commission for some time. There are regulations that could happen.
 because other communities, and I think the city of El Paso also now, salvage businesses, salvage yards are pushed to the outskirts. They're not within the city. Something similar can be done with these recycling centers because this is not the only one. It's not just the cardboard recyclers that have an issue and that have had fires. In the industrial section over there by Alpha Hawkins in industrial,
 There's also another recycler, metals recycler, and they have had numerous explosions and fires as well. That is dangerous. All of y'all are pointing out to the firefighters, but it's dangerous to every citizen that lives in the area. It's dangerous to every person who works nearby what might happen. You have some of those recyclers by the refineries. Say those get out of control, you all are...
 are somewhat unaware of how dangerous the two refineries in our city are. I unfortunately have a lot of documentation because my ex worked there for over 25 years and he was part of the OSHA team. And there's a lot on there that most citizens are very unaware of. There's a lot of hazards that Marathon donates quite a bit to keep under control. But this is the thing is that legislative,
 You all can actually put out an ordinance to move these recyclers outside of the city so that they are not inside communities, so that citizens aren't harmed by the hazardous chemicals, our future children aren't harmed by the pollutants that they have to suck in,
 And the firefighters, police department, nobody else is harmed and the city doesn't have to pay out just by some odd chance a wrongful death because something happened because we're trying to correct and we're trying to put down a fire for these businesses that have had longstanding issues in our community. It's a type of business and just like salvage yards can be moved out and have been, so can the recyclers.
 Thank you ma'am. Ms. Prine? Yes sir, there is a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares seconded by Representative Rivera and this is to amend the item to replace 30 days with 120 days on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Thank you Chief and Chief. Is there a motion to approve as amended? Move to approve as amended.
 There is a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Acevedo to approve the item as amended. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. I need to go to first readings. Yes, sir. Item 18 was deleted and will be brought back on August 13th. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 19 to 21.
 Second. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 19 to 21. We have Ms. Osman that signed up to speak on item 21, Mayor. Who was that? Ms. Osman. Oh, thank you. Item 21 is the introduction of an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a purchase and sale agreement to convey approximately 16.297 acres of land.
 legally described as portion of section 9 Township 27 South Range 3 East New Mexico principal Meridian in Dona Ana County New Mexico
 I figure when other citizens can speak up on their- You know this is the first reading. Yes, I understand. Thank you. My only question to this is, and since it's the first reading, so that's something for you all to consider. I understand this is land in New Mexico, which is odd that we have it, but because it's a water, I understand. And what I question is, how will the sale of this land affect our water rights?
 because the grandfathered in of property and water rights, especially in our city, and the fact that our city is expanding, we need all the water we can possibly get. And I have worked on documents in regards to the water wars between all the states, the federal government, the United States between the US and Mexico, and all the regulations that happen between all the states.
 And so in part of that, in keeping our water, and we had a gentleman speak about the water yesterday. So in regards to the sale of this land, I'm just curious if you all have considered how it will affect our water rights. It doesn't. Will it lessen? It doesn't because when they sell land, they don't sell water rights. They only sell land. And the PSP will retain the water rights. Okay. Thank you for that. Yes, ma'am.
 There is a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 19 to 21. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy not present for the vote. That brings us to item number 22. And this is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2024-0055 to terminal drive and bridge improvements to Jordan Foster Construction LLC for a total estimated amount of $1,000,000
 $1,113,593.95. This project will consist of resurfacing the inbound and outbound terminal road and employee parking lot due to cracks, potholes, and failing asphalt at the airport. Second. We do have public comment from Ms. Osmond, Mayor. I know a previous city council person had stated in regards to a previous solicitation that was handed to a former,
 to Foster Construction, Jordan Foster, or Mr. Woody's business, that they believe they would have received that contract. And I noticed that there are two solicitations going to Mr. Woody, or Mr. Woody's business on today's agenda. And it...
 With all the time and I have been coming to the City Council and then I have gone back and watched a lot of them read through past agendas, there have been a lot of solicitations. An outrageous amount of percentage that has been funneled to the same company. And it seems as though maybe procurement needs to...
 Broaden the scope not just you know Maybe the restriction of just you know, El Paso businesses and giving that giving an El Paso local areas Priority might help us to get more competitive procurements because I don't think I'm the only citizen that realizes how much purchasing
 And how many solicitations our city council hands over to the exact same businesses over and over. So I'm just curious, do you all even question that before you just motion to approve? And that's that? Because the citizens are questioning it. I'm not the only one that sees it.
 And when there's two on one agenda, and almost every month, every other agenda, there's at least a solicitation going to the same company. So the citizens are aware. You really need to look into that company. Look into our city council and why it is that they keep handing solicitations to the exact same companies. Thank you. Thank you.
 And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Piero, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve Item 22. And this is the low bid, and that's something important. We didn't, it's something, and it's the airport, so it's really, there's a lot of qualifications when you're talking about the airport that we need to make sure that it meets. So this is a company that does a good job to make sure that we do that. So low bid procurement process. Thank you.
 That motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously That brings us to item 23 and this is discussion in action that the city manager or designee be authorized to sign a two-year on-call Agreement for professional services to perform land development construction management services on a task order basis with Park Hill Smith and Cooper Inc and Brock and Bustillos Inc a motion in a second
 there is a motion made by representative pierrot seconded by alternate mayor pro temo linage to approve item 23 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously
 Item 24 is discussion in action on the request that the city manager is authorized to execute the design bill documents Considered to be the agreement between the city of El Paso and Jordan Foster construction LLC for a project known as George Perry Boulevard extension 2023-0 5 7 6 are in an initial amount of 1 million 30,000 31,681 dollars and 81 cents Motion approved
 Think it's important to know this comes from the airport enterprise not from the general fund of the taxpayers This is from the revenue of the airport and not the general fund of the taxpayers And with that we got a motion in a second. Yes, sir I miss Osmond signed up to speak on item 24 Regardless of whether the funds are coming from the airport funds or the general funds for the city. Y'all are approving them I'm sorry there regardless of whether these funds are coming from the airport funds or city general fund. I
 Our city council is approving it. They're going through the same purchasing department. It is the same issue how a high percentage of our solicitations are going to the exact same company. Citizens should, like I, do more open records requests. It's not hard, get online and do it. And start looking up specific companies
 Start looking at our representatives see how much donations they have received into their discretionary funds because it's really in mind you some members on this board have gone have been at the same parties with woody and With the Woody's and others the thing is for our city for our city people are with who I'm sorry. I missed a statement. I
 So you're going to tell me, you've never, Mr. Leaser, how about you personally? You've never attended a party where the Woodies have been present? First of all, remember, we don't talk about names, but the answer would be no. Really? But thank you. Because you and I have both been one up at the Francis House where you were present and they were. So your no is incorrect. Okay, Ms.
 When I ran for office, I took no money from any one of them. And in this administration, I've gone to zero parties. So if you were there, you might have seen my cutout, but it wasn't me. No, it was you because you normally have just the soda, which I always respected. You don't normally drink when you're up at Rick and Ginger's place. I think I know you from Abundant Living is the last place I saw you at.
 No, actually I used to attend abundant living when I was a kid, which is one reason why 40 years ago I stopped and it led me into a whole 40 years of theology studies. But anyway, I have not been to any parties this time. Okay, functions, events, so forth. Thank you. Either way, too many.
 of our solicitations are going to the same companies. Too many have been going to Jordan Foster Construction. One would question why it is Darren Woody is receiving so many of our tax dollars because the airport still receives tax dollars from the citizens of El Paso.
 We are still funding it with our tax dollars. No, we're not that that's that's a misstatement and It's not taxpayer dollars and that's right mr. Cortina sits fun but I just want to make sure it's enterprise and it's money from the airport and it's not local taxpayers money and we do make sure that
 There's not a lot of people that do this type of job, so it's important that we get somebody that is qualified to be able to do the job. And we don't owe anybody anything except our citizens that we do the best job possible and make sure we put the best product, whether it's on the ground or on the air, wherever we do, we need to make sure that we give...
 citizens the best product for safety reasons so I just want to make sure you see that when we give somebody a bid it's because they can provide the service that's required and the lot you know and that's really important next item I know we got take action I'm sorry yes sir the motion was made by representative federal seconded by representative canales to approve item 24 on that motion call for the vote
 in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously the next item is number 25 item 25 is discussion in action that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue purchase orders for solicitation 2024-0265 bobcat proprietary parts and services to total equipment and rental of el paso llc dba bobcat of el paso the sole and authorized distributor mr osmond
 is she on this one no okay thank you there is a motion made by representative rivera seconded by mayor pro temp kennedy to approve item 25 on that motion call for the vote i don't have a list by the way of who signed up for what yeah please thank you thanks for that thank you sir in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously i think it might have been placed in the wrong i'm not sure if it was placed in the wrong
 I got the I did not receive who signed up to speak for what so you went and gave me his copy Thank you item 26 is a public hearing of an ordinance amending title 5 chapter 5.12 section 5.12 .080 Licensed denial appeal to amend hearing officer to municipal associate judge of El Paso City code We do have miss Osmond that sign up to speak on this item See I've learned from this Turner to sign up on every agenda item. I
 So both 26 and 27, I spoke on last meeting as well. And I'm very thankful, and I hope you all do approve this, because you know what? I think our city needs more regulation than less in some respects. This came to my attention because it's pawnbrokers. It seems how I was very familiar with a specific pawnbroker in town who's an ex-
 Corrupt cop and deals with a lot and when I discovered a lot of the improprieties that were happening Within their pawn shop and gun shop. I did report them to TV's to The comptroller's I do report to outside of
 law enforcement and they did get shut down and then he opened back up because he had the business under his sons and then he Opened back up under his and he has flipped it around Various under various names at least seven different DBAs under seven different names. So I do completely agree with all of these next four agenda items and
 that it needs more regulation. A hearing officer put into a municipal associate judge, much better. I'm so glad y'all are actually taking a step for that higher regulation. So thank you for that. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Piero to approve item 26. Public comment has been taken on that motion. Call for the vote. In the voting session.
 The motion passes unanimously. Item 27 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title V, Chapter 5.13, Section 5.13.120, appeal from assessment of civil penalty in Section 5.13.130, reinstatement of permit to amend hearing officer to municipal associate judge of the El Paso City Code. We do have Ms. Osman. Thank you.
 There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 27. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Mayor, would you like to take 28, 29, and 30? They're also related. Please. Thank you.
 Thank you. Item 28 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 6, Chapter 6.04 to amend Section 6.04.140, Operating Authority to Permit and Taxi Cab Zone Permit Denial Suspension Replication Appeal to amend hearing officer to municipal associate judge of the El Paso City Code. Item 29 is to amend Title 6, Chapter 6, Chapter 6, Title 6, Chapter
 Title IX, Section 9.20.100, Hearings on the Imposition of Civil Penalty Appeals to Amend Administrating Hearing Officer to Municipal Associate Judge of the El Paso City Code. And Item 30 is a Public Hearing of an Ordinance Amending Title XII, Chapter 12.85, Parking Violations Bureau, Sections 12.85.020, Section 12.85.050, Section 12.85.060, and Section
 Section 12.85.065 and section 12.85.100 to amend hearing officer to municipal associate judge and municipal associate judge to El Paso Municipal Court of Appeals of El Paso City Code. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro, and this is to approve items 28, 29, and 30. There's no public comment on these items. On that motion, call for the vote.
 the voting session and that motion passes unanimously that brings us to item 31 and this is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning from RF ranch and farm of r3 residential to c4 commercial and imposing a condition this is gateway east and south east of Americas there is a motion made by representative pierrot seconded by representative Salcido
 To approve the ordinance on item 31. There's no public comment on that motion call for the vote in the voting session And that motion passes unanimously Item 32 is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning from r4 residential to c3 commercial and opposing conditions This is north of Thorne and west of Donovan What's that? I'm sorry that was postponed for three weeks motion to approve in three weeks. I
 There you go. Thank you. That is postponed three weeks. Item 33 is the public hearing of an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a purchase and sale agreement a deed and other documents necessary to convey approximately point 17 acres of land described as a portion of track 5 D dash 1 block 1 upper valley surveys in the city of El Paso El Paso County Texas. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy seconded by Representative Fierro.
 And this is to approve item 33 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Item 34 is discussion and action on a resolution that the city reviewed and approves the issuance of unlimited tax bond series 2024 by Paseo de la Lesta Municipal Utility District number four.
 Good morning, Mayor and City Council. Items 34 and 35 are bond issuances that are required to be approved by the City Council. And so item 34 is Paseo D'Este Municipal Utility District number 4. They're going to be issuing $2,895,000. These are both voter-approved debts. Item 34, this was approved back in...
 May of 2014 and item 35 was approved by the voters back in November of 2007. These are again not city obligations. These are just a condition that was placed on these municipal utility districts when they were created in 2002 that requires the City Council's approval. Item 34, this was an election that was held on May the 10th of 2014 and it was for them to issue up to 30 million. After this issuance that's on the agenda today they'll still have 19,715,000 remaining that they can issue.
 And then on item number 35 they are issuing 3.7 million. That election was held on November the 6th 2007 and that was for them to issue up to 17 million and they will have 3 million 760 thousand remaining to be issued or up to after this issuance. You're welcome. Thank you. Just to hear you say it for the clarity for the public.
 These are not obligations of the city. Correct. The city is not selling bonds City's not issuing bonds. These are municipal utility districts that are separate and apart from the city of El Paso, correct? Correct They're just a requirement again when they were created in 2002 that the City Council reviews and approves their bond I should says it again not obligations of the city and voter approved And when you say voter approved you mean approved by the voters who live within the boundaries of the mud correct within the mud Exactly. Okay. Thank you
 That we got motion in a second. Yes, sir. Would you like to take 34 and 35 together? Yes, please. Thank you We have miss Osmond that signed up to speak on these items Mr. Canales for clarifying dates because when I read through that that it was December 2002 over 22 years ago When I read the language and it states unlimited I'm hoping that you're asking your questions and
 And with the dates that you're clarifying that, there really actually is a limit. Because as it's, I do question why the wording has unlimited on both. No, you know what, you can answer after public comment. You can have that conversation with her afterwards. No, well, that was...
 What I'm questioning because I'm reading through the documents and when it when it states unlimited for a 22-year-old bond and yes voters 22 years ago may have approved it But taxpayers today are paying it just like anything y'all approve and anything else generations from today will be paying it and
 So I'm just kind of curious. When it says unlimited, I would hope Mr. Canales' questions in Mr. Cortines' statement states that there is a limit. But I would hope that that language of unlimited, just that word, be removed. Yes, sir. Ma'am, an unlimited tax bond is the specific type of bond that is sold. It's called an unlimited tax bond, and it has to do with the...
 the tax rates that can be charged in the future backing the bond so not part of the city this is something we're required to do but it's not part of the city this is not bonds we're issuing wait but our taxpayers having to pay any of our taxpayers do not have to pay no so this is people who know that I'm within the municipal utility we just have to approve it and then it's issued the hill that's playing out to you thank you thank you ma'am
 There was a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Lina seconded by Representative Rivera and this is to approve both items 34 and 35 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present for the vote. Will council like to recess until noon. Please. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess a city council meeting until noon. All in favor.
 Anyone opposed? And the meeting gets on recess at 11 a.m. and will be convened at noon for call to the public. Thank you. We'll see you at noon.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all its citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during calls to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have three members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Janice Walker.
 And Ms. Walker's topic is the introduction of the El Paso Blacks Arts Association. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for allowing us to introduce ourselves to you, the City of El Paso and our community as the official El Paso Black Arts Association founded by myself, Janace Walker, Air Force veteran, member of the 6175 NAACP branch of El Paso, Texas.
 as well as soror of Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority Incorporated and multi-published African American children's book, Arthur, currently serving my community through service, along with over 30 other members. This is only a few of us.
 These are also part of the founding members that we have to include puppeteers, singers, movie and script producers, muralists, and illustrators. We have Mr. Tay Cunningham, which actually created the first African American mural for us for the McCall Center. Mr. Tay. Thank you.
 And we have Mr. Joseph Snail, which actually has an African-American modeling agency that has created the El Paso Strong Fashion Show. Mr. Joseph Snail. And the many others behind me. Our individuals specialize in the art also of holistic wellness with a concentration of meditation and mindful thought. Ms. Karen Moore here.
 We are professors, students, workers, and your neighbors, but more than anything, we are waymakers with a mission to encourage, celebrate, showcase, and support individuals of color or black ethnicity that have answered the call to operate any and all genres of art to include film, writing, storytelling, poetry, pottery, etc., residing in El Paso, Texas.
 we are here to assist in any way possible with upcoming volunteer events that encourage diversity awareness and artistic freedom as well as looking forward to our ribbon cutting ceremony which you all are invited to june 22nd 2024 at big mike's located at 4808 dyer street doors will open at 7 p.m and we will accept 10 donations which will go towards paying our performers which are also our members
 As well as the El Paso Black Arts Association for future events. We hope to see you there. And we've heard much talk and discussion in regards to entertainment and business here in El Paso. We would love to be of assistance to you all. And thank you. Thank you. Thank you for being here. And the next speaker is Ron Como. Mr. Como's topic is Exercising My Constitutional Rights.
 He will be followed by Patricia Osmond. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. I figured I should come back and finish what I started last meeting. You know, when I was growing up, my mother used to say a lot of times when people weren't exactly telling the truth is they kissed the Blarney Stone. I don't know if you guys have ever heard that before, but we'll get back to it. Okay.
 We're in the process of getting the school opened up for adoptions. I understand we're going to move the kennels from here and the people from here over to there. We have coming up right now the worst time in strays for El Paso, 4th of July. For the week before and a couple of weeks after, there's strays everywhere. El Paso Animal Service has been on vacation the last four years and they've dumped this problem on the community and the rescues.
 We now have an area that is big enough that if we actually expand it instead of just moving from here over to there, maybe we can take care of some of the stray issues that we've been leaving on the streets. I think it's a time that we stop breaking the law and we have the ability and we have the building. Why wouldn't we do that? I mean, other than the fact that certain people don't want to house a bunch of strays. I'm sorry, that's your job.
 This is El Paso. We have a bunch of strays in case somebody didn't notice. We need to fix it. You know, let's you got you got a couple of weeks. Let's do some planning. Let's make some changes. Let's not sit in vacation mode again. Sorry, folks. Brain doesn't work the way it used to. You know, we keep discussing things as far as what's right, what's wrong. And I feel I should, in all honesty, speak about what I think has been good for the shelter.
 Thank you. That's about all I can come up with as far as things I thought they'd be good in. But then again, you know, I'm the one that's been fielding the complaints because nobody wants to talk to the shelter because they handle their problems. So it doesn't do any good to go to somebody and say, I don't like what you're doing. That's something that needs to change. There's a lot of things that need to change, and we all know it. But I got to tell you, not answering the phone calls, not having my Facebook page, I've had more peace and quiet over the last week. It's been amazing. No stress, no aggravation.
 Thank you for everything. I hope you consider taking the shelter off in vacation mode, and let's get them back to doing their job. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time, and we'll see what happens in a couple of weeks. Well, we'll make sure. Thank you, sir. Thank you for being here. For the record, Representatives Hernandez and Salcido have also joined the meeting. The final speaker is Patricia Osmond.
 Ms. Osmond's topic is ethics violations, disrespect, mismanagement, self-dealing, and misappropriation by individuals paid by tax dollars. Good afternoon, Ms. Osmond, you have three minutes. So I came with props. So you always ask the citizens to be respectful when they come up and speak, but I don't think the citizens get the same amount of respect from our council persons and our city employees that we deserve. Mayor, May 21st,
 And if anybody wants a date stamp, that city council meeting on YouTube, it's one hour 24 and 30 seconds. Around there you made the comment, I didn't see you out there, Ms. Osmond, on Armed Forces Day. See, I don't go to PR stunts. I don't volunteer and do anything that I do in my community.
 to put my face out there because I'm selling something for either personal or professional profit. I don't. But I have throughout my entire existence, thanks to my mother, volunteered my entire life. And I spent a great deal of my life
 volunteering for Veterans Affairs. And that went from as a child doing all sorts of everything at the VFW, from being a buddy poppy girl, working pulling brisket during the dinners, to being a member of the VFW, to being a military spouse later on. But as far as my history, your comments to me were about
 A jab at my patriotism. So I would recommend this book. It's called Beyond Courage. My uncle was a Bataan Death March survivor, and he was interviewed for that. If anybody is unaware, most of the medics during World War II, and since we had our anniversary of the Bataan in April, nothing was mentioned here about that, and we just had the D-Day.
 Anniversary nothing here mentioned about that either. So anyway, all the medics mainly from New Mexico But I'm gonna read something because these were the men that these were the individuals I grew up with and most people that have been through the war and been through that They're not proud when you call when you say Colonel every time you can't say Colonel It's a disrespect to everybody who's in the listed currently. He's a civilian. There is no rank in a civilian life. I
 But I've got these letters from World War II and that, and it says, dear aunt, a few lines. These are from my mom's cousin. Just a few lines wondering how the tribe is doing. I've got several all asking about the tribe, about, because I do have a long history. Thank you, ma'am. 400 years of that in this town. Thank you very much, ma'am. Thank you for being here. With that, Ms. Prine. Counsel, is there a motion to adjourn? I'm on leave.
 There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye. And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, June 11, 2024 is adjourned at 1214 p.m. Thank you all. Have a great day. Great week.