Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Everyone is doing great this morning. Ms. Prine, do we have a quorum? Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Representative Rivera. Good morning. Good morning, Representative Salcido, Representative Anello, Representative DeSarga.
 good morning council if you'll turn on your cameras we can make sure we have a quorum to get started okay mayor i do see the quorum good morning this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday june 22nd 2021 it is nine o'clock a.m due to the pandemic the texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the texas open meetings act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings the
 Mayor Leaser is present and presiding, and we begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine? Present. Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez? Salcido? Present. Rivera? Lizárraga? Present. And Representative Rodríguez is running a few minutes late, and Representative Molinar requested to be excused from today's meeting. We now go to the invocation to be delivered by Police Chaplain Robert Hemphill.
 Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Will you bow your heads with me at this time as I deliver the invocation? Dear Father, thank you on behalf of all who are present and gathered here today. Thank you for the many blessings you have bestowed upon each one of us. Thank you for the ability to be involved in the useful work of our community and for the honor of bearing appropriate responsibilities.
 In the scriptures, you have said that citizens ought to obey and support the governing authorities since you have established those authorities to promote peace and order. Therefore, I pray for our mayor, the council as a whole, and for the various levels of city officials. I'm asking that you grant them wisdom to govern and address the needs of our precious community and its people. This I ask in your name. Amen. Amen.
 Thank you, Chaplain. And now to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance is Ms. Aubrey Rose Abdu at the invitation of Mayor Leaser. Good morning, Ms. Aubrey. Good morning. I pledge allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, and to the
 the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, for liberty and justice, justice for all. Thank you very much. That was very good. That was beautiful. Thank you for doing that for us today. And I hope you have a wonderful day and a beautiful week. Thank you again. Thank you. God bless.
 That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Coach Archie Durante. Ms. Pine, before we get started, I know that I always have a moment of silence for COVID and different reasons. I'd like to have a moment of silence this morning. Just everyone can think of something that they're thankful for and some of the things that they would want to have a moment of silence. So if we could just have a moment of silence, I would appreciate it.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. The first proclamation is Coach Archie Durande. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. And thank you again, Council, for this proclamation. The Durand family is a close one of mine. I'm very happy to read this proclamation to honor their beloved Archie Durand and to honor the Durand family.
 Proclamation by the City of El Paso, Texas, whereas Coach Archie Duran Memorial Fund is a nonprofit organization created and established in 2018 to celebrate and honor beloved husband, father, son, brother, and coach, Arcadio Archie Duran.
 And whereas the scholarship program is aimed at students who want to continue with their education at a college or university level and is open to El Paso area high school seniors. And whereas since 2018 the Memorial Fund has awarded a total of $5,000 to five students from the El Paso Independent School District and whereas
 Coach Duran, 48, was a proud graduate of Irvin High School and taught and coached for many years at Jefferson and Irvin High Schools. And whereas earlier this year, the fourth annual Coach Archie Duran Memorial 5K Run and Walk was held, and now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that June 22, 2021, shall be known as Coach Archie Duran Day, signed by our Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Thank you, Mayor Prokof. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
 and the next proclamation is el paso athletic hall of fame and el paso sports commission week hi good morning everyone so the proclamation reads for the city of el paso texas whereas the el paso athletic hall of fame was founded in 1955 to honor those athletes who have in their athletic fields of endeavor brought great credit upon themselves and the el paso county
 And whereas the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame honors each year the high school student athletes of the year and the 2020 Hall of Fame class under President Ed Stansbury. And whereas the organization will honor Ernie Bautista, John Rocky Kopinger, and Monica Townsend in the living athlete category along with the Tony Grijalva and Milton Henry in the coach administrator category.
 And whereas Robert Hemphill Jr. will be honored in the official category, Oscar Leeser in the supporter of athletics category, and Salvador Gori Guerrero in the post-communist category. And whereas the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame was inducted almost 375 athletes into its prestigious organization.
 and whose individual plaques are proudly displayed in the concourse of the Don Haskins Center on the campus of the University of Texas at El Paso. And whereas the sponsorship of the El Paso Sports Commission aids the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame's yearly efforts in continuing to provide
 fond memories for decades to come for El Paso, Texas and the region. And now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the week of June 26th, 2021 shall be known as El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame and El Paso Sports Commission Week.
 signed by our honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Mr. Stansberry, thank you for having this, and it's a great honor that I would be inducted into the Hall of Fame this year, so thank you. Thank you, Council. Please remember to keep your cameras on at all times so we can maintain a quorum, including during presentations. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor, and per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor, you will have up to 10 minutes.
 Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the Consent Agenda. All matters listed under the Consent Agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the Consent Agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Potem.
 Proposed revisions for the June 22, 2001 City Council meeting as of June 22, 2021 at 8.30 a.m. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse per Representative Joe Molinar. Page 10, item 22, delete per planning and inspections.
 Page 11, item 23, delete per planning and inspections. And page 12, item 26, revise per capital improvement. Are there any other revisions from any members of council at this time? The revision to item 26 is to strike out the word Texas and replace with New Mexico. Okay. Do I hear any other requests for revisions? So, here's a motion. Second. Second.
 there's a motion and a second to prove approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion mayor pro tem shortsway representative anello hi hernandez yes yes thank you rivera yes and the motion passes unanimously we now turn to page five to the operational focus updates
 to item number 13, and this is a presentation and update on El Paso Police Department's Volunteers in Patrol Service Program. Good morning, Council. Good morning. This is Sergeant Javier Sombrano, and I'm gonna just be giving an update on our Volunteers in Patrol Service Program. And of course, I ask if our IT can go ahead, assist and bring up that presentation for us. As you're bringing that up,
 I just wanted to let everyone know that the reason why this is being brought forward is to give you an update of when we're going to execute this. There were some questions that were raised in the past about when it was going to be implemented post-COVID, and so this will give you a better idea of that process. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Gonzalez. Good morning, sir.
 Well, as I was mentioning, this is going to be an update on the program. As our city manager had said, we're going to be looking over the overview of the program, how the community is able to participate in the program, of course, the launch, and of course, the cost. And I'll be able to answer any questions that you all may have. If we go on to the next slide.
 A little bit of the overview of the program. So what the program involves is volunteers, citizens that are going to be community ambassadors, not only for the city of El Paso, but for the El Paso Police Department. These citizens will be in marked vehicles like the ones that you see on that picture, which are marked volunteer vehicles.
 They will be assisting with code watches. And what a code watch is, it is something that any resident in the city can ask for if they're going to be going out of town or if, for instance, they're having a specific issue with a problem in their neighborhood, some type of suspicious activity, such as a peeping Tom, things of that nature, where officers would ask for help.
 Try on their downtime to do an extra patrol so the our volunteers are going to be assisting and doing that and assisting on those a code watch type of calls
 They're also going to be knowledgeable on the Neighborhood Watch, and so they will be able to help our community be able to start Neighborhood Watch. So in communities and neighborhoods that citizens are interested in starting a Neighborhood Watch and those areas that already have an active Neighborhood Watch, these volunteers will also be assisting them with that and be ambassadors for that program.
 We'll also be assisting with abandoned vehicles. That is definitely a concern that many times we do get as far as vehicles that have been left abandoned or appear to be abandoned. So we are going to give them the training to be able to assist in the process of being able to address that. Also, some of the important things, reporting graffiti.
 These citizens are going to be driving around, and if they do see graffiti, they're going to be able to report it. They're going to go ahead and take pictures of that so that that can be addressed. Also reporting code violations and also helping citizens that may have a concern regarding a code violation, starting the process for them. Reporting damaged streetlights, road concerns, things of that nature. And important, too, also to mention is that
 These volunteers, it's a non-confrontational. Again, they're acting as ambassadors for the community and for the department. Next slide, please. The participation involves that they have to meet the requirements of being a police volunteer. They will be a police volunteer.
 They will attend a Citizens Police Academy or be asked to have attended an academy within 12 months of participating in the program. Now, just to let you all know, the Citizens Academies of the Police Department have been around since 1995. So we do have a lot of citizens in our community that are...
 already meet that qualification that have been part of our Citizens' Academies and even part of our Citizens' Police Academy Alumni Association. But if a citizen hasn't participated in the past in a Citizens' Police Academy and they're interested in this program, they will have at least 12 months to participate in the next Citizens' Police Academy when participating in this program.
 They will meet physical requirements, and what we mean by the physical requirements is the ability to be able to drive a vehicle, the ability to be able to get in and out of these vehicles. So those are some of the basic physical requirements that are necessary for the participation on this program. Now, in addition, it's also important to mention the El Paso Police Department has programs
 various other volunteer programs. So if for whatever reason a citizen may not meet the physical requirements to participate in this program, there are other volunteer opportunities for citizens to volunteer and assist their police department and their community. They will be given an oral interview. So there will be questions that will be asked and
 They'll also have to attend a special VIP training. Now that this VIP training that we're talking about Involves a total of about 14 sessions. So it should take no longer than then two months to complete next slide, please and and
 part of what we're going to be doing on this training, we are limiting it to 22 participants on this inaugural class. The limitation will also ensure, of course, that due to the COVID-19 concerns, that we have spacing available there for those citizens that are participating in it, and also the ability to make sure that we are able to have that hands-on training that is going to be part of the requirement for those participants.
 One important thing is, of course, the launch. Since June of this year, we did start doing a soft launch. Part of it involved doing the Fact Fridays, which we did on the last one of the end of May.
 And we're going to continue here with press releases after, of course, this announcement today and update that we're giving you. And we'll also be sending you all some fact sheets so that you can go ahead and pass that information on to your constituents as well.
 One of the important things is, of course, in August is when we're going to start the training. That is the scheduled month to start the training for the selected participants. Classes will be held twice a week and will consist of classroom and, like I mentioned, hands-on. So there will be a couple of classroom sessions, and then they'll be going on a ride-along with a PAR officer to learn and practice.
 see firsthand those items that we were discussed during the class. And, of course, all the training is going to be documented using the TCO standards that are typically used in law enforcement. Now, these classes are not TCO-credited, but we are going to apply the same format as far as having the –
 the training, the testing, and of course the sign-in sheets to ensure that the participants have undergone that training. Next slide, please. They are going to have a uniform, and so the uniform is going to be consisting of a white shirt,
 and the uniform pant that our officers use. And so it's going to be a very similar uniform to the uniform that you see some of our parking enforcement employees around the downtown area using. So it's going to be a very similar uniform to that. They will be issued two pants, two short-sleeved shirts, and one long-sleeved shirt. They will have a tie and a clip that they can use for more formal events. They will also be given a winter jacket.
 belt and a radio holder and a nameplate. Next slide please. Now the shirts where the badge typically goes for an officer are going to have the patch that you are seeing on your screen there that says volunteers and patrol service.
 They will also have the civilian volunteer patch on each sleeve of their shirt. And of course, the uniforms will be provided to the participants at no cost. And obviously, as uniforms do get worn, they will be replaced also at no cost to the participants. Next slide, please.
 As far as the cost for the program, the uniform costs $233 per volunteer. So that's all of the items that we mentioned on the slide prior. The total cost of refinishing, we have five vehicles that were refinished and restriped for the program. The total cost of that was $24,480.
 And as far as the radios that we'll have for the program, the cost of the radios is $4,273 there per radio. And that is not a radio that is going to be individually assigned to the volunteer. These are going to be radios that are going to be available for them to use at the regional command that they will be checking out when they go on their tour of duty. And next slide, please. Thank you.
 There's another look there at our vehicle. As I mentioned, the recruitment and selection process has begun, and especially after, of course, this announcement, we will be issuing out a press release and also sending you a fact sheet so you can have that information there for your constituents as well.
 And the implementation will begin training in the month of August of this year. And I will go ahead and open it up to any questions that you all may have. Mayor Potem, Schwartzbein, and thank you again for the presentation, Mr. Smerano. And we have Mayor Potem, Schwartzbein, and Representative Anello after that.
 Great. Thank you again for all the hard work with this program. This is something I think a lot of us have been wanting to see as a way to better engage our community in keeping El Paso one of the safest cities in the United States. And I want to also thank city management and our city manager as well, as well, Chief Allen, again, for working towards this program, which, again, I think is something really great and only complements
 our excellent police department as well. So I just had a couple questions to help illustrate, to I guess help inform my constituents. How can people apply to join the program? Okay, they can actually get an application at any of our regional command centers.
 Additionally, we will be, by the end of this week, we'll have a link on the EPPD website, the city website, where individuals will be able to get an application from there. Great. I would love to share that information in our newsletter as well. So thank you again for that.
 I'm just kind of curious, in terms of the oral test, can you talk a little bit more about kind of the questions there and why is it maybe an oral, not a written test? Well, sure. And what it is, sir, it's an interview to try to see the individual that is interested in participating in the program, making sure that we have a person that.
 is joining the program for the right reasons. And so that's all that that is on there to ask some basic questions of them and the reason behind their interest in wanting to participate in the program. Great, and then again,
 Again, to help help us inform because I'm anticipating some questions from some of my neighborhood associations about this. How exactly does the process of working with the police occur? Say there's somebody there's a volunteer on patrol. They see, you know, they see something of concern.
 How does that work? Are they supposed to go to the person that is being flagrant? Are they supposed to radio for backup? Can you help us understand in the public sort of how this process works with these community partners with the VIP program? Sure. I think a good way to be able to explain it is think of it almost like a –
 mobile neighborhood watch. So these citizens, if they see suspicious activity, they see a crime that is happening, all the volunteers will have police radio. So they will be on the police channel on the specific region that they're working. So, for instance, if they're on the west side, they see a crime that is occurring, they're
 Part of the training that they will have is being able to call on that radio and informing the officers working that area what is happening, being able to give a description so that the officers can get to that situation and handle the crime or the incident that may be occurring. And I know...
 Two last questions. Sure. One is I know that training is starting at August 1st. Is there a sort of hard sort of start-up date that we anticipate seeing folks out in the uniforms and out in the community?
 I think we can anticipate to see them by the end of October. The training will take approximately two months, and so by sometime in October, end of October, we will start seeing our volunteers. Okay, great. And then I also saw the cost as well. Are we starting with one? How many vehicles are we anticipating at the start of the program for this?
 Sure. The vehicles have already – that was actually done last year when we were originally anticipating to have the program. And so there are five vehicles. So there is one vehicle assigned to each of the regional commands. Right. Okay.
 Awesome. Well, I don't have any more questions. I'm really excited about this program. I think it already complements a really great police department and complements all the things that y'all are doing. And again, I think it gives another opportunity for our community to be engaged, to take a proactive place to help El Paso be the best El Paso it can be. So thank you again for all the work that y'all are doing as well in our community.
 Thank you, Mayor Parker. Thank you, Representative. Representative Nello. Thank you. Thank you so much for the presentation. I'm happy to see that there is an interview process for candidates, but I was wondering if you could tell us, I know our police officers go through rigorous background checks, mental health checks, but I didn't see any of that on the presentation. I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit more about the background checks that individuals will have to go through. Sure. Sure.
 When a participant does fill out the volunteer application, that is actually sent to our background investigators. So the same investigators that do the backgrounds for the officers. And so they will be ensuring that these individuals do not have any type of criminal history. Some of the requirements that we have is that a person cannot have had any type of felony conviction. They cannot have had any Class A misdemeanor convictions, right?
 or any Class B misdemeanor convictions within the last five years. Not have had any DWI convictions in the last 10 years. And of course, complete the training successfully. So those are part of the requirements and part of what will happen during the background investigation on there. And then of course, in addition to that, that oral interview where we meet with the candidate.
 And so you'll be using the oral interview kind of as a mental health assessment as well? Yes, ma'am. Okay. And will you all – I know that convictions and accusations are very different, but will you also be flagging any incidences of domestic violence? Yes.
 Yes, ma'am. So on domestic violence, that would typically fall under a Class A misdemeanor. And also, when we do the background, even if they don't have a conviction, if there is some type of history on some type of violent behavior or questionable incidents, then that candidate would probably not be—
 qualified for the program. Great, thank you. I really appreciate that information. That makes me feel a lot better. I have one last question. I know that you are not issuing weapons to these, these are peace officers, volunteer officers, but is there any kind of rule that they cannot carry their own weapon while serving in this capacity?
 um there is as a matter of fact a rule on that so on our volunteer program the procedures manual does specifically and they do sign an agreement that they will not be carrying any type of uh weapon uh while participating in any of our volunteer programs so that is that is a uh a requirement and and again they're not they're not uh police officers they're uh
 ambassadors for the community. They're volunteers, which will be representing both the city and, of course, our police department. Okay, great. Thank you so much for clearing it up. I know those were some concerns I had from the community. And anything else, I'll send your way, and I appreciate you so much for the information. Absolutely.
 Thank you, Representative Vanilla. One question I do have is, what's the age requirements that you do have and the total amount of volunteers that will be in each headquarters, each station? Yes, sir. Mayor, the volunteers have to be at least 21 years of age. There is not an age limit as far as for their participation. The initial program...
 We are limiting it to 22 participants, and so those participants will be divided up among the five regions as evenly as possible. Now, once we finish this first
 We will be of course recruiting for additional classes because the goal is to obviously build up the amount of Volunteers so that we can have coverage not just occasionally but have our volunteers available almost on a daily basis as part of what we hope to see and grow this program to thank you sir and Thank you for everything you all do we do have Nandish
 Hi, thank you so much for the presentation. My colleagues asked most of the questions that I have, but I wanted to just take a minute to say thank you. This is a program that we have talked about for some time, and I would love to hear from Mr. Gonzalez about the why, why this was initiated, what was the response, and then,
 and why council members and members of the community have advocated for these type of programs. I think it's really important for the public to understand. So Representative Hernandez, I know that the council has talked about community policing and what can we do in that space.
 And then also, with respect to adding a force multiplier, this Citizens on Patrol program really helps that process as well. And obviously, there's not the same cost as a police officer. They're not a police officer. They're not a peace officer. And so this was in response to SBN, a little bit creative and creative.
 what's been done in other places and how it's worked in other places. Again, they're not going to take the place of the officer. They're simply the eyes and ears out there and they just report. That's all they do. But it's a great way to involve the community, to have more presence in the community with more vehicles driving around town.
 So when we presented this to y'all as an idea, I think the council really embraced it. It felt like it did check those boxes that y'all had been talking about. So that's the purpose behind the program, and that's the reason why we brought it forward.
 And I know we haven't done something like this in the past, but it has been done in other communities and it's worked extremely well. Don't look at these folks as officers. They really just are gonna be the eyes and ears and I believe will be extremely useful and helpful to the process. And again, it's gonna be all, I guess, dependent upon the training so that you have the right people there. Y'all asked the right questions, those are the right people
 right questions to ask before launching a program like this. We were delayed because of COVID, but we're ready to go now and we're excited about it. I know Council is excited about it as well. It'll be a good program for our community. And just my final thought, I would love to see that expansion and opportunity with the school districts. I know we get a lot of concerns about speeding around school districts.
 So this could be really a great deterrence so that we can keep our children safe. But, you know, thank you. Thank you for being creative and following through. That was really important because we've talked about this over the years. So I'm really excited to see the success of the program. And thank you for the presentation. Good job. Thank you, Representative Nandes. We have Representative Rodriguez followed by Representative Rivera. Thank you.
 Thank you. So just a quick question. What are the shifts that the volunteers will be working? Will they be there 24-7 or is this just like a 9-5 kind of thing? Just that the community is aware of when to look out for the volunteers. Well being a volunteer program they will be working at different hours so we may have we will have a bit based on on the different shifts usually
 The shifts will probably be between four to six hours, but it will be based on day, evening, and nighttime as well. And again, based on what those volunteers are willing to volunteer for. But the goal would be to be able to have them at all hours. Okay, so they'll be available 24 hours a day, but just depending on what they're able to volunteer anywhere from four to six hours.
 Correct. Okay, thank you. And then also, will the vehicles have sirens on them? The vehicles do have sirens and they do have lights. The lights are not red and blue. The lights are actually amber. That is to assist with any type of traffic control type of situation. But these cars are not designed there for them to be pulling anybody over and they don't have the...
 authority to do any type of traffic stop or anything of that nature. Okay so will the community be made aware that that if you know for some reason they're being pulled over that they cannot be pulled over by one of those vehicles by one of the volunteers?
 Yes, ma'am, and that's also part of the reason that these vehicles do have on the front windshield that states a volunteer so that nobody can try to take this vehicle and try to pass themselves necessarily off as an officer or conduct that type of activity. And if for some reason a volunteer did commit that type of activity, would that be reason for them to be...
 I guess, yes, okay. All right, that's it, thank you. Yes, in other communities where we've implemented this,
 They usually have retired police officers or retired military that are utilized or people that are overly involved. And you have that in every community. And it gives them a purpose. And again, if you coach them the right way, guide them the right way, that hasn't been an issue. But whenever someone does get a little bit aggressive on those kinds of things, the direction is that that needs to be rectified immediately.
 Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Mr. Gonzalez, and now we have Representative Rivera followed by Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, Sergeant Sotano. Good to see and hear from you again. Thank you for that presentation. I noticed that the age went down to 21. I remember when there were a lot more seasons, so to speak. And are these volunteers still giving parking tickets like they used to in the past?
 Well, sir, this is a new program as far as the volunteer program. That has always been 21 and older. Now, as far as the disabled parking enforcement program, that is a different program. It is still in existence. I know that currently...
 the program had been suspended due to the COVID-19. August is actually the month that we are relaunching all of our volunteer programs. We do see that the disabled parking enforcement eventually
 maybe becoming part or being taken over there by the VIP program. So that is definitely something that we can see there in the future, sir. Good. And I see that the age, you can also use it as a recruitment tool. If those that are 21 stick around and apply for the academy. Anybody expressed interest in that kind of thing?
 I know we have had volunteers in the past that have been part of other programs that have expressed interest in becoming a police officer. We have had some individuals that have even served on our police explorers that later on come on to become police officers. So it definitely is something that can lead to somebody interested in becoming a police officer to that career path.
 Right. And so with these tough times of having recruits apply, this is a big plus for the El Paso Police Department and the City of El Paso as well. I thank you for that presentation again. And I also want to thank City Manager Tommy Gonzalez and his staff for implementing this program again and taking it one step further. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Salcido? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, Council, Mayor and staff. I just wanted to thank everybody for the presentation. Great presentation. I think any safety measures that are in the public is better than having no presence in some areas. So I have some questions. I've had some issues with noise issues with either parties or whatnot. Are these police officers going to have decibel readers?
 The decibel readers are actually available at all of the regional commands, so it will be available for them to be able to check out, and part of the training that they will receive is how to operate the decibel readers as well.
 That is great news. And as far as like speeding, the documentation that they'll take when they do see speeding, what would that be? Will they be taking like a measurement of how fast some of these people are going? As far as when we're talking about speeding.
 bylaw that would have to have been witnessed by a police officer. And so the police officer would be the only person that would be able to stop and cite that individual. Nonetheless, though, the way that the vehicles are marked will definitely slow people down because the vehicles do have that look of a police presence being there. So we think that in itself will remind people that
 Police are out there. People are keeping an eye on there and hopefully slow people down. But nonetheless, if our volunteers are seeing when they're out there that there is an area that does have a lot of speeding, that's what they'll document on their lock sheet. That will be given to our traffic section, which will then go and do a focused enforcement in that area to try to go ahead and –
 decrease the amount of speeders in that area. And it's great to hear. So I just wanted to thank everybody again and the staff for being forward thinking. This is a great forum. Thank you, Representative Salcido. And with that, thank you, sir, for taking your time to be with us. Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to item number 14, and this is a budget update. So, Council, I'm going to say a few words before Robert starts and
 We wanted to visit with you and show you some graphs. I think that a lot of you have indicated that you take the information in better if we have graphics that show kind of the state of the budget. So we have some slides that we put together to show you how the budget was balanced. And then it's also going to show the trajectory of those expenses in the future, as well as what it took to get it down to a balanced budget.
 how many pennies in terms of the tax rate that would have entailed that we've done a lot of the things that are on there. I do want to assure all of you that when we put the budget together every year, we do listen to all our department heads, we do listen to the City Council, we do align it with the strategic plan, and it is a good exercise and a good process that we've undertaken now for almost seven years.
 And I believe that everyone who's gone through the process sees that it's a very educational way of talking about the budget. For example, one of the things that, you know, might not be right in front of us
 But the way we discuss the budget and it's the interaction we have with all of you that we got some of the graphs together to depict some of the things that you feel like can be better stated. And a good example of that is when we showed you this is 2020, that's the pre-COVID year in the budget versus what we look like today. So we have a slide that speaks to that as well that shows that.
 All of the increase mainly goes into public safety. And there was some IT and communication on there, but that's essentially the IT department that supports a lot of the efforts for the police department. There's a lot of costs in there embedded that, again, support public safety. And everywhere else hasn't gotten back to pre-COVID levels. So the increase is primarily due to public safety, and you'll see that in these graphs.
 So I'm going to have Robert go over these. I think that, again, y'all have indicated that these graphs depict the budget in a better format, and it really shows the public who's looking at it exactly where the money's going, exactly how the budget was balanced, and exactly what our future looks like. So we have to prepare for that because I know I've told a lot of you in public meetings and in private,
 that we have a lot of expenses that we have to account for in the future, like the bargaining agreements, like the additional bond packages that we have to pay for. And when we have savings, we have in one of the graphs that shows how those savings were allocated in order to not have to increase the tax because it paid for that additional sum that we would have had to incur had we not had the savings.
 So when we do the refinancing of bonds, that's just one tool. The other tool we talked to you about is how we get more efficient. We've shown you how we've saved money with LSS methodologies. Our staff have done a tremendous job in really embracing that training and really coming back with some incredible ways to either save time or money or both. In a lot of instances, we may not have to hire additional staff because they've become more efficient. So I know that
 The natural urge is to say, well, we don't have as many people as we had last year, or why did you decrease in this department or in that department? We're just more efficient today than we were before, and we have to be because we keep adding on layers of expense.
 Again, whether that's on the bond side of it or whether that's on the operational side of it. So I'm going to turn it over to Robert. He'll show you these graphs. I think you'll be very pleased with them. I think they'll be very self-explanatory. And, again, we'll be able to answer any of your questions, should you have any. Robert? Point of order, Mayor. Okay.
 Yes, sir. Go ahead. We're hearing reports of the audio being... Yeah, they're working on it. I don't know if we need to pause the meeting for a few minutes for IT to handle that. Yeah, they're on it right now. So we'll take a minute. Pardon me, sir? I'm sorry, Mayor. No, go ahead. We were talking. I didn't mean to interrupt. Yeah, they said that it is on the YouTube channel and it is on the city channel, but they're looking at it right now. So if you guys want to take a...
 Is it okay now, Jose? Okay, we're going to restart the system, so why don't we take a five-minute break? Yes, sir. He said to take a ten-minute break, and you'll have it all reset by then. Council, may we have a motion to recess for how long, Mayor? Ten minutes. Ten minutes. Motion to recess. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess a city council meeting to address technical difficulties. All in favor?
 Anyone opposed? Yes, they will be resetting the video streaming. Yeah, they're going to reset the whole system, so they're going to reboot it. Yes. So motion passes. The meeting is at recess at 946 a.m. for 10 minutes. Thank you. Do we have a quorum? Yes, ma'am, we do. Okay. Mayor, I do see a quorum. Mayor, we have a motion to reconvene. Motion to reconvene.
 Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the meeting is back in session at 9.57 a.m. We're on item number 14, a budget update. Thank you for bringing it up. I'll also represent the Saudi and Mariposa. Thank you for that. And is the sound okay now? Can you all hear the sound and is it okay? Okay.
 Yes good morning Mayor Araceli Guerra with IT everything is operational and it's been rebooted so we're ready to go. Thank you very much. Sir my concern was did they hear the city manager I mean we heard him I heard him but did they hear him Mayor Potem or Representative Sala? No sir this is Laura Cruza Cosa with the communications director and so I went back and actually watched the majority of the the meeting for this much and they it
 at about the point that we started the budget discussion. So we would need to hear that one again. Yes. All right. So, Mr. Gonzalez, if you would like to start again, we would appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Okay. So we put together some graphics to show the council in a different format what the budget looks like.
 and how we balanced the budget and how we looked at pre-COVID budget year and post-COVID budget year and how that year in between was an anomaly. And then also we're going to show how the money is being spent in next year's budget. So one of the graphs shows...
 the expenditures and the trajectory of those expenditures in the next four or five years. So it looks out into the future on expenses we have like collective bargaining agreement costs, like bond issuances that we have, whether it's 2012 package that was passed
 back then, or whether it was a 2019 public safety package, or the CO packages we have, where the majority of it is for infrastructure. There is some quality of life in there as well for those certificates of obligation. But there are for some of the things that y'all have been opening here recently, and some of the things that weren't budgeted correctly whenever the 2012 budget was passed.
 So those are the types of expenses that we have coming in the future. We also have some challenges when we look to expand not only
 with the type of briefings we've had with you with regard to economic development, the type of jobs we're focusing on. So those are the kinds of things that we see on the horizon. So one of the graphs shows the trajectory of the expenditures in the future. The other one, as you all had asked for, shows how we got to a balanced budget by not only taking into account one of the tools we utilized, like the refinancing of bonds,
 but we also take advantage of savings that we have with our Lean Six Sigma methodologies that we put in place and how well our staff has responded to that program. And it's either saved money or saved time in terms of being more efficient. So when our staff becomes more efficient, I know there's some questions sometimes, whether it's from the public or the council, is,
 or for staff themselves in some cases, about how we're not at the same level that we were before. That's because we're more efficient in a lot of the areas that we have conducted Main 6 Sigma projects in different areas. So those are some of the ways that we've saved money and some of the ways that we have really worked hard to...
 take on this additional debt, take on additional operational costs without impacting the citizens as much. So we also have a slide that shows what the tax rate would have been or how many pennies that would have impacted the tax rate had we not had savings, had we not made some adjustments, whether it's the unfunding of supplemental requests.
 or whether it's phasing in and restoring our services in a safe and responsible and more measured manner. I know that that takes patience, but again, that's something that had to be done in order to make sure that we come back slowly and responsibly and also take into account those impacts that we would have had on the financial side now because we look better in terms of the numbers as far as the health numbers.
 So now that has become more of a financial discussion as opposed to physical health discussion. You will see in these graphs, though, that the year prior to COVID and then the year we're in now, the majority of those costs go into public safety. So the graph is going to be very different.
 easily read that it kind of really shows you that's where the money went. And we have one graph that shows that the majority of the money went to public safety. The other departments, the other goals, they're not fully funded yet. So I think that'll be important for you to see so that when you get those questions, you'll be able to answer those questions. You feel better about how we're easing back into this budget phase.
 budget schedule for the subsequent years. So with that, I'll turn it over to Robert. And again, I think this will be a very self-explanatory type of presentation that will really help you communicate where these costs are going in the next year's budget. So Robert, if you can take it away. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Thank you. We'll go to the next slide.
 So taking a step back and going to what we presented back in the middle of February, we presented our five year forecast of looking at not only what the FY 2022 budget was going to look like based on our revenue assumptions at the time, but looking out into the future as Mr. Gonzalez talked about looking down the road the next few years. We know we have committed costs, whether it's contractually through the collective bargaining agreement, whether it's the 10 year staffing plan for our police department to continue to build up our staffing in the police department.
 The operating costs related to the public safety bond projects as those begin to get moving here in the next few years, finishing up those quite a live 2012 projects, and they continue to invest in our workforce, whether it's through compensation adjustments or through the health care costs. And so as we presented back in the middle of February, if we were to go back to the 100%, we were facing about a $22 million gap.
 The $22 million gap did not include as we went throughout the budget process working with the city departments, the supplemental request that they present as part of the budget process to the city leadership and to Mr. Gonzalez. So again, looking at FY22, you see that gap of 22 million. You see that gap continue to expand to get even wider as you go throughout each of the next fiscal years.
 And so we knew early on that this wasn't going to be fiscally responsible. This wasn't going to be the best approach. And that's what we've been talking about since February of utilizing this phased in approach of bringing things back on gradually over the next couple of years. So if you go to the next slide. So when we look overall, we begin to factor in some of these other things that we were we were dealing with as we develop the FY 2022 budget. The overall expenses, the city manager talked about the refinancing. And so that for FY 2022 alone, this budget year alone.
 equates to about $5.4 million of savings in that fiscal year loan. There's additional savings that's going to be accounted for in 2023, 2024, the way that we structured that deal, but the impact for FY 2022 is a savings of $5.4 million. So that brought the overall expenses down from $519 to $514. On top of that, I know you all requested this information, and we're going to present this as part of the total package a little bit later this week, all of the different information you all have requested.
 Another area, though, is the supplemental request that we received from our city departments. And so we did find some of these items, whether it's some additional positions, some additional items that were requested. But there's still a lot of need in our city departments of things that they feel is important to be able to provide the services at the level that our community expects. So currently, there's about $18.2 million of supplemental requests from all the city departments that are not currently funded. So that brings the overall expenses down to $514,000, down to $495.9 million.
 And then what we've been talking about over the last several months is this phased-in approach, whether it be phasing in the funding of our vacant positions, which will run funded in the current year, phasing back in the quality of life, phasing back in some of our PAYGO set-aside fundings. That equates to about $22 million, which brings us down to our total preliminary budget of what's been presented through the overview presentation that we did a couple of weeks ago, the preliminary budget, which we presented to you all in your one-on-one briefings,
 And then again, really what we've been talking about for the last four months of what the overall FY 2022 budget is going to look like. And so if you go to the next IAT, to equate those dollars into what the impact on the tax rate would look like, to go back to 100%, to fully fund all of the supplementals, and had it not been for that refinancing, we would have been facing almost a 13 cent increase in the property tax rate. And you'll see how through the various things that we were able to work into the budget,
 Not funding all the supplementals, utilizing the refinancing, utilizing the phased-in approach. We were able to bring that down to the current preliminary budget of $473.2 million, which overall, again, as we've talked about, no increase, again, on the overall property tax rate for the second consecutive year. And so it's taking these strategies and this approach in order to get that, to accomplish that. And then I'm going to talk about here in a little bit of what is being funded because it's important that
 Not only are we not increasing the tax rate, but it's important for the community to understand of what is being funded. And so there's a lot of key areas in the priorities, whether it's public safety or streets,
 of the quality of life that are being funded in the upcoming fiscal year. Robert, before you move to the next slide, I'd like to make one comment and interject one point. So as you've seen the previous slides, Council, and the trajectory of those expenses going up, and I don't think next year is going to be any different than this year. And there'll be a call for let's continue to look at what we can do on the tax rate. And if we don't increase the tax rate next year and
 And we look at how we can not do that and still restore a majority of our programs. That's going to be an additional pressure point on these different slides that we've been showing you. So when we plan today for next year and the second, third, and fourth, and fifth year, we are looking at those kinds of things that we know will be asked of us today.
 And we know what we asked of you. And we need to make sure we balance that along with all these pressing requests and needs that the community sees, whether it's in public safety, whether it's in the complete restoration of all the services that we haven't restored up to this point. I know that there'll be a hue and cry, do more of that next year. And so we're planning for that today. So when you see the fact that we're building up our rate stabilization fund, we're building up
 our fund balance, that's, that's a good thing. I mean, when we have bond ratings, bond raters look at, you know, are you building up your fund balance? Are you putting money aside for pension costs and things of that nature? And we're doing that. And if you don't do those kinds of things and you're subject to a downgrade or, uh,
 You might be in a positive light, subject to an upgrade. So if you get an upgrade, our interest rates will be lower and we'll have even additional savings. But that's the reason why that's a priority for us and an objective that we want to accomplish in the near future. So those are the type of things we think about. When I asked Robert, when I asked the finance team to look at this, that, or the other,
 Those are the kinds of talking points and guidance that I give them and that we talk about often. So I just wanted you to know that those are some additional things that we have to be keeping in mind for the future. Hey, T, can you go to the next slide? And so as we compare the pre-COVID budget, if we go back to the FY 2020 budget, we are currently in our fiscal year 2021. So if we look at the pre-COVID, the FY 2020 budget compared to the FY 2022 budget,
 It equates to about a $15.3 million increase. This shows you by strategic goal where those increases or decreases for the most part are occurring. So as the city manager referenced, our largest cost driver as an organization is our investment in our public safety, our number one priority for the community in police and fire departments. And so you'll see that between FY20 and FY2022, $20.6 million increase in our public safety. We have a $1.6 million increase in our IT, and that, again, is due to our investments nationally.
 and our cybersecurity, investing in those positions, which are critical to keep our systems up and running, to keep them safe, a very, very minor increase in our economic development, and then decreases in each of the remaining strategic goals. So the city manager talked about restoring things back in gradually, but then when you do a comparison of where were we prior to COVID and where are we with what we're presenting as part of the FY2022 preliminary budget,
 For the most part, a lot of these departments and strategic goals are still well below where, or in some cases, getting back closer to where they were prior to COVID. So if we go to the next slide, the next slide is similar information presented a little bit differently. But again, emphasizing the key point here of our largest cost driver is the investment in our public safety. It's not just the collective bargaining impact, which is significant with the pay raises, the incentives that our police officers and our firefighters receive.
 But it's also the investment in our CIT, our 911 communicators, increasing the staffing in our police department, the net increase that we've talked a lot about over the last several years. And so that almost $21 million increase in public safety, again, it's important for the community to understand and realize the strategic thinking and how we went about putting together with the city manager pushing for us to make
 Do this in a very well thought out, not just focusing on FY 2022, but again, really focusing on the long term financial sustainability of the organization. You can go to the next slide, please, IT. So the three key takeaways for the FY 2022 budget, again, as we talked about over the last several months, was presented again during your one-on-one briefings. And as part of the overview presentation that we did two weeks ago, we talked about no property tax rate increase for the second consecutive year. And we were able to do that by, again, utilizing this phased-in approach.
 taking advantage of the refinancing savings, and then not funding all of the supplemental requests that were asked for by the city departments. On top of that, on the city council agenda, we have the additional increase in tax exemptions for over 65 and disabled. Over 51,000 homesteads will benefit from the additional tax savings being provided by that exemption increase. And then finally, I'm going to talk about here in a minute, restoring those high priority services impacted by COVID-19. So we're going to talk about what is included in the budget.
 and where those investments are for this upcoming fiscal year. Next slide, IT. So again, we've talked a lot about that the focus must remain on the long-term financial sustainability that is important that we're not just looking at one fiscal year but that we take that whole five-year approach into consideration because we've talked about and we've shown where those costs are going to come from whether it's through the collective bargaining which we have the police and fire agreements that will be expiring here one of the next year the other one in 2023.
 We have again the continuing police staffing plan to continue to increase our police force. We know that we have our fire department, which we're going to need to begin to increase the staffing with the additional fire stations that we have coming on board as part of the public safety bonds. Again, we need to be mindful, and I've talked a lot about this, the city managers reminded you all about the 3.5% property tax cap that we have currently now with what was passed by the state in 2019.
 With our preliminary tax rate that we presented and what's included in this budget for 2022 based on the preliminary data we received from CAD, we're below that 3.5%. However, we won't know that final number until we receive those certified values at the end of July. As part of that, again, that long-term approach, again, continuing to build our fund balance in the budget stabilization fund to be able to have access to those tools and resources in the future when they're needed. And so the budget is balanced. We have a no tax rate increase again.
 and so that budget stabilization fund is going to be critical in the future when we may need to use it in order to help balance to keep us flat and it really is not intended to help to lower the budget we're really going to want to use that over the next five years as we know we're going to continue to incur those increasing costs the city manager talked about our continuous improvement practices our focus on becoming more efficient as an organization and providing services to customer service beginning to adjust our unfunded pension liability so we've done an excellent job the city
 has really pushed for us to really focus on increasing our fund balance creating the budget stabilization fund and our next approach needs to begin on implementing a plan to address our unfunded pension we're very well funded we're close to 80 percent on both our civilian and our uniform pension plans however it's a comment that we receive every year from the bond raiders they want to see what is that long-term plan to adjust your pension it's an item that's included in our 25 by 2025 and so it's an item that we begin to work on
 a plan that we're hoping to present to council here in the very near future in order to begin to address that issue. And if I may, Robert, on the pension issue, it used to be, and I say when I say used to be, over about a decade ago, when you were at 75%, you were in very good shape with pension. And then Sorensen's Oxley law came out,
 after we've had some dips and changes in various pension funds throughout the country, and that got stiffer in terms of the requirement, and now it's no longer 75%, 80% is good enough. I want you to be at a higher rate and be at a level –
 that's fully funded. And I think that's kind of unrealistic to get at 100% because, you know, you have a lot of factors that go into that and you're always going to have people paying into the system. But that changed. And so I just wanted you to be aware of that because I think El Paso has done a very good job in the past with their pension issue. They got out ahead of it. And that's just something that we're going to have to continue to work on because of the new requirements that Robert just mentioned.
 And then finally, the long-term financial sustainability, looking at our economic development and utilizing the new funds that we've created through our El Paso Electric Franchise Agreement and using those very strategically in order to attract these really big companies to be able to relocate here to El Paso. That's going to create new jobs and increase our tax base and contribute also to our sales tax growth as well. Next slide, ITIN.
 So again, this is a recap of the pre-COVID budget compared to our current year budget, our 2021, and then our 2022 preliminary budget. You all have seen this several times. Again, overall, the pre-COVID to the FY 2022 budget, again, that $15 million that I presented just a few slides ago, and showing you where those costs are being driven by in the public safety area. Go to the next slide, IT. So the next few slides, really wanted to highlight again of what's included in the budget, of the approach and the areas that are being addressed,
 The focus not only being on not increasing the tax rate, providing the additional tax savings for the over 65 and disabled, but really investing in those key areas. Again, that long-term financial sustainability, we keep saying it, but it's these types of investments that really are going to contribute towards accomplishing that. And so as we look at public safety, not only equipment replacement, but also increased staffing. So including the budget for next year is almost $8 million of set-aside funds
 That's $8 million for purchase of police cars, fire trucks, ambulances, and funds to go to the wards replacing our public safety radio system. That's $8 million of cash set-aside funds that we will not have to finance those items. We've talked a lot about the city's past practice decades had always been to utilize COs to go out and finance the purchase of vehicles and equipment.
 This is the practice that the City Council has approved the set-aside funds over the last several years. So this eight million dollars a year is dedicated for equipment replacement for our public safety departments. We also have increased public safety staffing. We have two police academies scheduled for next year. We have three fire academies scheduled for next year. And we have an additional seven positions for our 911 communicators. So a significant investment again in our public safety. IT, if you can go back to the previous slide for me real quickly.
 again our public safety on slide 10 our public safety strategic goal makes up almost two-thirds of our overall general fund budget for the preliminary afy 2022 budget almost 291 million dedicated for public safety an increase of 13.5 million again that increase for equipment replacement and increased staffing thank you you can go back to slide 11. as we look at streets the other top priority that we hear loud and clear from the community
 Nicole Cody and the budget staff had been conducting the town halls over the last several weeks, and we've heard loud and clear streets. By far and away, it was the number one priority, the number one thing that we heard from those that attended those town halls. Council members, I know that you hear directly from your constituents as well. And so including the budget for next year, almost $8 million for street maintenance projects. That's, again, set-aside funds. That's cash. That means that we do not have to finance that $8 million worth of projects. That means we have the money to be able to conduct those projects next year.
 Again, that's a step in the right direction. We've talked about, again, that long-term financial sustainability. We need to continue to work on growing those set-aside fund amounts because we know that streets alone is an area where we need over $40 million a year to get on a regular replacement cycle. But we're making significant strides and moving in the right direction. And it's because of this, again, long-term approach, the city council making these tough decisions to be able to fund these areas that are key priorities for the community.
 And let me just punctuate his point about those set-aside funds. Usually you do a 1 to 10 ratio, but because the interest rate's being low, that'd be the equivalent of having a $70, $75 million bond package to do $7.8, almost $8 million a year on streets.
 Just so that you can put it in perspective. That would be the equivalent of us putting in front of you, hey, $75 million worth of bonds so we can go do these streets. So you could have $7.5, $8 million available for the next several years. That would be 10 years before we ran out of money. Instead, we're doing it with set-aside funds so we don't have to sell more debt.
 And then finally, we have almost $2 million for a new traffic safety program. This is our Vision Zero. You've heard presentations on this. We have a very thorough detailed presentation that will be coming forward soon to the city council so that you'll hear exactly what that program is going to entail. And so, again, focusing on maintenance, traffic safety, and ADA. And we have the additional, again, that $500,000 for our ADA on-demand request projects, which is something we started a few years back. Go to the next slide, IT. Also included in the budget, again, Quadrant of Life.
 We made the announcement recently with the opening of some of our senior centers. Again, utilizing that phased-in approach, we do have our senior centers funded for next year, our libraries, our recreation centers, and our pools. We're reopening 32 additional sites. We have 40 that are scheduled to open next year. Additionally, we have the automated irrigation pilot project, which is an area that this council talked about looking at not only water conservation but energy efficiency.
 This is a pilot project that we're looking forward to getting started next year in the budget for FY 2022. And then finally, as we look at our workforce, again, a key component of what we do as an organization, our number one priority is obviously our services we provide, but it's our workforce who is the one that are out doing these jobs and providing the services to the community. So it's important that we continue to provide compensation adjustments, that we're being competitive to retain employees, attract employees. And so we do have built into the budget for next year,
 at least the 1.5% compensation increase. We also have built into the budget for next year no health care cost increase for our city employees, our civilian city employees. And then finally, also built in prioritizing our funding for vacancies. So when we've talked about the phased-in approach, we utilize this, again, for determining which of those vacancies were going to be funded. And again, we did this as part of the overall budget process that we go through with our city departments, reviewing with the city leadership and city manager. So if we go to the next slide, ITN.
 So as we look ahead beyond 2022 and as we look to 2023 and beyond, again, we've talked about these costs that we're going to have future collective bargaining impacts. We have our fire collective bargaining agreement, which expires in August of 2022. So we'll begin negotiations with them here in the near future. Our police collective bargaining agreement expires in August of 2023. And so that's going to be an additional cost. We have, again, the police staffing plan, which we're currently a little bit more than halfway through with adding that net 300 to the police force.
 We have the public safety bond project operating cost. And so once we get beyond 2022, beginning in 2023, we will need additional firefighters to staff the new fire stations that will be coming on board as part of those bond projects. Additionally, as we talk about not only the operating costs, but as we look at the bond projects, the cost themselves from the construction, we have built into the budget for FY 2022 about $180 million in additional capital project funding
 But once we get to 2023, we have an additional $405 million remaining in bond costs to be issued beginning in 2023. Again, our workforce will continue to remain a priority as we begin to continue to remain focused on providing compensation adjustments, analyzing and evaluating health care. As we continue to finish out our 2012 Quite a Life project, significant progress has been made. We're in the process of closing out projects.
 a large majority of those projects, but we do still have operating costs associated with some of those projects to come online in the next couple of years. And then finally, that last bullet point, there are future needs. And these are some of the items that were included in the supplemental request from some of our departments. And so as we look to invest in our existing facilities, an area that we need to continue to identify some strategies and ways that we can begin to set aside funds to invest and reinvest into our city facilities, not just the new ones, but the existing ones that are aging rapidly.
 Having a vehicle and equipment replacement plan for all city departments, not just public safety. We have a lot of city inspectors, whether it's in the health department or planning inspections department, that need vehicles to be able to drive around to perform their job. We have heavy equipment needs in our streets and maintenance department, whether it's bucket trucks to fix street lights, whether it's pothole patchers, whether it's street sweepers to keep our streets clean and safe. These are things that we continue to work on, and we need to really begin to create more of these set-aside funds to be dedicated towards these areas. Thank you.
 And then finally continue to invest in our information technology. It's critical that we stay ahead and not fall behind. IT is rapidly advancing. We recently hired our chief information security officer, Ernesto Arriola, who's done a fabulous job. He's our service security expert. He's the one that helps make sure that we maintain and keep all of our city assets safe from the technology standpoint.
 but it's an area that we need to continue to invest in not only from the hardware and software aspect but also from the staffing component as well on the on that bullet on future needs those first two items facility maintenance vehicle and equipment replacement that's not something that just mushroomed out of the blue it was something that when we talk a lot about neglect over a couple of decades and police and fire and
 and the different departments that the services like the recreation centers and pools and things of that nature. Facility maintenance is something that has been ignored as well, and vehicle and equipment replacement that Robert talked about. Now, we've gotten creative in both of those areas, but the need is great in both those areas.
 So again, just bringing that to y'all's attention. I know it was in 15, we did an analysis of all the facility needs, and it's a big number. It's a huge number.
 And so when you get calls and complaints from your different residents in your district, and you know what I'm talking about, that's far and wide. And that not only is on that side of the house on the maintenance of our facilities, but also, as Robert pointed out, vehicle replacement and equipment replacement, which...
 doesn't get as high priority as public safety, but we haven't ignored it. It's just that the need is great. It's very expensive in terms of all the things that hadn't gotten the attention in the past. And we've given some attention to those areas, by that I mean money, but you can't do all things alone.
 for all departments at the same time, because it's behind in a lot of different areas. So I just wanted to emphasize that point, because that's not something that is brand new or that has taken us by surprise. And we mentioned it before. Again, I just wanted to emphasize that. And then the final slide, IT. Again, as we take those total costs, the estimated costs, as we look out the next two years beyond 2022, as we look to 2023 and 2024,
 Again, you see a large majority of those costs are coming in the public safety strategic goals, our police and fire departments. And again, it's the things we've talked about the remaining quality of life, increased cost investment in our workforce and then the capital project funding over the next couple of years. So 2023 total 31.2 million estimated cost increases 2024 an additional $32.2 million cost increases on top of that. So.
 Again, it's important that, you know, city managers talked about that if we continue to think about as we present this information of focusing on not only the current upcoming fiscal year, but continue to really maintain that focus of 2023 and beyond. So just a little bit differently, what he's saying is over the next two years, there's a $63.4 million increase that we have to eat one bite at a time and make sure that we still...
 can give you a budget that's palatable not only for you but for the community. Go to the next slide. That completes the presentation. We'd be happy to answer any questions. We have no questions, but I do want to thank you all for that presentation. It really kind of breaks it down and identifies a lot of the things that we'll continue to bring into the budget. And I think Mr. Gonzalez always says if you buy horses, you're gonna have to buy hay. So this is kind of
 based on your analogy, Mr. Gonzalez, we need to prepare to buy a lot of hay. Yes, sir. And thank you again, Mr. Gonzalez and Mr. Cortina, for the presentation and kind of breaking it out. I think that was really important. With that, we do have Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you again, Mayor. Thank you, sir. So I want to thank again city management for listening to some of our suggestions about how to sort of quantify...
 this data a little bit differently in terms of visualizing it. I also think, too, it's really good to sort of see the comparison to pre-COVID. I don't know if you can show that slide really quick, but I think that slide's really illustrative in terms of, I guess, the fiscal discipline understanding that we have, those needs that were provided by collective bargaining, both by the citizen-led organizations
 Firefighters Initiative in 2015, as well as the most recent collective bargaining agreement in the El Paso Police Department. I don't know if it's like slide four or something like that. Slide six. Yeah, I mean, I think I think this, you know, should show
 to the community again as a whole that, you know, the increases that we're having here are relating towards public safety, streets and fire, which is consistently been a top priority for this community, as well as a consistent funding priority for this council as well. We have consistently voted to make sure that we adequately fund our police department and we adequately fund our fire department. And I feel in many ways,
 the discussion in this budget here, not only accomplishes that, but it goes above and beyond, again, being fiscally prudent, understanding that if we set aside funds now for some of that fleet replacement, we're gonna be paying less for it overall than if we were going to send out certificates of obligation. So to fund things like police car replacement and other sort of things.
 So I think that this slide really shows the tightening of that belt, right? And that when you make these investments...
 such as the public safety bond projects that were voted on in the last couple of years. You know, you're you're married to those projects. And so it's important to to see those through. You know, you put you put that engagement ring on. You gotta you gotta walk it all the way to the to the to the end of the road.
 And so I think that it's important that we understand that, that when these investments are made by our community in the terms of the public safety bond, that it's our responsibility not to do all that we can to make sure that these projects are honored and fulfilled. I was wondering if you just could go to slide 11 again.
 And so the thing that stuck out on me, and I don't know, Tommy or Robert, if you can go a little bit more into detail, can you again highlight why those $7.8 million of set-aside funds is so important and how that's different than what we were doing in terms of funding those police cars, the fire truck replacements, and others as well?
 It's a fiscally prudent thing to do. It's a strong financial move as an organization to have set-aside funds pay for maintenance of your infrastructure that should have been getting this type of money every year. And if you don't have these monies that are set-aside, then you have to go issue a bond to go get, in this case, I think given the interest rate, I think we would have to probably do,
 Well, to get to $7.8 million, we'd have to get $80 million to get like $8 million a year for 10 years.
 And in terms of the interest rate, you know, you get a good interest rate because we're in a good market right now, but you'd still have more debt. And I know there's a lot said about the debt the city has, but I think the city has had debt over its history because it hadn't had enough set-aside funds like this to take care of things like streets, in this case, or in the above line,
 police and fire equipment replacement, which is about, you know, $4 or $5 million a year. And it's just increased every year to replace their capital that, you know, they have to replace because, I mean, it gets used so much and they're so physical with it because of all the things that they do. So, again, to your question, this $8 million a year, it prevents us from having to issue some more debt. And in this case, it would be approximately $75, $80 million. Okay.
 I think that's really important because oftentimes residents are concerned about taking on more debt, and it seems that, especially when it comes towards our policemen, our firefighters, and our first responders, that we do what we can to make sure that they are funded adequately, that they're funded properly, and that we do what we can to keep our community safe. And so really exciting to see this. Again, I think this is something different than...
 what we were doing before and having to play catch up. I think we're being proactive here. I think we're also being responsible and making sure that, again, our firefighters, our police department has what they need to do their job and to keep themselves and to keep our community safe. So we're excited to see this. And the council, y'all have been doing this for four, maybe five years, Robert? We introduced this? Four years. Yeah, four years.
 So it's been a practice that's really paid off. Again, I also want to emphasize, because the services are opening back up,
 We're doing it responsibly. We're going to add more days of service as we get more people hired. And I'm talking specifically like the senior centers. We have opened them up and we're transitioning and we'll add more days as the numbers continue to get better. And as we add more staff, I did want to make that clear. So that was something that I know you all received a lot of emails on. Thank you. Mayor, that's my questions for now. Thank you again. Thank you, sir.
 Now we have Representative Rodriguez followed by Representative Hernandez. Thank you again, Mayor Procter. Thank you. Okay. Hello? Hello? Hello? Hello? Okay. Thank you. Okay. So Robert, Mr. Cortinez, good morning. Real quick on slide 10, I know when you briefed me on this slide earlier, a couple of weeks
 The quality of life where it says 55,000 or 55 million, I'm sorry. I was under the impression that this was bond money, but you clarified that. In fact, it wasn't. This is what it takes to actually run the services from the quality of life projects, correct? That's correct. These are the operating budgets that we're showing here. So these are all the operating costs related to those services.
 Okay, so I guess my question is just trying to figure this out in my mind how much of the 344 point eight million dollars of the 2012 quality of life bond money has been that has been issued remains unused That question in detail have some good information on that presentation as well, okay, so
 All right then that's fine I'll go ahead and wait I'll hold my question I just thought it was related because I had it here but I'll wait thank you Thank you Representative Rodriguez and with that we have Representative Hernandez
 Thank you, Mayor. Um, I wanted to share with you some of the concerns I've heard. And then I've also read some of the chime in responses. And just on the first few pages, it was clear to me that the members of the public are really anxious and, um, are eager to see all of our quality of life programs specifically as it relates to libraries.
 rec centers and senior centers come back to 100%. You've already indicated and described here in this presentation what that impact would look like on the tax rate.
 And so, um, you know, I'm gonna continue to challenge you all to see if whether or not that phasing in can be a little bit more aggressive because the decisions that we're making today for the budget is going to impact for next year and next summer. And so, um, can will the city of El Paso, will our constituents be okay with the limited phase in for the next 12 months?
 I'm going to say no, I don't think so. I think every single member of this body are going to get pressure, they're going to be called, and they're going to demand that these services are reopened because that is what their tax dollars are going towards. And so I want to reemphasize that. I appreciate the phasing in approach. I don't think it will sit well with our constituents.
 Having said that, I've been really excited about the water parks. Our water parks are just really a great amenity to our community. And so looking at the schedule fees, all of all of the water park fees are being deleted. I do recognize that we have a vendor who is charging and providing these services.
 But I don't want to be surprised. I think council should be notified on what those fees will look like for the next year so that we can better prepare and promote these programs. Also, it's a matter of looking at not only entry fees, but looking at opportunities for fundraising, looking at opportunities for some of our neighborhood associations and nonprofits to take advantage of these.
 and maybe at a limited scale without any concessions. That way they can also utilize those services. So I wanted to share that with you as well because I've already started to get inquiries about that. And I'm just throwing out kind of my thoughts. You don't necessarily have to have a rebuttal for every response, but I wanted to share these with you because this is the intent and the purpose of our budget discussions. So quality of life openings to see if we can more aggressively scale that phase forward.
 higher without too much of an impact to the tax rate. And then finally, my third concern is the streets. So last year, we deferred that money. We put that into the budget stabilization fund.
 So what when I'm referring to replenishing our street dollars, I'm not talking about setting aside dollars for this upcoming fiscal year. What I'm saying is the dollars that we didn't use for the for this current fiscal year that we're in. I would like that replenish so that we can catch up on the dollars that we didn't use. And so I don't want those dollars to to be re diverted to other efforts.
 I think that El Pasoans have made clear that they want their streets fixed. And so the dollars that were dedicated last fiscal year, if we can find a way so that we can replenish it so it wouldn't look like a $7 million budget, it would be twofold, it would be double that.
 And so I just wanted to make clear because I've said this before in case you're not, it's just not coming through. I'm looking to replenish the funds that we didn't use last year and then add on to the current year. So to be double. So those are the things in my mind I wanted to share with you. And I hope that we can further have those discussions at the next budget meetings.
 So I'll take the quality of life real quickly. So we do have our goal team presentations, which are going to begin the week of July 6th. In there, you will see, we're going to make sure we provided a level of detail on what facilities are going to be open. So when we talk about Bayesian approach for quality of life, there are very, very few, and I don't know if Ben's on the line, but there's very, very few facilities that we're not planning to open. For the most part, we're planning to open just about all of our, I believe we have all of our senior centers, a majority of the rec centers, a majority of the pools,
 There's a very, very small number of facilities that we're not planning to open, and it's for a variety of reasons. Some of those projects or some of those facilities will be entering construction as part of upgrades, and so we don't want to open a facility up for a couple of weeks and then have to close it down due to a construction project. Some of those facilities are being used for other purposes right now, but we hear you on the quality of life, and I think it's important that we'll have Ben Fife and Tracy Drone make sure that we provide that level of detail so that it's very, very clear what's funded because there are –
 not only a significant investment, but there are, like I said, a large majority of those facilities that are planning to be open next year.
 And actually Robert, I am on the line. So if I may, Representative Hernandez, Robert is correct that we have actually planned to be able to bring the bulk of quality of life facilities back online for next year. The ones that we would not be doing so are actually for a great problem, which is actually renovation. You know, you've heard time and time again about a lot of our older facilities. And so that is what we're actually planning for right now. We hear you loud and clear.
 We know the message is actually great from the community because it means what we're doing is vital and important. But again, we are moving cautiously, but we will get there in the next year.
 And thank you for that clarification. I just also, it made me think about something else that I read. I saw a lot of requests for healthy living type of activities that the programming for, let's say, aerobics, aquatic aerobics, that they're limited. And so I know that it takes,
 manpower to provide these services. And so the other challenge is how can we get our silver sneakers programs? How can we start accepting insurance as a matter of public health needs? And so I really would like to see if there's an opportunity to do that. I'm not even sure if we're allowed to, but I would challenge you all because the comments are
 Hey, there's limited availability in the mornings, but I'm working through the day. Can you all start having these in the evenings? So just like really reasonable requests. And I think that if you can take a closer look at the chime in and you'll see some of the comments. It's what they're wanting is just more activity so that they can prioritize their health within the centers closest to their home.
 And if we can accept insurance or silver sneakers programs, then we can expand our programs and it'll be more affordable and it will help balance the tax rates. So we don't have to depend on the taxpayers, but rather have folks pay for their services. But would love to see that expansion as we start to focus public health on healthy living.
 So ma'am we actually already have convened Parks and Rec staff to look into that specifically with silver sneakers. Insurance is a little more complicated but staff is currently working on that. I believe we have a meeting set up this Wednesday and so I can probably brief you a little more on those efforts but it is something we are indeed looking at knowing that the private sector does offer that availability for silver sneakers.
 In terms of the more recreational and athletic classes, it's really just, as you mentioned, the manpower. We're currently recruiting for a significant number of positions, but until we have those filled, we can't safely offer some of the class offerings yet, though.
 that we would like to just because we are stretched out at this point to be able to accommodate reactivation of almost all of Categories all of our categories some offerings and those facilities Thank You mr. Pai Thank You representative Hernandez and representative Vanilla followed by mayor Pro Tem and
 Representative Hernandez really covered a lot of my concerns. I know Robert I was one I'm sure not the only who asked for that breakdown on facilities that will be open and and eager to see that lined up with what Mr. Fife said because I think it's true right we we didn't fund a lot of our quality of life last year because of COVID and then now we're having the repercussions of that because
 you know, people are eager for things to open. And so really wanting to see the timelines and the budget line up. So really eager to see that information. I think Representative Hernandez is completely right when it comes to streets. I know you and I talked about that Robert. Really getting —
 ahead of our schedule when it comes to our street fund for this year and not just looking at the 80 percent health department is extremely important i would also say just to add to what she said something i'm hearing a lot from our constituents is
 really gearing up our neighborhood association services. I know that, you know, we lost some people and we stopped hiring. And I don't see that in the current budget, but really, really utilizing and,
 funding our neighborhood association services better. We had a great presentation today about public safety in our communities. Our neighborhood associations are great assets for programs like that. How do you get neighborhood watches going? How do you get them engaged with the programs we're having? And I think that we really need to be adequately staffed and have adequate programming for things like that. So that's just a concern that I've been hearing from my constituents that I would like to share with you. So thank you very much, Representative Hernandez for bringing up those previous issues.
 thank you representative nello uh mayor potem thanks yeah you know as this is part uh part and parcel of our budget um process i think it's also important to sort of echo um my my agreement with some of the issues raised by my colleague uh representative hernandez i do think that it's important um to look at being creative to thinking outside the box with
 either insurance companies, other programs, other nonprofits, as well as potential public-private partnerships and sponsorships in order to make sure that these facilities aren't just necessarily reopened but are as close as we can safely to getting back to the services that were provided to our seniors and to our community before the pandemic.
 I've seen time and time again this institution and the management and leadership of the City of El Paso be able to step up, think outside the box, be creative, and execute. And so I'm hoping, again, that that is something that we'll be able to do. I also think, too, it's important that in hearing and listening to some of our seniors, for example, this is about mental health, this is about wellness.
 In my sort of thoughts, the whole Live Active El Paso program is geared not just towards physical health, but also mental health as well. And for our seniors, those activities, those opportunities to be social, to engage with their fellow El Pasoans at our senior centers is part and parcel of a healthy mental health program.
 situation for them as well. I can recall many times I've visited the Polly Harris Center which is the closest senior center to District 1 on the border of it really and how active it is from the from the older gentleman who are out playing pool in the in the billiards room to the different dinners and bingo games lunches and bingo games that are there
 we owe it to our seniors who have sacrificed so much for us and our elders to make sure that they have these things there. And again, I think we can do it with a minimal impact to the tax rate by being creative, by thinking out the side of the box and following our strategic plan as well. So I just wanted to, again, sort of piggyback on what Representative Hernandez has brought up, which I do think are very valid concerns and points. Also, too, in terms of
 looking at the list and schedule of those facilities are opening up in the meetings and updates ahead over the next few weeks and months. I also think it would be helpful if we could also get an understanding about the days and hours that they would be opened up as well.
 You know, understanding are we looking at a reopening of the senior centers on for three days a week for four hours or this going to be a Monday through Friday? It would all that kind of information. I also think would help in terms of how y'all sort of shape up these presentations moving forward and what information to share with the council and the public as well. And that is what I have right now. Thank you again.
 Thank you. And with that, Mr. Cortino, thank you again for your presentation. Yes, sir. That brings us to item number 15. This is discussion in action on the funding priorities of the city's capital improvement program. If you can bring up the presentation and make sure you click the audio. There is a video associated with this PowerPoint, please. Please share your screen. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Sam Rodriguez, City Engineer. The presentation today is a follow-up discussion to the budget discussions and presentations that Robert Cortines has brought up. Last Council meeting, he discussed the potential issuance of $180 million that is lined up to the capital plans that have been previously approved with Council, the public safety bond, quality of life, and the various programs that we have underway.
 And so this presentation today will share with you the progress and the status of what's still out there in terms of projects that will be, that need to be executed and the amount of funds that still need to be issued or borrowed against these programs. This is really important as we line up for the strategic planning session that will be coming up this fall. When you look at the 2017 capital plan, this plan was approved back in 2017, so we're coming up on the 2017 capital plan.
 four or five years of that plan. And so it's important that we really close out these older programs and as new initiatives, new priorities come about, the new vision blocks that will be generated as part of a strategic planning session in the fall, we want to be able to close the chapter on these previous programs so that we can start envisioning and allocating funding for future initiatives as we move forward. Next slide.
 I'm going to cover our program priorities, our funding priorities. The public safety bond continues to be at the top of the list. The 2012 Street CIP program, I'll give you a status on that. We're not looking to borrow any additional dollars on this program. We're actually tracking $15 million savings on this program. The quality of life bond, that will address the questions that Representative Rodriguez had earlier. And then the capital plans as we move forward to get those completed as well. Next slide.
 So the strategy on the capital plan. This past February, you all approved the issuance of $141 million that allowed us to continue executing projects, specifically the public safety and the streets. We did borrow $30 million for street projects that allowed us to move some of the deferred projects that were sitting on the shelf to get those into construction. They included six reconstruction streets as well as an NTMP. There's actually on the council agenda for today on the award.
 And then we also need to talk about the plan for next issuance as part of our fiscal year 22 budget and whether we need to look to complete the capital plans or recalibrate them as we move forward. It's important to note, I'm going to highlight this throughout, we've started to see the impact of COVID on the construction costs of some of these projects.
 So escalation, budgets, contingencies are being used up as we get new bids, as we put projects out to bid. The labor impact on our construction projects has been significant, as well as the material cost. To give you an example of that.
 conduit that we use for street lighting or for irrigation systems. We've seen an increase in pricing up to 300% on some of those materials that we use in our projects. So it's definitely causing an impact on our projects and our budgets as we move forward. So we're going to need to, again, just be very nimble and really present the options to council as we look to allocate and move some of these projects forward. Next slide.
 We have a $1.4 billion program that includes public safety and other basic services, $471 million of quality life bond. We borrowed $353 million of that, and we spent $224 million out of this bond program.
 Out of the $586 million that remains to be issued, $330 is allocated to public safety, $127 million is capital plans, and $128 for the quality of life bond, which is the prop two of the MPC project. Next slide, please.
 This slide provides a lot of really good information. The quality of life, Prop 1 and Prop 2, first two slides up there, those are the project budgets that are not including the public art funds that have been allocated for public art funds under these two propositions. We have under Prop 1,
 We have a $245 million program. We've issued all of that funds, and we spent $183 million. This includes projects for the zoo. If you remember, one of those bigger projects was the penguin exhibit that was deferred. Now that's being prepped out to go out to bid. It includes all the parks, the water parks that we just opened up. And you'll see here in a minute, the bulk of these projects are associated with
 The remaining ones are associated with trails, with parks. We have a big project there in Central, which is the Central Park Project, Platte Field Project that's still out to bid. And then the Prop 2 program includes the Museum, Library, MCAD, we have quite a bit of library projects that are under remodels as we speak. I think Gas Browns and Moreno, the Doris Van Doren,
 Of course, that includes the museum, the Children's Museum that's under construction, the MAC that I'll share some information on as well. All that's included in this Prop 2 allocation. As stated, the 2012 Street CIP, and I'll get into more detail, we're not looking to borrow any more money. We're projecting a $50 million savings on this program and then the capital plans that you see there before you. And that totals up to $180 million. Next slide.
 Donate $80 million allocation. 72% of that is allocated for public safety bonds, street safety, street improvement. This includes the top 25 arterial street safety lighting program. It also includes our match dollars that are included in the capital plans for the MPO, where we leverage federal dollars. Facility repairs, that includes parks and recreation.
 uh, flat fields, um, as well as the Eastside Regional Park that you can see here in a minute. And of course, the Mexican American Cultural Center has an additional allocation of $10.75 million out of the 2019 capital plan. Next slide.
 Again, just to highlight a very high level, the 2017 capital plan would complete out the borrowing of the funds for this. The only project that's left pending here is the Eastside Regional Park Base 2. That's the Beast Urban Park. It includes the flat fields and the playground areas. Complete out the funding for the Eastside Sports Complex. This would be the 16-field complex on the east side of the city. The 2018 capital plan will also...
 includes $16 million. It includes projects like Brian Ray,
 the match dollars for railroad, Ted Houghton reconstruction, the IT equipment and software as part of this plan. The 2019 capital plan includes $35 million. And again, includes the top 25 arterial programs for corridors on airport, beside Seoul, Pivot Hills, Sun and Park, Shadow Mountain. It also includes the funds for the Mexican American Cultural Center as well, as well as the Sun City Lights and Wave Mining through the city.
 2019 Public Safety Bond is $84 million. On the agenda today, you'll consider an item for the design of build bridging documents or programming documents for the academy. This will allow us to move forward into the design build procurement later on this year and early into 2022.
 as an example, and then of course the 2020 capital plan that includes federal match dollars as well as things like public health facilities. This is the animal shelter improvements that were allocated as part of this program as well as traffic signals, sports field lighting replacement, and the planning documents to include the comp plan. Next slide. On the public safety bond, next slide, again we're proposing to issue 84 million dollars out of this program. Next slide.
 And again, it would allow us to move forward with the construction or design-build contracts for the Academy as well as the Police Department headquarters. We're currently procuring the design contracts.
 the design and programming services on the PD headquarters. The academy facility is on council today. And then Fire Station 38, the design is underway, and that would allow us to continue with the construction on that project. And that's the fire station facility that's located on the east side of the city. Next slide.
 This is the rollout that was previously presented to you. You see the impact for COVID on fiscal year 22. We basically pushed out all the projects out one year. Right now, the Eastside Regional Command Center for PD is the project that is wrapping up design that's scheduled to go into construction next year and is scheduled to open in 2030, as well as the balance of these projects. Next slide. Thank you.
 For the fire department, the current one that we have under design is the fire station 36 on the west side. We're also looking at a fire station 38 that we're gearing up to start design on and that will go into construction to open in 2024. Again, that's the one on the east side. And we also started with the design of the renovations of the fire station.
 stations, the existing fire stations. We have five under design now that we're looking to get into construction at the beginning of this year, the beginning of 22. Next slide. These are the renderings for Fire Station 36. We have a lot of public outreach as part of this project. The hospital itself also have review requirements to make sure that it matched or complemented the architecture of the hospital as part of the complex out there. Next slide. Next slide.
 The Eastside Regional Command Center as well, that's wrapping up design and will be going out into construction later this year. Next slide. And we started our remodel projects, things like safety improvements to upgrade the air exhaust system in some of our fire stations. Those are underway. These two have been completed, and as well as additional remodels are under design. Next slide.
 The 2012 Street CIP program, as I stated, we're looking at a program savings of $50 million. Next slide. With the money that was issued in February, we're able to get the remaining projects that were on the shelf, get those out to bid. So you start to see the awards of those here through council over the next couple of months. As just a brief history on this program, this program was approved back in 2012.
 It was intended to be a 10-year program when it was approved. There wasn't a lot of traction on this program. Back in 2016, there was a recalibration that allocated and added streets, deleted some streets. If some of you council members that were on the council back then or through the process, there remains a list of 45 programs.
 remaining reconstruction projects that were outlined in that program. And I have a presentation after this item that will include streets that will highlight some of the options or some of the information that's related to that as well. With the
 Back in 2017, the city council did approve to expedite the reconstruction of projects because some of the rollout that was approved in 2016 had projects starting up until fiscal year 22, which again would have extended the program up until 2025 when you look at the design and the phasing of some of those projects.
 With the action the Council took and the funds that were approved in February, we'll be able to get the balance of these projects under construction in 2022 with the balance of them completed through the end of calendar year 22. Next slide.
 These are the projects that we're able to get out to bid. Gene Torres, as I stated, that's being considered for award in the balance of the projects that are out to bid. And Phil O'Pete is wrapping up design. Next slide. We do have 10 projects still under construction on this program. Those are all scheduled to be done by the summer of 21. Next slide. And this is the list of the reconstruction projects that were completed under this program. Next slide.
 On the resurfacing, we have completed most of the resurfacing on the residential side. The only streets that are pending are a couple of streets that are tied to CID or passive water projects as well as the arterial. There's a segment of Hawkins that still needs to be resurfaced and that's tied into the RTS project that's currently underway. So we want to get that project completed before we resurface.
 And then on the street resurfacing, like I said, I'm going to go into detail in the next item that I present to you. Next slide. For the $7 million residential, we completed 41 streets in what was programmed originally for fiscal year 20. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Excuse me, Sam. We lost a quorum. We're missing reps . Okay. Thank you, Sam.
 Great. Thank you. The original program allocation, as Representative Hernandez stated, we had streets that were budgeted for fiscal year 20. They're now currently scheduled to roll in a portion of them rolled in fiscal year 22. And of course, fiscal years 21 to 22 are now scheduled to be done 23, 24 and to 25.
 The collector program that was approved in 2019, that is in 2020, I'm sorry, that is proceeding. That's a $3 million collector. We have completed two projects. Two are underway and we still have a program for additional four. Next slide.
 The 2012 quality of life bond, as I stated, this is the summary. We've completed 152 projects. We have 37 under design. We're bidding 17. We have 21 under construction. And of course, the MPC is a project that is still on hold. Next slide.
 The construction is proceeding very well on the Children's Museum. If you have not drawn by there, all the foundation work is underway on this project. Next slide. A really exciting project that's going to complement the Arts District in our downtown with the improvements that are scheduled to be included in here. Next slide.
 The Mexican American Cultural Center is another project that we're putting a plan together to bring council to move this project forward. It's another signature project under the 2012 Quality of Life Bond. Just as a reminder, we...
 We still need to allocate the funding for the exhibits. We have submitted about $5 million, so that'll be something that we'll bring to council as well. And we're looking for funding opportunities to include some of the ARPA dollars as some of the exhibits are associated with some of the impacted industries related to COVID. Next slide.
 These are some of the renderings and we're going to have a very detailed presentation in a future council meeting, very near council meeting to show you the programming. It's the programming that's been publicly vetted with our community and the project is something that we need to find a way to execute this for our community as we move forward. Next slide and next slide.
 These are the projects that are under design. Zoo projects as well as some of the rec center remodels, playground, canopy are all under design and procurement. Next slide and next slide.
 17 projects that are out to bid include things like the Joe Barraza. We know that was deleted at the last council meeting, but it's back out. We're looking to get that back to work to council in the very near future. Melissa Gomez Park is scheduled to start construction here shortly. The penguin exhibit I mentioned at the zoo. We're working with the zoo director as we speak to make sure that we got a really good program for him to execute the balance of his projects, as well as some additional
 lighting and park improvements that are pending. Next slide. Twenty-one projects that are under construction. As I said, we have multiple libraries, including Armijo, Doris Van Doren, Esperanza Moreno, are all seeing improvements and remodels as part of the Quality of Life Bond program. It also includes sports field lighting that's allocated through this program is also being improved. Next slide.
 We've completed 152 projects throughout our community. We've showed that map with you all before. This program has really been transformational for us as a community. Everything from major improvements to playgrounds and shade canopies have all made a big impact in our city. Next slide. And next slide, please. And one more.
 This is just some of the great photos that we have. We opened up the Lost Kingdom Water Park this past Saturday, and we're scheduled to have the grand open celebration for our last water park. That's scheduled for a week from today for Chapoteo in the Mission Valley area. Just really great facilities that's been talked about. A lot of attendance and a lot of happy smiles in our community. They really are a great amenity. Next slide.
 This program, if you remember, also included parks like the San Jacinto Plaza in our downtown that's been very transformational and now a big attraction as part of our winter celebration as well. Next slide. We've remodeled libraries. We've done projects for futsal parks. Las Palmas Argo Park is another park that's been really impacted. The Chihuahuan Desert. Again, the improvements throughout our community are very substantial and very impactful. Next slide. And next slide, please.
 And then some of the photos of the more recent projects that we've opened up to include the community centers at Valle Bajo, Chamisal, and then Silvia Caron is scheduled to be turned over to our Parks and Rec Department next month with plans to open thereafter. Next slide, please. And the water parks. Next slide.
 The capital plans. Next slide, please. As I stated, we have capital plans dating back to 2017. You see the approval date of August of that year. It included $320 million that were programmed for things like facilities, streets, and service improvements.
 We had we have issued $193 million out of $320 million, and we still have $127 million that's scheduled to be issued in the future. As I stated, and Robert, just to follow Robert's conversation, we have a great opportunity with low interest rates, as well as we need to understand the impacts of the construction cost escalations as we move forward to make sure that we minimize the impact of those.
 We do believe that the construction costs will normalize, but they definitely are anticipated to be higher than the pre-pandemic costs. And so that'll be important as we recalibrate and look at the scopes of these projects as we start to execute them moving forward. Next slide.
 The 2017 capital plan still has active projects underway to include six in construction, two are embedding, and we still have one in design, and that's the east side urban, the Beast Urban Park on the east side that includes the flat fuels. And so $10.5 million will allow us to complete out this plan and build out the phase two of that project. Next slide.
 These are the projects that were complete. They included things like police vehicles. We had a really good discussion of the previous item related to public safety vehicles. Next slide. But we did have the fleet for PD was replaced as part of this program. Next slide. We have active projects that are underway to include bicycle connectivity projects on the MPO match dollars as part of this particular plan. Next slide.
 And as I stated, then this park itself will be the last project that's pending under this program with this $10.5 million. Next slide. The 2018 capital plan, we're looking at an additional $16.1 million. Next slide, please.
 The active projects are mainly MPO match dollars to include the Yarborough, the bridge replacements that are in the way, the Montana RTS improvements. This, of course, included projects at the last issuance for Schuster Reconstruction that's being prepared to go out to bid. Leo Canceleripool as well, remodel. Next slide, please.
 Under the proposed issuance, we're looking to continue again with the match dollars that are needed for that program. It would include the reconstruction dollars for Bryan Ray. It would include funds for CBD 4. That's the reconstruction of projects of roads in our Segundo Barrio. It will also include the match dollars for Sean Haggerty Drive Extension.
 as part of this program. The only project that would be left pending for future issuance will be the Tom Lee slope stabilization project that's right next to Murchison. Next slide, please. 2019 capital plan. Next slide. It's proposed to issue $35 million. As I stated, most of these projects included the top 25 arterial lighting. The projects that are underway is
 the Eastside Master Plan and the planning documents associated with that, the policies that are being vetted through the CFT cross-functional team. We have Pelicano Railroad Cotton, Yarborough, George Theatre, and Littrovino lighting improvements that are close to wrapping up this calendar year, as well as the Viscount Street lighting. Next slide.
 Under the proposed issuance, we're looking at phase two of improvements on airport, Pebble Hills, Vista del Sol, on street lighting and landscaping, as well as Sunland Park, Shadow Mountain, to be included as part of that project. We're also including the project for Mexican American Cultural Center. That's $10 million, as well as the Sun City Lights and El Paso Wayfinding. Next slide.
 The 2010-20 capital plan, if you remember this plan was approved in 2019, and we're making to borrow the balance of the funds under this program, mainly because of some of the projects that are associated with this. Next slide. These projects include traffic signals that are a safety issue for our community. It includes synchronization, traffic.
 Before I get into what will be included, these are the projects that are underway that are tied to this project as well, this program.
 And so under this program, we're looking to do the animal medical services. This was an expansion of the large kennel as well as the medical house that's associated with the animal shelter that was part of our strategic plan. It includes additional match dollars for our MPO program. It includes things like traffic signals. There's a list of 18 signalized intersections that require a signal for our community.
 The synchronization, the last time we did a synchronization project on this, it's been over five years and it's part of our best practices or industry best practices that we should be synchronizing our signalized network at a minimum every five years. As well as that includes projects like the multipurpose center of pool roof improvements that are associated with our facilities. Next slide.
 And then the balance of the program for the Eastside Sports Complex will be $3 million. Next slide, please. This is fantastic. The super facility. I like the view. I love this one. I go to like a bunch of them around. And I mostly like to come to this one because it's big and brand new. It's really close by. Yeah. And it's close to home, too. It's an awesome addition to the Northeast. It's a beautiful facility that we're going to be able to cherish here in El Paso. Thank you.
 The fire drainage, it's very visual, it's beautiful, and it feels very comfortable and safe. It's something very positive. It's our money well spent, and I think everybody enjoys it. It's super cool, the colors, and they have like little chairs so you can kind of lounge, and the kid is running around. It doesn't look like an adoption center. It looks like an exhibit. Next slide, please.
 So what's next on the discussion as part of the budget? As Robert stated, looking at the opportunity for low interest rates out there, minimize the impact for construction costs escalation, and looking at the timing of it and understand where we're at from a strategy standpoint, the priorities for council, and whether we need to recalibrate these programs as well. That can be part of the discussion as we get into the budget discussions in the next couple council meetings.
 We're obviously focused on public safety and streets. That'll be the priority on these plans. And then you saw the detail on the capital plans. I think it's important to understand that as we cycle, as some of these programs start to get old, if you will, from an approval date, priorities may change. And as we get into new strategic sessions with City Council in the fall, additional priorities may come about. So it's important to
 provide the full funding for those programs or recalibrate them as we move forward so that we can be up to date with your current priorities council. Next slide. I'm happy to answer any questions. Thank you for your presentation. We do have Representative Rodriguez followed by Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Thank you. Hello, it's off. Hello, hello, can you hear me?
 Okay, thank you. So Sam, slide four did answer the questions I had, but now I'm just a little bit confused because on slide four, the remaining balance for the MPC is $128 million, and on slide 29, it's $180 million. So is that a typo or...?
 I think it's just the way the information is presented. I can send you the actual project detail. The full allocation under the program or the ballot was $180 million for the MPC. We have spent over, we have spent on that project, let's see the number here, just over $16 million out of the $180 million, but we did borrow
 We did borrow a significant amount of money out of Prop 2 that's sitting in the bank. And that was anticipated or was borrowed when there was low interest rates, I want to say back in 2016, Robert. 2016. Yeah. And so we borrowed money for that project that's just sitting in the bank at this time.
 So there is a significant amount of money that was borrowed for the MPC that's obviously not being used on that program. And I would say it wasn't just borrowed so it could sit in the bank. It was borrowed because the idea back then is that we were going to initiate the project, and then we got sued, and then we had to stop it. So it wasn't like we just borrowed the money so it could fit in the bank. It got stuck in the bank as a result of the lawsuit. Okay, so right now reminding us about $128 million.
 That's the amount of money that's remaining to be issued represented out of that program. So the whole prop through allocation under the quality of life was $215.
 $30 million. And that includes the Children's Museum, the MAC, the library program, the museum projects. If you remember, we've upgraded the Museum of Art, we've upgraded the Museum of Archaeology, the Museum of History has seen improvements as well. So included all those programs under that $230 million Prop 2. $180 million out of that Prop 2 was allocated to the NPC.
 Just in a nutshell, on slide 29, the 180, that's how much was projected, but really what remains is what was on slide 4, which is the 128 million, correct? To issue. To issue. Okay. Correct. Thank you. I think it's important also to mention when we do borrow funds, it's borrowed for 25 years, and when we do start paying on it and we do finally construct the project,
 The debt doesn't start all over again. It actually, it's a 25-year debt, and it starts the day it's borrowed. And it doesn't, it's not like the money is, we're paying interest on it, and then we're going to have to pay interest again once we build the facility or the item. It's actually a, it doesn't matter whether it started two years ago or we were to borrow it today. It's still only a 25-year loan. Would that be correct?
 on the money that was issued. So yes, we did issue money in 2016. Part of that was for the MPC project. So that's correct. So we'll only be paying 25 years on the portion that we've already issued. Right, exactly. And that's what I wanna make sure, because I've heard people say we're wasting money, that we're paying interest on it. It's only the length of the project is what it is. And it's not gonna extend the length of the project of the loan because we borrowed it in 2016.
 Correct, Mr. Gortinas? That's correct. Thank you. I will make sure. Yeah. And then another question I have, and the example I'm using is slide 58. We can go to it just because it's an example I'm using. We're asking for, can you pull that up, please? Like I said, it's just an example I'm using.
 They're all kind of same before you're gonna ask us to issue any debt You'll kind of break out the items. For example, this is blighted properties demolition We don't know what blighted properties what demolition how much of the 31 million would go to that? So before we would want to issue any debt will break out each project in the issuance So we know exactly what we're issuing. Would that be correct? I
 Yes, Mayor. I can definitely share that detail for you. Okay, yeah. I've seen it as a whole, but I want to make sure what are we demoing, what are we doing, and what are we spending for? So I think it would be very important on every slide you showed issuance that we have dollars per item that we're doing. So thank you for saying that. And with that, I have Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein, followed by Representative Vanello, followed by Representative Lissarga. Thanks. Thank you.
 Thank you again, Sam, for a really great and informative presentation. Lots of great projects have been done, lots of great projects ongoing, and a lot more to come to improve our community.
 I wanted to bring up one specific thing, and you had made mention of it, but I think it's important that if we approve this, that we can come back, hopefully in the not-too-distant future as we're sort of going through our project process and then strategic planning, is that from the 2012 CIP, there's a number of reconstruction projects that for a variety of reasons have not been funded, have sort of been halted.
 put to the wayside. And I really think that we need to go and take a deeper look at how we can fund some of those reconstruction projects, whether that is a part of a voter approved,
 a voter approved bond initiative focusing on streets, whether it's part of this 2022 that we can amend. But I know, for example, that there are streets that have been identified for reconstruction and enhancement in my district, specifically in the northwest upper valley. That's the area by borderland, West Side Drive, Country Club, um,
 and the river that have been identified since 2004's Northwest Upper Valley Master Plan to be improved.
 And those areas back in 2004 was mostly farmland, and we're at a very different point at this point of where that part of the city is. And it's absolutely important that we go and look at those projects, many of which were already identified, specifically Borderland, Upper Valley, and West Sac Drive were already identified as part of the 2012 project.
 um cip list and so i just really want to put it out there that i think it's really important that we can come back look at some of those high priority reconstruction projects from that 2012 cip or or other needs from the community and look at a way whether that is part of the 2022 issuance or it's perhaps a streets
 voter approved streets bond that we can take out to the voters in 2022. But there's a lot of need and those projects just can't be sort of left on the shelf. I really feel very strongly about this. So I just wanted to put that out there that hopefully that's something that we can come back with in the not too distant future to discuss on a deeper level.
 Yes, I mean, the next item will be a detailed presentation on streets. And we talked, you know, my ending slide there is about where do we take the conversation from there? You know, whether we do a voter approved bond program, we prep for that. There's the, we have presented to council before a framework for street maintenance service.
 be that, you know, in the same way that we have a stormwater fee, it would be a street service maintenance service fee that could be allocated, dedicated money to supplement the $10 million that we have. So those are the type of discussions that we need to have as part of the budget as we get into the strategic planning session and how we need to address the streets moving forward. We have $44 million as a need. Yeah.
 When you look at what we've done, top of my head, but we complete like 49 reconstruction projects as part of the 2012 Street CIP program. And that's a program that was approved almost 10 years ago. The number of roads that we have in our community is super significant. I mean, it's very substantial. And so there's a good chunk of those roads that need reconstruction funds.
 I can tell you in discussions with Richard, city manager, Robert, we really want to be mindful how we spend the reconstruction dollars. And I'll get into discussion in the next item. But it is about understanding where we want to leverage the big impact of the dollars. To reconstruct a block of residential road may not necessarily be the best approach moving forward. It may be.
 spot repairs and resurface and buy more time on those residential roads and really focus the reconstruction on major roads like Schuster that need it as a good example. And there's plenty of examples in each one of the districts. You all have shared those with me as well. I think when we're talking about minor or major arterials that need reconstruction, I really think that that's there. And again, for some of these streets, again,
 They've been identified as a need to be treated and to be updated as minor or major arterials for, again, city plans that are over 15 years old and were identified as part of the 2012. You know, if that means also a conversation at...
 looking at some of the other CIP lists from other years as well to look at, as you mentioned, taking a deeper dive into sort of evolving priorities of the community, then that's something we should discuss. I don't think that there should be anything left on the table in terms of what we can do for these projects. Agreed, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. With that, we have Representative Anello followed by Representative Lissardi.
 Thank you. Representative Schwartz-Primer has me on a whole other tangent. I would also say what I think is a little more important than streets that council members decided to not fund or things that got changed, which happened in my district as well. But I think that the
 most traveled streets that we had talked about previously the 26 through 50 but i know you have a presentation on streets so i won't get too much into that but my question in regards to this presentation is i know that we had lupe had informed us that the legislature had changed how certificates of obligation will affect our debt i know the mayor kind of mentioned which projects
 you know will be maintenance which will be new projects and I think as we get down the line and I'm not super familiar with what the state legislation is now which was passed and signed I know that we're waiting for snapper to come in two weeks um so my question is just for future presentations and as this conversation continues um that we really
 identify which projects will be impacted by that new legislation. I see Robert, I don't know if that makes sense, my question, what I'm asking for, if you need me to clarify. It does. So I'll let Snap when he comes back. I'll tell you that the amendment that Representative Moody did get added in and that was included as part of the bill will really help cover a lot of the projects that have been approved by the council already. So we added in existing facilities, we added in infrastructure, it covered streets,
 So that really did help. It also includes a couple of other designated infrastructure items as well. So getting that amendment added to the bill really is going to help cover a lot of the projects that are included in our CIPs. There may be a couple that we may have an issue with, but for the most part, I think we're going to be okay with the projects that we have in our current CIPs. Yeah, I mean, there are some new projects, right? And I don't know how things like – for example…
 you know, in my district, the flat fields, right? That is not I know that's not in the upcoming, but I'm just using that as an example. That's a new project, right? So if we just when we come down to this and have this conversation more, if we can identify the projects that you qualify under that amendment would be very helpful. And so that was my only question. Thank you so much. DIRECTOR HERSEY- And so is there a — DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Go ahead. DIRECTOR HERSEY- If I can real quickly,
 is what Sam talked about and what I've talked about over the last several months and what City Manager has been communicating is that we want to time the next issuance or the approval of the next issuance with the adoption of the budget. So you all know that the process for the CEOs, we have to do the notice of intent, which takes 45 days. So we'll be bringing that forward very soon so that we can get the actual approval from the Council of the ordinances, the bond ordinances, prior to that September 1 date to show that all those projects that have already been approved, because these are all previously approved projects from the Council,
 We want to ensure that we're able to finance them, especially when we've already issued some of the money to get these projects started. We want to ensure that we have the funding available to be able to complete those projects as well. Yeah, I understand that. I just still think that I would like a breakdown of which of the projects are impacted by that amendment. Thank you. And to that point, before we can – I know there have been approved projects, but we have bulks of money in every one. So –
 Board of Trustees Meeting. And Mr. Rodriguez said that he would bring it back before we vote on it of where it's all being allocated, what district, what project and everything else. When can we see that, you think, so we can move forward prior to the budget? Yes, Mayor.
 Part of the, when Robert brings back the introduction, the notices, my intent is to have a companion presentation that will provide the detail. In addition, part of the last feedback that we received from council the last time we issued, that I think it's important for us to do individual briefings as well, as part of this action. So we'll be scheduling those as part of our actions. So before you ask for the issuance, you'll give with us.
 Yes. Thank you. I appreciate that. I think that's really important. We see per district and per project. That'll be really important. So thank you for that. And with that Representative LaSarga followed by Mayor Potem again. Thank you. Sorry can I address Representative Anello's comments in regards to that bill. Representative Anello we can move forward you a synopsis of what that bill entails. Robert also.
 We will work with them closely to ensure that those COs are issued in accordance with the new state law provisions. But we can forward you a more detailed explanation of what the bill does and does not do. Okay. Thank you. And Mr. Gonzalez? Mayor, I'll wait for council to make their comments. Oh, okay. Thank you. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor Lee, sir. Thank you, Mr. Gonzales. Sam, you still get the prize for going through 62 slides in a record amount of time. Thank you, Sam, for all your hard work. I just had a quick question. At the beginning of your presentation, you were talking about the central flat field project. Is that the one in District 3? Can you remind me about that? Where's that going to be located?
 That's in District 2, part of the 2012 Quality of Life, including Central Flatfields Project. And so we're working with the Department of the Army to take over the Lower Beaumont, over next to the Old Beaumont Hospital. So that lower area there is where this project is going to be located in the central part of the city. And we're looking to build flatfields in that location. And that's part of the 2012 Quality of Life.
 Okay. Thank you, Sam. Sometimes you go so fast, it's hard to get it all down. Thank you, though, for that clarification. Yeah, we have over 200 projects underway, Representative, so it's hard to get everything in there for sure. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem? Thank you, Representative Saga. Thank you. I'm good right now, Mayor. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. And with that, there's no other questions. Mayor, if there's no other questions, if I can interject a point. Yes, sir.
 So we haven't forgotten the questions that Council has posed in the past with respect to the rest of the list of reconstruction projects that were on that original 2012 list. However, we also did the PCI study. So...
 when you marry those two up there's still a laundry list of reconstruction projects that have not been funded i know that the marriage pro tem has brought that up before i know representative and madness has brought that up before so as representative several of you have brought that up and um i remember deputy mayor pro tem uh lizada also bringing that discussion so you all have
 have had that discussion with us publicly. So I just wanted to say for the record that we haven't forgotten about that. It's just that that's going to be a big amount of money. We, I think, made very clear to y'all that those numbers in 12 were not good estimates. And so that number is a lot higher. And so we had a little bit of sticker shock. We shared that with you. If you recall, when we put the public safety bomb package in front of the...
 the public in 2019, the other list of projects for reconstruction, it would have taken it over $1 billion with a B, if you remember. So we held off on that, thinking that we need to just focus on the public safety bonds. But I don't want any of you to think we have forgotten about that or that we're ignoring it. It's just a big number.
 So Sam is aware of that and that's another tranche of funds that's a need out there in the community. And as you've heard in town hall meetings that you've had with your districts, as have we, streets is the number one priority in terms of what we're hearing from the public. Obviously public safety is always important, but streets is, of course, second and sometimes first. Thank you, sir. And with that, Ms. Pryor, can we go to item 16?
 Yes Mayor item 16 is present is discussion and action on a street infrastructure Comprehensive update presentation. Thank you. Thank you again for that presentation. Mr. Rodriguez. Yes, mayor. Thank you IT I'm gonna share my screen We submitted an updated presentation Yesterday morning. I want to make sure we have the latest one. Thank you. Can you all see my screen? Yes, absolutely Great so this presentation is
 is as part of our street tip update that we're doing. What I'm going to cover in this presentation is an overview. Talk about the pavement condition in this that the city manager just referenced. We talk about the cost versus impact and how we really need to be smart and strategic about how we use the limited dollars when it comes to using surface treatments, reconstruction as well as the mill and overlay and understanding
 In an ideal world, if we had the right amount of funding, how would we be able to spread out the funding to allocate it to some portion of the reconstruction so we can catch those streets up that require the reconstruction, allocate a certain amount of money to the mill and overlay and that middle tier roads, as well as allocate funding for surface treatment so that we can keep the good pavement good. So I'm going to spend a little bit of time on that as well. And then talk about the detailed programs that we have.
 Again, a lot of it may be a little bit repetitive, but I think it's worth noting that the capital plans, as an example, really look to address streets as a community priority, and we allocate a significant amount of money associated with this. And, of course, the MPO is a big portion of our funding strategy for us. When you think of the amount of roads that we're going to reconstruct in Segundo Barrio, it's pretty significant what we're going to be able to do there that, again, is coming from the federal dollars as well.
 Streets, there's no hiding why streets is important for our community. It's tied into our strategic plan and mission and vision for our community. Everything from quality of life to visual image, transportation, public safety, tourism, everything really ties back into our roadway network. If we have a really good roadway network, it really supports everything that's within our strategic plan.
 The Pavement Condition Index is the system that we use as a raw data, if you will, to really get the status of what our community's roadway network is looking like. It says, especially our scorecard, it measures our Pavement Condition Index for each one of our roadways. It measures the road. It grades them from 0 to 100. Okay.
 The data is used as our initial prioritization tool. So when we look at we have $10 million worth of money to resurface, it provides us a list of candidates, if you will, that should be considered for that program or that funding program. It does, under this program, it does require regular updates and evaluations. We're looking at, in an ideal world, we're updating this continuously
 And so as we move forward, we're looking at cost-effective measures to really keep this data current. However, having said that, we do have under the program, you're able to program it in so that it provides the deterioration based on historical data.
 based on historical data as well. So as an example, the last update that we did was 2008, then the 2018, and so we're able to compare PCI values for like the same road for those 10 years apart so that you're able to get good predictive curve, if you will, of how that road is deteriorating. And I've mentioned before that every part of the city,
 Is a little different based on the underlying conditions, portions close to the river, whether it's the Mission Valley or the upper valley. We have a lot of clay conditions. And so those roads tend to deteriorate much faster than say a road in the central area where you're close to the mountain. We have a lot of rocky material underneath. Those tend to to hold up for much, much better from a long term perspective.
 Under best practices, we're looking to target every single road in our city every 25 years. But as you can imagine, we have not been close to really funding that. We'd be targeting 4% of our street inventory on an annual basis. And if we were to keep a PCI of 70 and above, which should be our goal,
 We're looking at a need of $44 million on an annual basis. And we have spent significant amount of money in our roadway network over the past several years, and we're still doing significant amount of money still programmed. As you saw, this past issuance in February included $30 million on the 2012th. You have MPO dollars that are allocated. So we're still investing into our roadway network. But as you all have brought up, there's still a significant need out there for us to continue to do that.
 Um, as I stated, we want to look at spending some of our budget to keep the come up some of our budget to keep our good pavement in good condition. And then also have a plan to bring the poor roads into fair above condition. And those some of the roads that the mayor of Pro 10 source was talking about is how do we bring those back? Those roads that are too and too poor of a condition to resurface or to do any treatment. You need to figure out how we bring those back up so that they're there. They're in better conditions that they're in right now.
 Typically, the life of a roadway, when you build a new one or you reconstruct a new roadway, obviously starts with excellent pavement. And over time, you see the deterioration of the pavement. And the key for us is to really capture the pavement to keep it good. So doing things like slurry seals, pavement rehabilitation or rejuvenation is a really great option to keep that good pavement good in the long term.
 And then you get into the fair and poor conditions. This is where we start doing some reactive maintenance of mill and overlay or spot repairs. And then ultimately where you get to the point where the roadway is in poor condition, that's where you're having to do the reconstruction of the roadway network. In our inventory, we have over 2,500 centerline miles of roadway. As I stated, our pavement condition model tells us that we should be investing about $44 million on an annual basis just to keep their pavement condition index at 70 or above.
 We have taken actions in the past. The $7 million residential program that was approved in 2018, that was the first time we've had pay-go money or annual dedicated money for the residential program. And then in 2019, the City Council did approve the $3 million resurfacing for collector roads. And so that's been a program that's been implemented and continues as of today. Thank you.
 We do have the viewer online and this is the link to it. So it provides when you type in a road an address it'll take you to that road. It'll tell you the payment condition index for your road. It also gives you information about the current programs that are approved and the roadway and the presentations like the one we're presenting today are all included on this page as well. In our NICID webpage.
 In 2008, we had a PCI average in our community-wide at 75.5%.
 You see a lot of the green areas back in 2008 where a lot of growth in our city, new roadways in the east side part of the city, the west side, as well as the northeast. And so now as we get into 2018 when we updated the number, you see a lot of more yellow and red in our central parts of the city. You start seeing a little bit of yellow into our outer parts in the east side and even into the west side. And I guess just a function of time.
 As the road sits out there and gets driven on, the sun does away with the oils at the top surface and you start to see some of that cracking happen into the asphalt.
 Average by district. No surprise again, central districts, districts three, seven and eight have some of the lower averages, which is because of the age of the pavement and some of those roadways in central parts of the city. And then you see the newer parts like the east side, 84 point, almost 84 PCI average, just reflects the newer pavement that's existing in those areas of the city.
 This is the model. This is part of comes out our PCI model, just reflecting what the amount of funding that will be required again, just to keep the PCI condition condition in our city at seven year above.
 Right now we have dedicated $10 million of pay go dollars on the resurfacing. And as I stated, we do have NPO funds and 2012 Street funds underway. Those will eventually run out and we need to figure out a long-term solution to address the community priority.
 Some of the alternative surface treatments that we've seen, we see some new products being developed out there, such as HF5 that we're looking to do pilot programs in our city. It's been implemented in other parts of the country. We want to understand how that reacts in our climate and our altitude. But it's really encouraging to see companies out there.
 looking for alternative ways to be more cost effective in our pavement and infrastructure in our cities. And we're obviously in coordination and we get a lot of the literature out there for public works associations in our industry that really shares a lot of the new technology that's out there. Myself, Richard Bristol and his team are always looking at how we can really be more cost effective in bringing our pavement up to speed.
 Again, these type of treatments typically are used to keep our good pavement good as well and really allows us to really preserve and extend the life of our roadway network in the long term.
 The comparison of cost, when you do surface treatments, like I just stated, whether it's Slurry Seal or HA5, you're looking at a cost per square yard of $3.50. When you compare that to resurfacing, you know, it goes up significantly, up to $23 a square yard. And then once you go into reconstruction…
 You go up to $150 a square yard. And so it's really significant to understand. It's important to understand that we need to be smart about the funds that we do have so that we can really spread, if you will, spread the funds in a way that allows us to preserve as much pavement as we can through our community and really touch as many areas or as many roadways as we can.
 In 2012, I went over this in the previous presentation, so I'm not going to go into a whole lot of detail, but we did like to complete the roadway network out here. We do have the resurfacing, as I stated, 99% complete. The arterial is 95% complete. And we did complete 371 streets, residential streets, and the arterial completed seven out of the eight that were programmed.
 The $7 million, and I'm going to get into the detail here in a minute, it's $7 million residential and the $3 million collector. Under resurfacing for the 2012, we did complete 44 streets in District 1, 64 in District 2. That's all complete. District 3, there's one that's pending, and that's mainly due to the RTS improvements on stations that are on Hawkins. And so we'll be completing this project once that RTS system is up on this segment of roadway.
 District four was also complete in District five as well. District six also complete in District seven as well. And then District eight has two roads, River Bend. That's pending the parkway improvements out there. As soon as that's done, we're going to mail and overlay that road. So that's all completed and completed and out of the way. And then Upson is pending a PSB project as well.
 That's one of the things that's also important to understand. There's a lot of coordination that happens with the utility companies to make sure that we're not in there resurfacing. And as much coordination as we do, we will try to make sure that there's no paving cuts that come right after when we resurface or reconstruct some of these roadways. On the reconstruction, there were 65 projects that were included in there. We've completed 49. 15 are still in bed in construction. I'll share the details with you in the interview for you today.
 Our collector program, we presented the list in 2020, the initial list that allocated fiscal years 20, 21, and 22. If you remember fiscal year 20, we only had half the collection that was associated with the fiscal year started for El Paso Water. And then we presented fiscal year 23 allocation in 2020. The collectors, this was a funding that's part of the franchise fee for El Paso Water.
 And so we have 160 collective roads in our roadway network. And so it's significant. It's a significant, it's significant roads to see a lot of traffic in our community to collect a lot of residentials and moving on to arterials or the highway. And so with the $3 million, we were able to start addressing this segment of our roadway network.
 It was the roadways selected and presented to Council were derived from the PCI data. We looked at utility clearances as well as completing neighborhoods in our roadway. The first allocation was completed in fiscal year 20 with Russian and Sun Valley. Right now we have Edgemere that is wrapping up all the concrete work that's scheduled to start paving in the month of July. And then South Glanfield, the concrete work is already underway.
 And then fiscal year 22, we're getting the full allocation of $3 million under this program. So we're looking to do Edgemere, Belvedere, Copia and Giles as part of fiscal year 22. And then 23 will be in South Climacville and Montwood. And these are the maps that are associated. And these are really great maps that show you the
 the impact into neighborhoods in completing all those roadways, because a lot of the complaints that we receive, you know, when we have a roadway that's not being completed right next to one that is, well, why are we doing that one and not my road? And so the strategy with Richard and his team is looking at neighborhoods and really working our way because a lot of these areas are,
 were completed around the same time, or resurfaced around the same time. And so it really makes sense that we keep those on the same timeline as we move forward. And this is Sun Valley, the roadway that was completed. South Langefeld? Yes, sir. I just made one point. Can you go to the previous slide?
 In the previous one, yeah. So this is a good example of us listening to the community, listening to council, and doing things that just make a lot of common sense and not just be driven by one level of feedback points like DCI. So I think this is a very...
 sensible way of responding to some of the complaints we were getting with respect to why did you stop in the middle when you could have just finished it off? The answer was wasn't the PCI or didn't not meet the criteria, but since we're there, we went ahead and finished it. Because that again was a sensible thing to do. Yes, sir. So Edgemere, so Sound Clam Felt, this one is scheduled to start construction of the concrete work. So as part of these improvements, we go in and address sidewalk
 issues as well as ADA wraps. Richard's team does a really nice job of assessing the existing conditions of the roadway, especially on these collectors to make sure that we're meeting all the ADA requirements and those get addressed as part of this budget that's allocated for the resurfacing as well. And so they go and do all the concrete work and then they come in and do the mill and overlay on the final segments.
 Edgemere again is scheduled to be completed, start resurfacing in the next month. Velvedere is scheduled for fiscal year 22 as well as Copia in the central part of the city. Giles is also scheduled for resurfacing as well as the balance of South Kline for fiscal year 2030 and Montwood as well.
 The residential program. This is the program that was presented to Council in November 2018, and it included streets for fiscal years 19 and 20. Of course, with the deferment, they're now scheduled for 22 and 23.
 These are the initial if you remember, we presented a list that covered a two year allocation that included money for all districts. We tried to do balance the funds. We understand there's a need in every single part of the district of the city. And so we want to make sure that we carried out and allocated the money for under this program for all parts of the city. And that was that was important. So we were able to complete three districts as part of the original location and we still had
 uh, remaining streets that needed to be done. So districts two, five, six, seven and eight, um, still need to be completed. And so with the allocation next year as part of the budget considerations, we're looking at $4.8 million that will address 36 streets in next year's program.
 And then part of that original list of projects, there will be a balance of 27 streets. That will be $3.6 million that are projected to be done in fiscal year 23 as part of it. Our goal with this allocation and moving into a year ahead, if you will, is to really look at completing this list of streets as part of Colony Calendar year 22
 understanding that basically year 23 begins September 1st of 2022. And so that's the plan that we worked out with Richard so that we can really share with the community that this roads that are before you today, that'll be part of fiscal year 23 should be completed or scheduled to be complete as part of calendar year 22. And to include, um,
 What that does, in essence, it pushes out the other roads that were originally scheduled for fiscal years 2020 and 23, I mean, 21 and 22, are now programmed for fiscal years 23, 24, and then there'll be a portion of fiscal year 25 that will be allocated to this program as well.
 what was presented to you all again. It's very similar information. We start with the PCI initial list. We look at utilities, geographic locations, as was talked about before we present the list to council. And so this is the streets that you've seen before that are still a program for fiscal years 23, 24 and 25.
 With the anticipation, of course, that we would get $3.4 million. The full allocation of $7 million in 2023 will lead us to $3.4 million available for this list and then fiscal year 2024 and then 2025. Again, this is the maps that reflect these roads in these areas, again, that are currently programmed for 2023, 2024, and 2025.
 This is for District 2. And even though some of these roads are, the list of roads may not be as, there's a difference between districts, the amount of pavement is generally the same. So the amount of square yards is very comparable between the districts. As I stated, we understand there's a need in all parts of the city, and we want to make sure that the community sees the funds being spread out throughout. This is the list of District 4 and District 5.
 And this is all part of a backup so that you can share with the community as well. District 6 and then District 7 as well as District 8. The 2017 capital plan, as I stated earlier, we are leveraging a significant amount of money for federal funds. In this one particular, we didn't have funds for signal intersections. And you can see those as well. We have two, the two remaining signals on Donovan are out to bid.
 This one also included money for Rojas Widening. That's a federal funded project. The 2018 capital plan includes projects like Oregon Lighting that you approved at the last council meeting for the construction contract. Schuster reconstruction, as I stated, railroad reconstruction. Again, it's looking at how we've been able to really allocate some funds as a community priority for streets and some of these capital programs to include leveraging the federal dollars.
 2019 Capital Plan had projects, the Top 25 material. Again, these are the projects that are part of Phase 2, as an example. Pebble Hills, Serpo Road, Summit Park, West Wind, Red Road, Phase 2. That's the lower segment below I-10 is included in this program. And then future ones, projects as well, Phase 3, includes segments on Edgemere, Hunter, McCombs, Treadwood, Treadwood, Ressler, and Rojas.
 When we looked at the top 25 arterial program, we looked at the condition of the pavement.
 as well as the lighting and landscaping for the safety component of it. And so this is the program that was presented. Representative Inouye, we share with you the top 50 arterial program because that will be the next phase, if you will, of this particular program to ensure that we're continuing the safety improvements in the pavement condition in the top 50 as a next logical phase.
 And in 2020, as I stated, we have a lot of traffic signals from a safety standpoint that we need to make sure that we move forward with this segment.
 The program, this is what we're looking to leverage local dollars to receive federal dollars. It's a significant amount of money, and we do include things like ADA, pedestrian improvements, as a project that's underway on the Montana RTS. So it's addressing safety, ADA, sidewalks, ramps, all being addressed where we can as part of these programs as well.
 you can see the impact that we're having. It's a significant amount of money. The total right now underway with NPO funds, it's over $140 million that's being leveraged with our local funds for federal funding.
 It includes bicycle safety improvements. That's almost $6 million that's underway and designed right now. Our ITS improvements. This is the state funds that were approved, the $32 million from the state for our bridges. It's all part of the safety of our community and the safety of our roadway network. The plow drain improvements.
 connectivity for trails and the alternative transportation methods are all included and leveraged as part of our street infrastructure network. You see $18 million, $18.4 million in the Central Business District Phase 4. That's our Subundal Barrier Roadway Network. So we're addressing roads like Oregon Street, 6th Street are all being reconstructed as part of our federal funding. And again, it's money that is coming from the feds that allows us to really push these projects forward.
 Our bridges, as well as another area that we work very closely with TxDOT and the federal government, they have programs that address our bridges to include Alabama, Yarbrough, and Delta, our four bridges that are being addressed with federal dollars. And again, that's just part of our worldwide network. We have some additional ones that are programmed in the near future that we're working with TxDOT to get those programs in and funded through the federal government.
 And then one program that we really haven't taken advantage of a whole lot for roadway network in the past is is our CDBG program back in the
 2010 to 2015, we had a lot of roadway reconstruction safety improvements. We kind of veered away from that, but it is a funding source that we should be leveraging as well for neighborhood associations to address their roadway network. Roadways are eligible under CDBG, and it's something that we should be looking at in the future, funding programs for roadway improvements in these areas, CDBG-eligible areas.
 Right now we have two Fort Boulevard that's under construction and a trail bridge that's scheduled to go out to bid.
 So where do we go from here? This is a discussion that we need to have. We're looking at fiscal year 23 to restore the $7 million residential as a starting point. Looking at additional franchise funding opportunities. There's been talk in the past about the commercial haulers as an opportunity for some additional funding as well. That's something that's done in the communities. We don't have that here. That's an area that we can look at. The street maintenance service fee that I mentioned in the previous council meeting, council item,
 It would require a charter amendment if it goes to the public. And so we'll be working very closely. I know there's a charter team that's going to put together or a committee that will be put together and something that we can propose as well. And it's something that from a long-term sustainability of our overall network, it's something that we think it's really important to have those payable dollars. And then, of course, the bond package is always an opportunity for us to put together. We've shared that with you, as the city manager stated,
 We presented a package that had about $270 million worth of roadway infrastructure as a bond package, and that's certainly on the table if council decides to move forward with that in the future as well as part of our budget discussions or as part of a strategic planning session in the fall. With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions, Mayor. Do you have a question? There's no questions, so thank you for the presentation.
 I think I sent you a text right now. It's not here yet, but you're more than welcome to go, Mayor Potem. Thank you again. Thank you, Mayor. We certainly appreciate that. Thank you again, Sam. Two very impactful and informative presentations back-to-back. Thank you for your support. I just had two quick questions. One relates towards a proposed charter amendment for street maintenance services. I don't know if our city attorney can talk more about that or your son-in-law.
 and what exactly, why that is. Mayor Pro Tem, you kind of broke up, and it was hard to hear your question, if you don't mind repeating it, sir. Sorry, can you all hear me now? Yeah.
 Okay, so my question was relating to a charter amendment for a street service maintenance fee. I know that we've had discussions before about establishing a street service maintenance fee. I wasn't aware that we need to change the charter, so I'm trying to understand what changed and why we would need to make an amendment to the charter. Representative Schwartzbein, we've actually met internally about several different amendments
 in regards to various sections of the charter. And that's something that is still being vetted. I don't have any specifics for you today, but that's something that council could consider in the upcoming several months when we come back with some proposed revisions.
 Yeah, what I can do, and I apologize, I, you know, I, what I can do is get you some more information on some of that research that has been completed. Certainly bring that back in a little more detailed discussion about the charter amendment for the maintenance service, the street maintenance service fee. It's something that, you know, if we were to put that out for as an election, that's where the maintenance, that's where the charter amendment will be required. But we can certainly bring more information on that to you all.
 And then I saw that we had a list of the different resurfacing streets that are there. I just had one concern about one of the streets that was there specifically relating to the sort of limits there. That's on Baltimore, which is identified from Piedmont to Florence. However, last time I was there.
 to be to leave. You're breaking up. Mayor Potem, you're breaking up. Your question did not come across. Okay, is this any better right now? Yes, sir. No, yes, maybe. So my specific question, I don't know if we can look at the PCI condition, but Baltimore from Florence to Piedmont. We lost you again. I'm sorry.
 Mayor, I think he's breaking up so we can take a look at the limits. We'll get back to Representative Schwartzbein on that. And the water utility last summer had gone in to do significant utility work in that area.
 And my guess is because Baltimore was supposed to be improved last summer as part of this street room servicing. And so because we were delayed a year, they still did their work last summer. So just wanted to point that out there to look at. Thank you. Yeah. Yes. Agreed. Thank you, sir. And with that, we have no other questions. I know it's after 12. If we go to call to the...
 Public please I would appreciate it and thank you again. Mr. Rodriguez. Thank you
 Yes, Mayor. We now move to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attack against a person or group's integrity or character which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon, we have 12 members of the public that signed up to speak during call to the public. The first person is Mr. Eva Shea. Her topic is environmental cleanup of Alsace Street in District 6-7.
 Good afternoon, Ms. Shea. If you'll press star six, you can unmute your telephone and begin speaking, and you'll have three minutes. Hi. Again, this is Eva Shea. I'm the Director of Sales and Service at First Texas Products LLC at 1120 Alza Drive. I've been employed with the company for 19 years, and I'm speaking today, again, as was said, to clean up our streets and the lots across from us. I have put in
 15 lot cleanup reports or reports to the city going to the court enforcement supervisor, street lot cleanup and maintenance, the compliance records office, environmental nuisance and illegal dumping, and also the non-emergency line and our city representative Claudia Rodriguez.
 A little bit of background on the company. We purchased in 2019 10.8 acres. It includes room for growth. Our facility is 115,045 square feet. We employ 188 people in El Paso and 160 in Juarez. We sell metal detectors.
 to 128 countries and we have visitors from all over the world recently, France, Sweden, Korea, Mexico and Russia. And also in the States recently Colorado, Tennessee, Florida, and other California, Connecticut. Our customers are Amazon, Walmart, Costco, Dick's, Cabela's, Target, and direct to customer. We also sell night vision to friendly governments across the world and again listed 15 complaints.
 The street is, especially on Mondays when we come back, we have mattresses, we've had cars here, there's plastic bottles of urine. We are surrounded by trucking companies.
 I just can't get, I would like the street monitored, and I would like to speak for the president of our company, Mr. Walsh. We can get the street monitored, get the lots empty across the street cleaned up, and worse on the corner, worse than that on the corner, we have a gentleman that has,
 the portable potty that he brings in and out. And we're not zoned. This street is not zoned for that. I've also turned him in, and he's got the big truck that holds the waste.
 And the companies around us on Escobar Street are very, very serious like ours, very serious companies. And they're also obsessed. There's also cement pipes that I've learned that belong to the city and cannot be moved until they're needed. We have satellite pictures that show them here for over 12 years. Again, we're a very serious company. We're adding to the El Paso economy.
 And as the president of our company says, why can't we get the street clean and monitor to stay clean?
 We invite you to come out to see our beautiful building, our beautiful facility, and then take a look across the street and see what we have to see every day, what our visitors see. I've had some of our employees... Thank you, thank you, Ms. Shea. Thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three minutes limit. Okay, thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you for your time. The next speaker is Ms. Dora Villanueva. Ms. Villanueva's topic is senior citizen centers. Good afternoon, Ms. Villanueva.
 Star six to unmute your telephone and you'll have three minutes. I'm Dora Villanueva. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Good afternoon, gentlemen and ladies. My name, Mayor Leaser. It's good to be here talking to you again. My name is Dora Villanueva and I'm here to represent the non-speaking English seniors and some of the seniors from all the centers keep in touch with me. We do have meetings.
 and I'm only bringing up to you, sir, that we have been asking for the senior centers to open because we have been having a lot of people die that have been our companions. The people at Ilos de Plata, for example, have been 23 that have died within one year when before we used to only be two to three people.
 I know they had 23, and I heard, but I'm not sure because I haven't checked into it. There was two suicides somewhere in another one of the centers. I'm bringing it up to you, sir, and ladies and gentlemen, because this has been happening because we need to exercise, number one. The senior centers are, you know, lifelong centers.
 centers that have a purpose. We go there to exercise. We go there to have companionship. We go there to play bingo.
 fighting the Alzheimer's. We go there and we eat what we can during the morning at night lunch. And when we go home, we at least have already ate something. There's people that don't get to eat anything at this time due to they don't know how to cook. They don't have anybody to cook for them. And so those people, it has been harder for them. The depression and the loneliness has gotten to a lot of them.
 And at this time, with a heavy heart, I'm here with you. We have been given one day to open the centers. Mr. Gonzalez was very kind enough to open the centers for us for one day. But they're opening up on Tuesday when we have to pick up our pantry boxes.
 so it's going to be only three hours a day on tuesdays that does not help us at all because we have to go home take the boxes come back by the time we come back we're all nervous trying to get there we think that is not fair for us so we want to ask you mayor why are our centers not opening five days everything else has been opened
 There's the swimming pool. We have a swimming pool here and it's not open. We can go there for cooling purposes. There's other people that don't have air conditioners. They don't have anything at their home. That's where they used to come and stay all day. And then during the winter, they would come and stay there all day because their heating and cooling systems at home is not the same as what we have here at the centers. They would come and spend the day there because of that.
 Now, another thing that I want to bring up to you is that at this time, there's a lot of seniors asking, why can't we just come five days? I went to a party on Friday. Ms. Villanueva, thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three-minute limit. Okay, that's fine. Thank you. I want to thank you for hearing me out. Thank you, ma'am.
 The next speaker is Ms. Rosa Rivera. She will be followed by Nelly Fierro, Christina Rios, Carlos Villamar. Ms. Rivera's topic is senior citizen centers. Good afternoon, Ms. Rivera. You have three minutes, ma'am. I think Rivera is not going to be present. Okay, we move to Ms. Nelly Fierro. Ms. Nelly Fierro? Yes.
 I am Nelly Fierro, Vice President of Pavo Real. Ms. Fierro, please pause after each phrase so that the interpreter can translate it. Thank you. Okay. I am Nelly Fierro, Vice President of Pavo Real. My name is Nelly Fierro. I have been the Vice President for Pavo Real for nearly 20 years.
 Hace 20 años yo tuve un feo accidente y desde entonces me recomendaron mucho ejercicio. 20 years ago I had a terrible accident and since then they have recommended that I exercise. Yo encontré mi remedio cuando empecé a ir a Pavo Real. I found my therapy when I started going to Pavo Real.
 Porque ahí encontré baile y ejercicio. Because that is where I found dance and exercise. Y eso ha sido mi terapia. That has been my therapy. Por lo mismo, yo inicié clases ahí hace ocho años. For that same reason, I started classes eight years ago. La gente que me invitó de ahí estaba muy contenta.
 The people that I invited to attend were very happy. A la fecha, yo tenía 35 personas adentro del edificio haciendo ejercicio. To date, I had 35 people inside of the building doing the exercises. La gente más mayor hacían sus ejercicios en su silla. The older individuals did their exercises on the chairs.
 A ella les gustaba la clase. They enjoyed the class. Ahora que está cerrado completamente, se nos han ido 23 personas. Han fallecido. Now that it's been completely closed, we have lost 23 people. La mayoría han muerto de tristeza y depresión. The majority of whom have died from sadness and depression. Nosotros ya tenemos las vacunas.
 We have already been vaccinated. Fue lo primero que hicimos por el mismo interés de estar ahí. It was the first thing we did for the same interest of being ready for when it opens. Se me ocurrió hacer las clases afuera. It occurred to me to conduct the classes outside. Pero las altas temperaturas no nos dejan estar muy bien. But the high temperatures do not allow us to be well.
 Afuera del edificio estamos batallando para el baño. Outside of the building we are struggling with the restroom. Porque el edificio está cerrado. Because the building is closed. Y los baños de afuera nos quedan muy lejos. And the restrooms outside are very far away. Y por lo regular siempre están sucios. And usually they are dirty. Los que nos preocupan más
 The ones that worry us most are our oldest ladies because they are in their homes inactive. And for that reason, they are getting sicker. We ask that you all please
 Nos ayuden a abrir los cinco días como antes. Allow the senior centers to open five days a week as previously. Ya es una necesidad para nosotros. It is now a necessity for us. Que nos abran. That you open. Porque ahí tenemos el tiempo. Because there we have the time. Que nos queda de vida. That is left in our lives. Felices y tranquilos.
 Because there we have time that we have left in our life happy and calm. Porque ahí no sufrimos por nada. Because there we do not suffer for anything. Gracias a Dios. Thanks be to God. En el salón todos tenemos nuestras terapias. Thanks to God at the Senior Center we all have our therapies. Gracias, Señora Fierro. Señora Fierro, gracias. Ya se terminaron sus tres minutos más los adicionales tres minutos para la traducción.
 The next speaker will be, gracias. The next speaker will be Ms. Cristina Rios. Good afternoon, Ms. Rios. If you press star six, you can unmute your telephone, please. Cristina Rios. Buenas tardes. Buenas tardes, Ms. Rios. Le pido también por una pausa después de cada frase para que la señorita Cruz Acosta pueda traducir. Muy bien. Muy buenas tardes, Mayor Lisa, y concibe. Good afternoon, Mayor Lisa and Council. Good afternoon.
 My name is Christina Rios and I'm a member of the Pavo Real Committee. I'm speaking on behalf of my fellow seniors at Pavo Real. Many of my fellow seniors are suffering from depression.
 And many of them are thinking of death, and for that reason we are speaking here today. Yes, because thanks to the inactivity that we have had...
 Tenemos muchos, sabemos que hay muchos lugares donde nos pueden aceptar, pero nosotros pensamos. I'm aware that there are many various locations that are open. Pero si nosotros tenemos nuestro propio centro, ¿por qué tenemos que ir a otro lugar? But if we have our senior centers, then why do we need other locations? Nosotros necesitamos un lugar donde vayamos cinco días por semana de...
 9 to 4 in the afternoon, more or less. Because three hours is not possible. We need a location where we can go five to eight hours from nine to four because three hours is not enough. My colleagues, all those who are currently depressed, with tears, with suicidal thoughts, they don't want to stop going to Pavo Real.
 My fellow seniors who are suffering from depression and loneliness do not want to go elsewhere. They want to open up the senior center. Sí, entonces en nuestro centro ha habido 23 sucesos de gente que ha muerto. No queremos tener el 24 que sea de depresión.
 That's why I'm speaking for those colleagues who have such severe depression who think of suicide. At our Pavo Real Center, we have seen 23 people die, and we don't want to see 24 due to the depression or because they are thinking of killing themselves. And I thought that we are still skilled and thoughtful people who are very few people
 que tienen Alzheimer's. Entonces, pues por favor, espero que nos escuchen. We are still able to be active and would like to be able to open the center, and we hope that you will listen to us. Y de antemano, les doy las gracias por escucharme. Y estoy a sus órdenes para cualquier cosa aquí en Pajorria. Soy la tesorera. Muchas gracias.
 Thank you for listening to me, and I am available for any other questions. I am the treasurer at Pavo Real. Thank you, Ms. Rios. Gracias, Ms. Rios. The next speaker will be Mr. Carlos Villamar. Mr. Villamar, star six, to unmute your telephone, please. Carlos Villamar. Buenas. Buenas tardes, señor Villamar. En congo. Por favor, le pido una pausa después de cada frase para que la señorita Cruz Acosta pueda traducir. Okay. Okay.
 Buenos dias, Mayor and Consul. Mi nombre es Carlos Villamar. Soy el encargado del bingo y loteria. My name is Carlos Villamar. I am in charge of bingo and loteria at Pavo Real. Estoy hablando en representación de la comunidad de Pavo Real, principalmente de los que ya se fueron, que son 23 compañeros.
 I'm speaking on behalf of my fellow seniors, particularly those 23 who passed away. In addition, we also have lost six to seven individuals due to stroke due to the inactivity because of the closure of the centers.
 Ustedes dicen que nos están cuidando cuando en todo lo contrario, en todas las tiendas y restaurantes ya no exigen tapabocas y están abiertos al 100%. You say that you are taking care of us. However, throughout the city there are open restaurants and stores in which no one is wearing a mask.
 The people at the senior centers are going to the casinos when they, when they, where the casinos are at greater risk of infection. You have changed directors and lost people and we don't know why they have not returned back.
 to their senior centers. It seems that there is no budget, therefore we would like to know what is happening with the money destined for the senior centers.
 When director Enrique Valadez lost his mother, who was a member of the Pavo Real, as she has been several times, and it is not because of COVID, but because of stress, depression, or loneliness, because of lack of activity. Even when a director lost his mother, who was a member of the Pavo Real,
 Several others like her also died. It is not because of COVID, but because of heart attacks, depression, loneliness, and lack of an activity. If you cannot see it or do not wish to see it, then the people are going to continue to pass away. We are not three hours a week, but five or eight hours a day for five days.
 We are not folks that need to be there three hours a day, but five to eight hours a day for five days a week. My name is Carlos Villamar, and I thank you for having me. I hope I have a positive response. My name is Carlos Villamar. I thank you for your attention and for listening to me. I wait for a positive response. Thank you, Mr. Villamar. Thank you, Mr. Villamar. The next speaker is Ms. Elsie Avalos.
 Her topic is also senior citizen centers. Ms. Avalos, you'll have three minutes. Star six, please to unmute your telephone. We have 12 speakers. May I introduce you to council? I'm Elsie Avalos. I'm a member of Favoreal Senior Center and also involved in our council as secretary and volunteer for Ever Needed. I'm very proud of our council. We work hard and we have accomplished a lot for our center.
 Thanks to our great membership that are so cooperative and to our terrific assistant director, Julian Tarango, who helps us in every way. Even though our governor has opened everything in Texas, our city officials are still hesitant to open our centers in El Paso. While we appreciate your being a little overprotective, you have to realize that we are seniors
 and we understand that we have to be careful most of us are vaccinated which will be one of our requests uh requisites to attend our center when we open you know that at least half of our membership are single and most live alone it's been as you know a very stressful year and very lonely for these people that live alone a lot of our members
 suffer the heat because they don't have good air conditioners. This is one of the reasons we need our centers opened, totally. We need to help save lives. We have already lost 23 members this year. Our people need a cool place to mingle with their friends, not hang out at Speaking Rock as they are doing now. You want us to open on Tuesday, July the 6th, for three hours.
 What can we do with three hours? This is the day the food is distributed. It takes a good three hours to do that. Also, Nellie has her exercise classes this morning, but she needs to be brought inside because of the heat. Also, membership applications need to be taken care of. So many things. We probably won't have time to offer a decent welcome as it is to our members. Another very important topic that I want to mention
 talk about is our food the food we're getting is horrendous not edible the so-called meat is spongy the vegetables soggy impossible to have any kind of taste please get us a little better deal or chef and and and make it a priority please and thank you so much for your time please consider a plea and open our center soon thank you
 Thank you, Ms. Avalos. The next speaker is Mr. Julio Aleman. Mr. Aleman will also be speaking on senior citizen centers. Good afternoon, Mr. Aleman. You have three minutes. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Leiter and council and members present. My name is Julio Aleman. I'm a participant on Memorial Park Senior Center, one of the smaller centers in the city. But right now, my biggest effort was to call the other major cities in Texas regarding
 senior center coordinations and status. And I spoke to Ms. Maria Reyes, coordinator in Austin, and she said that their centers are open Monday through Friday, nine to five, and they're providing activities, limited, but they're providing activities already.
 I called also over there to find out about their centers also. Cecilia, director of three of their centers over there, spoke to me. Their program runs 9-5, Monday through Friday also, and they're under their senior center division. Okay? Fort Worth. I decided to call and spoke to Mr. Amos, one of the community centers in Fort Worth, and he said,
 said that two days, two or three days out of the week, they providing also Monday activities for the seniors in that program. Houston.
 I spoke to the director of Maria Vilches Martinez regarding the senior centers and to her assistant director Ms. Smith, Carmen Smith, and they're open Monday through Friday and out of the majority of their centers, seven out of the nine centers that they have throughout the city, seven are open, nine to one, and they're providing a lot of activities also.
 So Houston is very, very, very active right now. And, of course, Leslie, but not least, I was in San Antonio a week ago, and I spoke to the director there, Stephanie, the director of one of the big centers also. She says they're providing a 9-to-5 program Monday through Friday at their centers also, and they're very active. So I just wanted to emphasize that we need our centers open Monday night,
 through Friday 9 to 5. And thank you very much for your programs. I don't know why we can't have our programs open for our seniors. And don't forget, some of these days, one of these days, you're going to be in my shoes also. Okay? Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Alemán. The next speaker is Ms. Guadalupe Najera. She will also be speaking on senior citizen centers. Good afternoon, Ms. Najera. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Ms. Najera?
 Good afternoon, Mayor Leaser and Council. My name is Guadalupe Najera. I am in 80 years of age. I am here to talk about the Southside Senior Center in the Ochoa Street. I have been going to meet my friends in the center for 15 years. Sadly, nine of my friends have died in the last year, and they will not be there when I return. We were not able to say goodbye after being together almost daily.
 Before COVID, I was able to move around better with my walker, but now it was being more difficult, and I have to worry more about where I step and have to be careful that I don't fall. I know that this is because I have not exercised daily like I used to do it at the center. I used to walk to the center, and now even though it will take more time to get there.
 I'm eager to see my friends, and I prefer to sit in and look for words. I have raised all my children, and it is difficult for me to have to ask my daughter-in-law to help me with transportation because they are busy with their own life. It's very important that me and my friends have our center open like they used to be because at our age, I am afraid we might not be able to see each other again.
 No one has taken the time to explain what is going on with our center, and every day we wait to see if it is open. Our daily information only comes from Spanish news, and I don't want to keep bothering my daughter-in-law to keep calling to see when our center will be open. Opening up in the centers daily will help us cope with our isolation, with our loneliness, and with grief, and we are desperate for companionship.
 Me and my friends encouraged each other to get vaccinated because we were pleased to believe it was the only way we could see each other. We are elders and running out of time. And one day, a week is not enough for us to wake up for lost time. Mayor Lizer, the next time I see my friends, I don't want to be in their funerals. Please open the centers. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Marcela Patricia Arno. Marcela Patricia Arno? Yes. Ms. Marcela Patricia Arno, are you on the line? My name is Marcela Arno, and I was reading the letter of Father Lupe Nájera. Thank you. Oh, thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Mr. Michael Castro. His topic is cannabis decriminalization. Good afternoon, Mr. Castro. You have three minutes, sir.
 You guys, ustedes, Mr. Michael Castro, hicieron algo maravilloso. Mr. Michael Castro, star six to unmute your telephone, please, Mr. Castro. Mr. Michael Castro, star six, please. You're on mute. Is Mr. Rick Bonart on the line? Mr. Rick Bonart or Mr. Michael Castro? Star six to unmute your telephone. Mr. Bonart?
 Mr. Rick Bonnard or Mr. Michael Castro if you're in the queue star six, please to unmute your telephone mayor I don't see mr. Bonnard's phone number in the queue. I see mr. Castro's but however, he might be having technical difficulties Cuz I oh here we go. Mr. Castro. Hello. Hello. Mr. Castro's topic is cannabis decriminalization. Go ahead. Mr. Castro You have three minutes. Hi. Yes, ma'am. I
 um hey good afternoon city council so um i just want to give a quick call about cannabis decriminalization here in el paso texas i know we have a site and release program and we've talked about it before but people are still being arrested i would like the city council to please reach out to me my email is provided when signing up it's legalize el paso gmail.com i want to know information information basically on what's going on with the site and release program if we're even helping people
 Because, again, I've mentioned this, New Mexico is about to be recreational here in the next six months. April 1st of 2022, New Mexico, including Sunland Park, New Mexico, will have recreational dispensaries, meaning anyone over the age of 21 with a valid ID. It doesn't matter what state you're from. You can be from Texas, California, New Mexico, New York. As long as you're 21 years of age, you can walk into any dispensary and purchase up to two ounces of cannabis.
 16 grams of concentrate, and 800 milligrams of edibles. Currently, right now, as we're on this phone call, I'm working at a dispensary five minutes away from UTEP, which, of course, is our biggest college here in El Paso, Texas. I work five minutes away from UTEP. I service thousands of people from El Paso on a daily basis. I have people from El Paso, Texas, currently in our store right now, purchasing legal cannabis.
 right because they have medical cards so cannabis is already in the city people are purchasing it legally we're still arresting people for this right not only that again we talk about cbd we talk about hemp i also currently run a hemp cbd farm in el paso texas we have over 150 hemp cbd plants that are cannabis plants they just do not contain thc this is 100 legal in the state of texas
 Right. There's 150 to 200 plants that we have here in El Paso, Texas. And you guys would not be able to tell the difference if it's a THC plant or a CBD plant. Now, we are 100 percent compliant. But not only that, as I work here at this dispensary within the next couple of months, I'm actually going to be opening my own dispensary here in Sunland Park, New Mexico. I'm an El Paso, Texas resident, and I'm pursuing the cannabis industry right here in our sister city, basically our hometown.
 So again, you guys, we need to do something. We need to stop arresting people for what is literally available around the country. So yeah, again, guys, my name is Michael Castro. I've been calling you guys for almost two years now, and I would like some feedback. I really haven't heard much from really any city council member. I've been calling you guys
 I know I don't email and stuff like that, and I'm not really going to bug you guys and be on your guys' case, but I would like some feedback on what's happening with site and release. Because, honestly, we're not helping anybody. It seems like when we really should be helping people, there's a bunch of people in need right now in this city. The city needs money to do a bunch of stuff. Obviously, we can't control cannabis decriminalization. I know that. Thank you, Mr. Castro. Thank you, sir. Thank you, guys. You all have a good day. Thank you.
 Mayor, that concludes the call to the public. Thank you. I want to thank everyone for calling in, and thank you, Mr. Prine.
 And actually Mayor if I may this is Ben Fife, Managing Director for Cultural Affairs and Recreation. I know earlier this earlier today we did talk a little bit about budget and so I actually would just like to talk a little bit about our senior centers. I want to remind the council that we have briefed the council twice that senior centers were originally planned for the very very last phases of reopening.
 We have been working with Dr. Ocaranza to be able to allow limited openings much sooner This is what he feels is safe and this is what we know we can accomplish with the current staffing levels that we do have Mr. Fite this is not on the agenda unfortunately so we can't but I think it's really important that we do have a presentation and you do brief counsel and myself on
 the senior centers and what's going on. But unfortunately, we can't have a presentation because it's not on the agenda. But I think after these phone calls, I would appreciate having some kind of game plan and coming back to council and myself. Yes, sir. Thank you very much for that. Mayor, is there a way that Ben could just finish up because there's over 20? No, sir. I understand that, but it's not an item on the agenda in this meeting.
 But I do want them to get back to us. I agree it's very important, and we do need to look at it and have a plan. So we will, and hopefully they'll brief us prior to the next council meeting because it's that important. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. The next item is on page 6, and this is item number 17. It's the first reading of an ordinance. May we have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of an ordinance. This is item number 17. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rivera? Aye. Liz Arraga?
 Aye. The motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 18. This is discussion and action on the request that the city manager be authorized to sign service agreements between the City of El Paso and Gibson Group Touch City Ltd., the sole source provider, to upgrade and maintain the functionality of the DG.org interactive exhibition upgrade. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 18. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthwaite. Representative Anello.
 aye hernandez yes salcido aye rodriguez rivera lisada aye and the motion passes unanimously the next item is number 19. this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-0806 r benefit consulting services to hub international texas inc thank you um will i take pull up the presentation please
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. As requested, this is the presentation for the award of this item. We're going to start with the strategic goal, number six. The linkage to the strategic plan of 6.3, Implement Program to Reduce Organizational Risk. Next slide, please. Within the presentation, we're going to have five sections. A review of the scope of work, the selection of the procurement methodology, the advertising, outreach, and results.
 proposal evaluation and scoring and recommendations. The presentation is basically developed to respond to questions that were asked by Mayor and Council during the agenda review. Next slide, please. So the first section is the scope of work. Next slide. So the summary of the scope of work before you is that we're looking at this recommendation and requirements
 is to provide consultant services for the update of federal, state, and benefit legislation and claim utilization, analysis and advice on plan design, and also to assist in the collective bargaining agreements for both PD and fire, and to help the City with the drafting of requests for proposals
 specific to the Human Resource Department, and also to serve as the fiduciary and advisor in oversight for the city's deferred compensation plan. Next slide, please. So the key characteristics of the contract, for this particular contract, the city will only pay for services rendered within the solicitation. There was an estimated number of hours that we asked the,
 marketplace to provide pricing for with the understanding that in the services the vendor can only bill for the services used so this is a paid as you go it's typically referred to as an on-call contract and there's seven key focus areas of the contract so in reviewing the seven key focus areas is
 RFX basically is a purchasing symbol and acronym for request for. It could be a request for proposal, request for qualifications. So we're estimating that there will be 10 over the course of this contract. Also, we look at the annual health plan rate development, the actuary analysis, the guidance again.
 on an update on federal and state regulations, workers' comp, HIPAA consultation services, and again, providing oversight for the deferred compensation program. Next slide, please. They select another procurement method. Next slide, please.
 So with the selection of the procurement method, all of the advertisements, the evaluation and recommendations were performed in accordance with the amended and restated procurement and sourcing policy. Just as a footnote and as indicated during the training for both council and the mayor that took place in April of this year.
 Our policy, the audit results is our policy. The process is in file documentation, complies with 2 CFR 200, and all of the applicable state rules and regulations. The department, user department, provided a scope of work at independent cost estimate and regulation.
 requisition and they were provided to the purchasing staff. The purchasing staff then completed our procurement rationale form. This is a form where in the purchasing world and best practices an organization will identify in writing why a particular procurement method was selected. So in this particular case the procurement rationale form was submitted and reviewed for approval. Next slide please.
 So based upon the city charter and amended and procurement policy statement, the low bid procurement method was not selected for this particular requirement. The city will typically not use a low bid.
 where the price is the primary determination for awarding a contract for complex consulting services. Instead, the city and purchasing department selected the use of the request for proposal method. The request for proposal method was selected so that relevant evaluation factors could be utilized to determine the best value for the city.
 And as a point of reference for the best value, the best value represents the offer or proposal that in all of the categories who has the highest score for all of the proposals submitted. Next slide please. So here's a summary of the evaluation factors and their relevant weight. So the city will typically select the evaluation factors with a totaling 100 points and in our system
 The fee proposal or cost typically will be the highest evaluation factor. However, no factor for cost will not exceed 30 points. And the reason we use a 30-point cap on cost is because we don't want to have a de facto low bid where price is an evaluation factor, and if you have the lowest price, you can automatically win the bid. So we cap price.
 and the fee proposal for 30 points. And in some cases we may even have 35, but it will not go over 35 points. Next slide, please. So there's a question regarding the outreach and if the efforts associated with ensuring that the marketplace was aware of the solicitation and also the time constraints. So next slide. Next slide, please. So for outreach,
 So in accordance with our policy and the state requirements, we advertised within the El Paso Times on January 26th and also January 2nd. This item was posted on the website from January 26th to March 3rd. The key item to remember March 3rd was the date the actual proposals were due. So from January 26th to March 3rd was the period in which all vendors requested.
 whether in the city or in the marketplace, could have seen this opportunity on our website. For outreach, the city would still utilize Permail. And Permail is a system that was built internally by purchasing an IT department where it sends out a weekly notice to all registered vendors within our database.
 So currently that notification goes out on Thursday. So it went out for five consecutive weeks to everyone registered within our database. One of the things we do, we measure results. So the results were we had 70 online views and there are actually more than 70, but we eliminate any duplications. So if one firm, uh,
 at five different people to review the solicitation. We're counting that only as one view. So we eliminate the duplications. And also the results where we had three proposals received. Next slide, please. So in regards to the evaluation and scoring, I'm gonna walk through. This is our actual scoring format. So I'm gonna focus on the fee proposal because there was a question regarding
 The firm that submitted the lowest price and the number of points they received. As I previously indicated, what we provided in our actual request for proposal document, we used that number of estimated hours.
 Historically, we will look at the expenditures and the information that's in the previous report. So we used 150 hours because we wanted to standardize within our document where no one had inside information about the actual city activity and we used 150 hours so that we can multiply the estimated number of hours
 times someone's hourly rate and come up with a bottom line figure that we can use to evaluate. In this particular case, when we look at the hourly rates, we come up with the total. But again, these totals are only based upon an estimated number of hours.
 This is basically a menu that provides the department the flexibility that if they wanted to use HIPAA services, they will have a previous approval by city council to use HIPAA services.
 from zero and not to exceed 150 hours. So those are estimates only. I highlight the cost because I want to show the actual formula that we use in evaluating and awarding points for costs. Next slide please. So this is the actual formula and it's based upon a ratio.
 So what we would do in all of our bids where in proposals where points are received in evaluation weight, including our capital projects, our request for proposals, we will use this formula. So basically, we take the lowest price.
 And all of the proposals are evaluated by the lowest price times the number of points. In this case, the cumulative lowest price was $157,000. We divided it by the lowest proposal times the total maximum number of points. And so if you submit the lowest price, you will receive the maximum number of points.
 If you submit the lowest price in a request for proposal, you will receive the maximum number of points. In this particular case in item two, we again take the lowest proposal and divided it by the second lowest cost that we received. And we multiplied it by the points that are allowed and they received 18 points. So the...
 So this particular former formula does take into account what your proposal cost was. If you submit the lowest price, you receive all of the points and then there's a comparative ratio as we move forward from the second proposal, third proposal and for proposal. Next slide. Ultimately, all of that information is transferred over into the scoring matrix.
 So again, in this case, the fee proposal was 30 points. Vendor A received 18. The vendor that had the lowest proposal received 30. And the vendor whose proposal was not conforming received zero. We also showed that for experience and qualifications, what the relevant scores were, and for proposals, what the scores were.
 and also for the quality of responses and presentations. I just want to footnote that in response for references, the city reviewed and requested three references. So for a reference, if the reference did not respond to our emails and our calls, the vendor received a zero. That is a standard best practice across the U.S.,
 And the city follows that. So the resulting scores, the vendor that is being recommended has an 86.03. The second place firm is 85.5. So you can actually see that this solicit this award was primarily lost upon the vendor not providing and ensuring that their references were contacted. Next slide, please. So our recommendation. Next slide.
 is that based upon the staff's evaluation of the proposal submitted, staff is recommending a war to Hub International as having the best value to the city of El Paso. At this time, Mayor and members of council, I take any questions. Yeah, the question I have is last year and the prior year,
 you used roughly six hours per month services. And this year you're requesting roughly 50 hours a month for the services. So what's the – and, I mean, I watch your presentation, but what is the – I mean, we're actually going from six hours to 50 hours a month. And what's the big increase that it would take it, what, eight times additional hours or 800%? Yeah.
 I'm sorry, Mayor, for interrupting. No, go ahead. Go ahead, sir. So with this being an all-call contract and award, the vendor is not guaranteed the actual fee proposal that's been identified. It's basically an hourly rate contract where we're asking council to grant funding.
 the Human Resource Department the flexibility to use the services on an on-call basis. This is very consistent with what Council will award for engineering services, for architects and engineers. When that item is brought forth, the recommendation to City Council is to award a vendor a blanket amount and allow the department to utilize on an as-need basis.
 So the consultant will only receive pay for items received. And again, I know it may appear a large amount, but that amount will not be obligated by the city. It will only be paid as we use the services. But it will be part of our budget because we're going to budget $175,000 to the budget this year and for the next nine years.
 based on our approval, and part of that it was $22,000. So we're going from 48 hours to 600 hours. That's a big request, and that's where it seems to – I'm trying to figure out how we go from 48 hours a year to 600 hours a year roughly. And I know we're only going to pay for what we use, but it's just a big gap. I mean a huge 800% gap.
 Mayor, I mean, Bruce, in one second, let me respond. So, Mayor, we don't anticipate utilizing all those hours. We built in the estimated 150 hours to build on flexibility. So we've been reducing, as I mentioned yesterday, we've been reducing the use of this outside consultant. Last year, I mean, you referenced right now, last year we spent just barely over $20,000 for this contract. And so we've worked really hard to build up our internal risk management staff.
 We've built up our budget staff and our HR staff to be able to utilize their experience to be able to take care of the healthcare rate analysis. We're not using this firm to do that anymore. There may be complex things, though, that we do need their outside expertise to be able to help provide some assistance, whether it's evaluating some of the complexities related to the collective bargaining when we go through those processes. But our use of this firm has decreased each of the last five years.
 But we do need to have the flexibility to utilize them whenever it's necessary because they do provide experience in a couple of different areas. So whether it's looking at something new, for example, the deferred compensation, looking at just doing the actuarial analysis, there's multiple components that we need their assistance with because we don't have that experience in-house.
 So you're saying in the last five years we reduced the usage and we're asking for 800% increase in the budget for it We're not increasing the budget 800% We're going to build into the budget what we feel is necessary and so I get that so let me So you can answer at the same time the hundred and seventy five thousand if we approved today for the next nine years Is that going to be?
 part of the budget, and then if you don't use it, it'll go to something else. But when we approve the budget, this will be in the budget for the next nine years, correct or no? These estimates are factored into our overall health care rates. And so whenever we're looking at determining our health care rate, correct. And so, you know, the city picks up a large portion of our health care. The employees pick up a small portion. All of these costs are associated with our self-insurance fund. It's to monitor and administer our overall health care plan.
 And so these costs are factored into that. No, and I understand that. So the answer would be yes, the $175,000 will be in our budget every year for the next nine years. No, sir. It has to be. If we approve $175,000 a year and you don't use it, you're still going to have to allocate for it, otherwise you wouldn't have it available. Well, no, sir, because as we talked about, those rates and those hours are built in to have the flexibility. And so we talked about next year, and I mentioned this earlier.
 With the expiring collective bargaining agreement for the fire department next year, and then we have the police expiring in 2023, we're going to need the capacity on this contract in order to have their assistance, shall we need it. I understand that. I understand that part. We're not going to need $175,000 each and every year. That number is going to fluctuate, but it's going to be based on the estimate that whatever we come up with that fiscal year, it may not be the same every year. And I get that, but you're asking us to approve $175,000.
 with optional years. I see it on here, I can see it. I mean, I can read it, it says five years, two terms of two years, 175,000 annual estimate. That's what it says here. Which is, again, as Bruce mentioned, very similar to how we do a lot of our on-call contracts is to provide flexibility for the services that we need. And I get that. I understand that. I'm just saying what you're asking us is that. I'm reading it, and I don't want to read it again, but I'm reading it. And with that, I'll go to Representative Ranella.
 Mayor, thank you so much. Thank you for your comments. I mean, I understand the reasoning that you're giving, but it makes me extremely uncomfortable. I don't know. Yeah, it just makes me very uncomfortable that what you're you're using as flexibility. I mean, I would prefer that you would stick to what previous contracts said with the option for the council to allow more. And I think this is happening a lot more with contracts. And then you mentioned that it's making me more and more uncomfortable. So I'm glad that we're having this conversation today. And I do have.
 a couple questions. The first one is whoever is awarded this contract, what will be their role with Deferred Comp? Will they be scoring or will they just be overseeing the RFP?
 Mary, are you on? Yeah, Mary Michelle, Human Resources Assistant Director. Thank you for your question, Representative Anello. So what we would like to do, we have a committee on our deferred compensation plan. We have a committee of several of the senior management and human resources staff.
 And so what we would like going forward is having someone who can be a fiduciary on our side to be able to monitor the particular stocks that we have invested in our plan for our employees. We want to make sure that someone is.
 monitoring those stocks, making sure that we have the money invested wisely and that whatever the company is that has our investments, that we are in agreement between the two that we have our money invested in the right place. So more of a fiduciary and more kind of giving the city committee guidance on the decisions that we're making.
 So that has created another question without actually answering the question. So my additional question to that is, doesn't the company who is awarded the deferred comp contract, don't they manage the stocks? I mean, don't they do exactly what you're wanting the company to do?
 They manage stocks, but we need to have a fiduciary on our side that makes sure that we – because we are ultimately responsible. So even though you have a company, a third party that's managing our investments, and they're making recommendations, and there are times that whoever the company is, they may come back and they may put somebody on a watch list or so forth, but it's making sure that on our side that we're in agreement, that we understand everybody,
 We've had a couple of times where we've kind of pushed having someone who's been on a watch list. Maybe we didn't agree with how long that they waited on the watch list. We wanted someone to get a more solid fund in. So it is a standard practice that you would have someone else also on your side as a fiduciary to work hand-in-hand with a company that's managing the stocks.
 Okay. I mean, I understand that. I think you could also make the argument, though, right, that you would want a company in which you could trust with that in the first place to not have to have an additional oversight on that. But I get where you're coming from. But my original question is, will this company who is awarded under this contract, will they have any scoring capability in the RFP process for deferred comp?
 I can tell you that on the next one going forward, that the next one that when we take it back out, the new RFP out for deferred comp, this company will not be sitting and doing the scoring. In the future, will they? I would venture that they might if they have the deferred comp services, but definitely not on the next one.
 And I know this is all in the back up, but I just want for clarification, Bruce, I think this is a you question. I see that McGriff is the second scoring company, and it's about a .53 difference. Is that correct? Can you tell me what the .5 difference was? Because to me, that's a very close competitive score, so I'd just like full clarification on it. Yes. Can we pull back up the presentation? Sure.
 So in the evaluation matrix that is shown, it basically shows and we walk through the points. And as I indicated during the during the presentation, McGriff, although they received all of the points in the highest score for their fee proposal in their references, we requested three references. Only two responded, so they did not receive 10 points for references.
 And that was after being emailed twice and being called. So our process that is a best practice across the country
 Our process is that we email and call. So if we happen to miss you, you're given a number of days in which to respond. Okay. Sorry, just for clarification on that point, I don't want to get off topic. When you say you contact multiple times, you contact the reference or you contact the applicant? We contact the references. Okay.
 Okay. And within our, if I can, please, if I can, within our document, this is a process improvement that some of the legacy members of this council will recall when this was put in place.
 The original concern was that purchasing would only email once, and we were directed by council at that time to clearly state within the solicitation, which we review in any pre-proposal bidding, where we instruct all the bidders to please contact your references in advance and let them know that the city will be contacting you.
 So our process is that we will call and we will email the actual references to let them know that we're contacting them. We do not contact the offeror. We will contact the references.
 And thank you. I'm not questioning the process. I was just like clarification, especially since we're getting a lot of calls from people asking these questions. So I think it's very important that maybe we've repeated it once or twice, but that we need to do so again. But I'm going to go back to my original comment that this the entire contract does make me a little uncomfortable and I will not be supporting it today. Thank you. And with that, we have no further questions. Thank you.
 Ms. Prine, we have no motion, so we'll go to the next item. There's no action on item number 19? Yes, ma'am. Okay, we go to item number 20. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-1071, Parks Letter Control to Delta Unlimited LLC, DBA Delta Pest Control, and Lawn Services.
 City Council if I may just real quickly so you all took no action on that item so that means that the current contract when it expires the city will not have a benefits consultant. So we can extend the current contract we have for till we can look at it again. Bruce can you speak up to that because I believe we utilize all of our extensions on this contract. All of the current extensions have been utilized.
 And we don't have any money left. We've already exhausted all the funds. And there's no reason to use them for about a month now. So we can bring next month. There's no reason for staff to recommend rejecting the bids. So like I said, if there's no action taken, then when this contract expires, the city will not have a benefits consultant. So we can bring in next council meeting for an extension. So if I can make a comment.
 One of the things that will typically happen in a government procurement process, and I don't have to mention the cities. When an item is brought forward for a war, city council can take the action that city council and the mayor desires, but it does impact our ability to have competition when the marketplace will look at a situation and ask themselves the question, why didn't the city move forward with a particular war?
 It may seem like it's a very unnoticeable item, but in other organizations where we can look at and I can give names of those cities across the country when items are not awarded after the formal procurement process been followed, it does impact competition. So this particular item
 We strictly adhere to all of the state requirements and exceeded them. We have staff recommendations, councils at liberty to reduce the amount of the war as opposed to not taking any action. I just wanted to add those comments respectfully. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, we'll go to item number 20. Mayor, can I ask a question in regards to the previous item? Yes, ma'am.
 In regards to what Mr. Collins just suggested so I know I myself am concerned about the increase in contract. Are we able to amend the motion to approve the same contract award amount from the previous year with the ability to extend when necessary? Or does that overage have to be budgeted within the health rates yearly? Bruce this is Sam Rodriguez.
 This is an on-call consultant contract, correct? And so like any other on-call consultant contract, City Council, the award of the amount can be determined and it's just based on capacity. So only as you require the services will you use that capacity if the budget is available over the years. And so...
 With your question, Representative Anello, and Bruce, you can confirm that as an on-call consultant contract, you can pretty much cap the amount at X amount, whatever the amount is determined, or the years, as you stated, Bruce, in a way that basically caps the amount of expenditures allowed under this contract. Is that correct, Bruce?
 Yes sir that's absolutely correct. So in this particular case if the council moves and decides not to award the annual amount that has been recommended, City Council can reduce it by $25,000-$50,000 as an amendment to our recommendation and move forward. So... Sorry.
 So Representative Nello suggested that we so we don't lose the contract we approve the contract as the prior year. That would be correct. Well so what I would actually if I if I was going to make a motion on this item which I will read it out to you first. I would motion to approve the contract for McGriff with the amount awarded in the previous year. Second.
 So if I can, so the sheriff is not the highest score vendor. I understand that. So in this particular case, I'm not sure. Well, and I can ask legal to chime in. Council is recommending not to award to the highest rank vendor, which is. This is Juan Gonzalez with the city attorney's office. So because we've gone through a procurement
 did the analysis, all of the proposals were based on the same evaluation. We have to award to the highest ranked proposal. Right now it's a hub. We could entertain, say, lowering the amount and the duration of the award by an amendment to a
 motion amending the terms of the proposed award, which would theoretically buy a little bit more time for I guess additional or a future procurement that would be more in line with what it appears that Council is trying to instruct staff to move forward with for future services that are going to be covered under this award.
 Thank you for the clarification. Then I will pull my motion. Bruce, when does this, when does the previous contract end? What is the date? So the actual
 Six month extension will expire in October of this year. So I'm going to motion to postpone this because I think that I need to have a little bit more of a conversation with you. And I think that some of my colleagues I see are just as concerned. And if you and I don't want to just let this lapse if we don't take action. So I'm going to motion to postpone.
 If I may, Mary Michelle, Human Resources Assistant Director. The six-month, if we did an extension, it may go to October, but we've already exhausted all the funds from the previous contract. I don't have any funds left. I can't use any benefits consulting to point forward. We haven't been able to for about a month or two. There's no capacity on the contract. We have funds available, but there's no capacity on the current contract. Correct.
 I mean that's my motion if I don't have a second I guess there is no motion so Mayor Leeson Yes ma'am Go ahead please yes ma'am Can I receive further clarification from the legal department regarding the what Mr. Gonzalez just mentioned
 It has been in my experience, although I don't have any evidence to present to you today, that awards have been awarded to other bidders and that is the sole discretion of Council. And so can I, can you all further elaborate and clarify my concern regarding the statements that were just made? There is a, you can do that. There typically has to be a finding.
 by council as to the reason why we are forgoing the award as recommended by staff and per the criteria of the procurement to go on to the second highest ranked proposal. As it stands right now, I don't-
 Okay. And it's because, you know, and I'll second Representative Manello's motion just based solely on that statement alone. You know, when these recommendations are being made to counsel and when we ask for legal advice.
 I feel like I have to change my question a few times in order to get the response like a full picture response. So having been one of the most tenured members of council and being support staff for city council, I have seen this before. I have not seen what you've just described. And so I would like further clarification for an official response from our city attorney, Neiman.
 And but thank you Mr. Gonzalez. You know I know these are questions that we're trying to come up with on the fly so I think it's appropriate this time to postpone so we can get further concerns addressed. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- So we have a motion and a second to postpone. DIRECTOR MACK.: And this is to postpone for how many weeks. DIRECTOR MACK.: I would say in two weeks just in lieu of time. But I do ask that staff does reach out to brief us within that two weeks unless they would like more time. I'd say two weeks.
 So we have a motion and a second to postpone there is a motion and a second to postpone the item for two weeks And this will be to the July 7th It will be on a Wednesday meeting the next City Council meeting will be Wednesday July 7 on that motion mayor pro tem Schwartz my mayor pro tem you're on mute representative Vanilla Hernandez yes, so I'll see though. Hi Rodriguez Rivera, please. I don't know. Hey, I
 Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein, I believe he's having technical difficulties and the motion passes with five affirmative votes. The item is postponed for two weeks. The next item is number 20 and this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-1071, Parks Letter Control to Delta Unlimited LLC, DBA Delta Pest Control and Lawn Services. Is there a motion?
 Good afternoon, Crystal Bosby, Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing. Item number 20 is linked to strategic goal number 7, Enhance and Sustain El Paso's infrastructure network. The linkage to the strategic plan is subsection 7.2, improve the competitiveness through infrastructure improvements
 improvements impacting the quality of life this is a replacement contract for parks litter control this contract will start in july 2021 this is the best value procurement for parks litter control there were 55 views online six bids were received all being local suppliers no protests were received for this requirement we are recommending to award delta unlimited llc dba pest delta pest control and lawn services the bidder offering
 the best value bid and that Border TM Industries Inc. DBA Exceed Resources be deemed non-responsive due to not completing the bid form in its entirety and that L&J General Contractors LLC be deemed non-responsive due to failure to acknowledge the amendments included to this solicitation. I'll take it. Second. Go ahead Representative Rodriguez. Yes, my question is I thought I had seen this contract recently
 Did it come up maybe in the past year sometime? Good afternoon, Representative. This is Rene Barraza with Streets and Maintenance. What came up the last time was a change order to the current contract. This is a replacement contract. Okay, and when is this one set to start? Right now, July 5th, uh, July 6th, I'm sorry. July 6th. And how long ago did we do that change?
 That change was done last week for the current contract so that they could do additional pickup in some parks. So they're doing that right now, and then that's been added to the new contract. And was there a different change? Because I remember this, I mean, not as recent, but like maybe in the last year or so. Not that I remember off the top of my head. The only changes that have been done to that contract were just additional parks.
 that are opened up as a result of the quality of life, splash pads, specifically splash pads, because since they're only open on a temporary basis, we include those when the cleaning is necessary for those. So anything that I remember, it might have just been a change and this is a renewal? Correct.
 Yes, this is Joel McKnight, Deputy Director with Streets and Maintenance. Representative, what you might also be remembering is when we awarded a new mowing contract recently. That could be what you're remembering as well, but just to try to help. Okay, thank you. Mayor, would you like me to take the roll call? There is a motion and a second to approve.
 Okay, thank you. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 20 on that motion mayor Pro Tem short thing representative on ello Yes some Cito Rodriguez Rivera Lisa And the motion passes unanimously mayor Pro Tem shorts lying not present. The next item is number 21 This gives me miss prime
 Don't know what the procedure is. Can we go back to the previous item that was postponed? staff like a wreck make a Recommendation that that item be deleted. I think We'll need to make a motion to Read the item again. I need a motion to reconsider item number 19 There's a motion and a second to reconsider item number 19 all in favor need to take roll call on that one Let me take a roll call
 Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine is not present. Representative Anelo? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rivera? Aye. Liz Arreda? Aye. And the motion to reconsider passes unanimously. We're back on item number 19, which is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-0806R, Benefit Consulting Services to Hub International Texas, Inc.
 I'm sorry. Go ahead, sir. Mayor and members of council, staff would like to make a recommendation that this item is deleted. If the item is deleted, we have the opportunity to revise the posting language and the amount. If it's postponed, we're not allowed to make any changes. So you'd like to see it deleted? Yes, sir. Do we have a motion to delete? So moved. Second. Thank you.
 There's a motion and a second to delete item number 19. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein is not present. Representative Anello? Hernandez? Yes. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rivera? Aye. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion to delete passes unanimously. Representative Schwarzwein not present.
 We're now on item number 21. This is on page nine and this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-1155 Jean Torres NTMP improvements to Karlsruhe Inc DBA CSA constructors. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 21. On that motion Representative Anelo. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Salcido.
 Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein? Aye. Thank you. And the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is on page number 11. This is item number 24, and this is an ordinance amending Title III Revenue and Finance Section 3.04.040, Exemption Residence Homestead to increase the ad valorem property tax exemption for individuals over 65 and disabled citizens who qualify under the current code. Move to approve.
 There is a motion and a second to approve item number 24. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthway. I'm sorry. I don't want to do that. So not this by any chance? No, no, I haven't. Can everyone please mute your microphones if you're not speaking, please? Mayor Pro Tem. I asked if there's a way to get a presentation up. Oh, okay. I didn't, we didn't hear you. I'm sorry. You're coming right now.
 Mayor Pro Tem we'd like to see the presentation. Give me just one second I'll bring it up. Thank you very much. Thank you IT. So as written to the record this is an ordinance amending Title 3 the El Paso Municipal Code under the Revenue and Finance Section again in particular under the 3.04.040 exemption residents homestead. Next slide please. Again this action is an ordinance to increase the property tax exemption for our over 65 and disabled. Next slide.
 A little bit of history back in January 1st 2006 the city code was amended to provide the $30,000 exemption This was the initial exemption provided to our over 65 disabled on January 1 in 2015 That exemption was increased from 30,000 to 40,000 dollars and that action was actually taken in September of 2012 the effective date though based on the Way that the ordinance was written was based on the tax rate and so that actually became effective as I mentioned January 1 at 2015 I'm sorry Robert. We're missing a quorum
 Okay, thank you. Next slide, IT. A view of how many of our homesteads are benefiting from the over 65 or disabled exemption for FY 2022 based on the preliminary reports we received from the appraisal district. Currently there are 51,491. You can see the increase over each of the last five years. Again, we've really continued to push and the appraisal district continues to push to make sure that individuals who are eligible are aware of this and that they're taking advantage of the tax benefit savings provided by the city.
 Next slide, please. This ordinance, as I mentioned, will increase the exemption from the current $40,000 up to $42,500. The exemption increase will become effective on January 1, 2021. Tax bills, those tax bills will be sent out in October, so this increased exemption will become effective for those. And we will continue to review the exemption for our over 65 and disabled continuously as part of our annual budget process. Next slide, please.
 In terms of dollar amounts, so I referenced the 51,000 homesteads that benefit from the over 65 or disabled. That equates to approximately $18.5 million of property tax revenue that is being deferred to go back to tax savings to our over 65 and disabled. The majority of that is for over 65, 15.8 million and 2.7 million for our disabled. This is factored into the FY 2022 budget that we've talked about and have presented. Next slide, please.
 I provided some information in the presentation which is being presented here but also posted on the city's backup on the city's website on how to apply if you're eligible. You can go to the Central Presidietric website. It's posted there at the top. The homestead exemption on the left hand side. There's a red arrow pointing to the actual document. You can download the form and take it to the Central Presidietric or file online.
 And then my final slide again is just the recommendation to approve the increase in the exemption from 40,000 to 42,500 for over 65 disabled homestead residents in the City of El Paso. Thank you for that. Appreciate that representative Nunes this was your item you brought forward and then we'll go to representative Schwartzbein. Again, this is a question. So what is the
 the fiscal impact we're going to be seeing by approving this uh the furthering of this exemption we're raising it it's a little over 1.1 million dollars a year and less property tax revenue because of this over a five-year time period you're looking at approximately 5.5 million dollars of less property tax revenue that will be collected thank you thank you representative nundus
 No, I just want to urge members of Council to continue to support this. We've heard from the public that our senior citizens and persons with disabilities
 They're struggling and this will be another opportunity to listen to their concerns and then to follow through with supporting them. Thank you to Mr. Cortina's and Mr. Gonzalez for working hard to make this come to fruition. I'm very appreciative of that. And I know that the 51,000 senior citizens and persons with disability are also very grateful for this. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Thank you for that.
 Yes, there is a motion and a second to adopt the ordinance on item number 24. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Yes. Yes, ma'am. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Liz Arraga.
 Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 25. This is discussion in action that the City Manager be authorized to sign a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and LIFT Fund in support of a program whereby microbusiness loans shall be provided to eligible small businesses program referred to as a Dream Makers Fund. Motion to approve. Second. Second.
 I just want to mention that Mireya had been working really hard for months to make sure that she was able to bring this forward, but also lower the rate that it was going to be out there. And she worked really hard, and I want to congratulate her and Economic Development, Mrs. Edda and their team for bringing this forward, but also being able to lower the rate that was going to be possible out there. So thank you for that.
 And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, there is a motion and a second. To approve item number 25 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shoresville. Yes. Representative Anelo Hernandez. Yes. Thank you. Sancido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Liz Arraga.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 26. This is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services between the City of El Paso and Decker-Parrick-Sabatini LLC for a project known as Public Safety Training Academy and Fire Department Headquarters. Motion approved. Second. Second. We did have Ms. Judy Ackerman sign up to speak on this item. However, I don't see...
 Any external phone numbers in the queue, Mayor? So there is a motion and a second to approve item number 26. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthine. Yes. Representative Anelo. Yes. Hernandez. Yes. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizara. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 27. This is discussion and action that the City Manager...
 or designee be authorized to sign an agreement to contribute right-of-way funds between the City of El Paso and the State of Texas for the US 62-180 Montana Avenue from Global Reach to FM 659 Zaragoza Road Highway Improvements Project. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve Item Number 27. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Rivera.
 Aye. Ms. Zaraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 28. This is discussion in action to adopt the 2021-2022 Annual Action Plan for projects to be funded under the Community Development Block Grant, Home Investment Partnership, Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS, and Emergency Solutions Grant Programs. Mayor, is there a presentation for this item? I'm not sure, but we'll ask.
 Yes, sir. Do you have a presentation? We do have a presentation. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Weber, how are you? Very good. Okay, so good afternoon, Mayor and Council, Nicole Farini, Chief Resilience Officer, also Director of Community and Human Development. I'm extremely excited to be in front of you today. We're presenting the details of the 47th year Federal Entitlement Annual Action Plan.
 more than that, I'm excited to share with you the hard work that our team really puts in every year in terms of planning for deployment of these federal dollars and making sure that they
 are deployed in alignment with community need as well as the City's strategic plan. And so today I've got several members of my team lined up to present to you not only what we plan to do in the coming year, but how we've come to this point in terms of the ability to deploy the entitlement the way that we do today, which is dramatically different, I think you'll note.
 from what it was five years ago. And so with that, I actually want to turn it over first to our interim assistant director, Abraham Lugueres. Abraham? Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. It's a pleasure. Abraham Lugueres with Community Human Development. As Ms. Nicole mentioned, we wanted to discuss the intellectual plan today, but not necessarily just go over
 some of the information that you folks may see every year, but rather really showcase the transformation of our department and really let you know the work that we're doing, that in our view, it's more important than ever in the context of the pandemic, even though we are,
 seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, I think that the recovery efforts and response efforts are something that we're very much still concentrating on working nonstop. So we wanted to take this opportunity to brief you all, let you know what are some of our big changes to the department, and hopefully we can continue doing great work for the community and for you guys as well. So next slide, please. Samara Council, one of the things that we wanted to get started is in regards to the operational focus of the department.
 So I want to showcase that quote right there from Ms. Rebecca Rodriguez. And for all of you that are seeing this, Ms. Rebecca Rodriguez is the lady right next to me in the middle. And one of the things that we're very happy and proud with the department is the fact that we actually have done over 11, it's actually 13 now, 13 internal promotions for the department. What that means is we're really looking at,
 making sure that staff is having the opportunity to learn, staff has the opportunity to take in more duties and ultimately rise to their ranks. And we find that that's the best practice for us because ultimately we have the best talent, we have folks that are paying and understand the regulations and ultimately they really help us manage these very much consequential funds. In regards to some of the work that we have been doing,
 I just want to point out something that we're very proud of that's not on the slide folks. We constantly get calls from other big cities across the state. We are now a model for cities like Houston, San Antonio, Fort Worth, Dallas,
 So all these cities calls us whenever they have challenges and they have issues related to deploying, not only their traditional funds, but also their care funds. So we're very happy about that. You know, El Paso is always in our view, a premier city and the city that really needs to stand out and make sure that lives a mark across the state. So we're very happy about that. We're incredibly happy about that. Some of the things that we've done folks in regards to,
 the people focused operational view is the fact that we actually integrated more virtual communications, we removed middle management, we actually presented more opportunities for staff. That means that if there's trainings that folks want to attend, if there's licenses that folks want to collect for their own resumes, we champion that. We like that and we push staff to do bigger and better.
 Some of the things that we've done as well is the Supervisory Leadership Committee. That has been a big success for us because one of the things that we've done under that specific leadership committee folks is we're building the bench. We're actually ensuring that as folks, you know, move to perhaps better opportunities that we have someone in there that can take the lead and rank all these funds and ultimately do a great job for the community. Next slide, please.
 So we're going to not just talk about process improvement, folks. We also want to talk about results. One of the things that landed to us, I believe, about four years ago was the Department of Enforcement report closed out by HUD. What that means was basically was a collection of financial challenges that the department had approved over a period of about 20 years. So it's a lot of issues, a lot of challenges that we had in front of us.
 As opposed to hiring a very expensive CPA firm, as opposed to not trying to do the work, what we did is we were proactive. And under our leadership and under our great partnership with the other service departments, we got together and we got all of these challenges and all these issues resolved.
 That meant that we avoided $1.7 million of penalties. We reconciled over 16 years of different accounts. What that means is it allowed us to discover around $1.2 million of funds that we were able to deploy to the community. One of the things that resulted as a big consequence of those decisions under our leadership was the fact that we were removed from the high-risk category from HUDD.
 We're now being looked at as a department had no findings, external findings over the last three years. And we are now sharing. And again, this is all very exciting for us. A lot of our policy procedures with other communities. So we have a city of Dallas, city of Houston, city of Austin, reaching out to you asking, what are you guys doing on fair housing? What are you folks doing on homelessness? How are you guys doing this whole thing with temporary emergency shelters?
 We're very excited. And so, again, very happy to share this information with you. One of the things that I want to now go over is the actual planning process, which is something that Mr. Ortiz is going to share with you. And that's, again, something else that we've done as a result of this people-focused operational background. Mr. Ortiz? Yes.
 Hi, good afternoon, Mayor and Council. This is Sarah Arthys. I am the Grant Project Manager with Community and Human Development. Good afternoon. And so, as Abraham stated, oh, I'm sorry, next slide. Perfect. So, right, continuing on with what Abraham was mentioning in regards to process improvements. A major way that we transformed our department in the recent years was developing and standardizing a streamlined planning process.
 And just to kind of put things into perspective for you all, prior to five years ago, there was not even a codified policies and procedures document. It did not exist prior to the single policies and procedures document that I know you all are aware of, right? Because we take it to y'all each year. We did have several piecemeal documents, you can say, that if you put together, it would somewhat give you an idea of our planning process. However, we,
 It, first of all, was not efficient for staff. It was confusing for our applicants. And it just overall, unfortunately, did not create a transparent process. And now by implementing items such as this planning process, right, we have promoted the opposite of just that. We now have a transparent, fair, and inclusive process that further strengthens the trust that the city has with its community partners.
 And so what you see here is a summary of that planning process for our three out of our four entitlement grants. We have CDBG, ESG, and HOFWA. And so step one, which is highlighted in yellow, is approval by council of our 47th year policies and procedures, which essentially is what governs the entire planning process. And so that occurred almost about a year ago.
 And so following council approval, these next steps is pretty much us conducting an intensive planning process that engaged with several stakeholders, including community partners, our subject matter experts, and also the city steering committee, which you guys already know is a group of volunteers that are appointed by each council member and mayor.
 So following this intensive process, right, we land on the next highlighted step, which is introduction of our annual action plan to council, which happened about a month ago.
 And following the introduction, we then held a 30-day public comment period to collect any remaining feedback we have from the public. And I say remaining just because this entire process consists of us collecting feedback. So it's kind of us collecting any residual feedback or comments that the public might want to provide. I can say that during this public comment period, we did not receive any extra comments.
 which then leads us to the next highlighted step, which is where we are today, right? Which is adoption of the final annual action plan. And following this adoption, we can then begin deploying our programs to the community on September 1st. And I'm now gonna pass it back to Nicole so she can go over a little more in detail on our federal entitlement and how it ties to strategic goals. You're on mute. You can unmute Nicole. There you go. See, thank you, sir.
 It had to happen at least once in the meeting, right? Thank you so much, Sarah. So before I dive into the numbers here, I want to offer a reminder about what community and human development does for our community.
 You all have heard me say many, many times that our purpose is to address the vulnerabilities that exist across our community and to assure that in addressing those vulnerabilities, we demonstrate resilience and create opportunities for our people to prosper. It is no mistake that your Chief Resilience Officer is also the Director of Community and Human Development and that our focus is to address vulnerabilities. That is a very
 appointment that I think has worked, if I may say so, very well. The community needs assessment that was completed as part of the 100 Resilient Cities Initiative clearly identified housing affordability, utility cost burden, access to food, and individual stability and opportunity for all El Paso as the primary vulnerabilities or stressors that impact our city. Enter 2020 and the COVID crisis. This is where you all have seen me
 ad nauseum for the last year talking about these vulnerabilities. Those vulnerabilities under COVID were magnified tenfold. Our team, the team that's presenting to you today, stepped up and last year deployed $31 million across 96, I'll say it again, 96 community partner contracts, all targeted at addressing the needs that I just mentioned. I share all of this with you today
 Because I need to provide some context in terms of what we do, what we can do with the right resources, and what we do with the limited resource that is the regular entitlement. The total entitlement this year is approximately $10.2 million. That's only one-third of what I just described to you, addressing all of those same needs as we come out of the pandemic.
 This is deployed across four distinct federal funding sources that are allocated by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. So the funds come from the federal government to the city of El Paso. They call us the presiding jurisdiction. We then pass those funds through to subrecipients to deploy the programs. CDBG at $6.3 million is broken down into three categories. Administration, public services, and public facilities.
 The admin portion of the grant is the primary and in some cases the only funding source for the majority of community and human development staff. We exist and are funded largely because of CDBG. Public services, which includes all of the funding for social service programs that I've mentioned already, including homelessness, is capped by the federal government at 15% of that total grant.
 So we are limited in the number of dollars that we're able to deploy to those services. The remainder of the funds are allocated to bricks and mortar projects that are awarded through a competitive process that you all are familiar with that measure alignment with community needs. I mention that because it's very important when we start to talk about spending CDBG dollars facility projects, we need to make sure that we are staying in alignment with the goals of this community
 and the intent of the federal entitlement, which is to address vulnerabilities in our community, as I've described. The Emergency Solutions Grant is dedicated entirely to addressing homelessness in our community. And you can see on the slide here, at just over a half a million dollars, you can see that it just scratches the surface in terms of the need in El Paso. Again, for context.
 not including rental assistance, which is in essence homeless prevention. Last year, we deployed over $10 million to address the needs of the homeless in our community. I'll say it one more time. ESG is a half a million dollars. HACWA is wholly dedicated to the provision of rental assistance for persons with AIDS. And we've had a longstanding and very fruitful partnership with the Department of Public Health in deploying those funds.
 Home funds at the end of the day are dedicated to promoting affordable housing development, and it's driven largely by the goals of our regional housing plan. Next slide, please. So with those funding sources that I've mentioned, our team is charged with supplementing efforts to address homelessness,
 support affordable housing solutions, stimulate economic growth in low-income communities, improve community health conditions through access to medical and mental health, promote programs that improve physical health and well-being, as well as improve access to child care and developmental education, ultimately improving quality of life specifically for the most vulnerable of all. All of that with $10.2 million.
 100% of the programs that we fund, and this is what makes this funding a little different, must serve low to moderate income communities or populations of presumed benefit. And that's everyone ranging from folks that are suffering from instances of domestic violence, elderly persons, severely disabled adults, illiterate adults, persons living with AIDS, migrant farm workers, and especially and including individuals experiencing homelessness.
 You can see on this slide what we've tried to do here is articulate that all of those services that are being provided to the community, we are leading in terms of pushing out those dollars and making sure that none of those services are siloed, that we are addressing community vulnerability in a way that is resilient and equitable, as well as aligned with the goals of the strategic plan, not limited to goal eights,
 Go one, go two, go four, go eight. So today we're asking for your approval on our plan to deploy federal dollars to address all those needs in alignment with the City's strategic plan. And again, as you can see in the diagram here, the plan invests the extremely limited federal resource to serve the needs of over 5,000 individual El Pasoans directly. That's 5,000 human beings that receive a service as a result of these dollars.
 and reach over 23,000 El Pasoans in a single year. We will do that across, again, goals 1, 2, 4, and 8, meaning that we're supporting the city's efforts in the areas of economic development, public safety, public health, sustainability, accessibility, and quality of life. The bottom line here is that community and human development is more than the sum of the grants that we administer.
 We plan for and execute initiatives that address our city's goals through the lens of resilience and equity. And with that, I'd like to turn it back over to Sarah to walk us through the specific allocations that we're proposing for this year. Sarah? Thanks, Nicole. So next slide, please. And so first we're going to take a deeper look into our homeless and housing programs.
 So as Nicole had mentioned, right, through these programs, we were investing about $1.6 million in assuring that every El Paso has a place to call home. And so as we kind of touched base on already, right, $1.6 million seems like a very large investment. But if we kind of compare this, right, to what we've received under the COVID CARES Act, this is only a fraction of what we put under or through homeless and housing programs through our COVID relief funds.
 And so it is for this exact reason, right? That for all areas of impact, including this one, that our department is very strategic in how we utilize those entitlement dollars to ensure that we are addressing local goals of our city.
 So here you'll see that there are seven components to homelessness and housing, all of which carry out functions that complement one another and in total create this continuum of impact, right, which provides stability and safety through housing options and also case management for those who are either at risk or who are literally homeless. So in addition to housing options, these programs, right, also revitalize and stabilize our neighborhoods, right?
 They promote financial empowerment, and they also improve the health of our neighbors. So just to give you all a couple of examples, right? One of the programs that we're funding is our First-Time Homebuyers Counseling and Education Program, which helps low- to moderate-income persons
 Essentially build wealth and capital through home ownership, right, which is one of the main ways that people can easily gain access to capital. And then we also have our volunteer housing rehab program, which supports a healthy and safe community by providing much needed minor repairs and ADA improvements for two vulnerable populations, right, which would be our seniors and persons with disabilities. This is a very important program to us.
 And so in general, right, our homeless and housing programs provide suitable housing options and a full range of supportive services for an array of vulnerable populations, right? We touched base on the seniors, persons with disabilities. We also have those who have escaped family violence. This also includes persons living with AIDS and also even like runaway youth, right, who need to be housed, which in total promotes self-sufficiency and housing stability.
 And so, next slide. Continuing on with the importance of self-sufficiency, we have our financial empowerment area of impact. And so, programs under financial empowerment, they encourage inclusivity in economic development
 two ways, right? Because we have two programs. The first one is building up small business owners. And the other one is building up low income residents, right? Which which both promote social mobility, which in both cases, right, they're not just benefiting the business owner, or that one client, it's benefiting their families and the families that they employ, right, which overall stimulate economic growth within our city.
 So starting off with micro enterprise, we are recommending for funding a technical assistance program that will help improve business skills and access to capital as business owners provided through a community-based model of outreach tools.
 As for the job training set aside, I just want to point out that this is actually another good example of process improvement within our department. A couple of years ago, we did not even have a job training set aside. We only had funding set aside for micro enterprise, right? So it was very difficult for us through our planning process to recommend funding for a job training program, which as we all know is critical, especially right now, right? As we continue to recover from COVID.
 And so this is what we did, right? We decided that we need to set aside $100,000 for job training. And so that's what we've done. And so both of these combined will promote self-sufficiency and encourage success in our workforce. Next slide.
 The next area of impact is medical and mental health services, which is especially significant as we consider what our community has gone through in the past few years. And so as we continue to recover from the pandemic, right, we're going to monitor this area of impact closely as we foresee it being very critical in the near future. Under this.
 area of impact, right, our two programs will assist low-income families and individuals through comprehensive health care programs that promote a healthy community and also will reduce medical and mental health incidents, which in turn will have a better sense of, will allow clients, right, to have a better sense of self and improved quality of life. The first program we have is the Center Against Sexual and Family Violence, a program that they provide that provides behavioral treatment to survivors of domestic abuse.
 which will help them address mental health conditions as a result of what they've endured, which would include PTSD, depression, anxiety, and panic attacks.
 And ultimately, right, addressing these issues will help break the cycle of violence. And in a way, it's also going to help them gain personal and economic stability, right? So this is like all as Nicole stated, right? They're all, they're neither of these, none of these are all silos, right? They all complement one another and create this good continuum of impact.
 We are also recommending for funding a community-orientated health care program offered by Project Vita Health Center, which will help persons who are at risk or have diabetes and also any related anxiety or depression that is a result of their current physical condition. They will receive treatment that will improve their life choices and bring about an improved quality of life. Next slide. And so next, we have our children and youth area of impact program.
 which will write over 1300 children and their families through seven programs in total, access to children and youth oriented programs that promote and improve quality of life. And so this is especially important, right? Because I know we've been hearing a lot lately of the importance of access to early childhood education. And so I feel like you can look at this.
 you know, from a long-term perspective and a short-term. Long-term, right, we, by providing these children quality early childhood care, we are encouraging economic empowerment within those children and it then will in turn become a more educated workforce and in that way is nurturing both a productive and sustainable community.
 Now, when we look at short term, right, we're kind of looking at even for I think this was even emphasized, especially during the COVID, you know, pandemic, that there was really a dire need for child care services. Right. And that was necessary for parents to stay afloat and sustain their households. And so we obviously want to continue that support through funding as we as we continue to respond to COVID. Right.
 So by doing so, we are just, you know, encouraging economic growth within our community, upward social mobility, and improved quality of life. In addition to the child care programs, we are also recommending for funding services that will help benefit abused or neglected children. We'll be intending to serve over 500 children who, for whatever reason, right, have had to leave their homes and the services that we'll provide to them.
 is court advocates who will speak and serve as the liaison for these children in the family court system. And we'll also be recommending for funding a 24-7 emergency shelter to ensure that these children have a safe and secure living environment, both of which translate to less domestic-related incidents, risk reduction for the city, and overall safe and secure city.
 And then lastly, 200 children who are in treatment for cancer will have access to immediate needs assistance and comprehensive support services to address financial, social, and emotional strains that have resulted due to their condition, which will improve the entire family's quality of life and will nurture a strong community. Next slide.
 And so this one kind of touches base, right, and that I know that all the folks were speaking in supportive earlier in today's council session, right, the need for seniors and persons with disabilities services. And so actually under this we are supporting parts of a seniors and disabled physical recreation program. And this is one of the programs that we're recommending for funding
 And so keep in mind, right, this is in addition to what we're already recommending under the Volunteer Housing Rehab Program, which is also targeted towards seniors and persons with disabilities. So under these programs, seniors and persons with disabilities will receive an array of programs that will benefit wellness by providing a balanced nutrition, self-sufficient money management, and physical and social activities through an exercise program.
 And, right, we kind of know the direct benefits of these services, right? People are getting fed. People are, you know, getting to, you know, get some physical recreation in. But kind of what those folks were touching on earlier is what we were going to mention today. And that's pretty much those, you know, those indirect benefits, right? By offering these services, we are decreasing depression and anxiety. I'm sorry, Ms. Ortiz, to interrupt you. Ms. Ortiz, we lost her quorum momentarily.
 Okay, we're missing reps on ello and on this in Rodriguez. We just regained a quorum. Thank you Sorry
 So yeah, we're just again, we're pretty much emphasizing what those folks were saying earlier, right? But there's like so many benefits to offering these wellness activities, in addition just to the direct benefits that we, you know, we assume are happening through services such as these. And so following those wellness activities per se, we're also offering programs that provide support connection and housing options to seniors and intensive evidence-based intervention for children with mental health conditions. Okay.
 So both of these programs also promote safety and improve living conditions within our community.
 And so last but not least, the area of impact that I'll be going over under CDBG ESU and HOPWA is capital improvements. And so under capital improvement, we are recommending to invest in total $3.6 million in brick and mortar improvements, all of which improve the quality of life for low to moderate income individuals, which includes the uninsured, abused and neglected children, persons with disabilities,
 and seniors through improved access to facilities, open space, and infrastructure that promotes a suitable living environment. And so 23,000 persons will be reached through an array of projects. So some of these projects do include removal of architectural barriers through the installation of sidewalks and wheelchair ramps, which again is another point that we are helping to address the needs of seniors and persons with disabilities by offering such facilities
 you know, improvements that will remove those architectural barriers. We're promoting independence and self-sufficiency among those populations. And so continuing on with the importance of accessibility, right, our recommendation also includes renovations at medical and mental health facilities, parks, a community center, which all improve the quality of life. And it's especially important now, right, that's
 We receive medical care and wellness activities as we continue to nurture our community after COVID. And so just something very important to point out here, right, is that we want to emphasize that these capital improvement projects, they aren't siloed, right, from the services projects. They all complement one another.
 By doing these capital improvements, we are providing connectivity and better access and better delivery of services of the programs that we are recommending for funding. So it's all just combined with one another is making sure that we are delivering the best services and the best facilities for our vulnerable population. Next slide. Okay.
 Bottom line, under our CDBG ESG and HOPWA services programs, we are recommending to invest over $2.6 million in 30 support programs that will benefit over 4,000 persons on an individual basis through 21 community partners. While under facilities, we are recommending to invest a total of $3.6 million in seven projects that will reach 23,000 persons.
 And so as we've gone over today, right, the federal entitlement is intended to address very specific issues throughout our city in order to improve the living conditions for low-income persons and other vulnerable populations. So I am now going to pass it on over to Mark Weber, who will speak on another important brick-and-mortar area of impact that provides accessibility to something that is essential to neighborhood stabilization, and that is high-quality housing options.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Mark Webber with Community and Human Development. Can you go to the next slide, please?
 So under our home allocation, what you're seeing here is the breakdown of the programs that we are proposing to fund. Now, this is all based on our regional housing plan and needs assessment. It's reflective of those recommendations. And, you know, it's also reflective of what we've learned over the last year under COVID.
 So under that regional housing plan, the largest focus was on the development of additional affordable rental housing units, specifically for families around a household income of about $30,000. That's where we're seeing a growing gap in affordable housing units. And so a majority of the home funds are going to go towards housing.
 multifamily construction, you'll see that through all of these funds, we're looking to add 282 affordable housing units. That's through rehab or development of new units. And this is a lot more than we've been able to do in the past, because in the past, we've been funding essentially 100% of every unit.
 that we developed. But through the regional housing plan, what we identified was a funding gap that we could use our home funds to fill in order to leverage, whether it's tax credits, other private investment, where for each unit we're funding, you know,
 closer to maybe 30, 33% of each unit. So we're able to leverage a lot more and get a lot more out of it. Under our single-family rehabilitation program,
 This serves some of those same vulnerable populations that Sarah was talking about. It's primarily the clientele that we see are seniors and persons with disabilities. And this allows us to bring their homes up to code, resolve dangerous issues that they may have, provide additional accessibility for better mobility within their property and their homes.
 Of course, we still have the first-time homebuyer program for those that are ready to get into home ownership. We know that that's one of the best ways to build wealth as a household.
 And then, you know, finally, tenant-based rental assistance. This is something that we've definitely seen a need for in the past year. This will be the second year that we're proposing to fund two separate programs. One of them is for homeless veterans that do not qualify for VA benefits, and the other is actually leveraging the Housing Authority program where they already provide tenant-based rental assistance.
 And this essentially is allowing us to double the amount of TBRA units that they're able to put out, which then frees up public housing units for those that are on the waiting list for public housing.
 And so, and you know, that program is a perfect example of how three distinct agencies are coming together to address the housing needs of our community. It's federal funds administered by HUD to the city, and it's deployed in partnership with the Housing Authority. Next slide, please. And so finally, you know, this shows the breakdown of the 282 households served, slash new units.
 And, you know, this is just a quote from one of our clients. Just, you know, each one of these numbers is a person or a family or a household that, you know, is in a position where they need help. And that's what these funds are for. That's what community and human development is for. And, you know, altogether, this entire presentation, I think, is a reflection of the complete shift in the community and human development department that you've seen over the past four years.
 Quite frankly, we're smarter, we're more responsive to the needs of the community, and we're maximizing the impact of our entitlement funds more effectively to support El Pasoans. Mark, thank you so much for that. And in closing, I just want to say that everything that you've heard today is really a direct result of the overall organizational focus that we've had under this leadership over the last several years.
 our focus on improving systems and processes and working more closely, not just with our subrecipients, but also the other internal service departments. They want to make sure
 that I have a special thank you to the Office of the Comptroller, as well as the Office of Management and Budget, and the Capital Improvement Department. Community Development does not do this in the silo, and we want to thank our internal partners as well as our external partners, as well as the leadership that's been shown, both organizationally as well as with the Council, that allows us to do all this. So with that, I'm happy to take any questions that the Council may have at this time.
 Thank you. Congratulations and great work to you and your team. With that, we do have Mayor Pro Tem followed by Representative Lasada. Thank you again for the great presentation. I have a CDBG project. Maybe you can help answer some questions because I do hear about constituents. I'm wondering what is the status of the community kitchen for the El Pasoans Fighting Hunger Food Bank?
 I'm understood that the project is sort of being delayed or postponed or held up. I wouldn't say that the project is being held up. That project was awarded as part of a previous year's annual action plan. We are working through some concerns with the food bank right now in terms of their plans
 of reimbursement material on some grants that we have with them. But as soon as we're able to resolve those issues with them, which we're working diligently to do, we'll be able to move forward with that particular award.
 When do you anticipate that project going there? Because the work that they've been doing and this confusion relating towards the data being fulfilled just causes me some concerns because they've been doing such important work. They went from being the youngest food bank in the country to the fourth largest food bank in less than five years.
 Absolutely, sir. And it definitely shows. I think that we're committed to helping them through the growing pains associated with that. And so, again, I don't know that I can give you a timeline. I'm happy to circle back with you, though, and give you an update as we get that from the food bank. But as soon as we have the issues resolved, we'll absolutely be moving forward with the other piece.
 Yeah, I just I guess I just don't understand how the two are connected. The CDBG funding is something separate from any sort of data entry that Mir and Emma have been communicated to them clearly, but I don't see how the CDBG funding being held up in order that they do this data, why those two are being connected by the City of El Paso.
 It's not best practice to move forward with a contract with any entity when they are
 currently having challenges with another contract that you have with that same entity. And that's something again, that we're just, it's as much to protect the food bank as it is to protect the city. We wanna make sure that they have capacity to administer the grants that they're given. And so that's extremely important as we move forward in terms of federal compliance. And so there are federal regulations that we have to adhere to, and we pass those through onto our subrecipients.
 And so we need to make sure that they're able to respond to those before we move forward with new monies in that same federally regulatory world. Does that make sense? I mean, you can explain it to me. I appreciate that you are. I don't see why we're connecting them. I just question about the equity of doing that. That's all. We can go in circles. Thank you again. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Good question. Thank you for that. Representative Sarga?
 Thank you, Mayor Leister. Nicole, thank you for a job well done, and thank you to your staff. I had a question. You know you commented that last year you were given $31 million, right, to 96 organizations, and then this year you only have $10.2 million in federal sources. So if you could go to slide 7 for me. Sure. IT, would you help me out with that?
 And just, and I know you're going to ask your question, Representative, I just want to be clear that the $31 million was CARES, affiliated with CARES, and that's why it's so significantly more than what we receive in a regular year. Correct. And so, you know, I'm sure that,
 All of us here on City Council are very concerned about our most vulnerable population. And so on slide seven, it's talking about you're going to have $1.6 million. Could you tell me last year what were the figures for that same homeless and housing assistance? Or do you know?
 I didn't have that number off the top of my head, but I can circle back with you. I will tell you that it's likely very, very similar, only slightly less. We did see CDBG get reduced a tiny bit this year, but the number is more or less the same as it was pre-COVID. Oh, okay. Okay, yes. All right. Thank you, Nicole. Thanks to your staff as well. Absolutely. Thank you, Representative LaSarga. And with that, Ms. Pryor?
 Yes, Mayor, we do have one member of the public that signed up to speak, and that is Ms. Carol Henry-Bowley. Good afternoon, Ms. Bowley. If you'll press star six, you can unmute your telephone. Ms. Carol Henry-Bowley. Ms. Bowley, if you press star six, you can unmute your telephone. Thank you. Good afternoon. You have three minutes, ma'am. Okay. It's longer muted. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Representative, City Manager, and also the staff of the Department of Community and Human Development that are on the call today. My name is Carol Barley, and I'm the Director for the El Paso Coalition for the Homeless.
 So I really just wanted to take this opportunity to thank Nicole and the staff of Community Development for recommending funding for the coalition, as well as all the other homeless assistance programs that are receiving support in this year's actual action plan. And really to also acknowledge the...
 work in this year-long planning process that Sarah Ortiz described earlier. I know it's been particularly difficult given the unprecedented challenges brought on by the pandemic.
 The coalition has served as the COC and HMIS lead since 2003, a longstanding partnership with the City of El Paso in addressing homelessness in our community, administering over $3 million annually homeless assistance programs.
 We really appreciate the support for our Continuum Plans grant. This allows us to provide coordination activities, networking opportunities, training, and technical support for our community's homeless assistance program providers, as well as our HMIS grant, which enables us to continue providing training, technical assistance, and help and support for the numerous programs that enter client information into the database.
 Also, in alignment with the City's strategic plan, the City's resilience strategy, and federal strategic initiatives to make homelessness rare, brief, and non-recurring, we are very excited to launch a pilot program this year with the support of the City to divert households from entering the homeless system altogether.
 This collaborative project is designed to provide solutions to households that are on the edge of homelessness and divert them from entering the system altogether. This exciting project, along with all of the other homeless assistance projects recommended for funding for the upcoming year, will continue to reduce overall homelessness in our community.
 So once again, thank you to the Department of Community and Human Development, and thank you so much for your continued support. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. And with that, we do have Representative Rivera. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. This question is for Ms. Verini or Ms. Weber, whoever. During your presentation, you said you had partners, sir. Are they –
 continual partners like you know like we have when they want to build certain facilities and they know how to build are the facilities that the city wants and secondly to that question is is will the council be made aware of your expenditures as you go along yes absolutely sir so let me let me start with the first question first um the community partners that i reference are
 typically the social service providers across the community. We tend to build those relationships over a number of years. Again, also knowing that it's important that we allocate federal dollars to agencies that are familiar with the regulatory structure of the federal entitlement so that, again, they're able to deploy those dollars responsibly. In terms of the bricks and mortar projects... I'm sorry, Nicole, we've lost a quorum. Oh, I'm sorry.
 Okay, we're missing reps, Hernandez, Rodriguez, and Schwartzman. Okay, we have a quorum. Thank you.
 Yeah, no problem. So in terms of facilities projects, they are typically submitted by agencies. A good example is the YWCA. They have often been awarded projects because they provide a service that's in alignment with things that the community needs. But a lot of times we're actually deploying those facilities dollars to internal departments to the city, parks and recreation or libraries, etc.,
 And yes, we will continually update you in terms of the progress of those projects throughout the year. All right. Thank you so much for that answer. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much. And with that, Ms. Parnak, we have a motion and a second. No, sir. I did not get a motion on this. We didn't get a motion. Can we get a motion? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 28 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein. Representative Anelo? Hernandez? Yes. Salcido?
 Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Liz Arraga? Aye. Schwartzwein? And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 29 and this is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign all contracts, contract amendments, and related documents between the City of El Paso and the State of Texas to receive
 2021-2022 Homeless Housing and Service Program funds and authorizing the Director of the Department of Community and Human Development to sign all contracts, amendments, and related documents. Motion approved. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 29. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Aye. Liz Arraga? Aye.
 Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein? Thank you. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the executive session items posted on the agenda. Is there a motion to retire into executive session? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into Executive Session pursuant to Section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss any of the following. Executive Session Item 1, Annual Performance Evaluation for City Attorney under 551.074 and 551.071. And Executive Session Item 2, Discussion.
 Annual performance evaluation for city manager under 551.074 and 551.071. These matters are taken into executive session under 551.071, consultation with attorney, and 551.074, personnel matters. It is 2.40 p.m. Council, I will call you in shortly. Council, will you please turn on your cameras? We're one short of a quorum. There we go. Can we get a motion to return? Motion to be convened.
 Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 5.51 p.m. Representative Hernandez is not present. Mayor Pro Tem, we're on EX1. No action. Thank you. EX2? No action. Thank you. May we have a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second.
 Council, congratulations. Great job and have a great day. Thank you, Mayor. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the regular City Council meeting for Tuesday, June 22, 2021 is adjourned at 5.52 p.m. Thank you. Bye-bye. See you, everybody. Godspeed, Representative.