I'd like to get started, so thank you. Thank you. Good morning, this is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, July 7th, 2021. It is nine o'clock a.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein is present and presiding, and we begin this meeting with roll call. Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez? Molinar?
 Present. Salcido. Present. Rodriguez. Here. Rivera. Here. Lizaga. Good morning, present. Thank you. We do have a quorum and Mayor Lizo will arrive later this morning. We now go to the invocation delivered by Police Chaplain Joe Morata. Thank you. Good morning. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we humbly thank you for your many blessings. We thank you for life and strength today.
 We ask for your direction and guidance for every matter that our city representatives face. Specifically, we ask for your wisdom in three key areas. First, Lord, give them the wisdom to understand the heart of every issue that comes before them. Allow them to see clearly the real need to be addressed. Second, as the heart of each issue is revealed, we pray for guidance in finding and implementing viable solutions that make El Paso a better and safer community.
 As viable solutions are implemented, we know this is a time when resources are few. We ask that you grant our decision makers the wisdom to allocate every resource to its best possible use to do the greatest good for the people of El Paso. And finally, Heavenly Father, we pray for the peace and the safety of every resident of our city
 We ask that you bring comfort and hope to every individual and every part of El Paso today. In your name we pray. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, Chaplain Moretta. Thanks. And before we go to the Pledge of Allegiance, I would like to have a...
 a short moment of silence for those who are suffering from COVID-19, whether that is physically, emotionally, economically as well. Many in our country are being able to travel again, visit their grandchildren or grandparents safely, but there's many, many others just across the river in Ciudad Juarez and other countries and cities across the world who are still battling this disease.
 Let's have a moment of silence to remember our families here and the blessings that we have. Okay, thank you. Thank you. And to lead us into the Pledge of Allegiance this morning, we have Lelia Ramirez and Leila Ramirez at the invitation of Mayor Lisa. Good morning. Good morning. I pledge allegiance. I pledge allegiance. I pledge allegiance.
 To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Sierra Machinery 40th Anniversary Recognition Day. Good morning, Representative Hernandez. Good morning. This is your proclamation, ma'am.
 I apologize for the delay. Whereas Sierra Machinery, a company founded by brother and sister Al Teran and Maria Teran in 1981 and operated by CEO and President Maria Teran, is a leading full-service distributor of construction, mining, and industrial equipment, Sierra Machinery operates from a 32,000 square foot facility on five acres of land in El Paso, Texas, and also has a branch in Artesia, New Mexico.
 And whereas your machinery represents a variety of major manufacturers and the company's diverse customer base includes highway and utility contractors, copper and potash mines, oil gas industries, aggregate materials producers, city, county, state and federal government facilities,
 And whereas Sierra Machinery prioritizes local work and relationships shown through their long-time dedicated employees and through their certifications, which include Hire El Paso First, Certified Local Business Tier 1, and Certified Hub Historically Underutilized Business in the state of Texas. And whereas Sierra Machinery shows their commitment to a safe and well-trained work environment by holding perfect OSHA and MSHA safety records.
 They have also incorporated a newly remodeled and fully equipped training facility at their El Paso location, focusing on customer maintenance and operator training, as well as providing complete equipment inspections, including computer download evaluations. And whereas Sierra Machinery is a high-functioning business and recognized as so through their awards, for the last consecutive eight years, they have received highest market share and best product support in all of North America. And whereas...
 while Sierra Machinery has received acclaim across the region and North America, it still remains the only locally owned and operated distributor in El Paso and now therefore be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that July 7th shall be known as Sierra Machinery 40th Anniversary Recognition Day. Signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Thank you.
 Thank you. And the next proclamation is Minority Mental Health Awareness Month. Good morning, Representative Anello. Thank you. Whereas in 2008, the United States House of Representatives voted to name the month of July as National Minority Mental Health Awareness Month after Bebe Moore Campbell, who advocated for mental health education and support among individuals of diverse communities.
 And whereas it is essential to eliminate disparities in mental health by promoting well-being for all, regardless of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, language, place of residence, or age, and ensure equity of access, delivery of service, and improvement of outcomes.
 And whereas all individuals in the El Paso community deserve to have the knowledge and skill to understand the myths and facts surrounding mental illness and to take timely action to prevent negative health outcomes. And whereas mental health is a vital part of overall health for individuals and families.
 And whereas, El Pasoans can text NAMI to 741741 to access the crisis text line. And El Pasoans can call the Emergence Health Network crisis line at 915-779-1800 if they or a loved one are experiencing a mental health crisis. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and City Council of the City of El Paso that the month of July shall be known as Minority Mental Health Awareness Month. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Lisa. Thank you.
 Thank you. Council, please remember to keep your cameras on at all times so we can ensure a quorum is maintained. If you need technical assistance, please notify me. And if you would like to speak, please notify Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine and he will recognize you. Per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the Consent Agenda. All matters listed under the Consent Agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the Consent Agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem, do you have a motion?
 Yes, I'd like to make a motion to propose revisions for July 7th 2021 City Council meeting as of 830 a.m. page 4 item 9 move item to the regular agenda per represent Lazarda page 18 item 40 postponed four weeks per represent Rodriguez and that is what I have for the revisions are there any other revisions at this point from any other members of council?
 there is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion mayor pro tem schwarzwein aye representative anelo hi hernandez yes molina hi salcido rodriguez yes rivera yes lisata and the motion passes unanimously mayor potem would you like to take the item that was moved to the regular agenda uh yes please okay this is on page four item nine
 This is discussion in action that the El Paso County Hazard Mitigation Action Plan update is approved in its entirety and that the Hazard Mitigation Action Plan update will be reviewed at least annually and that any needed adjustments will be presented to the City Council for consideration. Can we get a presentation for this please? Good morning, Mayor Pro Tem and Council. Jorge Rodriguez with the Office of Emergency Management giving an update on the Hazard Mitigation Action Plan update for 2021. Next slide please.
 So why do we need this hazard mitigation plan?
 The document itself, the mission of it is to maintain a secure and sustainable future through the revision and development of targeted hazard mitigation actions to protect life and property. And of course this is primarily to help us reinforce all of our emergency plans by establishing a set of hazards that we use collectively across all of our emergency plans. So ultimately it helps us prepare, respond, and recover from disasters.
 It also helps us identify those risks and hazards that we have within El Paso County and helps us properly mitigate those with mitigation actions.
 But this is also a requirement from the Federal Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000 and FEMA that requires communities to adopt a hazard mitigation plan to be eligible for a full range of pre- and post-disaster funding that we've become eligible for. FEMA also requires that communities maintain our existing hazard mitigation plan, which we have. We are updating this one after five years.
 to keep current with our hazards, but also making sure that all of our hazard mitigation plans, action plans are up to date. Next slide, please. So this is the planning area, and we worked closely with a contractor to help us go through and work closely with all of our partner jurisdictions within the entire county to include El Paso County, City of El Paso, and six smaller jurisdictions. Next slide. Next slide, please.
 So as part of the process, like I mentioned, we worked with H2O partners to help us facilitate the meetings with our jurisdictions, the stakeholder meetings with the community, and to develop the scientific backing for all of our hazards and doing the research and also helping facilitate the action plans.
 They worked in developing a public survey that was provided for input from the public and our stakeholders, and also that helped us update our hazards and our action plans to make sure that they were up to date.
 Public meetings were held on October 20th and on December 10th for public and stakeholder input. And like I mentioned, the vendor worked very closely with all jurisdictions to ensure that their action plans were updated or addition of new action plans. Next slide. Thank you.
 So the plan components, just a quick overview here. The primary focus areas are the county profile, making sure all that information is current. The risk overview, looking comprehensively at all of our risks and hazards within the community. There's a breakdown of all those hazards in sections 5 through 20.
 And then you look at the mitigation strategy and goals, which I'll slowly speak on, I'll touch on shortly, and then a long list of hazard mitigation actions between each individual jurisdiction for those that were appropriate for them. Next slide, please.
 So here are our risks and hazards as identified. Some of these were consolidated from our previous 2015 plan, and these are the most common risks that we face as a community collectively here in El Paso County. Next slide.
 part of the mitigation strategy and goals uh this list our general trajectory of this plan and our key focus areas uh goal one of course is to protect public public health and safety uh supporting our to build and support local capacity and commitment to continue to continuously become less vulnerable to hazards uh increase public understanding support and demand for hazard mitigation uh
 Goal four, protect new and existing properties. And lastly, minimize the resources for investment and hazard mitigation. Next slide, please. And Mayor Pro Tem and Council, that's all we have. Unless you have questions for us, thank you. Council, does anybody have any questions here? Yes, Representative Lozargo. Thank you, Chief. Can you go back to page four? Could you just tell me a little bit more about your public survey and the public meetings?
 So, yes, ma'am. So for the most part, the public surveys were focused on our risks and hazards as a community. So part of that survey was listing...
 variety of hazards that we Generally face here within the community and we asked the community to help us prioritize those in terms of risk and frequency within the community and then we had stakeholder for we had meetings with our stakeholder groups, which were those partners mentioned from the other jurisdictions our emergency management partners to get any stakeholder feedback on the plan itself and
 and that is going to be an ongoing process as we move through this plan year after year. Part of the plan maintenance is ensuring that we have annual meetings with the community and also with the public and our partners to ensure that this plan is kept up to date. Thank you. Yes, ma'am, thank you. I have a question. What is the sort of...
 I guess the relationship with FEMA at this point in terms of coordination and how is this plan being impacted by the updating of the flood maps from FEMA, which have been pretty controversial in our community? Yes, sir. So as far as the relationship with FEMA, we work as far as the process is the local development of the plan. It is then forwarded to the Texas Department of Emergency Management and then it's forwarded to FEMA.
 FEMA, after review of this plan, was rather quick in its review and approval of it. So we've been successful there. Part of one of our hazards is flooding, and part of the –
 analysis of the impacts of flooding does take into consideration that that flood map but that flood map it helps us support mitigation actions in terms of types of infrastructure projects that that would benefit and support our flood plane on how we can best protect the community but the
 As you said, the controversial portion of it, that's not dictating the mitigation actions that we have in this plan. It's just a supporting document that helps us make decisions. Okay.
 I have one other question relating to the coordination and planning area. I know that the planning area includes a number of cities, towns, as well as El Paso County in our region. What is the coordination with El Paso water and the PSB relating towards flood and other water damage? I mean, that's something that we've been, I think all aware of over the last 10 days or so.
 Yes, sir. Absolutely. No, they of course are a very large part of our stakeholder group. When we look at our mitigation actions, they work with city planning, but also since they have that purview for some water mitigation, they take part of that process. Okay. Anybody else have any other questions from council? Okay. Thank you. Motion request or is this just for an update? Sure.
 It's for adoption. Okay. Is there a motion to approve? Move to approve. Second. Great. Hearing no other questions, we call the question. Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. And that motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to page nine to item number 24. This is discussion in action that the City Council acknowledges the donations from El Paso Electric and from Marathon Petroleum to be used towards costs associated with the Parks and Recreation Department Father's Day picnic and declares that the expenditure of District 2 discretionary funds serves a municipal purpose. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 24. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schultzman. Aye. Representative Anello.
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizaga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 25 to 33. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances.
 Items 25 to 33 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? I'm sorry, Representative Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein, I did have a question. And I apologize, I couldn't text you fast enough. I just have a question related to item number 25.
 Um, can you can you all tell me, uh, the in a nutshell what the changes will be and then what kind of outreach we've done if any significant changes were made to the development community? Certainly, um, Karina Brescala with planning and inspection. So item 25, you're talking about the larger, um, comprehensive plan amendment, correct?
 Yes. So this is amending final Paso specifically guidance for the three cultural designation of the future land use map. So right now, the policy guidance in final Paso says that we need to retain all agricultural land possible permanently. So there's no option to really convert that over to anything else.
 This is just an addendum saying that if there is economic necessity, we can convert that land to industrial and other trade supporting uses. It's primarily for land linked, you know, near the Zergo supportive entry Mission Valley area. There were several meetings held in coordination with District 6.
 the amendment was presented to the community, generally positive. Um, some concerns about, you know, how we would mitigate
 traffic or other kind of nuisances related to the uses. But this wouldn't be a broad change. It would just be a conversion over time. So individual properties would still need to come before City Plan Commission and City Council to get the piece of land used not changed property and rezoning if necessary.
 So would one example be a ranch farm zoned property that has irrigation rights that predominantly would have, you know, maybe some form of ag use, whether that be pecan trees or cotton, whatever it's being grown, and then potentially rezoning that for purposes of development?
 So it's a little bit, yes, that would be an example, but this is really just a change in the advice from Plano Paso. So it would help guide our decision-making on a rezoning. The rezoning would still be a separate item. So what we're looking at is a page in the first part where it says that growth management –
 And so again, it just says right now, it says agricultural land should be retained permanently. And if you have to do anything, then you can do clustered residential development.
 And we're seeing a lot of, you know, people who are losing irrigation rights in the area. We're seeing a lot of folks selling that land, converting over. And so all we're saying is, yes, retain it or do clustered residential. But if there is a need in the area, we would support a change to industrial, you know, necessary –
 conditions to make sure that we're protecting existing residential, existing agricultural. So really making sure that we're preserving the areas that we can, that want to be farmed, those folks, but when people need to convert them over, you know, there's the Amazon warehouse, improvements on North Loop, all this stuff there. So we're seeing a real demand for trade uses in that area. Okay. And then could you clarify...
 I read some of the reports that go to City Plan Commission, and it'll say, does it align with Plan El Paso? Yes. And with this change, it'll say yes, it'll align with Plan El Paso. But will there be another way for the applicant to –
 You know, because my concern is a lot of development in our Mission Valley and some of our farm crop area. You know, that is what really makes our Lower Valley unique. I'm not opposed to development. You know, I want to see that, you know, responsibly. But I just don't want, you know, this change to automatically remove all of that, all of those guidance from Plan El Paso, which is why I really like the document.
 So is there like another control, another checks and balance to make sure that it's not a free-for-all development, but that they have to clearly define how they're going to meet Plan El Paso? Because I just don't want another opportunity to allow easier development. No, I totally understand. Yeah, so like I said, so we're keeping all of the existing guidance from Plan El Paso. That still says, you know, when you're going to do where you already have development rights in place,
 here's how you should develop it. The addendum, if you read the actual backup, so we discuss, you know, what's going on here. So the actual revised guidance says, okay, so inactive farmland can be converted to commercial and industrial uses.
 This area is in transition, so care should be taken to protect remaining farmland and existing residential development from negative externalities. So we do list out things like have a landscape buffer on residential, on irrigation canals, use native plants and trees, design to mitigate noise, light, and traffic impacts. Again, this is general advice. This is pretty in line with the other kinds of recommendations that Plan El Paso makes.
 And then we would also still have the zoning code. So Title 20, when you're looking at a rezoning, still asks you to consider what is in the surrounding area, what is in place on other developments. And we have standard sets of conditions that you all see pretty frequently, right? About a landscape buffer, a noise buffer, limiting access, that kind of thing. So we really would keep it general in Plan El Paso and then get into specifics on a case by case basis, depending on what the actual,
 site and surrounding area would need. Okay. And then the other thing I just wanted to mention is that I
 i don't want to see multiple amendments to plan el paso come forward if we're going to be doing amendments let's do a full review and let's bring back a solid recommendation to council and that that's something that our cft group with the east side representatives have been looking at and so i i don't like when it's piecemealed in this fashion i understand that there might be development pressing that require that and so i get that but i just wanted to share with you all
 Let's stop with the piecemealing amendments, bring back comprehensive recommendations so that we can promote that development and infill, but also be responsible with our environment and the land that we have in the Valley. But thank you, thank you for sharing all that information. Representative Landez, good morning. Good morning, City Council. Phillip, it's you, a planning and inspection. Let me answer your question. This amendment is not a free-for-all.
 We are looking at all the projects on a case-by-case basis. This took us two years, and this is driven by the Amazon and also city of Socorro making amendments to their plan to encourage industrial development.
 as Karina said, this is close to the port of entry. So it took us two years. We delayed all this project for two years in order to make sure that we are doing the right thing, looking at the comp plan, looking at
 in our policies as well. So this is not a free for all. We are looking at them on a case by case basis as we bring them to you. This does not preclude any other development from the city from coming forward to you for complaint amendment. So we are looking at all the complaint amendment. We're not doing a piecemeal. We've made some changes to our complaint in the past and these were just more specific.
 to the Mission Valley. So we wanted to make sure that you are aware of this. We had several public meetings with the reps and we also brief District Five and Seven concerning this development prior to bringing it forward to you. So this is something that we were very careful about looking at making sure that we do the right thing as part of the complaint.
 so we understand your concern and we are we're taking that very seriously representative anandas you raise a very good point and one in which i've talked to staff about for the last couple of years kovac kind of stopped us in our tracks in terms of the work that was being done with respect to updating the comprehensive plan comprehensive plans and cities have to be updated every 10 years and so what i've told staff is that you know we're behind because we should have started in 18 or 19 to have a new updated one in 2020.
 So the work that was being done that Philip's talking about, he's done a lot of work in planning as you all know. He has a monthly meeting with builders and different vendors that we have that we work with. So there's a lot that's been done already in that area.
 But the comp plan to your point you're spot-on Those have to be updated every 10 years and that's going to be the next thing that comes forward to the council in terms of bringing That bringing that up and having that 2010 plan updated in its entirety So so you're on the right path
 I think Philip has a good response in terms of development is taking place precipitated these these Changes and this reaching out to the different districts in the community But yeah, we're going to work on a comp plan update and bring that back to the council and roll involved To your point about a CFT. Well, that would probably include a CFT And or just be wrapped into the work that's being done already With the CFT. Thank you, Tony. Thank you representative Adnandez mayor Potem
 Yes, thank you again. I had a question, a clarifying question. First of all, thank you, staff, again for this presentation. You had mentioned that you're looking to encourage cluster-style development in this area. Can you provide a definition to Council of what cluster-style development is?
 Right, so Karina Bresgala with Planning and Inspections again for the record. So this is a little bit different. I know Mayor, you're talking about there is also the Upper Valley Plan, which has a similar requirement for clustered residential development. That plan is very definitive in what they are talking about.
 This one, the general guidance for this area, it just says if there's development rights in place, so if there's already zone for types of development like residential or apartments, that we would cluster it and maintain open the rest as open space. The intent with this
 specific guidance for the O3 agriculture sector is to allow some of it to be farmed, to do kind of like homestead farming style. There is no specific definition in Plan El Paso about X percent open space or what you're –
 you know, dwelling units per acre, what that density would look like. But in general, cluster-style development would be, you would have kind of all of your housing or all of your buildings in one area and you would keep the rest of it open. That can vary in what it looks like. Is there anything in the code that requires a percentage of open space? For O3, based on, no. This would be future land use map recommendations. Zoning districts would have their own separate set of
 So it's essentially an aspirational statement to say that we're going to encourage or require cluster-style development. Yeah, the entire comprehensive plan, I would say, is an aspirational statement. Yeah, that's the idea of writing a vision, right? I have a problem with it because I feel like it's a little bit – I don't know what is the nicest word I can use here, but it's sort of –
 You know, it's a little bit concerning because the only case that I know that we've actually required an open space development for, quote, cluster-style development had 30% of open space that was net developable area, excluding any areas for stormwater.
 the way that our city had interpreted that included stormwater retention in that 30% open space, really eliminating the chance for a really unique or any sort of cluster-style development. What we essentially had was more sort of sprawl with a little bit more dedicated parkland that was being used as a park pond.
 And a park is defined by our own code as stormwater retention, which should not have been included in the 30% open space development. So I just think we need to be a little bit more honest, throw out these words and it's not, I'm not directing this towards you, it's more towards leadership.
 But we need to be a little bit more honest when we talk about wanting to encourage cluster-style development or open space in former farmland, what exactly that looks like and how our staff and leadership are choosing to interpret or not interpret that.
 And so I think that's something really important when we talk about it, because at the end of the day, when we're talking about these rezoning, it's our offices as city council reps that are front and center for this, that are going to try to explain to residents and to neighbors what they intend to happen. And when we have community meetings and we have other meetings, when we put ourselves out there,
 and then basically have to go back on our work because of how cluster-style development or other things are interpreted, it's not a very good feeling. It doesn't inspire trust in our government and in our individual council offices as well. So I just think we need to be a little bit more honest and a little bit more clear with the language we choose. Thank you.
 and talking about cluster-style development and talking about these kind of rezoning cases and again, updating comprehensive plan as well. And so that's pretty much what I have. I also would echo Representative Hernandez's statement too that...
 when we piecemeal these things, you know, obviously there's development pressures and economic opportunities that necessitate some of these changes. But again, I also think too that it's well overdue to have a well-funded comprehensive plan, a comprehensive update to the comprehensive plan. And I think that part of that too is not just
 aspirational ideas, actual things that can be put into stone, if you will, into actual updates to our code and everything like that so we don't get into a situation where we dedicate 30% open space exclusive stormwater retention but still have the interpretation that we do that. So that's all I have there. Thank you again for your presentation. Mayor Patel, we do have it funded. Like I said, we were upended with COVID.
 So we are, it is funded already, just for your information. And I couldn't agree more with your statements.
 And you and I have had lots of conversations about the comp plan and some of the things were aspirational in it and were not necessarily able to be executed. I think Montesillo, I think some other developments in the northwest and on Donovan are good examples of the smart growth that's in there. But it's been very difficult for that to take off the way it was envisioned.
 So I couldn't agree more with your comments and I just simply wanted to add that update when it's done, I think needs to be more realistic. And I think it should have not only the input of council, but also the input of the developers and builders out there and not necessarily that they drive the process, but you need their input. That's how it's done in most communities. And again, it's funded. So I just wanted to speak to what you talked about, it being funded or not funded. And it would be comprehensive, it would take into account
 other studies that were done in different parts of the city. I know you've talked about a Northwest study. And so different studies that are in place would be looked at in that process. It's a very arduous process. When done correctly, it's a 12 to 18 month process. So it'll take a while and take a lot of public input in order to finalize. Yeah, you referenced Northwest Upper Valley plan and I just wanted to, again, reiterate with County
 Council action before we had updated the comprehensive plan. We future land use map again for a dedication of 30% open space with the clear understanding that that would be net develop area excluding any stormwater retention. And that that commitment to the citizens was you know that was not interpreted the same way by city leadership. So all these updates are great. It just is something that needs to be really understood
 by all parties involved, not at the point of it reaching the CBC, but way before in beginning conversations with developers and potential investors in our community. And so thank you again. Mayor, that's all my questions for now. Thank you. Ms. Prine, I think we're in the vote. Yes, Mayor. And just to remind everyone, the public hearing on this item will take place on July 20th.
 2021 there was a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances representative Schwartzbein voted aye representative representative Anela voted aye representative Hernandez yes Molinar aye Salcido Rodriguez yes Rivera yes Liz Arragan aye
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 34. This is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2021-1200 Liz Moraima Park Improvements to Horizons Construction Limited. Motion to approve? Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 34. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye.
 aye salcido aye rodriguez yes rivera yes aye and the motion passes unanimously the next item is number 35. this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-1349 joey barraza and vino memorial park phase 2 rebid to allen concrete llc uh represent molinar thank you very much mayor um
 There is a presentation on the screen for the benefit of the public. I'd like to make sure this is presented to the public. We do receive many calls from District 4 constituents and others regarding a dog park so for their benefit I'd like to have the presentation go first prior to the vote. Good morning Mayor and Council. This is Jerry DiMuro, Assistant Director of Capital Improvement.
 The project details, the location is the Joey Barasa and Bena Memorial Park Phase 2 on Macomb Street. The total project budget is $4.7 million. Funding that is being used is quality of life, a grant from the Texas Parks and Wildlife, and parkland dedication funds. Next slide, please.
 Again, this is the location. You see the area toward the top of the screen is phase one. That currently exists. And then phase two will be developed in the lower portion of the picture, as you can see. Next slide, please. The scope of work includes one soccer practice field, a dog park, and alternative one, which is also part of the package, is two additional practice fields, and all of these playground, trail, and trail amenities, which will go around the new phase two.
 and extension of existing parking. Next slide, please. Procurement summary. It was a low bid, design bid bill project. Solicitation was advertised on June 15th and June 22nd. Four firms submitted bids, three were local. And the recommendation is to award the construction contract to Allen Concrete in the amount of $4.3 million. Construction will start this summer and will end in the summer of 2022. Do you have any questions? Thank you. I move to approve. Second.
 there is a motion and a second to approve item number 35 on that motion mayor pro tem shortland hi representative anello hi hernandez yes yes rivera yes and the motion passes unanimously the next item is number 36
 this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-0806r benefit consulting services to hub international texas inc we have a presentation pardon me we have a presentation yes good morning mary morning sir this item is to review i i t can you start at the beginning of the presentation please
 This is for Request for Proposal 2021-08-06R. It's a request for proposal for benefit consulting services. Next slide, please. The mission and vision block, this is for high-performance governments as part of strategic goal number six. The subsection of 6.3 implements programs to reduce organizational risks. Next slide, please.
 For the content of this presentation, we're gonna review item one, the selection of procurement method, advertisement outreach results, the proposal evaluation and scoring, key service focus areas, and recommendation. Next slide, please. The first section is the review of the procurement method. Next slide. Next slide, please. So for the selection of the procurement method, in accordance with the city charter and the amended and restated procurement and sourcing policy,
 The low bid procurement method is not recommended for complex consulting services such as those requested in this request for proposal. Based upon the review of the scope of work, city staff recommended using a request for proposal and with the request for proposal process,
 The vendor with the highest overall score in all categories is considered the vendor offering the best value to the city. In accordance with the state law, the vendor with the highest score is then recommended to receive the award unless there's a compelling reason such as being indebted to bar state law in the case that the award should go to the highest ranked firm. Next slide, please.
 So selection of the procurement method continues with the advertising evaluation. Those actions were performed in accordance with the amended and restated sourcing policy. Just as a reminder to members of council, three years ago, Citi brought in a third party consultant to evaluate our procurement processes and files
 Based upon that, there were some changes, but the consultant acknowledged that out of 15 best practices, the city was already doing three, I mean, excuse me, 13. And also in recent audits, our policy has been shown to comply with all state requirements and federal requirements also. So the city moved forward with the Complaintment of Procurement Rest, rest and now statement, and we went on to the advertising and outreach. Next slide, please.
 So for outreach, we understand that there were some questions and concerns about it. The city exceeded the state requirements. We placed advertisements in the El Paso Times January 26th, February 2nd. It was also posted on the city's website. For additional outreach, vendors that are registered within the city database receive an electronic notice every Thursday for which they're registered.
 are opportunities available for the city and this particular occasion for the five weeks that this item was open all the vendors within our database received a notification and reminder of this opportunity for five consecutive weeks the results we had 67 vendors that and were interested party review the website and just for clarification if
 We have one company that has 10 people reviewing it. That only counts as one review. We have three proposals received. Next slide, please. So for the evaluation and scoring, next slide, please. The following are the evaluation factors. Cost was 30, qualification and experience 30, response of references were 30, and each reference had a value of 10 points. For quality of response and presentation was 10 points. Next slide, please. So the results were...
 as follows. Texas and Hub International of Texas received this cumulative score 86.03, McGriff Insurance 85.5 and Gallagher Benefit Services 52.
 We want to state for the record that the hourly rates for McGriff were the lowest. As a result, they received all the points, and using the ratio, HUB received 18.5. But the overall score is 86.05 for HUB International. Next slide, please. So the key scope of services focus area, next slide.
 This is a on-call contract, which means the city will only pay for services rendered. If City Council moves forward with the award, in this case, the award amount that the vendor will receive, the vendor can only invoice for those services rendered. There's no monthly allocation or annual. They can only invoice for the services received.
 Here are the seven key focus area that the vendor will be providing consulting services on. I want to just highlight for the dessert compensation, the vendor that will be selected by city council will not be involved with the development of the scope of work, the scoring, and the evaluation for the 457 solicitation that will be released in the forthcoming months.
 Next slide, please. One of the key things we want to highlight to the Mayor and members of Council are some projects requiring third-party consultation. These are immediate and forthcoming projects. The first one of greatest importance is for the retiree health insurance rate, including Medicare Part D.
 In January, there's an update coming and the city needs to be prepared to send out that information to the retirees. So within the next forthcoming months, the consultant will be working with the city to provide recommendations and do an analysis for the entire health insurance rates. There will be a fire collective bargaining agreement negotiations that will take place in 2022.
 There's a CBA for police in 2023. There's additional COVID regulations guidance that will be required because the COVID dynamics continue to change and are updated. The health insurance rate comparison and recommendation analysis is.
 Yesterday's council meeting, some of the representatives discussed the health, patient and dental program we have. So we're anticipating issuing a request for proposal to review and update that information. We're gonna have a request supplemental insurance, monthly federal regulation compliance services, and risk management and safety resource consultation.
 Council and Mayor, please note that once the city hires a risk manager, we anticipate that services in that particular area will decline or be eliminated. An offer had previously been made. The candidate rejected the offer, and we're starting the re-recruitment process for that item. Next slide, please.
 Next slide. So the recommendation being brought forth to City Council is based upon the evaluation of proposals and the cost remaining at the...
 2012 level, the staff recommendation is to award the contract to Hub International of Texas, representing the best value to the city. I do want to highlight and emphasize that city staff, based upon previous conversations, went back and took a more strategic look at
 the levels and the contract amount that had previously been requested, and staff has found a way to have the services provided by the consultant at the contract level that was awarded in 2012. So it's basically a price freeze from the contract that was awarded in 2012. So if there's any additional questions,
 We're ready to answer your questions, Mayor and Council. Mayor, this is Carla Neiman. I'd like an opportunity to brief Council in Executive Session about a few items. Do we have a motion to go into Executive Session? Motion to go into Executive Session. Second. There's a motion and a second to retire into Executive Session. All in favor? Aye. No. I'll do a roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine? Aye. Representative Anello? No. No.
 Hernandez no Molina no Salcido no Rodriguez yes Rivera no Liz Arraga no and the motion passes
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss item number 36, discussion and action on the award of solicitation number 2021-0806R, Benefit Consulting Services to Hub International Texas, Inc., under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney. It is 9.54 a.m. Council, I will call you in shortly.
 Godspeed, Representative Rivera. Council, the mayor's on his way back into chambers. It'll be just one minute, please. I'll call you in, Mayor, yes. I'll call you in. Thank you. Council, may we have a motion to come out of executive session? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Aye. Aye. Anyone opposed? And the meeting is back in session at 1054 a.m. We're on item number 36.
 Mayor Pro Tem. Yes, sir. Yes, Mayor. I'd like to make a motion to postpone this item to the next council meeting. Second. There is a motion and a second to postpone item number 36 for two weeks. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shoresby. Aye. Representative Vanello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Okay. Representative Salcido. I'm sorry. I didn't hear you, ma'am.
 I'm glad to see that the reduction in the price in Nate Rodriguez. No. Rivera. No. And the motion passes with five affirmative votes with Mayor Pro Tem. Shorts by Anelo Hernandez Molina Rivera voting aye. Representative Salcido Rodriguez. Please. The motion to postpone does pass.
 the next item is number 37 this is discussion in action on the awarded solicitation 2021-1146 hondo pass citizen collection station to perican enterprises llc move to approve second awesome mr mayor yes sir prior to the vote can uh we have the presentation on this as well for the public's benefit go ahead absolutely sir good morning again jerry demuro with the capital improvement department i'll be doing the presentation
 This presentation is for the construction services for the Hondo Pass Citizen Collection Center. Next slide, please. Request for action is the award to Perikin in a contract amount of $2.2 million. The funding source is Environmental Services Department funding. Next slide, please. The project location is 4501 Hondo Pass Drive. See it in this photograph.
 Next slide, please. Can someone mute themselves, please? Thank you. Go ahead, sir.
 The project consists of construction of a new citizens collection station that includes Asphalt to concrete and concrete roadways casting place retaining walls Paved parking lot electrical services and light poles as well as two new metal buildings The collection station has been designed for ease of use by residents They won't have to lift their their trash up and into dumpsters. The dumpsters will be below the Roadway ramps that lead to them next slide, please
 The solicitation was advertised on April 6th and April 13th. It was posted on the city's website on April 6th. Email notification was sent April 8th. A total of 122 viewers online. Ten bids were received. Eight or nine were local suppliers. Next slide, please.
 This was a low bid procurement process, was selected for the collection station. The reasons for selecting the contractor, demonstrated understanding of construction standards and similar project scope, demonstrated successful completion of construction projects and similar characteristics, and the contractor presented the most cost-effective bid. Next slide, please. Does anybody have any questions? No, sir, there's no questions. Thank you for the presentation, and there is a motion and a second.
 Yes, there is a motion and a second to approve item number 37. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsman. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Aye. Lizardo. Aye.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 38. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-0026, Central Business District, Phase 4, Tulesna Construction, Inc. Motion to approve. Is there a second? Yes, sir. Second. Thank you. May I ask a question?
 Just message you if we get a presentation. Absolutely. Yes, sir. Thanks. You just came across just now. Good morning, members of council. This is Yvette Hernandez with CID and I'll be presenting on the Central Business Construction Contract Award. Next slide. The project scope, this is approximately 1.8 miles. It does consist of roadway reconstruction and parkway improvements
 It makes a lot of sense while we are tearing up our roadway that El Paso Water Utility
 is able to upgrade and do their storm sewer work so that we are both on site at the same time making these improvements that are needed. We also include economic development items such as landscaping, irrigation. There will also be a bicycle treatment throughout this corridor really connecting and making this area walkable. And then to um
 The other improvements that I would like the public to be aware of is along Campbell Street and Kansas Street. We are reconfiguring from one-way travel to two-way. Next slide. Looking at the project location, the
 The items or the streets, which is Kansas Street and Father Rom, those are a different color because those will be limited to landscape improvements. As many of you will remember, that is the route for our streetcar. And when the streetcar was installed.
 we did the roadway improvements at that time. So the other streets that are highlighted in yellow will consist of roadway reconstruction improvements. And if you notice faintly along Kansas Street and Campbell, it's dotted and that's to indicate the conversion to two-way traffic. Next slide.
 The proposed cross sections, so you see Campbell Street and Kansas. As you will notice, we are now going to travel in both north and south direction.
 The parkway improvements include both lighting and landscaping. And then you'll see, given the length of the right-of-way, we're able to create a cycle track. So separate from the street, we have a cycle track for the cyclists and then still an ample sidewalk for our pedestrians at six feet. Kansas will have a road share along their travel lanes that are 14 feet in width.
 Next slide.
 The same as Oregon and Father Rom, the improvements to full reconstruction, landscaping, lighting, and then on Father Rom, that is one of the streets that is along the streetcar route. So you don't see a designated bicycle improvements, but we were able to maintain those wide sidewalks to allow for pedestrians and that walkability. Next slide.
 And then lastly is 6th Avenue that has the reconstruction and amenities to the parkway and also the cycle track. Next slide.
 So one of the items that I did want to really bring to the public's attention, this construction does take, and it's limited within District 8, but as we all know, we all visit our downtown, whether it's we work there, we have family there, or even going to shop or eat.
 So it's very important that the City of El Paso is aware of this construction project. One of the federal requirements is that we hold public hearings. If you all will note this was July 23rd but of 2020. So it's a year now that we're asking the community to remember all this work that we're doing. So if there is interest or questions within the CID website
 There is, the project is listed as CBD-4, and it has access to a 12-minute pre-recorded video. And then also in this backup,
 The community can also find this link that will take them to the video as well. So once we near the construction, we've had public notices go out, but I've been working closely with our PIO office that we want to send a second round of notices advising the surrounding area that we will start the construction project.
 And then just going above and beyond, you know, not limiting ourselves to only the public hearing, but also we want to host another pre-construction meeting and that will be to inform of the project. And we're tentatively scheduled for the fall once pending council approval that this contract is executed. So I've reached out to also the DMD that has,
 been very generous to help out in the strategic communication of really speaking with the stakeholders, really getting the word out, because this is a substantial project for our downtown area.
 Generally, it takes about 60 to 90 days at various to get contracts executed. So ideally, we'd like to start the construction this fall. If it's a perfect storm and the construction is delayed and working with the stakeholders, there's a potential to push it out to begin early 2020.
 As you will note with the schedule, this is a two-year completion period. So we are asking the stakeholders, the businesses, the residents to be patient with us. But once we are completed with this project, it's going to be a great boost to our downtown community.
 to the economic development, to ADA connectivity. It is a really great project that we're looking forward to starting construction. Next slide. And so asking Council for the recommendation to award the construction contract to Lesna Construction. The estimated amount, this is a $12.7 million contract. We received six bids.
 All were from local vendors. Since this is a federally funded project, almost 92.6% of this project is covered by funds from the Federal Highway Association.
 And during the design, like I made mention, we reached out to El Paso Water and they reviewed their infrastructure and it's a timely opportunity for them to replace their infrastructure. And that's about a 2.8, I wanna say, million dollar commitment for El Paso Water to upgrade and improve their infrastructure.
 And with that, I will take any questions regarding the project. Thank you. Thank you with that presentation, Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. Thank you for the briefing about this earlier. I still have a number of questions about this. Is anticipated that the streetcar service on the downtown loop will be suspended during the time of this construction?
 That is a potential, but working with Ms. Smyth, Ms. Jerome, we can schedule and look at what would be a benefit and what they are looking to in terms of streetcar operations. So there is a potential, similar to 4th of July, that the streetcar would be operating on weekends. Therefore, it could be coordinated with this construction project.
 But I mean, from what I understand, like there's this is a pretty aggressive and disruptive project for our downtown. I mean, it's not just landscape improvements. This is ripping up streets, having the water utility come in and replace pipes as well. I mean, this is full reconstruction that will take many months, if not a year to finish, and that will close down streets in their entirety for many, many months. Is that correct?
 Yes, sir. So the correction would be that the streetcar route Father Ron in Kansas, that's limited to landscaping. So the portions that would take the reconstruction, we would schedule with Ms. Smythe and Mr. Rowe. Yeah. Also, you know...
 I understand that you want to reach out with the CBA and the DMD to coordinate to basically not coordinate to help communicate these closures is that correct? Yes to coordinate and communicate correct. I've received comments back from the CBA and DMD as we've been talking with them through the design process and then also letting them know that this item would be on council.
 I mean, from what I understand is that there was some outreach done over a year or so ago, but there hasn't really been there. And my concern is...
 is that the timeline of this project is unclear to me. I think it's unclear to our partners and the residents and businesses in the downtown area. And I understand the need for a timeline and to do projects efficiently and quickly. I also think too that at this point, I don't think that we are fully taking into account the grave economic harm
 that can occur in our downtown by us creating a extremely destructive project in our downtown core that essentially will close our downtown businesses or some of our downtown businesses, small business owners for now two holiday seasons in a row.
 I think it was already very difficult for businesses to struggle through last year with the pandemic. And us starting this project in some vaguely defined time work as the fall doesn't really feel like something that I can support at this time. I think what is appropriate is to start this project very aggressively on January 1st to make sure that all ducks are in a row and that.
 really a lot of communication, much more outreach that's done now between the CBA and the DMD to do this would be something that would be appropriate with right now. But my concern is that us doing this project here could jeopardize the streetcar service, which is integral to us doing Winterfest again. Regardless of the streetcar, my biggest concern is that this kind of disruptive project will really go in gum up and
 lose potential businesses for small businesses in downtown and Siglin La Barrio who are desperate to try to stay afloat right now.
 We're talking about our tax rate helping out the most vulnerable, helping out seniors and others, and yet this project could be something that could be another nail in a coffin for a lot of small businesses in our downtown and Siguemaburro who are struggling to stay afloat during this time. And so for those reasons, I can't support this project right now unless knowing that there's guarantees that instruction on this project would start in the first quarter of 2022.
 So one of the things, Representative Swartzwein, that I'd like to bring to everyone's attention is that there is also consideration if we do not start that, as you're familiar with, the Paso del Norte right now, we're currently constructing the roundabout.
 And so if you're asking for us to stop, that project is going to finish in late fall. We're going to stop, remobilize, and then come back in lieu of finishing two projects in a timely manner. But we can, as we did with the roundabout, if I could finish, sir. If we, like we did with the roundabout, um,
 We can start in January. We will work with the stakeholders. That's the reason why we reached out. With contract execution, it doesn't happen overnight. So there's no way that I could start, even if I wanted to, there's no way I could start tomorrow. So the lead in to notify DMD and to brief the council was to already start that groundwork. And if it happens that ideally it is January,
 we can move that out. If based upon the PDN, based upon Route 375 that's slated to start next week, given the coordination that needs to happen, now's the time to have those conversations. So that's where I'm opening up the conversation with CBA, DMD, and if it needs to move out to January, if that's the ideal scenario, we can do that.
 So, yeah, so I mean, I guess from an engineering perspective, it probably makes, you know, not going to question what you brought up, but from a sort of more of a holistic approach towards the ecosystem that is our downtown, that is our ports of entry, that's Siglin-Livario. I'm extremely, extremely concerned about starting this project, finishing one project that has probably affected those businesses near El Paso Street and Siglin-Livario by our ports of entry improvements.
 stopping that project and starting another one and not even giving those businesses the opportunity to have...
 a winter and a holiday and a Christmas season for the customers that they have or could possibly have. And so even though there might be some cost efficiencies or whatever with continuing with this project, you're talking about possibly putting in the final nail in the coffin for a lot of downtown businesses. And I can't support this project right now without knowing and knowing certain terms that this project would start in the first quarter of 2022. Yeah.
 And that's just where I'm at. And we could go back and forth in circles about what needs to be coordinated. There's one project that's going to be wrapping up. But at the end of the day, our downtown, our segundo barrio, are both precious, unique places in our ecosystem, in our economy.
 and even though it might slow things down a little bit from an engineering perspective, it will probably go and save people's livelihoods by waiting till the first quarter of 2022 to start this necessary and important but disruptive project in our downtown core. So what I can commit to Representative Schwarzwein, which we did with Paso del Norte, we were ready to go and listening to the stakeholders working with the community along El Paso Street
 we did move that project out. So it is definitely at the forefront of our attention that we will take care of our businesses, we will provide them access, and we will try to inconvenience as minimal with a negative impact to our business. So yes, that is my commitment to you and to the stakeholders that we will consider their feedback and the unnecessary...
 hardship that they've had to deal with COVID. So that is my commitment for this project. Thank you, Representative Schwarzwein, Mayor Pro Tem. Representative Hernandez, please. Hi, Mr. Hernandez. For the company that is being awarded this contract, Lesna, I haven't had any experience working with them. And so I took a look at the city's awarded contracts. So I see that they've had a couple smaller projects.
 So this project seems to be very, very large in terms of not only funding, but in, you know, in terms of like the needed outreach. And so I just want to caution city staff to say that, you know, we're working in our downtown. Our contractor has to have has to go above and beyond, as you stated already. Communication has to be solid.
 work with pedestrians and with neighboring associations. And there's a lot of groups down there that are very vocal. And so I want to make sure that the contractor is aware that there is going to be much needed public engagement and support so that the entire area feels comfortable.
 And so, you know, it just gives me a lot of hesitation when I see these big projects with the company that we don't work a lot with. You know, I haven't worked with personally, so I just wanted to make sure that that's front and center of your mind and that it's going to have to be on par, up to par, the work that they're doing with the public.
 Correct. Representative Hernandez, whether it was one of our larger firms that it's a household name in the City of El Paso or whether it's less know that is not as familiar, we would treat
 each contractor with that same type of attention to detail hand-holding we understand how important a downtown project is and one of just for the benefit of everyone's knowledge one of the luxuries that I have as a federally funded project is that the inspectors are dedicated full-time so I have someone out on the site I don't have to share them with another construction project
 I'm able to keep them out on site. So that importance to keeping in communication with the contractor is duly noted and we will make sure to provide that extra attention to detail given the magnitude of this project and location. Okay, thank you for the clarification. Appreciate it. Thank you, Representative. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Ms. Pryor?
 Yes, there is a motion and a second to award the solicitation on item number 38 on that motion mayor pro tem shorts line representative on LL Yes Sorry Representative so see those not present Rodriguez. Yes Rivera please. I don't know abstain thank you, and the motion passes with five affirmative votes and
 Representative Schwartzwein voting nay, Representative Salcido not present, and Representative Lizarra abstaining. The remainder of council voting aye. The motion does pass. The next item is number 39. This is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from RF Ranch and Farm and PRIC plan residential with conditions to GMU general mixed-use and GMUC general mixed-use conditions and approving a master zoning plan.
 And this is south of Artcraft Road and east of Westside Drive. Motion to approve. Second. Motion and a second. There is a motion and a second to approve. There's no public comment on this item. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido is not present. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arga.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 41. This is discussion in action on a resolution that the City Manager be authorized to sign a memorandum of understanding between the City of El Paso and El Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board by which EP Water will transfer approximately 306 acres of land to the City. Move to approve. Second. If you'll be able to get a presentation on this, please. Good morning again, Mayor and Council. This is Jerry DiMura with the Capital Improvement Department.
 Thank you. This is a discussion of the property that we're proposing to locate the Joint Police and Fire Training Academy, Fire Department Headquarters, and the Fire Vehicle Maintenance and Logistics Center. Next slide, please. The presentation will include a project overview, the outreach that we perform to date, and our proposed schedule. Next slide.
 The location is approximately at Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Officer Andrew Barsena Drive. It is located in District 4. The property will be, I term the property the campus, public safety campus, because it will include police training facilities, fire training facilities, a logistics and vehicle maintenance center for the fire department, and the headquarters for the fire department.
 all funded by the public safety bond. The project is being completed as a design bill that will minimize the risk to the city and hopefully accelerate the schedule. Next slide, please. Project location, as I mentioned, is Officer Andrew Barsena Drive and Martin Luther King.
 This is the North Hills development in District 4. The property, the 300 and some odd acres, is in the caption photo outlined in a dashed line with the approximate location of the training facilities and campus to be located in the lower left-hand corner of the inset, and that would be the southernmost portion of the property. Next slide. Oh, I'm sorry, stay there, go back one.
 So the city looked at and evaluated a number of properties. They selected this property because it offers an opportunity to conserve open space while ensuring trails and amenities are not impacted. It's accessible for major transportation thoroughfares. It has the available stormwater and utility infrastructure, and the land is held in E.P. Water's inventory, through which a memorandum of understanding with E.P. Water allows transfer to the city for 25% of the appraised value. Next slide, please.
 The Academy will be surrounded by dedicated open space. So you see highlighted in the yellow box, that's the approximate location of the 306 acres that will be dedicated for the Academy use. The Academy will occupy approximately 50 to 75 acres only. So not only will there be open space around it, there will be sufficient open space around it to buffer from the surrounding community as well as from the recreational uses.
 The area outlined in blue is also held in EP Water's inventory. It's approximately 1,200 acres that we are working with EP Water to dedicate that property in perpetuity to open space. So for the price of 300 acres, we will be getting approximately 1,400 acres of open space. Some other features with regard to the property, the parking area can be used by trail users during non-business hours.
 The location offers some security presence near the trailheads and open space, and both quality of life and public safety bond funding is being used to maximize open space and potentially funding to improve the access road to the Roundhouse Trail. Next slide please. The trailhead locations, Roundhouse Trail is here,
 on the lower right part of your screen, and Lazy Cow is in the upper corner of the property. Again, the area surrounded in the yellow square is the total 300 acre parcel. The academy will be located in the lower left hand corner. Next slide, please.
 Some of the Academy amenities, they will be fire training props, an indoor shooting range, a swift water rescue pool, classrooms and an auditorium, fitness gym, a simulation room, police tactical training facility, a mock courtroom, emergency vehicle training area, and Academy, as I mentioned, will be co-located with the Fire Department HQ and the Fire Vehicle and Maintenance Logistics Center. These photos in these pictures are renderings and an aerial shot of facilities and other facilities
 parts of the state. Our new facility will be designed to complement the open space using natural materials that are complementary to use so they do not stand out and have a great visual impact. Next slide, please. These are example police training amenities. You have an indoor shooting range.
 the vehicle emergency response vehicle training area a pool and this area in the upper left corner is known as a Hogan's alley it's basically a town downtown setting in which police can practice entering and other drills. I'm sorry I can't hear anything. Right we need it out there.
 Representative Hernandez, did you hear anything? Where did it drop off? Right when you went to the slide. Okay, so you can hear me now? Yes. Okay. So I was just going over example police training amenities. This is the picture in the upper left corner is known as a Hogan's Alley. It's basically a mock town or community in which police can practice their entry and exit and response strategies. This is an example of an indoor shooting range.
 an emergency vehicle response training area and a pool to train for rescue. Next slide please.
 These are example fire training props. Generally, you have a mock-up of an automobile in which automobile fire extinguishing can be practiced. Also, maybe some vehicles that the jaws of life can be practiced, and then they typically have what they call a burn building, which the burn building has a number of access points and a number of constricted entries, railings,
 balconies, etc. so that they can practice using equipment to get in and out of the various locations of the building. The burning part, all the fires that will be extinguished as part of training will be fueled by propane. There will be no large visible plumes of smoke as you may be used to for common aircraft training areas in the military. Next slide, please.
 We've had significant outreach. We met with the Bond Oversight Advisory Committee on December 7th and again on April 19th. We met with the Open Space Advisory Board on May 12th. We elected to have a subcommittee made up of three members of the BOAC and three members of the Open Space Advisory Committee to discuss in detail our plans for the property and the proposed location of the Academy facilities. We had a public meeting with the North Hills neighborhood
 It was presented to City Council on June 22nd as part of the award of the A&E Services Contract, and we held a community meeting with interested parties in the community on July 1st.
 The neighborhood OSAP and BOAC overwhelmingly support the use of the property because it maximizes the acquisition of open space. There was no opposition from the North Hills neighborhood and the community meeting. There was very little opposition to our proposed plans. Next slide, please.
 project schedule the property acquisition is ongoing through the memorandum of agreement which we're asking for approval today we will begin facility programming we began in may and that'll probably take at least six months to complete we will initiate design builder selection in december of 21 with with award of the design build contract in june of 22 and design and construction is estimated to take two years from july 2022 to january 2024. next slide please
 Our project contact team our project team will be led by Daniel Garcia in the capital improvement department. Next slide. And that's that's the end of my presentation. Are there any questions. DIRECTOR DEWOLF- Yes sir thank you for your presentation. We have Representative Molinaud followed by Mayor Potan. DIRECTOR POTAN. DIRECTOR MOLINAUD Thank you Mayor. I'd like to begin with Mr. Yamuro have you or your team reviewed the FEMA maps for this area. I know there is a retention dam there just west of this area.
 But has there been a study or collaboration on that to make sure that it's not necessarily the new FEMA maps floodplain flood zone? We will be looking at those as part of the preliminary design. I personally have not looked at them as of yet. We are aware of the dam structure, which is uphill of the facility. And one of the reasons we are locating it in the area of the property that we are is to take advantage of that storm situation.
 stormwater management measure so we don't have to have largely expensive stormwater infrastructure. Thank you. My next statement here to comment, Ms. Neiman, you can help me out on this. I would amend this item, number 41, for the rest of the property, the buffer area, to enact a conservation easement. If that's too early, please let us know.
 So Representative Molina, enacting a conservation easement requires that we have specific boundaries through a survey. I think that what you're proposing is that council consider moving forward in that direction because it places a restriction on specific land. So we would need to decide what size the buffer was. Okay, but based on the presentation, is that a start point or not?
 Yes, I think that if that's what you would like to propose to council that you could ask that that conversation happen and then you counsel direct staff to move forward in that direction. Okay. If I may, if I may, Sir Elizabeth Triggs, one of the one of the items contained in the MOU that you're considering approving through this particular item on the agenda.
 is a commitment from the city and the water utility to within 180 days preserve the land as dedicated open space. So I want you to know that that is part of the agreement with this MOU. And through that process, I'm sure we'll be looking at the different methods for preserving open space. But it is a commitment in the MOU as of currently drafted.
 Okay, so the MOU began the process, but in perpetuity, do we need the conservation easement? So I think that that's going to be part of the discussion is how we go about doing that and how we go about ensuring that it is preserved as open space in perpetuity. But it is certainly a priority and a concern, which is why the language was included in the MOU and a deadline of 180 days. Thank you. So once again, I would like to...
 amend this item 41 to include a conservation easement. Thank you. Now, Ms. Prime, there's a motion and a second. Do they need to amend their motion and second? There is a motion made by Representative Molinar to amend the item. Seconded by Representative Shorespine. That would have to be voted on first. Okay, thank you. So there's a motion and a second to amend the- We still have a couple questions, I'm sorry. We have Representative,
 Mayor Pro Tem and then we do have Representative Redden on this. Thank you. So I want to thank staff for this and there was a really great presentation that we had with members of the public last week that myself and Representative Molinar had attended to list of the concerns.
 and one of the things that I had publicly committed to was bringing to council the need for this land for the remaining 1400 acres to have a conservation easement placed on that land. So I want to applaud Representative Molinar for taking the initiative to bring this in to amend this current item to make sure that we be in the process of a conservation easement, something that we have seen
 done already with the NAP land as well as the Lost Dog Trails. It should be something that staff as well as our community is familiar with as being the best and ultimate tool to preserve open space in perpetuity. The concerns from some of the community is that
 we are perhaps losing some open space that would otherwise be left undisturbed. And I think based upon what we have seen here as a council and the fight that others in the community have had for over 20 years, in some cases in preserving open space, this opportunity to
 get 1400 acres for essentially the price of 300 is something that we should look at. We know that development pressures are occurring directly across the street on MLK and those neighbors and there's nothing to there's nothing to guarantee that land west of MLK would not be developed in the medium or short term future. And so working with
 BOAC and working with OSEP and the community, as well as El Paso Water. I think this presents a very unique opportunity for our city to do two of our strategic goals. One is to make sure that we keep public safety and our police and firefighters, we keep our promise to them, we keep the promise to the voters that voted overwhelmingly for these public safety bonds.
 as well as keeping the promise of preserving open space. We have seen very clearly the amount of interest and excitement that there is in our outdoor spaces, in our potential ecotourism, which is in our strategic plan. And I feel that this creative approach towards both preserving open space, over 1,400 acres, which is larger than the Lost Dog Trail,
 proposition, which was close to 1100 acres, is something really unique and wonderful for this community and for this Council to move forward on. I just had a couple questions in terms of steps forward and thinking about this as well.
 I know that there was a number of positive comments from members of OSAP and BOAC that had a chance to do it. One in particular was Dr. Bonhart that was there. I don't know if staff has any sort of add-ons about some of the comments from OSAP and BOAC when this plan was being brought forward to them.
 I'm not sure if they officially voted on it but kind of curious just to give the rest of council who wasn't at the meeting with Dr. Bonnard and other members of OSAP and BOAC had spoken positively about that to give a better sense of context the item was originally presented in executive session so the parcel ownership etc. wasn't disclosed to the members of BOAC and OSAP and after that discussion
 We requested that we form a subcommittee that would help us figure out where the footprint of the facility should be. And OSAP and BOAC were the ones that actually cited the footprint in that lower corner, the southernmost corner of, southeasternmost corner of the property. We were due to present the full concept to BOAC at the last BOAC meeting, but unfortunately that meeting was canceled, so it'll be presented at the next BOAC meeting.
 both BOAC and OSAP members spoke very, very highly of the idea. Dr. Bonhart in particular indicated that that we'd be silly not to look into this and not not to go forward with this. Members of the
 board of the mountain bike association who are also on the open space advisory committee spoke very highly for it. There was no objection at all within the subcommittee of BOAC or the subcommittee or the combined subcommittee of BOAC and OSAP. And all members in attendance there, there were Dr. Bonhart and three members from OSAP.
 all spoke in favor of the plan. In addition, I appreciated that Representative Molinar and Representative Swartz-Might also spoke very favorably of the plan.
 I just want to say, Mayor Pro Tem, San Luis Rios City Engineer, we did do a full briefing to both boards and executive session as well as City Council on this proposed location. And part of the commitment and the feedback that we received from both boards and the subcommittee is that they want to be very keenly involved in the actual design of the facility to look at materials, to look at the site layout.
 so that they have good feedback, so they can provide good feedback as to what the final facility will look like. So we're going to be committed to that as well, to have that public input and charrettes with them as well as the public.
 as to the final design and material selection for the facility. Yeah, I do want to again clarify for the record that Dr. Bonar did use the term it would be silly not to take advantage of this offer. He did use the term silly. That kind of led to my second question is we've brought up about this public safety bond infrastructure that this is going to be probably the biggest tranche of investment in our community probably for the next 30 years.
 I know that we're already looking at having it LED certified. I just again want to just sort of stress the need to make sure that we can look at passive solar in terms of orientation to the sun as a design element for this, for the buildings, making sure that these buildings are solar ready so that if there are future grants,
 federal state funding opportunities for renewable or solar energy that these buildings are ready to have that opportunity as well and i also think too again i think you you touched upon it sam was making sure that the sensitive that the design of these facilities is environmentally sensitive and aware in terms of it sort of blending into the sort of natural open space
 that it's in, right? That if you look at other facilities that the City has, that the State has in the State Park, you know, the colors, the term, the kind of materials, making sure that it's very sort of sensitive to where it's being built.
 And I think that there's an opportunity to do that as well. The last comment that I have is I know that there has been discussion, not anything final in terms of the final orientation of where these buildings are within the open space. I just would like to just state again that I know myself and Representative Vanello hear complaints from residents from time to time with the current police training academy office, scenic drive and the sort of sounds that are there.
 Um, that are associated with training and with new academies. I understand that the shooting range and other facilities will be indoors, but I just think in terms of the final orientation for this facilities, um, we should just be aware of their orientation, not just towards, uh,
 existing infrastructure in terms of utilities, but also in terms of its orientation towards existing neighborhoods as well. I really think that this is a project, again, with the appropriate...
 with the appropriate actions from this body, such as the placing of a conservation easement and others, that this can really go and preserve an incredible amount of open space for future generations of El Pasoans, while also keeping the promise to our voters and to our firefighters and policemen as well. I don't know if you can bring up that one slide that shows the entirety of the open space purchase.
 But again, this is going to be many, many acres, 1,400 acres that are going to abut MLK and the new developments that will be going across the street so that those families that are already living in the Northeast and future families will have access to our mountains and have access to our open space, whether to go for a walk or go for a bike ride. And they'll be able to have that access forever.
 And I think this is a great opportunity that, again, I think strives for an appropriate balance between that, between those two goals for our community. Thank you, Mayor Pritam.
 I do want to add, I neglected to mention that with the fact that there are some facilities located on the property that will not be quote training facilities, we would try to actually locate them in such a manner so that they would buffer the training facilities somewhat from the abutting neighborhoods. In addition, there is already planned to be a buffer. I don't have the acreage on the southernmost boundary where it bounds with the North Hills neighborhood.
 And I think in terms of the design, obviously, I think the closer you get towards MLK is probably going to be more advantageous in terms of keeping the sanctity of the open space and the existing trails while also, again, providing a buffer from some of the existing neighborhoods there as well.
 And again, I think our proposed approach is to have design charrettes with all the stakeholders to include the subcommittees of both boards. They ask that we include them in that process and we will. And I think we'll be able to iron out a really great facility that will complement the open space. It's a great area if you have not been out there with a roundhouse. It's something that we're definitely looking forward to add to it with this facility. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Hernandez.
 Thank you for the presentation, Mr. Jamerrill. I do have some questions regarding the MOU, and I just want, for the purpose of the public, to understand what the action is that City Council is taking today.
 And so the action today is to transfer 306 acres from the utility to the city of El Paso, and we're purchasing that for $1.3 million. That purchase price, when was an appraisal done? How did we come to those dollar amounts? I'm going to let Ms. Jiggs speak to that.
 Sure, Liz Strig, Strategic Partnerships Officer. So per our joint resolution with El Paso Water, we can periodically ask for land transfers when we need them for a public facility, as well as for other reasons, but in this case, a public facility.
 When that happens, the water utility will then do an appraisal on the property, and then we can agree to transfer the property to our inventory for 25% the appraised value of that property. So we did follow that process. Water conducted an appraisal in the last month, so it is a recent appraisal on the property.
 The full value of the appraisal was just a little over 5 million and 25% that value is what we are purchasing the property for today. And to clarify, the 300 acres is what is being appraised? Yes, ma'am, that's correct. It was 306 acres that was appraised. Okay, and then the remainder 1,200 acres of land, if this action passes today as is,
 We the utility will have 180 days to preserve it as open space per the ordinance of open space. Correct. And so if we pass this, that'll be in effect until council takes any other action for efforts for conservation easement.
 Right. So my recommendation there would be that that 1200 acres is staying with the water utilities inventory at this time. And again, we have agreed that within 180 days, the water utility will preserve it as open space through dedicated open space to the city. So my recommendation today would be to approve the MOU as is because it is something the water utilities reviewed and is comfortable with.
 But then also have a separate motion that directs staff to work with the water utility to pursue a conservation easement over those 1200 acres. I think that that keeps it simple, but still accomplishes the goal of preserving the property in perpetuity via an easement. Okay.
 Um, that's very helpful. Thank you for for giving that recommendation. Um, and so I would, I would leave it to the representative for the area for that consideration. Uh, Representative Molina, I believe. And, uh, my final question of the 306 acres, how much of that is actually being proposed to be developed, um, for actual public facilities for the, um, combined center, the combo center?
 at this time we don't have an exact but other other localities in the state and in other locations generally estimate between anywhere from 50 to 80 acres so out of that 300 acres it'd be about 50 to 80 acres and initially we may we may
 We may find the need in 15 years to add space so we would preserve the amount of acreage that we would need to add space from the outset. So for example, if we started with 50 acres, we would preserve that 100 acres or the 300 acres still around it would still be existing. Will that be designated as open space? Yes, ma'am. This action today?
 Yes. The areas that would not be well I guess you wouldn't be able to do that until you have a design. So could that be a future action that the remainder of this space be deemed open space. I think that's what we are committed to doing. I don't know whether it's in the motion per se.
 It's not in the motion, it's not in the agreement because we need to go through the final site layout before we can finalize what the actual development will be within the 300 acres before we can commit to releasing the balance for open space. But that's the intent is that once we secure those 5,200 acres for the development of the site, then the balance, which in essence would be over 200 acres, would then be additional buffer space to the open space area around there. And that's in essence adding to the open space.
 Right. And I just, you know, I would hate to have a future proposal that would come back to say, oh, we have this extra space, let's let development happen on it. And so, which is why I'm asking if there's an opportunity to designate the city's portion of the land at 300 acres as open space as opposed to any future development.
 Yeah, we can certainly include that in the separate motion that Elizabeth talked about to pursue a conservation easement and the balance of the development within the 300 acres. And that will give us the directive to pursue that once we finalize the actual final site layout, if that works with council. Okay. For Representative Muller and Allers' consideration as well. Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez, Mrs. Triggs, DeMuro for the presentation. Thank you, Representative Nundis. With that, we have a motion and a second. Mr. Bryan, Mr. Mayer.
 Mayor Poteau? Yeah. So I guess I'm a little bit confused. I mean at the end of the day the best surefire aware way to preserve this land in perpetuity is with the conservation easement. Even if it stays in the inventory of El Paso Water even if the designation of the changes is dedicated open space defining the uses and
 and defining the uses of it and going through the conservationism process is ultimately going to be what is going to prohibit and give the best chance to prohibit any future development on this land for any future council or mayor into the future by that. And so I'm trying to understand, first of all, what Ms. Trigg's recommendation is, and then ultimately what is the motion on the floor right now.
 Sure. So I'll repeat, Elizabeth Triggs. So my recommendation is that the MOU be approved as is. It does include the commitment to preserve the 1,200 acres that are not part of the 306 transfer to preserve those as public open space and dedicate them to the city as public open space. That is something that the water utility has reviewed and is comfortable with.
 and then separately to do a motion that would then direct staff to work with the water utility to put a conservation easement on the 1200 acres plus the balance of the 300 that isn't ultimately used for a public facility. That way we ensure we can effectuate the land transfer
 Council's approval through the MOU that's already been reviewed by water. And then at the same time, we'll be working on the conservation easement. If there's an amendment to the MOU, we're going to need to go back to the water utility, make sure they're comfortable with it, and then we'll have to come back to Council. So it just could delay. It could be delayed.
 it could delay the process. So I guess I have a question for legal, is that there's the ability to create a separate motion to direct staff to begin the process of establishing a conservation easement on the 1,200 acres and the remaining 300? Yes, that's what I had recommended to Mr. Molina.
 that it would be a separate process, not tied to the motion due to the delay that it would cause, as Ms. Triggs just explained. Okay, so I guess, Ms. Pryor, what is currently the motion on the floor that Representative Molinar had made and that I had seconded? That was an amendment to the resolution to direct staff to begin the process to include a conservation easement on the land.
 So then. Okay, Ms. Brian, at this time, I can withdraw that, amend it, and go back to the original item as written. All right. Then I would, Ms. Brian, if possible, I'd like to make a motion to instruct staff to begin the process of establishing a conservation easement on the 1,200 acres and the remaining of the 300 acres of this parcel. We'll have to take action on the first motion. Ms. Brian? Yes.
 I believe. Yes. Because it is. DIRECTOR MACKENZIE I'll second. I'll second Representative Molinar's first motion. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Well I thought he. DIRECTOR MACKENZIE Representative Molinar withdrew his amendment. Is that correct. Representative Molinar. DIRECTOR DEWOLF Representative Schwartzbein's motion. DIRECTOR MACKENZIE That's correct. I withdrew my amended motion. However I went back to the original motion and now Representative Schwartzbein is doing the second motion.
 and represented on this second uh molinar's first motion and so we'll represented tamale not had already withdrawn his motion so the only motion we have right now is
 Representative Shortsvine has made a motion. I thought Representative Molinar said, I'll withdraw my motion or make a motion to stay with the second, with the original motion and I thought that's what Representative Hernandez seconded. Originally Representative Molinar made a motion to approve and it was seconded by Representative Rivera. Okay. That was the original motion was to approve.
 Made by representative Molina seconded by representative Rivera representative Molina withdrew his amendment and now we have Representative Schwartz fine. So we still have the original motion second by representative Rivera. That's correct, sir. Okay good But the motion that I made would be voted on first. Yes, sir would be after the motion Correct
 Well, Representative, the motion to approve would be taken last since it's the main motion. Okay. And Ms. Prine, did you hear my second of Representative Schwarzbein's motion? No, ma'am, thank you for that. Now we got it. Okay, so now we can take the vote on Representative Schwarzbein's motion to direct staff to work with El Paso Water Utilities to include a conservation easement on the 1,200 acres and remaining of the 300 acres of land, is that correct?
 Yes, and that was seconded by Representative Anello. Yes. So on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Thank you, Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. And that motion passes unanimously.
 Now there's a motion and a second to approve the resolution as originally posted. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizaga. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 That's a good job on that, Ms. Prine. Mayor, thank you. Did you want to pause for three minutes for a call to the public before getting into the next item, which may be lengthy? Yes, ma'am. Okay, so we'll see. Excuse me, Mayor. Could we reconsider an item before we move on? Yes, ma'am. You'll have to help me with the number because I'm going back on the agenda to look at the agenda item. Excuse me. Item 34, that's the one Representative Manello is interested in.
 Is that OK Representative Manalo would you like to wait. Yes we can do that now. Thank you. I move to reconsider item number 34. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconsider item number 34 all in favor. Aye. Yes. Aye. Representative Manalo. Anyone opposed.
 The motion passes. We're back on item number 34, which is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2021-1200 Liz Moraima Park Improvements to Horizon Construction Limited.
 So I would ask Council if we can postpone this for two weeks. There's been some concern with the community on some of the design elements. I know that the budget has been set for this but I want to be able to meet with staff to make sure that if future funding, whether CDBG or city funding becomes available, the design is adequately done to be able to retrofit future improvements. So I want to make a motion to postpone for two weeks. Second.
 There is a motion and a second to postpone item number 34 for two weeks. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Council will pause for just one minute so we can begin call to the public, please. We have...
 Council, if you'll please turn on your cameras so we can secure a quorum, we can get started with call to the public. Thank you. We now move to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city, and these meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons,
 without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or groups in character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda.
 This afternoon we have two members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Mr. Ismael Herrera. His topic is Complete Streets Ordinance. Good afternoon, Mr. Herrera. Star 6 will unmute your telephone so you can begin speaking for three minutes. Good afternoon. My name is Ismael Herrera, and I'm an associate state director with AARP Texas. Good afternoon. I advocate for older adults and their families.
 And I lead AARP's work in El Paso alongside active AARP volunteers. And on behalf of the association's more than 42,000 members in the El Paso area, AARP is a member of the El Paso Complete Streets Coalition. And we're asking you to bring forward the Complete Streets Ordinance for the city of El Paso.
 Complete streets play an integral part in creating age-friendly communities, communities that are inclusive and considerate of the perspectives of the residents of all stages of life. Cars are a part of reality in Texas, however people should have the viable option of choosing other forms of transportation. A complete street is usable by all roadway users, whether they're driving, riding, walking, or bicycling. Streets with wide
 sidewalks safe bike lanes and natural shade create spaces that allow communities to flourish complete streets have a wide range of benefits from helping el pasoans exercise while commuting to helping businesses thrive from increased variety of traffic most importantly complete streets are safer designing roads for cars only or and for high speeds dramatically increases the likelihood that a pedestrian will be struck by a vehicle and killed
 People between the age of 50 and 65, and especially people over 75, are overrepresented in pedestrian fatalities caused by vehicles. In addition to older adults, people of color and individuals in low-income communities are disproportionately represented in fatal crashes involving pedestrians.
 At the same time, I want to emphasize that making streets safer and friendly benefits everyone, from the older adult with a walker or with limited mobility, to the tourist or business traveler with heavy luggage, to the young parent with a stroller and little ones in tow. Improving the city's infrastructure creates safer spaces for even the youngest pedestrian. So that's why El Paso Complete Streets Ordinance is critical for all El Paso. Thank you for your time and consideration.
 Thank you, Mr. O'Reilly. And the next speaker is Mr. Nahum Apodaca. His topic is also Complete Streets Ordinance. Mr. Apodaca, star 6, to unmute your telephone, please. Mr. Nahum Apodaca. Mr. Apodaca, star 6, will unmute your telephone. Mayor, I don't see Mr. Apodaca's phone number in the queue, or I don't see any other phone numbers unmuting the microphone. Thank you, Mr. Payne.
 That concludes call to the public. We return to the regular agenda. We're on page 19, item number 42. This is discussion, update, and action on the regular session of the 87th Texas Legislature and its future special legislative sessions. Good afternoon. Elizabeth Trigg, Strategic Partnerships Officer. So this will be a presentation by Snapper for Focused Advocacy, our state lobbyist.
 He'll be reviewing the 87th regular session and then talking in more detail about the upcoming special session which begins tomorrow. So I'll go ahead and turn it over to Snapper.
 Council, thank you. Snapper, Carr, General Counsel with Focused Advocacy. Mayor, thank you for the time today. Council, we certainly have some almost breaking news for you all. This discussion today was really a bit of a follow-up from the board
 briefing that Lupe Cuellar gave y'all with regards to some of your specific agenda items that were considered and dealt with in various forms in the 87th regular session. As I think you all are aware, the governor has called a special session. And for those listening, of course, the governor is the only one with the authority to call special sessions.
 in the state of Texas and also sets the overall agenda for those session by issuing a special session proclamation or a call that lists the various issues that will be considered during that time. So a fair amount of today and we've added, there is some information that I think staff has afforded to you all since this started because the proclamation was actually issued during the course of this current session.
 meeting that you're having. The session begins tomorrow at 10 a.m. in Austin and can last for up to 30 days. They do not have to last 30 days. The governing body officers and the bodies themselves, the House and Senate, can choose to adjourn with the proper motions from the session at any point. Typically, they do go
 to near their time. So with that, we will dive right in. If we could have the next slide, please.
 Oh, and I would have been remiss. Staff has sent you all the proclamation that the governor issued. It should be in your inboxes now. We did not have that in this presentation because obviously it was just now issued. We do have some slides coming up that will talk about some of the predicted issues and they did in fact make it into the call. Leadership for the state remains unchanged.
 The governor, Lieutenant Governor Speaker Dave Phelan, our new speaker who just completed his first session. And then Comptroller Glenn Hager plays a significant role in the regular session with regards to budget adjustments.
 items and the amount of available revenue the state has to appropriate. As we get into further in discussion, that topic of appropriated revenue, federal funds, and some other appropriation items will be central to this special too. So his role will continue with regards to letting them know how much money they have.
 The overall partisan makeup, you can see, remained largely unchanged from the previous election cycle and didn't have, the election cycle itself did not have a tremendous effect upon the overall governance this session. I would note that there was a change and a gain for one Democrat
 which was meaningful. It went from an R to a D seat, the special election in San Antonio in the Bexar County elected Roland Gutierrez to take over a House member. So he just conducted his first session as a Senator.
 I would note that the Senate operating rules did change so that they more matched up with the partisan alignment of the Republicans' numbers. And that's the second time in our state's history that we've altered what was known as the Rule of 21 originally, which is patterned after the United States filibuster rule. And so in Texas, we have altered that rule twice already.
 along partisan numbers to allow for items to be considered because without it, they can't be brought to the Senate floor. Next slide. Your delegation has been doing a tremendous job. And by that, they've really taken on some serious workload in the Texas legislature. Obviously, you have a delegation that is...
 Democratic in their party affiliation, but at the same time, they've been given very significant positions of power and responsibility to deal with. And their committee assignments are such that El Paso's interest had been represented across a broad area of topics.
 Certainly, we have a new senator in Senator Blanco who was able to kind of
 to identify some areas to get improvement within certain bills. He's certainly serving on committees that are of great importance to the region. And I would say that is true of all of your delegation members. And having had a long working history with the El Paso delegation, even prior to working with the city, this current delegation,
 has shown a real intent on trying to be coordinated in their actions and efforts to try to represent not only the local government interests, obviously, and the issues that you find important, but those that they're dealt with for your entire community.
 I would note that Representative Mary Gonzalez's role in appropriations and vice chair of that. Again, we're going to have a very healthy discussion about the appropriations bill itself, even into this special session, and some appropriation items. So she will be very much in the discussion on those issues, if you will. And Speaker Prochem Moody,
 for the House, serves as the Vice Chair of the Calendars Committee, which sets bills for consideration on the floor.
 He also has been a very significant role in a large number of our civil and judicial criminal justice reform considerations, and then serves on redistricting. I would note that there was a new committee that was announced by Speaker Phelan very much in anticipation of this special session, still unknown as to exactly what items will be referred to that select committee,
 But the Select Committee on Constitutional Rights and Remedies was appointed by Speaker Phelan. It's a 15-person committee, and it is of note that Speaker Pro Tem Moody was one of the 15 members appointed to that. It is very likely that –
 It is very likely that issues related to constitutional concerns with regards to election issues, constitutional issues related to First Amendment rights, which we'll get into again here in just a minute when we talk about the specific items of the special session call.
 So again, a very active role in the overall discussions that are gonna go on in the house. Lastly, I would note that your former colleague on this council, Representative Ordaz-Perez has had a very successful session as well.
 She did what most freshmen do, which is start to form connections with other members, different parts of the state, and that become real critical, whether that's the members that are on her respective committees or
 but just in general, and her knowledge of local government issues were something that we leaned on and worked with her throughout session and look forward to doing that into the future as well. Next slide, please. Council, we're one away from losing a quorum. We're missing Representative Shortsvine, Anello, Rodriguez, and the Mayor stepped away for a minute. Thank you, Mr. Carr. Yes, ma'am. The next slide, please.
 I wanted to give a quick overview, and I know you all know this, but some of the drivers and what drove some of the discussion in session, what some of the leadership priorities were. And then, again, most of this discussion will now center around what we can expect with regards to the special session. All of these are somewhat interconnected in that they are the unfinished business or what they felt did not go far enough.
 with regards to some of the priorities that were staked out in the regular session. And I would note as we move forward, you all adopt an agenda for the 87th legislature. This is still the 87th legislature. It is the first called special of that. And so the policies and the positions that you all
 had in place and adopted will remain. The guiding document for review of bills and other actions and issues. We will today be noting some that we might ask y'all for some additional direction. Although we don't have specific bills, we will note the areas that we expect city to potentially be directly impacted in the discussions. So next slide, please.
 Some of the overall drivers of this last session and our current kind of makeup of the legislature, we again have a new speaker, Speaker Phelan. He, I think by all regards, got high marks for managing the House in a difficult session, a lot of big and difficult items and certainly unprecedented with regards to our next item, operations in the course of the pandemic and the effects.
 effect that it had on a 140-day session trying to be achieved. Certainly the George Floyd death and the protests that followed with regards to calls for criminal justice reforms early on seemed to be having it likely to have an even greater impact on the session.
 But, and then the discussion of election items as a result of the presidential and national elections drove some of the agenda. But I think the largest impact out of all of these was winter storm Uri. It affected three weeks of physical operations within the capital. And again, we're talking about 140 days. So when you are limited by two or three weeks
 and then the bandwidth that the legislature had to deal with and the focus quickly shifted to dealing with issues related to our electric utility grid and to the overall
 management of ERCOT and other utility issues within the state. And as I think I've mentioned previously, that winter storm event has become now the most costly event in state history to deal with some $50 billion in expenses and the largest insurance claim event in our state's history as well. So next item.
 By the numbers, we actually passed more bills this past session than we did some 400 more than the prior session. A lot of that occurred right at the end. Much of that, I would tell you, were what would be considered local and consent bills, the largest numbers.
 And roughly we had about the same number of bills traditionally that impact local government and specifically city operations that we do every time. And just to give you the historic context, you can go back to modern times.
 and roughly one-third of all bills introduced directly impact city operations in some form or fashion. There are certainly other issues beyond that that impact your communities that you represent and that you all have an interest and have expressed an interest in, but a good third of all bills introduced directly impact some department, your authority, or your overall operations in some manner.
 And a large number of those are filed right at the end of the deadline. So this isn't a spaced out process.
 We tracked over 2200 bills and constitutional amendments that would have directly impacted cities. Now, not all of those were as equal importance to you as others. And that's where some of the work and the effort to prepare you all and to align those with your adopted agenda was spent with Lupe, your staff, and us throughout. Next slide.
 I'm not going to go through all of these, but the listing that we have were the stated kind of reserved priority items for the Speaker, and then we also have for the Lieutenant Governor. It's indicative of what the legislature spent the majority of their time on. You'll see on some of these where it shows that they didn't pass, for example, the state budget, HB1.
 It was a Senate year, so Senate Bill 1 passed in lieu of HB 1. So not all of these were just not acted upon. They could have been incorporated in Senate actions or in other bills that accomplish some of the items. Some of these are items that are business uncompleted, if you will, or unfinished, or reasons that we have a special session starting tomorrow.
 primarily the election issues. But you will see here that there was, I would note, a very good bill, HB5, in helping expand broadband access statewide and to get a plan in place for the first time and some authority to help ensure that that happens, including identifying those areas that are in most need. So there was definitely some good bills
 issues related to ERCOT you will see HB 10 there were ERCOT bills Senate Bill 3 and Senate Bill 2 passed that related to ERCOT reforms and I know we've talked about those that primarily can also impact utilities in the Western Grid similar to how El Paso Electric operates as well and we are
 that we will likely see additional actions and discussions around some of the electric issues as well. The governor, in fact, just directed the PUC yesterday through a letter instructing them to take certain actions to ensure enough generating capacity and reliability is there for our needs as a state.
 And in some way, I think that might have been the governor's response to calls to have electric utility grid issues included on this call, which it was not at this time. That doesn't mean that it won't be over the course of this summer or this particular special session.
 The governor can add items and specific bills at any point with no notice other than just issuing an additional proclamation. Next slide, please. Again, kind of all of the issues that you're seeing here were areas that had some consideration during the course of this regular session.
 And you will note HB20 is the bail reform bill. That was the first item listed on the governor's proclamation. And will be a very big topic of discussion, our bail system and how it's administered as well. Next slide.
 We get to the Lieutenant Governor's item, and they are a lot of overlap, a great deal of overlap. However, I would note that the Lieutenant Governor has been already made calls to include prohibitions on as he calls it taxpayer funded lobbying. We call it community representation and working to prepare you all to engage. But that item so far has not been included on the special session call.
 We expect that there could be some consideration of it. I would note that Speaker Phelan, just within a couple of weeks of the special session being called, had indicated that on that item there that it had been considered by the House this past session and the prior session, and it was rejected immediately.
 and that he did not see in the special session the votes changing that would allow something that was a strict prohibition on local governments from engaging professionals in joining trade associations to cover these issues. So we will see that issue could very well come back up in a future special session in the fall.
 which we will get to a little more discussion as well in just a moment. SB12, you will note, is another unfinished business item from the lieutenant governor's perspective, a priority. This is having restrictions on social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, and the likes from being able to restrict certain activities.
 elected officials accounts and our issues from being discussed. And so that item was included on the governor's special session call. Again, we will talk about that in just a minute. Next slide. Again, a lot of direct overlap with regards to the overall issues that were priorities for the speaker.
 Again, I know that Lupe covered most of these. And the other one I wanted to note that was included out of the Lieutenant Governor's special session requests or priority items was Senate Bill 29, which is a discussion of issues related to participation in UIL sports by certain classes of individuals. Next slide please. The budget itself
 Certainly was, I think, a much bigger question mark heading into this session because of the revenue issues, not only with regards to the pandemic, but early on, as you recall, issues related to our revenues from our oil and gas and energy sector in this state, including at one point having the barrel of price of oil trading in the negative level, which I think, as of yesterday, they had a several-year high.
 high, 18-month high, with it now trading in the 70s. So our budget is greatly affected by some of those issues, certainly the falloff from revenues associated with hospitality and other issues. There was grave concern. In 2020, the comptroller projected a 4.6 budget deficit for this biennium.
 A large part of that, I think, was stemmed by better numbers in certain sectors on sales tax, and then ultimately a healthy infusion of federal relief funds, and maybe a quicker recovery of certain sectors than what the comptroller was originally projecting at the front end of the pandemic. He came out at the start of session with a $1 billion budget.
 budget deficit and then right at the end found a little bit additional money in his updated revenue to allow for the adoption of a 248 and a half billion dollar biennium budget cycle. The largest drivers of that public education, our health care system.
 which also was an asterisk by that, and I think is the reason that appropriation items, one of the reasons that appropriation items is also included on the special session call is consideration expenditure of federal funds in that arena, but also to potentially begin deliberations on how we deal with Texas section 1115 Medicaid waiver recension.
 and what we do with regards to that. It's a large driver in the budget. The state at the start of this cycle had an $11.6 billion rainy day fund. There were some uses that tapped into that this time, so it will lower that. Those were in essence loan programs related to certain securitization out of the winter event.
 and to help levelize some of that funding, but it was supposed to be paid back over time as we move forward, but that period could take upwards of 15 to 20 years. And those rules are still being written with regards to that. Next item, please. In addition to the special session that we have now,
 We are with certainty facing a special or will have a special session to address congressional, state legislative, and judicial redistricting in sometime most likely in mid-September of this year. The Federal U.S. Census Bureau is required by our Constitution to give data appropriate.
 allocation population data to the states by the end of 2020. That obviously didn't happen. They were granted relief because of the pandemic issues. There was also litigation over what would be included in that that led to some of those delays.
 It is now anticipated that we will either the last week of August, first week of September receive block data information that would allow for detailed maps consideration in a redistricting process to occur.
 The committees that are looking at demographic numbers and potential impacts to various regions are continuing. Those are the redistricting committees. And in fact, I think y'all received notice, but yesterday the House Redistricting Committee held a hearing that considered the demographics in different discussions as it related to the El Paso region in West Texas as a whole.
 The next item that we will have with regards to the redistricting is to have a more detailed discussion when we get the population data about where the two new congressional seats go that Texas received. We gained two congressional seats, some expected that we might have received upwards of three, but there will be two new maps and that'll be a heavy point of debate.
 One thing is certain that the redistricting process itself, much of the legislative process is setting up a record that will undoubtedly end up in federal and sometimes even state court with regards to redistricting issues. We still have litigation that's pending from our previous redistricting effort from a decade ago. Next slide, please. Finally, to the special session call.
 It is, we had it there in bullet point two that no proclamation is issued. That's obviously been issued today while y'all were in this meeting. It is somewhat unique to have a meeting
 proclamation issued this close to them convening usually they have a lead up to what is going to be there to allow some prep session however I think in this instance most people knew the main issues that being election integrity Senate bill 7 debate that has gained national attention and a national issue as you all know not just in Texas but around the country
 and bail reform issues. Those were pretty certain that we knew. There were a few surprises that were included and some that I think there are still questions as to exactly what will be considered. They're a little broad in nature, such as the appropriations items. One important issue that came about from session,
 was there was a discussion about
 The governor's role, HB3 was the primary bill in the disaster proclamations and in management in the pandemic setting, but in other disaster settings. That also very much got into what authority would be retained or changed from local governments, both cities and counties and others that particularly impose certain public safety and disaster-type operations. HB3 would have been a fairly significant...
 of some of the broader authorities that local governments have. And it was also very much a direct preemption or limitation, if you will, not preemption so much, of the governor's authority in some of the actions that they were critical of, particularly as it related to business operations and other areas that they looked to curtail that authority. That bill did not pass.
 However, one item that was much debated within the context of that was the role of the legislature in appropriating federal funds, relief funds, and being given an opportunity to have a say on how those funds are expended.
 That was included in the overall budget as a rider, so that they have to convene in a session and the legislature has to be given an opportunity to appropriate certain funds before the governor can take action similar to what occurred during the course of the pandemic in 2020. We expect both now in this current special session with appropriation items being on the list,
 and in the future special sessions in the fall that the issue of federal funds and relief funds will be considered in how they're applied to various communities and groups. Next slide. As we mentioned, I think now is probably a good time just to read through the exact, these were our projections for what we thought
 leadership would ask for in regards to this. But let me just let y'all know exactly what is on. So the governor issued the special session proclamation today in bail reform, election integrity, and
 Border security, and it says legislation providing funding to support law enforcement agencies, counties, and other strategies as part of Texas' comprehensive border security plan. Obviously that is one I think that will be of great interest to your community, obviously the state, but we'll have both opportunities potentially and some perils to monitor with regards to that discussion.
 The next item was social media censorship. The governor said legislation safeguarding the freedom of speech by protecting social media users from being censored by social media companies, regardless of the viewpoint being expressed. That, again, is an item I think will end up at least in the House over in that select committee for consideration, and it was a very hot topic, of course, during the overall session debate. Thank you.
 Probably the next item that the governor included is Article 10 funding. Article 10 is the legislative branch and legislative agencies that are funded under that branch to be restored. Of course, the governor vetoed that entire article. That is first time in state history that that's occurred and has now has a legal challenge that was filed by a number of legislative staffers
 primarily Democratic members, but a few Republican members too that signed on to a challenge to that authority and it's now pending for the Texas State Supreme Court to consider whether that was an appropriate use of line item veto.
 And I do not know when that will be acted upon with regards to the court consideration. But this clearly allows, if that funding is not restored by September 1, then all agencies under the legislative umbrella and legislative staff would no longer be funded in their salaries. Members of the legislature and their $600 a month.
 is dedicated by the state constitution. So that would continue. However, their staffs would no longer and their operations would no longer be funded. I think this will be one that is obviously quickly acted upon by the members themselves.
 to restore it. It's also, I think, noted that this has been talked about as an item that ensures members stay to have a proper quorum for discussion. At least that is the thinking of it as well. Family violence prevention is the other item
 item that the governor included. He vetoed a bill that related to this and put some specific concerns forward and saying he supported the concept and overall issue, but had issues with the overall bill. So this was giving them another opportunity at that.
 We mentioned the Senate Bill 29 discussion. Youth sports was included, and it says legislation identical to Senate Bill 29 as passed by the Texas Senate disallowing a student from competing in UIL athletic competitions designated for the sex opposite to the student's sex at birth.
 That item was included. Abortion inducing drugs, and specifically references Senate Bill 394 from this past session as being what he would like considered. The 13th check, and that is House Bill 3507, which provides for a 13th check or one time supplemental payment to our retired teachers.
 and their benefit plan included critical race theory and additional items similar to HB 3979, which passed and he signed into law, but we'll continue to look at that topic. And then the broad issue, and we've mentioned several times appropriations. It says the legislature and from their general revenue, so he opened up the overall budget,
 Obviously, they have to open the budget to look at Article 10 funding, but he listed three items specifically that he wanted them to address. And one was, and I will highlight it as a big question mark for us in the local government realm, which is this first item is property tax relief.
 His second item is enhanced protection for the safety of children in the Texas foster care system by attracting and retaining private providers for the system. And lastly, to better safeguard the state from potential cybersecurity threats, expenditure of cybersecurity funding for various agencies.
 So the property tax relief and the cybersecurity issue, I think, are ones that pretty directly impact local governments or could at least. Again, we're broad in nature and we're not sure what will be filed.
 There weren't really any unfinished business or big proposals with regards to property tax relief from this past session. So we can't look to bills that almost got there and know what might be being considered. Certainly in past, we have had issues where Senate Bill 2 or revenue cap type issues have been discussed in property tax debates. And so we will keep an eye out for that overall.
 the issues that we think, you know, cybersecurity obviously is another that is in the news and certainly affects our operations. A couple of items that I would note, again, that Senate Bill 10 type issues are not on the call and also not on the call is an extension of Chapter 313 Economic Development Agreements, which a number of members, and if you'll go to the next slide,
 the speaker has called for as well. I think those are issues that, again, could potentially be pressured by the governor to include them in discussions
 other issues, groups will call for certain items to be considered. I think there will be a healthy discussion about the need potentially for continued discussion about our electric system, particularly as we deal with the heat of the summer statewide and some of the conservation issues.
 even though some of these items at first blush might not look like they deal with the city directly or at least weren't as part of the regular session, I would note that in a special amendments and other items to kind of bring issues to the forefront are used and so for example on the election item Senate bill 7 um
 was not one that was real directly affecting your operations. However, there were other election bills that were filed during the course of the regular session that would have
 Two things I think that are potential in the discussion this time around. One is a mandate to set all local elections, city and county, in a November date statewide. That was one item that I think could come up as consideration. The other that was filed as a standalone bill was and has been discussed in some circles is a consideration of requiring
 affiliation for local, currently obviously nonpartisan elections similar to your council elections. And so that could come up in the form of, it wasn't included in the final version, certainly in the regular session, but it is something that I think we could flag to monitor for you all. Next slide, please.
 As we mentioned, the guiding principles and positions that you set forth in your adopted 87th agenda will still be how we review and kind of fit within categories the bills that are considered and filed during the course of this special. And I think it's important to note that although these topics are what they're limited to, members can still file and many will still file bills that fall outside of these issues.
 However, the legislature won't take action on those until and if that issue or bill specifically are included by the governor on a call. But you will receive notice from us as we start that this is, bills are being filed. And again, some of those are just in anticipation that these issues may be added to the next.
 Lupe wanted to make sure that you all had a chance and we wanted to raise that if there were any additional direction that you all wanted to, and I know you haven't had a great amount of time to review the special session topics that I just put forward. And again, there's not specific bills for consideration yet.
 to look at, but if there was any direction that you all wanted to give us with regards to these topics that have been set forth, particularly those that we think might impact city operations, we wanted to make sure to provide that opportunity or to have our greater dialogue on. Of course, as this develops, we're gonna be bringing issues in the bills and the topics back before you.
 both through updates and in public briefing as well. So I wanted to pause there if there were questions with regards to the special session activities right now in any of those topics. We have no questions in the queue right now. Perfect. Thank you, sir. Next slide, please.
 And that gets us to the end. I did want to, again, note that the special session definitely operates in a different manner. And some of it is a little more confined to just those committees that have the big topics. But with regards to this special session call, they have a pretty broad issue of topics now. This will be my 15th.
 special session. I was adding them up today. My first one participated in was called by Governor Richards and we are now in, Kurt has over 20 under his belt, so I don't feel as bad with that, but each one operates a little bit differently and they are also very impacted.
 by the issues at hand that the members are dealing with from these political fronts. And I think it's clear from the special session call that we have a pretty, what most people I think would label red meat issues on the call as well.
 And because of that, there sometimes is a great deal of contentiousness. And part of, I think, this special session will be understanding how the body is gonna operate and how the two chambers in particular are gonna interact with one another to address these topics. There are some people that have said, this is the start of what amounts to a special session from now until late November.
 I hope that's not the case, but that is certainly what is being discussed in and around Austin currently.
 So again, thank you. We look forward to our efforts with you this special, and we have for the successes that y'all had during the regular session. We look forward to work on unfinished business with you. Thank you. We do have a question, and I was going to ask you, now that you're ended, on the redistricting, the lack of...
 action so far or the timeline, do you see that in any way affecting the election coming up?
 There was actually, it very well could, Mayor, in the primary season and so forth. There was actually some legislation that was passed during the course of the regular that would grant certain authorities to Secretary of State and kind of lays out a process for dealing with that. In the past, we have had that very thing happen, the election that Senator Cruz prevailed in in his first election.
 election was a primary season that was dramatically delayed because of redistricting issues and very much think that that is a real potential. And of course, the congressional maps are ones that are dealt with by the legislator themselves. If they fail to produce maps on the
 legislative districts and their judicial maps, those go to the state legislative redistricting board, which are five statewide officials in the speaker, or four in the speaker, that would consider then and produce maps if the legislature failed in doing so. So let's say the primary does become affected by it, and I've tried to do research and look at it.
 registering for the election is will not be affected that's what I basically what I read it seemed to be that's what I saw the registration for the election where the dates would not be affected but the primary may be affected
 That is accurate. There is one caveat that the federal courts and state courts obviously can also issue orders that could either open up or extend filing. But that is, I think, the traditional method that has typically been followed, that the requirements to a file would remain in place. And so it would set the field. But knowing that there is a potential for delay.
 as well. But that is, I think, how it has traditionally been managed, and the intent would be, I think, on their part, would be to manage it that way going forward. However, court action, which often takes place with this, and did in that aforementioned election with Senator Cruz initially. Thank you for that information, Mayor Pro Temp.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you again, Snapper, for this brief, what seems to be some very interesting discussions. I'm not sure how relevant or productive they are for our state or for our city, but certainly interesting.
 I'm kind of curious about some of the different ones. For example, with reforming ERCOT, how is that going beyond sort of what was already sort of done already during the regular session and how could that affect the municipality, the utility that we oversee, El Paso Electric and other cities as well?
 Yes, and I mentioned there was a call. The lieutenant governor has been, and there will be, by the way, hearings that take place. There's one that's likely to occur next week in the Senate Business and Commerce Committee, which is the Senate committee that oversees the electric industry, and has a new chairman in Charles Schwartner from the Georgetown area. They will be looking at the current reforms. So there's ongoing rulemakings both at ERCOT.
 and at the PUC. We also are going to be getting the addition of two new commissioners to the PUC. They expanded that from a three-person body to a five, and we have new folks that are and will be appointed at ERCOT, too, and made that requirement so that everyone that serves on ERCOT is a resident of the state of Texas.
 But there have been calls for the governor to include electric issues on that list of special session items that I just mentioned. I think ahead of the special session, we saw yesterday that the governor, I think I referenced it, a letter that directed the PUC to order ERCOT to do certain things. And that primarily centered on the governor's
 focus on getting what we'll call more firm dispatchable power into our portfolio. And he specifically noted natural gas and other fossil fuel related plants that he wants to see expanded. I think natural gas would be the most likely. It's the predominant fuel source in Texas.
 And then to reform the issues related to ancillary services, which was a big cost driver. Those are costs that are also borne by, to some degree, by El Paso Electric and their participation in the market.
 in certain fees they pay, but not as directly as if you were in the ERCOT realm. But I think the overall focus in general and what the members realize now is that there has to be a discussion about how we increase our overall amount of generation. Lastly, in ordering the UC and ERCOT, the governor noted that he wanted to look at more ability for transmission issues
 and interconnection opportunities. And I think that's an area that will be considered. I would note that the letter in talking about reforming ancillary services directed the PUC to ensure that renewable sources such as wind and solar share in his belief their proportionate load of those costs. And that was a debating point
 during the course of session two. So these topics, although not on the call, are very much in activity right now at the PUC, at ERCOT, and I think with regards to all of the members being back, the State Affairs Committee is the relevant committee in the House, those committees are gonna be undertaking actions and activities. And primarily it's gonna be focused on how now do we deal with our overall generation plan,
 We can talk about a lot of other factors and have about the winter storm, but the bottom line was that on February 13th, we needed 82,000 megawatts of power. We had about 69,000 megawatts of power available. And so that was what caused that issue. And so we see very thin margins, particularly in ERCOT, although I would note that it's not just an ERCOT issue. You'll probably seen those same warnings now conservation in New York.
 and issues in California as well. And those are common in the summertime. And so we will continue to have that debate. I would not be surprised whether in the current, once they land on something that might need additional legislative activity or appropriation activity, that electric items get expanded into this call or addressed in the fall in those what we call redistricting specials.
 Okay, I had a couple other questions. Maybe I can just read them out to you, and then you can just draw on them. One is the Rainy Day Fund. There's, what, $11.6 billion in the Rainy Day Fund. How is that money used, or when is it planning on being used? So there are certain – I'm no expert in it exactly, but there are certain programs and constitutional issues that have –
 that have passed, some that allow for that money to be pulled and then kind of recharged for transportation funding statewide. And that's a moving, it's based on a formula that the comptroller certifies later in the year. So some of that money gets used and then replenished over the course of time with regards to transportation funding. Some 800 million of it was set aside for securitization
 of let's just call it bad debt in the ERCOP market.
 from the winter storm event and that is again considered somewhat of a loan program so it would pull it out to help with some liquidity issues in ercot but then would be repaid back so that was another area but it has to be specifically addressed there are other i think smaller expenditures and certainly i think that some of the rainy day fund will be considered in the
 and border security could be one of those. Well, I'm sure that Representative Rivera would love to see the rainy day fund be used for body worn cameras for our police officers and probably most of the council too. That would be a great use of those funds. I had a couple of questions that I guess I'm just trying to understand. There's some items here that feel like they're sort of bordering on constitutional issues
 Like, for example, the protecting free speech on social media. I guess I'm a little bit confused why a government would be able to require a private company for, you know, basically being able to keep on or not keep on customers. The Star Spangled Banner Protection Act.
 I'm wondering about that. And then also the critical race theory is probably long similar to those. Is there any need for the city to oppose these in any sort of way in your recommendation? And also, can you talk a little bit more about what exactly is,
 pushing is the sort of what exactly the Star Spangled Banner Protection Act is and why it's being pushed as well as the protecting free speech on social media and then the election and ballot security items. Certainly and I you know I think I'll go back and make sure and I don't disagree that a large number of these items that are on the special session call raise questions
 related to constitutional rights and remedies. And I think that is specifically why the speaker appointed a 15-person select committee entitled the Select Committee on Constitutional Rights and Remedies to consider some of these issues and some of the matters that you might have just raised with regards to First Amendment issues and rights on...
 limiting private sector media platforms. The question about the bill that was the Star Spangled Banner Act was in response. The Senate author of that is Senator Don Buckingham. She's now running for the General Land Office post, but was a bill that was in response to
 as she said it, to some of the sports teams, particularly, I think, the Dallas Mavericks at the time, choosing not to play or require the playing of the Star Spangled Banner prior to their sporting events and that this was an attempt to ensure that that didn't happen. I mean, that was the best I could give you. That was what she stated in its passage.
 So does it require sports teams, local, state, and otherwise, and professional to play the Star-Spangled Banner before games? There are some limitations on it with regards to it, but overall, if you have a tie to it, it's public facilities and public funds. So if you were in certain facilities in different areas, it was the way the state had the hook to be able to impose certain things there. Okay.
 And that was the, I think, the attempt to ensure that, or to address constitutional concerns that were raised during the course of the debate. Okay. With regards to kind of the direct actions from the city, certainly your...
 members of your delegation. I think on some of these topics, it might, the ones that directly affect city operations and impact issues of importance to it, I think are ones that we, and there will be some during the course of this. We need to make sure we have clear direction if we don't feel that it's there from your adopted agenda. I think on some of these other items, certainly,
 members of the delegation would respect to hear your positions as local elected officials maybe in your individual capacity as such on these topics
 it might be the most effective way to communicate that because then it allows us to keep a sharp focus and I think retain the greatest ability to impact the outcome of these other areas that do more directly affect your operations. And again, that's not meant for me to say that those topics are not of great importance, not of great importance to your constituents or our
 community. But I think that you might have a better chance of speaking publicly from a role as individual council members on those on some topics. Can you hear me? Yes.
 So taking a look at the 11 items, and thank you, Snapper, for your presentation and going into detail on what we anticipate may be happening or will happen this special session. But the 11 items that the governor has listed on his proclamation, as Snapper stated, those are the issues in the very general. The bills haven't been filed yet.
 And so one of the things that Snapper brought up that we have to monitor and be careful of is some of the bills that are bad for the cities that did not get passed, that you would not think would fit within these issues, they might try to sneak them in. So those are the things that we're gonna have to kind of monitor. For example, in looking at the issue dealing with the,
 election integrity. Snapper brought up two standalone bills that did not pass. And what I'd like to do is at least get a little bit of guidance and direction from you that if the election integrity issue gets expanded to try to include those standalone bills, those being bills that would require one uniform election day, or would require a municipal candidate to declare their political affiliation,
 that you give us the authority to let our delegation know that you are in opposition of those types of bills. The item or the issue that relates to the bill that I just
 border security that he has on there, the possibility of funding, that you give us guidance and direction that will support any bills that will provide funding for any of the items identified in our legislative agenda that you adopted back in October.
 And then of course as Snapper stated, the rest of the guidance and direction that we'll be taking for any bills that get filed that relate to this issue will go back to the general principles that have already been identified in our, in the legislative agenda that you adopted in October. I hope that makes it a little bit clearer. Yes, thank you. And with that we have, let me make sure the order is represented by Nello and representative
 Just need to make sure who was first. And Representative Rodriguez, followed by Representative Ranello. Thank you, Mayor Motenko.
 Thank you, Mayor. Hi, Lupe. Hi, Snapper. I wanted to address what you just brought up, Lupe. And so I know we talk about funding for border security. In the past, that has been additional funding for our public safety offices. But I am concerned, right, the governor has been talking a lot about using Texas taxpayer dollars to build bridges.
 build a wall that we know is unnecessary in our community. And so I don't want to say, you know, we approve any kind of dollars for border security because we don't know what that is right now. And a lot of times those dollars come with
 stipulations for information or other things to the governor that I don't necessarily approve of. So while I do, I don't want to say that I don't want to take money from the state for any kind of border initiatives. I don't want to give approval to things that could be like the border wall, which are unnecessary. And I'll just say a waste of money for our taxpayers and have pretty negative implications for our communities.
 where it comes to the elections I mean I personally do not have an issue with partisanship in city races but I know a lot of those election bills are limitations like you said one day limiting or eliminating early voting limiting or eliminating access to those with disabilities from voting limiting and eliminating mail-in voting for seniors so I think that
 I mean, I'll let the council decide how they feel, but I definitely think that those are things that we should take a stance against. Do you want to make a motion, Representative?
 to take a stance against any of the election i mean i don't i don't have an issue with the partisan thing i think you know since our elections have been moved to november i'm not necessarily against that but i would like to hear how some other council members feel or i can just make a motion to um oppose any election bills that will limit or eliminate access to voting second second
 Lupi, I don't know if that was like direct enough for you. Sorry, I feel like it's very vague. It is. So if you look at the bill that the governor wanted to have passed, it was pretty significant. I mean, it really reduced the ability to send a vote for people to vote by mail, requesting absentee balloting, and it imposed fines. I think that...
 If you were basically to state that you oppose any bills similar to, I think it was Senate Bill 7? Senate Bill 7. And Senate Bill 7 had limitations on that.
 drive-through voting, early voting, remove some things that counties around the state had used for disabled voting. And one of the items, now it was since called a typo that no one claimed ownership of, also had a provision that would have allowed for elections to be overturned with a much lower scrutiny threshold.
 And I think that was one of the final straws that led to some of it. So those are going to be some of the big topics that are, again, discussed in the bill. And the governor specifically references Senate Bill 7 with regards to his call.
 Yeah, I mean, I think I actually would backtrack on my comments. I do support going to partisan elections, but I do think that's something that the citizens of El Paso should determine, just as they determined moving to a November election. So I don't know if Representative Schwartzbein would be okay with me amending my motion to oppose any of the upcoming election bills or keep it as it is. Fine with us. So if I could just read into the record and –
 Representative Nell you can let me know whether or not this is accurate. But you want us to oppose any bills similar to Senate Bill 7 and bills that would propose one uniform election date or partisan elections. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. And we actually don't have any other questions except the motion.
 And that motion be repeated. My headset fell off when I was reading it. Pardon me? Oppose any, oppose any bills similar to Senate bill seven and bills that would propose one uniform election date or partisan elections. I don't know if any other council member has any thoughts on the border security measures. Okay.
 With regards to the border security, just again, I think there are going to be some opportunities and probably some issues that we have to address. It's just such a broad topic right now that we're not certain as to. And it could, I think, show up in several different areas to both the appropriations process and then legislative action through various committees. But yeah.
 I think that's one where we're going to probably be bringing some information back to you as we get a better sense of what they're proposing to. Okay. And I'm sorry. I know this was just like a lot of information. Oh, absolutely. I apologize if you all have already stated. Do you know when the deadline for bills to actually be filed? When will we know exactly what has been filed? There is no deadline of that. There aren't operational deadlines similar to what we have in a regular bill.
 They will be having meetings, by the way, this weekend. Where the Senate is expecting to hold, I think, what we're hearing is the Senate's gonna come out of the gate strong trying to pass a lot of these quickly. I think there was more uniformity amongst its membership on how these bills ought to look, obviously.
 and then it'll shift to the House. But we will know within the course of the next week to two weeks what the playing field looks like, if you will, with regards to the bill language proposals, with regards to appropriations, I think within the first week almost because of the compressed time frame. Okay, and can we expect email updates from you all, or do you plan on coming to the next council meeting as well?
 to the extent that I will likely be available for the next one, just unless there's something going on that day at the legislature that would prevent it, but I can certainly make myself available. And then we will continue with our normal process that we have of interacting with staff and Lupe and Elizabeth and city attorney and management office on the various topics to make sure then they're getting that information to the council. Okay.
 We'll continue to provide those updates. If we need to get additional guidance and direction, then we will put something on the next council agenda.
 If it doesn't fall squarely within the legislative general principles that you've adopted or in the motion that you adopted today, we'll be back. But until that time, we will definitely provide you with updates via email. We'll go through the mayor's office and make sure that the updates that we had been sending you, you'll continue to receive. Okay, thank you. I mean, I know that this hopefully will be much smaller, many less bills passed today.
 than the regular session, but I know that I feel like, I felt like there were a lot of things that impacted municipalities that did not get brought to our attention in time during the regular session and just wanting to make sure that that doesn't happen this time. So I appreciate all of y'all's work and the information.
 And we would absolutely agree that, you know, we mentioned the compressed time nature of that. That is always the case. And one of the reasons that, to your point about the level of issues impacting cities, cities are more impacted by legislative activity than any other entity, public or private, without a close second. And so we absolutely, it's one of our ongoing efforts to strive to kind of keep you informed on all those. Thank you.
 And I'm sorry, I do have one more question, if that's okay, Mayor. It just came to my mind. The sports bill, the limitation on individuals, since we do have city leagues, does that impact us? I didn't know. I don't believe that y'all, just real quick, that bill deals with UIL-sanctioned activities, i.e. high school and junior high athletics primarily. All right, just wanted to double-check. Thank you.
 Thank you. And with that, before we take the motion, we do have Representative Molinar. And then before we do take the motion, Ms. Cuellar, can you please repeat it after Representative Molinar? Oh, and then we have Representative Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein after Representative Molinar. Go ahead.
 Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Snapper-Carr, great job. Ms. Guayard, great job. I just have a little bit of trouble with Representative Anello's motion to, I mean, I know what's happened in the past, but how can we be clear on what the language may be in the special session that's going to be coming up? So it's going to be a difficult time trying to vote for that. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Schwartzwein, Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor.
 I also would like to see about, is it Article 10, the one that prohibits cities from being able to use lobbyists and advocates? No, sir, that item wasn't actually included on the call. The consideration of what we would refer to as Senate Bill 10 from last session. Article 10 is the legislative funding issue and the need for them to restore the legislative branch funding.
 and the agencies that are associated with that, including legislative councils. And does it make sense for the city to take a stance on that one, in your opinion? Really sort of in- I would say this, your delegation would probably appreciate knowing that you support their staffs being funded, but it isn't one that directly impacts
 city operations, which is why we didn't raise it from a policy standpoint. We obviously work with those offices. We work with the agencies, and I referenced the Legislative Council, which is the agency that oversees and processes the redistricting process, but also lose its funding as of September 1. Well, I would consider making a motion for us to go and support bringing back that funding for the legislative branch. I'll second that.
 Okay, thank you. There's two motions. Ms. Cuellar, can you please kind of go over them to make sure everyone understands exactly what the first motion is? And then after we vote on the first motion, you can explain the second motion, please. Yes, sir. Thank you. Yes, sir.
 So the first motion that I believe was stated by Representative Lanello is oppose any bill similar to Senate Bill 7 and bills that would propose one uniform election date or partisan elections. And then the second motion that was proposed by Representative Schwartzbein is support funding for the legislative branch. Okay. Thank you. Without Ms. Prine? Yes, Mayor.
 is to oppose any election bill similar to Senate Bill 7 and bills that would propose one uniform election date or partisan elections. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsby. This is also to include language to support partisan elections? No. Okay. Then I can, I'll support this yes. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Nay. Salcido? Rodriguez? Abstain. Rivera? Aye.
 And the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Molinar voting nay and representative Rodriguez abstaining. The second motion is to support funding for the federal legislative staff. No, restoration of Article 10 funding, legislative funding. For restoration of Article 10. Support funding for legislative branch Article 10. That's pretty specific.
 okay so you support funding for legislative branch article 10. on that motion mayor pro tim shortsman all right representative anello aye hernandez yes molina aye salcido hi and the motion passes
 With seven affirmative votes, Representative Rodriguez abstaining. And Representative Rodriguez, I will provide you with affidavits so you can file those in my office for the abstention. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, thank you, Ms. Coyier, Ms. Ficar, for the presentation and the work. And we look forward to continuing to work with both of you. And Ms. Trigg, thank you also for your work. And with that, we go to the next item.
 yes the next item is number 43 this is discussion in action to approve policies and procedures for planning and implementation of the program year 2022 2023 community development block grant program emergency solutions grant program and housing opportunities for persons with aids program there is a motion and a second to approve item number 43 on that motion mayor pro tim shortsway all right
 Representative Anelo. Sorry, Ms. Pryor, I saw a presentation up. I didn't know if staff wanted to give it or was IT just pulling it up? We're happy to at the pleasure council. I mean, I've got the backup, so I'm ready to support. Aye. Thank you. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga?
 And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the end of the agenda. We have a motion to retire into executive session. So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 and the city council of city of el paso my retiring to executive session pursuant to section 3.5a of the el paso city charter and the texas government code chapter 551 subchapter d to discuss any of the following executive session item one claudia reyes versus city of el paso matter number 20-1036-3350 under 551.071
 Executive Session Item 2, Flores et al. v. Rivas en Sandoval, Matter No. 18-1026-9855 under 551.071. Executive Session Item 3, Discussion on Lease, Value, and Potential, Purchase of Real Property Located in Central El Paso, Texas, Matter No. 20-1004-1156 under 551.072.
 Executive Session Item 4, Discussion on Lease Value and Potential Purchase of Real Property Located in Central El Paso, Texas, Matter Number 20-1004-1156.002 under 551.072. Executive Session Item 5, Economic Incentives for a Manufacturing Company to be Located in the City of El Paso, Matter Number 21-1007-2740 under 551.071, 551.072, and 551.087.
 And Executive Session Item 6, Application of El Paso Electric Company to Change Rates, Public Utility Commission of Texas, Docket Number 52195.
 Matter number 21-1008-174 under 551.071. These matters are taken into executive session under 551.071, consultation with attorney, 551.072, deliberation regarding real property, and 551.087, deliberation regarding economic development negotiations. It is 1.20 p.m. Council, I will call you in shortly. Thank you, Mr. Park. Council, may we have a motion to come out of executive session?
 So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 2.49 p.m. Mayor Pro Tem, we're on EX1. I don't know if I've received yet. Oh, here we go. So EX1, I believe there is no action. EX2? No action. EX3? No action. EX4?
 No action. EX5? Is that the last one? No, sir. Okay, no action. You have one more. EX6? EX6 is the last item? Yes, sir. Okay. Motion July 7, 2021. Motion made, seconded, and carried that the City Attorney is authorized to retain outside counsel and any other necessary consultants in consultation with the City Manager to file an intervention in the application of amended rates filed by El Paso Electric.
 On June 1st, 2021, under the Texas Public Utility Commission docket number 52195, approved this 7th day of July, 2021, in the city of El Paso. Representative Schwartzwein, you can also add the additional language that I attached to the email regarding the public hearings.
 And I would also like to add the additional language that the council also requests that El Paso Electric hold public meetings, which include a minimum of one meeting per city council district at a minimum. These meetings should conclude no later than September 30th, 2021. Second. Second. Second.
 A motion and a second. Thank you. There's a motion and a second to approve the motion read into the record by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine to retain outside counsel and request that I'll pass to Electric Hole Public Meetings. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga.
 And the motion passes unanimously. May we have a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Wednesday, July 7, 2021, is adjourned at 2.52 p.m. Thank you. Have a good day. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Thank you. Bye. Bye-bye.