We were able to provide
 service to make sure that people are safe and and ridoso and right now that the floods as you've seen a lot of the pictures has Been been really very dramatic in but yet With the great men and women of the El Paso fire department in the fire department in the state of New Mexico They've kept people safe and I want to again I want to have a moment of silence for the people that lost their lives in the fire but also to keep the firefighters the men and women and
 and everyone that's working the fire and the floods in Redoso in our prayers and thoughts. Thank you. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, July 2, 2024. Mayor Lee, sir, is present and presiding in council chambers along with Representative Acevedo, Representative Hernandez, Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares, and Representative Salcido. Mayor Pro Temo Kennedy is joining virtually. Good morning, sir. You're on mute, sir. We didn't hear you.
 Yeah, if we could turn the volume up, but yeah, we did hear you. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Representative Rivera requested to be excused today. It is 9.08 a.m. Thank you. And I want to thank that there's a lot of people here, and it's always very important that...
 the CR constituents and people that are here. So I do wanna thank everyone for being here. And with that, Ms. Prime, we'll start with the first proclamation. Yes, sir. The first proclamation this morning is Amigo Ayrshall Canada Day. It's nice to see you. Good morning, everyone. Hi. Representative Acevedo. It's nice to see familiar faces. Yes, it is.
 I have the pleasure of reading the proclamation. Whereas for 31 years the Amigo Air Show provided El Paso and North region innovative, safe, and exciting aerial performances along with a variety of fun family activities. And whereas after a 12 year hiatus, the Amigo Air Show is ecstatic to return to El Paso, Texas on October 12th and October 13th at the prestigious Biggs Army Airfield on Fort Bliss.
 And whereas this year's air show features the Canadian Forces Snowboards Jet Team, who have proudly upheld the legacy of military aviation excellence as Canada's elite air demonstration team. And whereas we recognize Amigo Air Show's international guests, who in this, the Royal Canadian Air Force Centennial Year, continue demonstrating 100 years of Royal Canadian Air Force excellence at air displays throughout North America.
 Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that July 2nd, 2024 shall be known as Amigo Airshow Canada Day. Signed, the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Go ahead, ma'am. I have a couple words, but I'll wait for you all to speak first. Well, we just wanted to say thank you for allowing this honor of having Amigo Airshow Canada Day. We're extremely blessed to launch our air show coming back after the 12 years with our friends up north.
 and we have a American and Canadian flag pin for each one of you, and again, we wanna thank the community for their enthusiasm for bringing this show back, and we're excited to bring it back at Fort Bliss with our military friends.
 Thank you, and I want to thank you. I know that this took a lot of work, and I know I was at the announcement and all the excitement of being able to bring it back, and it wasn't just Fort Bliss and General Eisenhower was so instrumental in making sure that we were able to do that and have the opportunity to bring the air show back that's been gone for how long now?
 12 years. 12 years. And so congratulations on bringing the community together to be able to do something like this. And again, when I say the community, Fort Bliss is our community. So congratulations and thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. I'll take a picture. I didn't even know. How are you? Sure. I don't like to worry about it. Anyway.
 Thank you, sir Yes, sir And for those receiving proclamations this morning you won't have up to six minutes to address the council once your proclamation is read The next proclamation is Blanca de Aragon de Hi, good morning would love to have mrs. Aragon come forward and I have the honor of reading the proclamation today and
 I will read it for the record and we would love to hear from you Mrs. Aragon. It says proclamation of the city of El Paso whereas Blanca C. Aragon is a native El Pasoan and key to the transformation of VA healthcare for El Paso area veterans. Blanca Aragon obtained her doctorate of nursing practice executive leadership from Texas Tech University Health and Science Center on May 3, 2024.
 This is a fitting tribute to her tireless efforts and contributions to over 43,000 enrolled El Paso veterans, the local healthcare community and beyond. This is a great opportunity to recognize a fellow El Pasoan who joins the ranks of 1% of Latinas having obtained a doctorate degree in the United States of America.
 And whereas Dr. Aragon's career trajectory reflects a steadfast commitment to advancing her knowledge and skills in nursing, Dr. Aragon's board certification as a nurse executive advance underscores her commitment to leadership excellence. Dr. Aragon's initiatives in areas such as sterile processing and perioperative services highlight her proactive approach in improving patient care and operational efficiency. Dr. Aragon's involvement in broader initiatives such as
 her repatriated veteran care and promoting diversity and inclusion showcases her commitment to advancing healthcare beyond patient care. And RAS Dr. Aragon demonstrates resilience, dedication and leadership during the COVID-19 crisis, particularly in spearheading testing and vaccination efforts.
 Dr. Aragon provided essential medical care and served as a courageous example to colleagues in the community in collaboration with the El Paso VA Emergency Manager and Homeland Security, providing a team to vaccinate Homeland Security personnel, veterans, and staff at the Texas State Veterans Home.
 And, whereas Dr. Aragon displayed compassion, dedication beyond professional duties assisting a U.S. Marine veteran during the Russia-Ukraine war crisis by coordinating with the Department of Defense, VA service providers, and numerous community organizations, Dr. Aragon advocated for the veteran, their caregiver's well-being, and facilitated their return to El Paso for comprehensive care.
 And whereas Dr. Aragon's recognition for her tireless efforts and contributions to the healthcare community and beyond is a testament to her dedication and collaborative efforts to support our veterans and our family members by providing them with dignity, opportunity, and well-being. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that July 2, 2024, shall be known as Dr. Blanca C. Aragon Day.
 signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Congratulations, and thank you for all you do. Good morning. Good morning. On behalf of the El Paso VA Health Care System and its over 1,500 employees, just want to thank the mayor and the city commission, in particular...
 City Representative Hernandez for leading today's proclamation. We're so proud of Dr. Aragon and all her accomplishments. She's a critical member of our executive leadership team where we service and serve veterans every single day, not only here in El Paso but also in southern New Mexico. We couldn't be more proud of her accomplishments and she brings a lot to the table and it is a win-win not only for our community but also for our veterans as well. I want to ask Dr. Aragon's husband to say a few words as well. Thank you.
 FROY GARZA AND I'M THE DIRECTOR OF THE V.A. THANK YOU. MY NAME IS ANDREA ARAGON. I LIKE TO CALL HER EYE CANDY. SO MY BEAUTIFUL WIFE, WE'VE KNOWN EACH OTHER FOR 21 YEARS. AND SHE'S DONE AMAZING THINGS FOR NOT JUST THE V.A. BUT FOR OUR COMMUNITY AS WELL. JUST HAVING THAT COMPASSION AND BEING THE NURSE THAT SHE IS, I JUST WANT TO CONGRATULATE HER AND WISH HER THE BEST.
 All the best. I love you. Dr. Aragon. Good morning. Good morning. Well, this is a huge surprise. Now I know my family was here. I just want to thank the city of El Paso. Thank you, ma'am, for all of that. And it's just an honor and a privilege to take care of our veterans. It's an honor to be a nurse. It's a profound profession that I hold dear. And I...
 I look forward to continuing to serve this community and the veterans. My husband is a veteran, and so it's really important that we provide really great care to all those who served and to continue to propel this community forward. So thank you so much. Thank you, Dr. Aragon, and I wanna congratulate you. You know, you had a dream and you had a vision and you followed through with it. And I do wanna congratulate you for
 your accomplishments, but the importance, just like you said, of our veterans, and our veterans have a choice to make anywhere they've ever been stationed their home, but about 70,000 veterans chose El Paso, and that's a great compliment, and it's up to us as veterans
 elected officials and the VA and our community to make sure that we take care of our veterans and this is another perfect example of an El Paso committed in making themselves the best it could be to take care of our veterans. So Dr. Aragón, thank you and congratulations. Get the rest of them for the photo. I'll send you all the pictures. I think so. You ready? One, two, three. I'm going to do like 17 more phones. Laughter
 One two three. Leg workout. Okay. And for the record, Representative Canales joined the meeting at 913 a.m. That brings us to the next proclamation and this is El Paso Help State. Representative Canales please. All right. I'll wait for them to come up. Another big group. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the City of El Paso Department of Community and Human Development.
 partnered with Cisco Systems and Computer Center to provide a rapid COVID response called Operation Safe Harbor to provide contactless intake at the Delta Welcome Center, which served over 3,000 individuals in the 13 months of 2020 to 2021, with no instances of COVID originating from the housing shelters.
 And whereas in 2021, El Paso City Council adopted a new strategic objective identified to develop solutions to increase access and resources to El Pasoans experiencing or at risk of homelessness. And whereas in 2022, the city of El Paso received American Rescue Plan Act ARPA funding.
 And Community and Human Development allocated its portion of funds for programs to stabilize the homeless service system and was able to use the lessons learned in Operation Safe Harbor to construct a plan to leverage the power of local, non-governmental organizations . And, whereas Operation Safe Harbor provided valuable insight into the needs of El Paso's unhoused and vulnerable populations, Community and Human Development was able to extend Cisco's partnership and tap into their Country Digital Acceleration Fund
 to engage Ghost Light Creative, a local digital marketing company, to design workflow, user interface, and marketing materials for El Paso Helps. And SWS Software Developers from Berlin, Germany, in collaboration with the city's Department of Information Technology Services, developed the ElPasoHelps.org, or ElPasoAyuda.org portal, to enable vulnerable populations to readily connect to a WebEx video
 contact center manned by local NGOs and supported by city department of information technology services. And whereas community and human development brought together these local NGOs providing critical services, including resource navigation, street outreach, rapid rehousing, homeless prevention, and mental health, resulting in the launch of El Paso Helps in 2023. And whereas Cisco Systems has recognized Nicole Aldrete-Ferrini
 with the 2024 Sustainability Changemaker Award for the Americas. We also recognize her leadership and honor the power of community services and the strength of bringing together local NGOs to collaborate and serve our community and look forward to the future phases planned to serve veterans and higher education student populations, thereby reaffirming our commitment to building sustainable and equitable communities for generations to come.
 Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that July 2nd, 2024 shall be known as El Paso helps day signed by our honorable mayor Oscar Lisa. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor and council. Nicole that at the Perini climate sustainability officer director of community and human development. Um just a couple of things I want to say. You know, El Paso helps was born as Operation Safe Harbor in March of 2020.
 And I learned a lot of things in those two and a half, three years of providing assistance to our most vulnerable populations, creating space to shelter in place when those who had no shelter had nowhere else to go. We kept those people safe. I do want to say that in the little over a year that we held up that shelter in concert with our partners, 5,000 people.
 unsheltered individuals walked through those doors. And 5,000 unsheltered individuals were protected from COVID-19. That tells me a couple of things. Number one, in the true spirit of resilience, where there is a will, there is a way. We didn't have at the time CARES or ARPA. We didn't have any resources. What we had was an incredible challenge to save lives.
 And so what we did is we activated community leadership. We activated public private partnership. We activated internal city departments. We worked in true collaboration in the spirit of leadership and we saved lives. And I have to thank every single person that's standing here behind me, my department, my staff,
 Abraham Gutierrez who's standing next to me who through sheer force of personality made sure that this was successful. Miss Adela Alonso who is somewhere there she is behind me. This is the lady that keeps El Paso helps going and will into the future and to all the rest of my staff and to the nonprofit providers that are here today. It's not just the technology that makes El Paso helps work. It is the partnerships and the people behind it.
 And I have to thank more than anyone my technology partners in Cisco, Computer Center, Ghost Light Creative, and SWS. Thank you all for the award for all of the Americas. I know my name is on the award but the award really is about the city of El Paso and about this team. But I want to allow my good friend Barbara Walker to say a few words about what this means for Cisco.
 Hi my name is Barbara Walker and I know some of you. Good morning again. Those of you that know me know I am passionate about El Paso. I'm a native a military brat Army brat. Go pickleball. I'm all about pickleball.
 And when Nicole called me and needed help it wasn't about well let's sit down and talk about this. It was immediate. We came together Cisco supported us computer centers a computer center supported us and we just did it.
 It is an honor to be in El Paso and it is an honor to work for Cisco who recognizes the importance of the homeless issue. We've invested in homelessness in San Jose and you know it's good to know that we've invested here and I'm so tired of technology projects. I am ready for people projects. You know this is what we're going to do with the technology. Nicole has done that.
 award that she received from Cisco is the first of its kind and it is an America's award. She's up for three more awards by the way in October. And so just know that she represents El Paso well Cisco knows who El Paso is in a positive way and I'm tired of us getting bad publicity. So let's go get some good publicity right. And thank you all for everything you do. Service to this community is so important. Thank you.
 I'd like to thank you all and you know it's El Paso help day but it's a lot more than that as Miss Farina you said just now and our responsibility is our visitors but all but our number one responsibility is the community and the citizens of El Paso and how do we make sure that we
 the health and safety of El Pasoans by so by helping people that visit our community to stay safe and back in 2020 to make sure the spread of COVID was controlled was really very important as becoming the most infected city in America to where we came and become the first to reach herd immunity and
 Stop lives from being lost was really important and what you all did was an incredible Start to make sure that that happened in you know So I want to thank you all and for making sure that our community continues to be safe And then we they know that we're out there to help so thank you and congratulations to everyone Can you all line up in alphabetical order? Hold on
 There's a woman right there, but I can't see it all. Yes, we'll scoot it out this way. It's beautiful. Okay, ready? Okay, ready. One, two, three. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Pryne, thank you. Thank you all for being here. Yes, sir. For the record, Representative Fierro, I believe I just saw him join the meeting. Representative Fierro joined the meeting virtually at 928 a.m.,
 Council per the rules of order no use of personal cellular devices nor personal communication should take place on the days Nor while participating virtually while the meeting is in session Once you obtain the floor from the mayor you will have up to 10 minutes for debate You may speak twice per item Please speak into the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the dais while the meeting is in session For those of you joining virtually, please mute your microphones to reduce background noise that brings us to the consent agenda. I
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate Discussion is requested by council members prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda When the vote has been taken if an item has not been called out for separate discussion The item has been approved council may however reconsider any item at any time during the meeting Alternate mayor pro temp before you get started. I do want to say how to our system at our office. Melissa Moody. Hi, Melissa. I
 Melissa, good morning. Thanks for helping us always. Bye. Go ahead. Good morning. Proposed revisions for the July 2nd, 2024 meeting agenda as of 830 this morning. Page 7, item 24, revised for purchasing and strategic sourcing. And that revision is to insert the word second so that it reads the Aetna Life Insurance Company is the second highest ranked offerer.
 Page 18, item 38, move to the forefront of the regular agenda after item 25 for economic and international development. Page 19, item 39, move to the forefront of the regular agenda after item 25 for economic and international development. Page 19, item 40, move to the forefront of the regular agenda after item 25 for economic and international development. Page 20, item 43, delete per the tax office.
 Page 20, item 44, delete per the tax office. My colleagues, do you have any other items to be moved? I'd like to ask that we move item five, page four, item five to the regular agenda. Okay, did we get that, Ms. Pryne? Yes. Okay, any other changes? There is a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Tem Molinar, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the consent agenda as revised. We do have public comment.
 On a few items of the consent agenda, we have Ms. Osmond. She signed up to speak on item 10, and this is a reappointment. Items 10 is a reappointment of Marina Montes Valles to the Women's Rights Commission by Representative Josh Acevedo, District 2. Mr. Acevedo, as my representative, I'm going to ask, because I'm here to speak on all those that you're going to appoint. What is her role?
 qualifications please okay but y'all are going to go ahead and vote for this person to be assigned should shouldn't the general public know who's gonna be assigned to these committees and what their qualifications are so you don't so you don't want the general public to know okay we also upload their resumes online
 on the backup with the item for each of the board appointments? Not everybody reads those. But a lot more people do have access and will watch YouTube. So that's one reason why I'm here to ask for those qualifications. And while I'll continue to come up here and speak, because people will pull up a YouTube channel and watch it at home at their leisure. All the backup is posted. It was posted on Thursday. That's fine. Thank you, ma'am.
 Ms. Osmond also signed up for the board appointment on item 11, on item 15, and item 17, Ms. Osmond signed up, and this is a notation of the P-Card transactions for the period of April 21st, 2024 to May 20th, 2024 for Mayor, City Council Representatives, City Attorney's Office, City Manager's Office, and staff. So in regards to the P-Card transactions.
 I was going through it and I know that there's a lot of citizens who have gone through it in the past and brought them up. I'm just curious why it is why it's fine for our representatives to spend some of these monies or maybe I do understand because it's in essence buying votes when you're spending a thousand dollars for mariachis in senior centers for some events over $800 over a thousand dollars for Mother's Day events and
 at other senior centers because that is where our voting happens in a lot of these senior centers. And I think although the gentleman that you and I were speaking with last city council mayor from Mr. Rivera's office, he made a comment then, you know what, where were you 10 years ago? P-card expenses were even worse 10 years ago. You know who the mayor was 10 years ago, you were.
 So what are you saying is that under your administration 10 years ago, it was even worse. But I cannot understand how it is that these expenses are being allowed, especially in polling locations, because it does give the appearance to every citizen that some of our representatives are buying votes. If you're going to do something in senior centers, there's parks and rec. Most of the citizens already put money.
 In our tax dollars through parks and recreation within these centers So there's no no reason to be spending XX tax dollars, although miss have none this had explained previously that some of these expenses come from not not just the donations that y'all receive and that and let's just call it out donations for your campaigns or buying your buying your your votes for solicitations and
 typically, but when you spend it in locations where the polling and the votes are being held, when our city, the vote count is so low, especially in District 2, we're spending enough money at a senior center because you have a captive voting audience and it's going to make the difference and just gives that appearance away.
 You've got a lot more expenses. I mean, I'm sure Caesar's Palace was really nice on that P-card in Las Vegas, Ms. Salcedo.
 That was a political event no different than the political stunt that happened on the taxpayers dollar when you brought Escobar here With mr. Molinar All of these expenses need to stop the three minutes miss Osmond also signed up to speak on the notation of campaign contribution item 18 this is a notation of contribution by Lily Limon in the amount of $5,000
 I was just curious and I know that I can ask the city manager although y'all really are just the face to the public. You vote on whatever her city manager puts in front of you. But I am just curious how it is how it looks.
 and maybe citizens should wonder how it is that our mayor is donating into a campaign fund for another representative who's gonna take Rivera's, or at least running for Rivera's office for District 7. I know Rivera is gone, but it just does not look right. You did ask, Mr. Leaser, for other campaign funds to be announced by candidates who aren't in office,
 So in that same respect, shouldn't there be something put in front of city council to vote that standing members of our representatives and council should not be allowed to donate to candidates? That seems a bit off. That seems even worse than requesting that candidates who are not in office, who do not have the ability to vote on any...
 of our taxpayer funded items, that looks far worse. So I just hope that the rest of the citizens pay attention to also who's donating to who, because it seems rather suspicious, especially when our mayor is the one who donates $5,000 to get somebody else in an office, and he is also the same person who requested that candidates not in office
 have to go ahead and put forward that same information. Just so you know, it doesn't look good. You know, make sure you know, your mayor has the same right you do to do whatever he wants to do with his personal funds. That has nothing to do with public funds. And so whatever you do with your money, you have the right to do and so does your mayor. So thank you for that. And I understand that, but since our, my mayor is the one who put that out there so that candidates who do not have the ability to vote
 on any issues of taxpayer funded dollars. Our mayor is, Mr. Lisa, you are the one who put that through the vote to make sure that that happened for every candidate. So that was you putting your finger on the scale of El Paso's voting public. So you can put your money wherever you would like, yes, I understand that. But I also think it's very, very strange
 that you would be one of the highest donors of campaign funds and then also be the same person to have put that item on the agenda and get it passed. Thank you, Ms. Hausman. You've reached the three minutes, ma'am. And I will continue to support people that I feel are qualified, in my opinion, to do the job. But Ms. Lamone thanks you for the publicity, I'm sure, if she's watching.
 And there is a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Tem Olinaar seconded by Representative Salcido to approve that consent agenda as revised. On that motion call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy. Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy aye. Thank you. Representative Fierro thank you. The voting session is open. In the voting session and that motion passes unanimously.
 Thank you, and I know we have some other one last thing and I apologize But I do want to make sure everyone knows that miss Lamone will not take office till I'm long out of office Also, anyway, thank you for that That brings us to item number 25 and this is discussion in action to direct the interim city manager and city attorney to implement both interior and exterior pickleball and
 Courts throughout recreation centers of the city of El Paso including parks that have existing amenities for these activities This item was placed by alternative mayor pro tem only not good morning. Thank you very much. Good morning, sir
 I can tell you prior to even becoming a city representative, the issue of pickleball in El Paso has been a hot topic. And so I know I've been approached even before, like I said, being a city representative on what the needs are for the city of El Paso for pickleball courts, pickleball tournaments, people getting outside, doing exercise, even interior. So I'd like to go ahead and take public comment before we continue, though.
 Yes, sir. We have a few members of the public that signed up to speak. I think as they come up I remember the first time we had the conversation about pickleball, which was years ago I think I had three people come here and we're talking about pickleball now We have the whole City Council the whole left of the chamber filled up. So obviously it's picked up great momentum But I do remember the three that were here originally. I see y'all here. I
 We have Ms. Jamie Fisher followed by Kelly Groves, Patricia Osman, Mark Smith, Roy Middlebrock, Therese Avalos, Ben Avalos, and Stanley Stack. Good morning, Ms. Fisher. You have three minutes. Good morning. May I use the Elmo? IT, we need the Elmo, please. IT, we need the Elmo, please. No, ma'am. They just brought it up. Go ahead, ma'am. You have three minutes.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and City Council. My name is Jamie Fisher. I'm president of Pickleball, El Paso. I want to start you off with a question. In your district, do you have a high school set of basketball courts, four to eight hoops and courts, where on Saturday and Sunday mornings you have people just play drop-in basketball?
 This is a lovely arrangement because you can stop by whenever it is convenient for you. You know the hoop will be there and you know the people will be there. And it's a very successful arrangement. Now imagine that the hoop is not permanent. Somebody has to bring one. Now that guy's got to call 12 of his friends and say, hey, what time can you be there and can you bring the hoop? And you got to hope his kid doesn't get sick and he can't make it. It just doesn't work.
 This is what we have in El Paso for pickleball. They're called multi-use courts, and they have pickleball lines painted on a tennis court, and it's the same problem. It's not reliable. You don't know who's gonna be there. You don't know if there's going to be a net.
 Pickleball is a very large-scale activity. That is a picture of Apodaca Park in Las Cruces. Apodaca has eight courts. Las Cruces just opened their second facility at East Mesa. They now have 16. On eight courts, with four people playing doubles, you can accommodate 32 people. They had 53 people show up.
 But it's not a problem because in pickleball, the game is 20 minutes. You play 20, you get off, you let somebody else play 20, and then you get another turn. This part here is a paddle rack. That's a paddle rack. That's where people are waiting to play. So it is very efficient, and a pickleball court is one-third the size of a tennis court. It can accommodate large groups. Unfortunately, this is what we have in El Paso.
 Okay, so you've got your outdoor multi-use and then you have your gyms and they do the best they can but paddle work has two courts. That means eight people can play at a time. Two Saturdays ago we had 33 people show up. So now that works out to you play for 20 minutes and then you wait one hour and 20 before you get to play again.
 We can't hold leagues. We can't hold tournaments. And so when people email the club and say, hey, where are your leagues here in El Paso? I have to say, you've got to go to Las Cruces. Because they've got, like I said, they've got two facilities now. So that's where this postcard campaign came from. Those are some of the postcards.
 We're asking that you please consider the two most important things are that it has eight courts and that they're dedicated, permanent in the ground. There's a plan for Mary Frances Keisling you all saw two years ago. It has eight pickleball courts in it. They're already working on the beast. So we hope you will support this motion. Thank you. The next speaker is Kelly Groves. Thank you, ma'am. Kelly Groves, followed by Patricia Osmond. Good morning, Ms. Groves. You have three minutes.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Kelly Groves. I'm also part of the Pickleball El Paso Association and I wanted to piggyback on what Jamie had started to say one of the realities of park features is that you have to put the money to build them and you have to put the money to maintain them Which can be overwhelming? one unusual feature of some pickleball courts is the the
 ability if we have eight or more in one spot that you can routinely hold tournaments that will draw from the whole region. Las Cruces does this regularly and this is this is a money maker that can improve and maintain the courts forever with a couple of tournaments a year. And so although you have to upfront the money for it it will pay for itself.
 and we will continue to draw entire families into this sport. People want to know if they can play here when they're traveling. It gives a great look to our city, and even the Sun Bowl Association is wanting to add a large-scale pickleball tournament. And...
 We want to help them and I'm sure they'll pull it off but they can't go to an existing facility to do that. We're going to have to scramble for temporary courts to have enough in one place to pull it off and people will come from all over the region to play in that tournament and let's you know have a wonderful plan to accommodate them going forward.
 One last thing I would add is that as we age and try to maintain or take up new sports or introduce our kids to them, money is a real factor. Tennis is expensive because you mostly have to play on private facilities in El Paso. Golf is expensive. A lot of things are expensive. Basketball is cheap and hard to do after a certain age. But pickleball is...
 The barrier to entry is very low, and with public courts, it's free to play, and that's another great and wonderful thing that I hope you keep in mind in supporting us. Thank you. The next speaker is Patricia Osmond. Patricia Osmond, followed by Mark Smith, Roy Middlebrook. Good morning, Ms. Osmond.
 Good morning again, ma'am. Now, though I am in the age demographic for pickleball because it is not a family sport, it is mainly a sport for senior citizens. So I can understand the city may, it is, look at our audience, we can see the age demographic. But now this is the thing,
 excuse me excuse me guys hold on hold on please uh we we plan please be respectful to everybody whether you agree or disagree i would ask for people to be respectful i i i am fine with that is that wait we we as a city in our representatives with their discretionary fund
 do invest quite a bit into our senior centers, okay? We just opened up a senior center in District 2 at Grandview Park. The mayor was there for that ribbon cutting. And there are pickleball courts, so there's more than just paddle works. But I would ask the representatives, especially when the mayor is constantly talking about the brain drain of El Paso,
 You tend to throw a lot of money at the senior citizens in this city because they are your voting base. But in regards to the brain drain, our city doesn't have enough for our youth. Okay? You've got Tobin Park that has two roller rinks. It's the only one, only center at any location in the city that our youth could skate at for free. You've got the roller derby girls that do hold events there.
 Tick-tock roller skating got huge. It's also a low-impact sport. Very good. You don't need a whole team, and the entry is very cheap, even for families to go and do. I would ask that the city consider opening more locations around in...
 THE SENIOR CITIZENS, THE REC CENTERS, FOR ROLLER SKATING. DO SOMETHING MORE FOR THE YOUTH, FOR FAMILIES TO TAKE THEIR CHILDREN OUT TO DO THINGS FOR FREE, INSTEAD OF INVESTING
 quite frankly, even more to our seniors and your voting base, because if you do wanna keep the youth here, we have stripped away too much from our youth to do, I would say start investing in them. Roller skating would be a great thing, because right now, you can't roller skate at the, on the sidewalks, at the senior centers. The only dedicated place is Tobin Park.
 So if you have more pickleball locations to play at than you do, say, roller skating, that's a family fun event, very easy for kids to do. There's a problem. The next speaker is Mark Smith, followed by Roy Middlebrook, Therese Avalos, and Ben Avalos. Thank you all. I appreciate that very much for the courtesy. Good morning. My name is Mark Smith. I'm a member of the...
 Osher Lifelong Learning Institute Pickleball Club through UTEP. Pickleball is a sport that everybody can play. It's not just for us old folks, but everybody, including this group out here, you'll find people of all ages. So the argument that you need more stuff for the youth, that's for the youth. Pickleball gives us two things. It gives us a recreational outlet.
 where we can go and associate with people at people of our own levels. It gives us something to do. And when I say us, I'm talking about us old guys like me. It also provides us socialization. Both of those things are critical to development throughout your life. I formally request that the council give serious consideration and approval of adding more pickleball courts.
 not just indoor or just not outdoor, but also consider indoor. The weather in El Paso is not conducive to a lot of outdoor play sometimes. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. Our next speaker is Roy Middlebrook, followed by Therese Avalos, Ben Avalos, and Stanley Stack. Good morning, sir. You have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning, sir. How are you, sir?
 all right thank you all right i'm ron middle brook i'm originally from knoxville tennessee uh this element here is a little bit different from my experience in tennessee we got uh we got a lot of uh trees out in tennessee we got a lot of mountains over here with no trees
 But I love being here because it's a great place to retire. I heard you mention earlier, sir, that it's like 70,000 veterans here. I'm one of those 70,000 veterans here. I love El Paso, and I want to be able to get out in the community and play some pickleball.
 because I did 32 years in the military, I did additional 10 years of teaching, and now I wanna be able to get out here and have some fun. And Pickleball is one of those outlets that I endure and love it. And I think that it would be great that El Paso invests more money into Pickleball facilities. Someone mentioned it earlier, we share a court with tennis,
 and other basketball, we want a dedicated court for pickleball. And I think that if we had that, you will see more not just old people, they keep talking about old people, but young people out there too. If some of you old people come out and watch us play, you see some of the young people out there playing. There's a couple of them over here now. So it's not just about old people, okay? So I really wish we could get some funding for pickleball courts
 just for pickleball, not for basketball and tennis and other things, but just for pickleball. I really appreciate your time. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Terese Avalos. Terese Avalos. Terese Avalos. Terese Avalos, followed by Ben Avalos and Stanley Stack.
 Good morning you have three minutes. Good morning and good to see you again. Nice to see you Mayor nice to see all of you. Thank you so much for having us here today. Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Pickleball El Paso Association. I play pickleball in a wheelchair because of a spinal cord injury 15 years ago. I have numbness in my legs that limits my balance and ability to walk without a cane. The game of pickleball has become such a joy for me.
 I have found a skill that enables me to feel alive again. I have met so many wonderful friends. These are my wonderful friends. I have embraced the spirit of competition, and I truly look forward to playing every week, four times a week. But I have one big problem, and this is when I want to play outside. The doctors have told me that I cannot lift over five pounds.
 because of the stress it would cause to an already fragile back. In order to play pickleball on an outdoor tennis court, I must rely on others to lift a 25-pound portable net out of my car, and then they have to set it up for me. This involves bending at the waist and kneeling on the hot pavement. I cannot do those things.
 I am asking that the beautiful city of El Paso, my hometown, the city that my husband and I chose to come home to after he served in the Air Force, build dedicated pickleball courts in the Northeast, the West Side, Central, and East Side parts of the city. The senior population, the disabled players, the middle-aged players, many of whom are at work today and couldn't be with us.
 the millennials, and for that matter, anyone who can lift a paddle will benefit from this decision. Thank you for your time and for all that you do for the city of El Paso. And can I ask that all my friends who do lift me up every day, who haul my wheelchair, who haul my net, and who lift us up in times of crisis, please stand. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Representatives. I appreciate your time. Thank you.
 Before Mr. Avalos comes up, I was looking at Big John. Does she ever have to move on the court if it's only the size of a third? Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, sir. Nice to see you again. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, my name is Ben Alvalos. I am a lifetime resident of El Paso. I was raised and currently live in the northeast where the sun rises are spectacular. After serving four years in the United States Air Force, I used my GI Bill to complete my undergraduate and graduate degrees in physical education and kinesiology and taught physical education in the sled ISD and kinesiology at UTEP.
 In 1980, I was introduced to pickleball at a PE convention in Dallas, Texas. From that day, I was hooked. I came back to El Paso with my newly purchased pickleball set. I began teaching my friends, family, and students how to play. After 44 years of teaching and playing, I currently volunteer with the Parks and Rec Department as a pickleball teacher and coach. My classes are filled with children, adults, and seniors.
 The National Sports Association has named pickleball the fastest growing sport in the United States for the past six years. Currently, five million people are playing pickleball. In 2030, it is projected to skyrocket to 40 million people. I get daily phone calls, texts, emails from El Pasoans who want to learn how to play. Our current pickleball facilities are at capacity with lots of happy people.
 At Nolan Richardson Rec Center, where I play with my wife, we have 40 to 50 players for only three multi-use pickleball courts every Tuesday and Thursday from 10 to 2. El Paso is in desperate need of dedicated pickleball courts where we do not have to share with basketball, volleyball, and tennis, a place where we can just show up with our paddle and ball and play.
 Because of the social interactions of the sport, parks and rec departments are not building one or two courts in parks. They're building eight to 12 pickleball court complexes that include lighting, nets, screens, seating, shade, water, fountains, and restrooms. Four pickleball courts can fit on one tennis court pad. Conversions of two tennis courts could fit up to eight pickleball courts at minimal cost
 because the concrete is there, the lighting, the fencing is already available, and that can be done at a cost of about $30,000. El Paso needs these pickleball complexes throughout the city to keep up with the expected growth and demand. Last month, we met with Bernie Olivas, who expressed an interest in including pickleball in the Sun Bowl, and the only problem we have is we cannot fit, we can't have a tournament because we don't have eight pickleball courts.
 As part of this wonderful pickleball community, I would love to thank the Mayor, City Council, the City Manager, Deputy City Manager, Dion Mack, and the Parks and Rec Department, led by Pablo Caballero, for everything they have done the past two years to provide us with beautiful indoor multi-use pickleball court facilities. But the projected growth of the sport in the next six years requires action by our leadership.
 Thank you very much for your time and support. Thank you, Mr. Alvarez. The next speaker is Stanley Stack. Good morning, Mr. Stack. You have three minutes. Thank you.
 Good morning, sir. I'm very happy to be here. I'm very happy to tell you that I've been in El Paso for 50 plus years I feel very fortunate that I discovered pickleball after I retired a couple years ago It helps me maintain my agility and my balance my mental focus A lot of really great people
 We have a good time when we play pickleball. I hope that some of you will come and see us and play. It's a lot of fun. If you don't play now, come and watch at least. We do have people who come to watch occasionally. Uh, I have a report here from an organization called the Sports and Fitness Industry Association. Now that's manufacturers, distributors, and wholesales, uh, wholesalers know what is going on in the industry about equipment and clothing.
 And they report that last year, 13.6 million Americans tried their hand at pickleball. And there was a 52% jump over the last 12 months in participation. Prior to that, the year prior, there was an 86% jump in participation.
 They also note that their core participants, those who play more than eight times in a year, and that would be all of us and many more, we play eight times in a month easily.
 The growth is obvious. The need for space is quite obvious. We have a number of places that we can play indoors. We don't have a lot of places that we can play outdoors without some extra activities involved, setting up nets, et cetera. So my reason to play is to continue to have fun.
 When I moved to El Paso, I set up a small business. I was able to survive for 47 years until I retired. Part of the way that we were able to achieve success was by finding out what our customers wanted and figuring out how we could help keep them happy. And I think that's part of what I'm here to ask you to do.
 To be successful to help keep your citizens happy and provide us with the same thing that all these other people here want And that is public access to multiple courts Outdoors over many hours and in our own neighborhoods Currently it's time for my neighborhood Opening to go play so I'll be leaving soon Thank you for your attention
 The final speaker is Stephanie Ruiz Alba. Good morning. Hi, good morning, Ms. Prime. Hi, good morning, City Council. Thank you so much for having me. My name is Stephanie Ruiz Alba, and I'm here to support Pickleball. And I just wanna be one of the voices for here in El Paso, one of the many that we have on the left side. Thank you so much for being here.
 And I just want to say that I was fortunate to have Mr. Avalos to teach me how to play pickleball. In high school, I would play volleyball, basketball, but this is a really fun sport to play. And I think this is one of the things we do need in El Paso because if you think about it, we have a population with diabetes.
 And if we just do, we emphasize in our health, just 30 minutes a day of doing some kind of exercise, it would impact the way we live in our health. And again, thank you so much, and hopefully this item passes. Thank you. Stephanie, Stephanie, I'm looking forward to Big John, the teacher, so I don't have to move very much.
 Yeah, we'll get we'll get him passed. I can pass it. Thank you I can pass the Miss primal getting passed out ma'am and with that We go to representative Mullen are followed by represent canalis Appreciate everyone coming out here today. Once again, it's your enthusiasm is overwhelming
 There's a lot of things that can be said about pickleball, but there's it's a fun sport. And yes, I did have the opportunity to play pickleball once again And it was like it was a fun game. It really was Just very very fun. I'm targeting even though I represent the district for Northeast El Paso I'm gonna be targeting
 Throughout El Paso I understand that but skyline optimist Park Arlington Park Veterans Park and North skies Park, but I'd like to read two amendments into the record so
 Discussion and action, amendment number one is discussion and action to direct the interim city manager and city attorney to implement dedicated pickleball courts 8 to 12 court complexes and park locations throughout the city of El Paso, including conversions of low-use existing park amenities into dedicated pickleball courts. And I'll send that to you, Ms. Bryan, through an email.
 The other amendment I'd like to make is the use of District 4 discretionary funds up to the amount of $75,000. And I make the motion to approve. Second. Thank you. Representative Canales followed by Representative Acevedo and Representative Salcido. Just to be clear that was an amendment right into the record that received a second, correct? That's correct. There's no main motion to amend yet.
 First of all, I want to thank Representative Molyneux for putting this on the agenda. I think clearly everyone sitting on this side of the audience knows it's been a long time coming. You all have put in a lot of work, not just in getting it here today, but in growing the pickleball community to a size where you all have a big voice and can ask for things like this. So thank you to all of you all who have put in that work as well.
 I do this in total respect for the item. Well, let me start, let me say this first. I, in 2020, actually it was before that, I think I started playing pickleball in 2019. It was before the pandemic, but I know the size of the sport really exploded during the pandemic. It was a good way for people to exercise, to be out of the house and still be distanced from people.
 And it's probably not a coincidence that that's the time that I became much more serious about playing pickleball. During that time, I was playing maybe three or four times a week. I know Jamie has been trying to get me out to go play. I tore my quad. I've been injured for the last eight months. So I'm just about ready to have a clean bill of health and go out and join you all again. So I'm really looking forward to it. I love the idea here.
 if you watch city council meetings you'll understand I can sometimes be a little bit of a stickler for process. I want to offer a main motion gives a little bit more specific direction to the to the city manager and we'll have a process for us to work through. So again it is in please don't interpret it as in any way as
 opposition to anything moving forward. You'll hear the language here and Ms. Pratt I can provide it to you but I move to direct that the city manager conduct a thorough assessment of the implementation of dedicated pickleball courts at locations across the city of El Paso considering both interior and exterior pickleball courts and including parks and recreation facilities that have existing pickleball amenities.
 and that the assessment include at minimum a comprehensive selection process for potential sites, a projection of costs, an analysis of optimal facility scale and or mix of facility sizes, and an estimate of the potential economic impact of tournaments and league play, and that a preliminary assessment be presented during the City's upcoming budget workshops for the FY 2025 budget, with a more formal assessment to be presented to the City Council within 120 days. Mayor, I'd like to second that.
 I represent Piero. That's all I yield the floor, Mayor, thank you. Thank you. So we have Representative Acevedo, followed by Representative Salcido, followed by Representative Kennedy, and then Representative Piero. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Representative Molina, for putting this on here. I wanted to share a few thoughts, but before I did that, Pablo, I don't mean to put you on the spot, but I did wanna ask you some questions.
 Know we've we've talked about this before but I just kind of wanted to understand what we have invested in pickleball over the last Few years in terms of courts monetary Parks and stuff like that if you could give us an overview. Yes, sir Pablo Caballero parks and recreation for the record we have over 35 courts indoors throughout the rec centers and
 This meaning we just spent the linings on the surface so it's not that expensive. On the outdoor courts we have 32 courts already and they're working on 16 more throughout the city. The price for each court that's on parks land management. I don't have exact but I can give that to you all.
 But at the end of the day, we have more than 60 something courts not dedicated. They know we've been working hard with them to schedule times throughout the city so they can get more time for playing. But again, that's all that we have for now.
 And do you one of the comments that stood out to me from the public today was that it's difficult for people to bring their own nets and waiting on somebody to bring it could add more time to their their play. So are we able to lend these nets out to people or do we need to get more nets or how does that work?
 Okay, on the indoor sites, we have the nets. So every time they show up, we have the nets. On the outdoor, that's when they're missing the nets. So we just, as outdoor, it's usually first come, first serve, and it's on tennis courts. We don't have nets available for them. We have to bring them. But if, let's say, in the assessment that maybe, if the assessment that Rep Canales just proposed, and they came back,
 to be able to go to a rec center at a neighboring park to get these outdoor nets, would that be something that would be possible to check them out while the rec center is open? Yes, I think that's something we can work on. Okay, because I think that would solve a lot of the issues. I think that, I think right now, we already had public comment, so if you could let me get to my 10 minutes, I would really appreciate that.
 One other thing that I was going to ask is how many permanent courts do we have? Permanent? None, sir. None, okay. And I want to also ask about Grandview specifically. Yes, sir. A lot of residents in that neighborhood have been concerned about losing their tennis courts in favor of a permanent pickleball court. Okay.
 And one of the big things at Grandview is that the tennis courts were really in bad shape for a lot of years. And so it was really difficult for people to even play tennis at that point.
 And so what has happened now is that it's restriped for tennis and pickleball. And there was a proposal to make it completely pickleball and the community, specifically a neighborhood association was opposed to doing this. And so I'm a bit worried about,
 not considering the input of neighborhood associations as we move forward with whatever may or may not pass with city council. So I think that's really important to take into consideration. So if there's a friendly amendment that I can add is to make sure that our neighborhood associations are included in the process. Thank you.
 And I think that's all I have. Thank you, Pablo. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Representative Salcido, followed by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy. Thank you, Mayor. And thank you again, Representative Molinar, for putting this item on the agenda.
 Thank you all for coming out here. I see a lot of familiar faces. Hello. I'm speaking more on behalf of the Urban Beast Park. I know that this park has grown aggressively, about 200%. And I'm really going to look at finding ways that we can have those eight courts so that you all can have tournaments.
 so that we can have a permanent home for you all. But more importantly, we talk about shape up El Paso and that's what you all are getting out here, playing a sport, keeping active. So I am committed to continue to push that forward. So just wanna thank you all for coming and thank you again Molinar for putting this item. Mayor Pro Tem. Yes, I understood there could have been an audio issue coming from me. Can you guys hear me now? Yes, we can hear you. Okay.
 I was going to say I'm glad this item is up because I know that Francis Keasling Park and D1, we are looking at putting pickleball courts in there. I have the same concerns that Representative Canales had, which is I'd like to know what kind of numbers we're talking about financially before we move forward on it. I think this is something we absolutely need to move forward on, but I think we need to know what the numbers are, and it's good timing because we are in the budget process right now. I don't know where we are in the budget process, but I think that it's something that,
 that we need to take a look at. I'd like to know the numbers because I don't want to vote on a blank check to do something, but I do think that moving forward, I look forward to the numbers coming back from city management and city manager. The other thing I was going to say is, is if we're talking about expending discretionary funds,
 My question would be to legal if we're posted for that and or could it be included and wouldn't that be two separate motions one to direct the city manager and staff to come back with numbers and the second one for the discretionary fund expenditure. If you could let me know. I mean, I'm going to support the motion that Representative Canales and Representative Fierro made.
 to have these numbers back so we can take a look at making some of these things permanent. But I think it's a good idea and I want to thank Representative Molinar for bringing it up. Mayor Potem, there is only one motion. There's an amendment to the item 25 by Representative Molinar, but no motion was made. The first motion that was made is by Representative Canales. Okay, thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Representative Ferrell followed by Representative Nones.
 Thank you, Mayor. I hope you can hear me clearly. First and foremost, I want to thank Representative Molinar for putting this on the agenda. As we heard from public comment, there's a need. There would be nothing better for us to do for our community than to help the community get in better shape, and this is a big step forward. Mayor, I also want to thank the Parks Department.
 I can tell you that, um, uh, my perspective in district, uh, six, Marty Robbins really tries to balance and, and keep everybody happy. Both the tennis player, um, both the pickleball players, the volleyball players, basketball players. And it's a, it's a big job that they have out there trying to keep everybody at that, um, in Marty Robbins, uh, happy because it's, thank God that it's a very busy, um, and, and, uh,
 and there's a lot of people out there playing. So I'm very proud to second this motion. I do believe like Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy said, we can't just write a blank check. We need to talk about what we're talking, the amount we're talking about, amount that we have budgeted, where we won't add to the budget to increase the pick and ball facilities
 but absolutely I think Representative Canales really hit it on the head when he brought those points and making sure that we know what we're talking about and we know what we're asking to invest in this project. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Nunes. First of all, thank you.
 First I wanted to thank all of the pickleball members who joined us today. You all did such a phenomenal job. We know when the pickleball folks are in City Hall and it is because of your engagement we're going to be able to find some unity and consensus so that we can bring you the public amenities that you need.
 I agree that this is so essential for that human connection and I've seen that friendship within each and every one of you and it's very admirable. I wonder where are my friends? I think I need to come join your friendship groups. But it's more than just human connection. It is your improvement of your health and most importantly your civic engagement and that's what you're doing here today. So in unity we'll make a difference.
 I HEAR THAT THERE IS A DIFFERENCE IN WHAT EVERYBODY WANTS AND I THINK REPRESENTATIVE CANALAS HAS PROVIDED AN ELOQUENT RESOLUTION TO MEET EVERYBODY'S CONCERNS AND NEEDS. ULTIMATELY I WOULD AGREE THAT THIS PROCESS IS GOING TO BE THE MOST PRODUCTIVE PROCESS.
 die on the sword right now and just not move forward or we can strategically ask the city management to look at three core components you want more courts but you want them permanent and you want to see eight courts or more so that you can coordinate easily more
 tournaments and additional games, right? And so as part of that assessment, we have to consider those three core components. The budgetary resources are important as well, considering that our Parks Department
 is like severely underfunded that what they do in these departments and our employees i mean not only do they work in the parks and recreation departments but they're also doing public engagement and then winter fest months it's it's such an incredible mountain that they have to move to provide these services so i want to respect that
 So those resources are limited and the majority of our funds are going to people. And so limited funds are going to maintenance and improving our parks. And so that is the balance that we have to lead and striking that balance so that we can provide those permanent spaces for you. And then allow that flexibility so that other residents can also benefit from our parks. I think we can get there. I think we can find a middle ground.
 I ALSO WANT TO BE RESPECTFUL TO REPRESENTATIVE MOLINAR'S DESIRE TO ADD HIS DISCRETIONARY FUNDS. AND SO MAYBE WE TAKE A LOOK AT THAT AMENDMENT ON YOUR MAIN MOTION, REPRESENTATIVE CANALES. AND I'M NOT SURE IF LEGAL HAS ANY OPPOSITION TO ASKING TO SPEND DISCRETIONARY FUNDS WITHOUT THE NECESSARY RESOLUTION IN DOCUMENTS.
 But with the assumption that we are able to add that amendment for expenditures of ordinances, I would second Representative Molinar's amendment to add his discretionary funds to the main motion. And then we have to look at a timeline, Representative Canales. And so because we're in budget season, did you provide a specific climate?
 It was initial assessment to be presented during the budget workshops and then a more formal full assessment within 120 days.
 And and I started getting some questions about well What's the motion and and I think it'd be beneficial if we can repeat it because it got a little confusing with all of them It's been provided to you in writing by email as well. Okay. Could you say that could you read it if you have it handy? And like I said most of you have asked that question again twice well, what's the motion and
 And so what the representative is asking for is a comprehensive assessment, looking at the entire ecosystem of our parks and then identifying how we can place those permanent fixtures and lines on the current courts. And so then city management will come back and they would give a presentation to city council on their findings. And it's going to be important to hear you and then hear from neighborhood officials
 neighborhood associations as representative canales is requested and that's how you asked a better dr. Acevedo requested and that's how we are able to find consensus and I think we can achieve that so thank you all for your leadership and depending on these other amendments I'm happy to second representative Molinares amendment to your main mention motion thank you that motion had been seconded by representative Salcido yeah thank you
 And I know that when Rep. Molinar put the item on the agenda, our city manager and I, as we went over the agenda item, he's already starting to look at, because he understands it was a budgetary item and an item that needs to be brought into the city moving forward. So he, him and I had a conversation and he came up to me and he said,
 It's a good idea. We just got to figure out how we put it into the budget and move it forward So he'd already started the wheel moving forward based on the item the reps had Mullen are put on there so it's
 He saw the importance of it and how the needs are, but at the end of the day, he understands that anything that goes on the budget and moving forward still needs to be approved by council. So him and Mr. Cortina were prepared to bring something forward to council during the budget item. So, again, thank you for that.
 We're done I guess so now I'm just prime you got a job to kind of unscramble everything and let us vote on it on In order please and I'm not sure what council would like to do representative Money not made a made two amendments to his agenda language because he had not made a motion yet to approve his item He met I'm interpreting that he made amendments to his agenda language. There was two and then
 Representative Canales made a main motion on that item and then Representative Acevedo made another amendment. I'm not sure, sir, your amendment was to the agenda language or to Representative Canales' item? To Representative Canales' item. Okay. Okay, so we'll take it in the order you have it there, ma'am. So if we take the amendments first, we'll take the amendment from Rhett Molinar, the first one.
 And that amendment was to amend the agenda language to read discussion and action to direct the interim city manager and city attorney to implement dedicated pickleball courts, eight to 12 court complexes in park locations throughout the city of El Paso, including conversions of low use existing park amenities into dedicated pickleball courts. That's the first amendment. And this amends the agenda language. On that motion, call for the vote.
 Mayor, don't we have a motion and a second? No. She's taking the amendments first, sir, and then she'll take the motion after the amendments. That's how the order will do. Representative Canales? Yeah, again, this is more of just a process question. Are we able to amend agenda language on the floor without a motion? There was a motion made. Oh, no, I see what you're saying. There was no main motion. I see what you're saying. There was no main motion. That's why I said his amendment would amend the agenda language because there's not a main motion on that.
 On that item. Okay, but amending the agenda language has no impact on what's ultimately adopted by motion, correct? By the motion not if your motion passes, okay So it's up to council whether they want to proceed with this amendment and vote on this amendment. There was seconded by and So I would like to I think that the best way to do it to be honest with you which is not and you tell me if it's okay to do it this way is to take the motion and then do the amendments to the motion
 Just because there's no motion to add the amendments to. Just like, what do you think? Parliamentary procedure dictates you take amendments first. Right, that's what I'm saying. What do you think, Ms. Fine? Because the motions are going to be not on the amendment. He didn't put the motion. Right, there was no motion on his item before he made the amendments. Correct. So how do we take his? But I did make a motion to approve.
 I did not hear your motion to approve. I didn't hear it either. You've made a motion to approve your amendments if I'm not mistaken. And I still have a question about discretionary funds being amended and if legal could let us know. It's legal. Hi, just from legal, you would make a separate motion for that? Right. That doesn't have to be accompanied by the resolution showing the public use of the funds?
 Depending on the dollar amount my guess is it's gonna exceed $1,000. It was 75 75 thousand That would be a separate Posting I would be happy to support it in the next meeting, but I don't I just don't think that we can do it Well, we'll get legal opinion on that Mayor mayor do I remove my second if it's not being able to get done so I remove my second Second on amendments
 So now all we have on the is your motion. No the representative Acevedo's Amendment and then your motion. Okay, so rep mayor may I want one last final thing? I'm happy to make that as a friendly so we don't have to vote on another amendment I'm happy to do that as a friendly amendment to the motion. Yeah, thank you. Go ahead, sir So he wants to add Represent Acevedo's motion as a friendly amendment to input from neighborhood associations if that makes it easier. Okay, miss Pryne. I
 So let's take the motion then that we have remaining is a motion from Representative canales and that was seconded by representative Piero and I'll read it into the record and
 and this is to direct the city manager to conduct a thorough assessment of the implementation of dedicated pickleball courts at locations across the city of El Paso, considering both interior and exterior pickleball courts and including parks and recreation facilities that have existing pickleball amenities
 and that the assessment include a minimum, a comprehensive selection process for potential sites, a projection of costs, an analysis of optimal facility scale and or mix of facility sizes, and an estimate of the potential economic impact of tournaments and league play. And then...
 a preliminary assessment be presented during the city's upcoming budget workshops for the FY 2025 budget with a more formal assessment to be presented to the City Council within 120 days and to include neighborhood associations in the process is that correct yes I if possible if we can just add one more comma after league play with a clause reading
 And to collect input from neighborhood associations. OK. Just for cleanliness sake. OK. So you wanted to read.
 To direct the City Manager to conduct a thorough assessment of the implementation of dedicated pickleball courts at locations across the City of El Paso, considering both interior and exterior pickleball courts, and including parks and recreation facilities that have existing pickleball amenities, and that the assessment include a minimum, a comprehensive selection process for potential sites, a projection of costs,
 an analysis of optimal facility scale and or mix of facility sizes and an estimate of potential economic impact of tournaments and league play, and to include input from neighborhood associations in the process and that a preliminary assessment be presented during the city's upcoming budget workshops for the FY 2025 budget with a more formal assessment to be presented to the city council within 120 days. Is that okay?
 Yes ma'am. Thank you sir. Okay on that motion. I think we just need to see if Rep. Fierro still holds the second after the friendly amendment. Rep. Fierro. I have a friendly second. Thank you sir. So it's been seconded by Representative Fierro has just read into the record on that motion call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy thank you. Representative Fierro. Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and that motion passes unanimously.
 And just for a point of information, I'll talk to the city attorney and city manager, and Representative Molinar will bring his item back for the $75,000 in two weeks to be considered. So, and again, thank you, Representative Molinar. I think that this will take a lot of work, but nothing would have ever been started, nothing would have ever been mentioned without your support.
 Thinking forward and wanting to be able to do something like this It's a it's a lot of work to do it citywide and a lot of expenses But the motion and having all these People here would never gotten started or move forward without your thinking and your forward thinking So I thank you for doing that and I thank you all for being here. Thank you
 And with that I think we have item 5 then mass transit. Yes sir thank you. Item 5 was moved to the regular agenda and this is that the mayor be authorized to sign an interlocal agreement entered into and by between the city of El Paso and the district attorney of the 34th judicial district for the disposition of forfeited property in accordance with Chapter 59 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure. Commissioner Canales you have a question on it? Thank you Mayor. Wait for the room to clear a moment if that's OK. Good morning.
 We're waiting. Good morning, Chief. Good morning. Julian Cediaga, Assistant Chief, El Paso Police Department. I think we're quiet enough. Yeah, I asked to move this item to the regular agenda. I know I had this conversation with the Chief last year, and I want to make it abundantly clear that this has I have no concern with
 our police department or how you choose to use these funds. I want to express again very clearly, I have a distinct problem with civil asset forfeiture as a thing that exists. I don't think that that is something that the government should have the power to do. And so I wanted to move this to the regular agenda because I won't support it today. But again, I want to make it really clear to
 to everyone in the police department. This has nothing to do with wanting to take away any resources from you or any dispute with the way that you use the funds. Understood. Again, it's a philosophical concern with civil asset forfeiture. And for anyone who doesn't know, it's a tool by which property can be seized if it's suspected that the property has been or will be
 Involved in a crime and that property can be cash or any other personal belongings That property is then if it's If it's personal property, it's it's typically sold and then the the proceeds can be used for law enforcement purposes I don't know. I'll say it one more time really clearly Please police department don't think that I think that there's anything that you're doing wrong with the funds This is a tool that's available to you all but I just Have a philosophical
 difference of opinion about the existence of civil asset forfeiture. Thank you. Yes, thank you chief There's a motion to approve there sir. There's a second so we have a motion and a second to approve the item is submitted Yes, sir. And miss Osmond signed up to speak on this item. Good morning again, miss Osmond chief. There's a public comment Thank You. Mr. Condoleezza for bringing up civil forfeiture I
 One, I am curious as to why it is, or quite frankly, why there is a contract between EPPD and the district courts for this. That's a little odd. But when you're saying civil forfeiture, yes, it could be funds. It could be titled property, whether it's vehicles or people's homes. In the respect of when it gets sold, just so that there's some clarity, that...
 within the court process it has been very difficult for people to actually fight for their property back in fact during these civil forfeitures the The amount of legal fees it takes for some people when you when you do the research into this to actually get their their property Back is outrageous. So that is why a lot of times they just walk away So even if it was done
 Under good cause but the times when it's not done under good cause people still walk away. So I do. Thank you Mr. Canales for pointing that out because there is a problem with Civil forfeiture in to just put it through as though, you know what let people lose their funds Let because quite frankly there are problems with although you won't say it I'm gonna say it there are problems within our El Paso PD in our local law enforcement I
 That is not a secret. We've had our own law enforcement be arrested for various criminal issues. But perhaps on the civil forfeitures, there needs to be some other procedures put in so that it's just not an automatic. In regards to real property, homes or vehicles, something else other than just the cash, because right now it is a huge issue.
 And I do worry about how they are going to use the funds. So I think other amendments need to be added to it if possible. Thank you. With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy? Aye. Thank you. Representative Fierro?
 Thank you. And the voting session? And that motion passes 6-1. Representative Canales voting nay. The remainder of council voting aye. The motion does carry. Thank you. Thank you, Chief and Chief. We'll take mass transit now. Do we have a motion to adjourn for mass transit? 2 a.m. Move to reconvene the city council meeting. Thank you.
 There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 1052 AM. We now turn to page number 18 to items 38 and 39 and 40. Those four items were moved to the regular, to the forefront of the agenda.
 Item 38 is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign a chapter 380 economic development program agreement between the City of El Paso, Texas and notes live Inc in support of the construction of a 12,500 seat Amphitheater at northeast corner of Cohen Avenue and Gateway Boulevard North item 39 is a public hearing of an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a contract of sale with notes like Inc and
 a Colorado corporation for the sale of approximately 17 acres of property located at the northeast corner of Cohen Avenue and Gateway Boulevard North. And item number 40 is a public hearing of an ordinance approving amendment number 3 to the final project and financing plan for tax increment reinvestment zone number 11, making various findings related to such plan.
 Good morning, ma'am. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Karina Brazgala with Economic and International Development. Very excited to bring forward the final approvals for the Notes Live partnership. This is in accordance with the term sheet approved by City Council on April 23rd of this year. So there's that previous action and this is again for the development of a 12,500 seat outdoor amphitheater venue at the Cohen Stadium site.
 Here's a little review of the project timeline. So the term sheet was approved and just up front I'll get into the details of the agreements, the land conveyance, and then we have our tax increment reinvestment zone consultant here to present a little bit on that plan update. But everything that you'll see today is in accordance with that term sheet that was previously approved. So we did ordinance introductions on May 21st and we are here today for the final public hearing and action.
 If everything goes forward as planned, Notes Live will begin construction in the August-September time frame. It's about an 18-month construction period, planning to be open March 2026 for the full 2026 touring season.
 A reminder of the site that we're dealing with. So this is about 50 acres of city-owned property at Cohen and Gateway North. And it is within TERS number 11, which is why that project and financing plan is also on the agenda. And it has been fully vacant since 2019, since the demolition of Cohen Stadium. There is, of course, the area we're talking about has been vacant, but the water park is on there. And that will not be affected by this development footprint. Okay.
 And then also this, I covered it briefly when we presented this in April, but I really want to emphasize that everything we're bringing forward, this is an incredible opportunity to deliver on the promise of the Entertainment District Master Plan. There's an extensive public engagement process in 2018 and 2017 to discuss what should happen to the Cohen Stadium site and how to best reflect that. The Master Plan commercial development that has come out of that
 involves restaurants, family entertainment, retail, hotel offices, but as always the plan has always always focused on a central venue, an outdoor space, something that would be able to have you know new entertainment uses, something that's really a destination for the city.
 The goals that came out of that master planning effort that covers the whole site, really to revitalize that site, catalyst for development in Northeast El Paso, but also the region and have something with a regional destination venue.
 A reminder of the project summary, so we're talking about Venue Inc. They're doing, it's Notes Live doing business as Venue Inc. They've sort of done a rebrand, but that does not affect the sort of validity of the agreement. So all of the agreements will be with Notes Live Inc., but they're sort of under the umbrella of Venue. They are one of the fastest growing entertainment and hospitality companies in the United States. El Paso is selected as a target market for expansion, and we've been working with them for several months on this venue and development agreement.
 The developer obligations right up front, they will be responsible for developing full construction of a 12,500 seat luxury and hospitality venue. So that is an outdoor amphitheater on approximately 17 acres. We will convey the land to them. They will do a minimum 80 million investment. And you'll see on my next slide, many of these venues, we would anticipate spending much more than that. They generally go into the about 100 million range.
 They will be responsible for getting a contract with an operator. So those are the folks that actually book the tours for a minimum 40 shows per year set to open in 2026. So they're responsible for getting that operator contract and managing that operator contract. That's going to be with folks like Live Nation, AEG. These are national touring events.
 and then shared use parking facilities so the city will retain ownership of the parking facilities and provide them exclusivity on event dates so that leaves us the rest of the year to monetize and use that parking and then of course the plan is always to convert kind of the remaining property into the other uses that would support this kind of development in line with the master plan the sunset amphitheater model so that's sort of their name the venue in
 Colorado Springs and I think they've broken arrows. They're going after naming rights, but Sunset's the default name until it gets named. So again, looking at $100 million investment, these are the venues that were comparable with in the Notes Live inventory, 8,000 to 12,500 seats.
 They have a very interesting fire pit suite investment model. So they'll take down the site, they'll do the development, and then what they do is they open for investment. Those are for those fire pit suites. So you buy that and that is a condominium scheme. So if you're interested in a fire pit, you buy that, you have the actual property rights. It's not just a box where I get tickets. You have actual land interest in that. And the team can talk about that in a little bit more detail, but it allows them to build these venues completely debt free.
 And then all of their venues, same as ours, would be premier national touring acts and concerts. Live Nation is responsible for the Oklahoma venues, and then they have an operator contract with AEG in Colorado.
 Here are the proposed deal points. So we've talked about developer obligations, so I want to hit on what the city will be doing. So this is a proposed 20-year incentive structure, so we will be conveying the land. And then there is a development note that is eight years at zero percent interest and it is forgivable. And that is underwritten by the Texas Economic Development Fund.
 We have permit fee waivers that does not touch anything that would be coming from taxed out El Paso water park fees, etc. That is straight just your development fees and then property tax rebates, sales tax and mixed beverage sales tax.
 and those decrease over time. So in year 12, we start recapturing some of the incentive, some of the tax revenue. Again, this is just for their portion of the site, so they're not getting a rebate on the entire TERS. It is just on the section that is applicable to their development, so just that 17 acres. The total estimated incentive value is about $30.9 million.
 Proposed incentive sources so we mentioned this back in April, but I will say it again for the record This does not propose any general fund sources of revenue So the development note as I mentioned is underwritten by the Texas Economic Development Fund That is a fund that was negotiated as part of the IAF acquisition of El Paso electric provides 80 million dollars in dedicated economic development funding over 15 years and
 And then the rebates are from tax increment reinvestment zone number 11. The city does participate at 100% of property and sales tax increment. We'll go into the details again of that, of the TERS and the fund and the plan in a moment, but that was put in place as part of the Cone Master Plan development.
 One of the other wonderful things that we did when we were looking at prepping Cohen, we developed the master plan that included design restrictions that was included, you know, putting the TERS on there, anticipating future development. There is also dedicated funding set aside for site readiness. So it is dedicated funding, there's about 1.7 million in there for design engineering assistance that will help us with the remaining infrastructure obligations.
 So another key deal point here, parking and infrastructure. So the venue does require 3,600 spaces for exclusive use on event days. There's plenty of parking already at Cohen, so we've got probably a little bit more than this. It's probably closer to 2,000, but on the conservative side, 1,300 on site, but outside of the project area.
 Of course, because we will be retaining ownership of that, there's potential for shared use, either for parking use, for activities. I know that the farmer's market had been happening at Cohen, so things like that could continue to take place.
 but also as we develop this out, because we still own that property, that allows us to put other developments, those supporting uses, the retail, the hotels, the other family entertainment-oriented activities, shift that parking over time, hopefully eventually into structured parking, which is what the plan requires, and then flexibility adjust over time. So the cost is not final yet. Again, we have to go through the design process
 an engineering process but flat parking spaces are about 2200 a space and we do have funds available again also non-general fund sources and the impact fund which is another which comes out of the EP street rental fees and that has capacity for the parking
 the land conveyance so this is contract of sale but again we are conveying the land we are allowed to do this via chapter 253 of the texas local government code that was amended during the 88th texas legislature so last year it allows a municipality to convey real property with an entity that has entered into a chapter 380 economic development agreement so the two are tied together performance in the 380 means that the land is there and we've been very specific that this is
 purpose-built development so there is a clawback and default provisions of the development does not happen or does not happen Or if uses shift over time so the land is explicitly for this development It is not a conveyance forever for anything. It is specific to the deal that we've negotiated. I
 I will also bring this up because it's in there and I know there's been some questions about this. The other item that you will see in the 380 agreement is this non-compete clause. Objectives really here are to ensure that this development is competitive and successful within the region, but also to protect the city's interests in entertainment venue projects.
 We do have, of course, a bond project that we might still deliver on. And so we want to make sure that we're not limiting the city's participation in voter approved projects that we would be required to do by law. And also allow us to participate in larger regional projects. So if things come in that are a larger scale, you know, if we were looking at something, you know, the McKinney Notes live venue is 22,000 seats. We wanna make sure that we're not restricted in that way.
 And then just a reminder, these are the big funds numbers. So construction operations, you're looking at your kind of temporary construction jobs over 1,000. There's that one time kind of impact during construction. But we're looking at an operational impact, $261 million average annual impact at full operation. Again, very much on the conservative side, but $5.4 billion in economic impact to the city of El Paso and the broader region over the term of this agreement.
 Again, recommendation and action approval of the chapter 380 program agreement and approval on the contract of sale to convey the land. Move to approve. Second. Take any questions. You know, with the motion second, but I do want to make a few comments that the non-compete cost is really important. And if we looked at our Chihuahuas in the baseball stadium, if you read that contract,
 which I've read it more than once, it's in there. And they're not the owners of the facility. They're actually the operating partners of it. So that was a really important part when the trial was passed. And so it's not any different. And I know there might have been some concerns, but like I said, if you read that, they're not even the owners of the investment. They're actually the operating partners of it.
 That's who I was on the baseball team and they do have a non-compete for sport venue so I thought I wanted to make sure I throw that in there and I'm very supportive of this item because it's gonna bring a quality of life quality of place Not only the Northeast but also the the city of El Paso and a hundred million dollar investment There's a real private public partnership. It's a partnership that we can grow on a
 I asked you the question, I'll ask you again, that what kind of excitement have we received based on their investment in our community in the area of Cohen Stadium? Absolutely. So we've gotten definitely lots of interested calls and emails. I have a handful of LOIs that are under kind of initial review, right? We sort of pre-screen those, look into the deals. But incredible. We went to ICSC in Las Vegas, which is one of the largest kind of site selection retail-focused conventions there.
 huge excitement about the Cohen Stadium site we do not anticipate any issues getting the rest of that built out so and that's really important as we see excitement breeds excitement and there's a lot of excitement based on on the commitment investment and I want to thank your team and really city manager and deputy state managers for their commitment and investment and of course JW Roth for his vision I know that he's opened a few of them and
 You have to believe in what you're doing. It's not every day you decide you're just going to spend $100 million and hope for the best. You do a lot of studies. You do a lot of planning before you even consider doing that. So this is really an important step forward for our community and moving forward. I think it's important to also talk about the long-term impact.
 investment in our community. I know we talked about the fire pits and we talked about the boxes. How is that going to work?
 Yeah, so I'll do a quick summary of it and then I might actually ask the notes live team to come up because they're gonna know The real details of it and I don't want to misspeak But again the fire pit suites and you'll notice on their other venues You can go on their website and they have a breakdown where they go would you it's open for investment these venues so you can Select you can get a fire pit suite. They have a different range of seating options you buy that that is a condominium scheme So it's not just I'm buying a box and I get tickets on event days. You own a real property in trust and
 In that fire pit so they see a lot of folks coming in doing that as kind of an investment model So they might pre purchase it and then sell it after the venue is open corporations take them down and There's a couple of other things there But the money that they generate off of those sales is what helps fund the construction of the venue So is this?
 I basically own part of the real estate you're saying, and I have the opportunity to sell it at the end of the day? Yes. Whether however many years, because I've got to pay for it. This is not like if you were to buy a box at a sporting event where you pay $50,000 over five years, cost you $250,000 in the five years.
 you have nothing. You have the opportunity to renew, but you don't own the piece of property or the real estate. So I think that's something that's really important because they're investing and allowing the community to invest in itself. So that's actually very, very important. Again, I'm very excited because of the excitement that's going to breed excitement and, you know,
 You told me and you just told us $5.4 billion economic impact to the city. Is that at the best day or are we talking about? We were very conservative with that and we've got the economic impact study for that. So that's kind of I would say that's the floor on the lower quartile maybe.
 I would really anticipate that being much higher once it's actually open and operating. Like I said, I got a lot to say about it, but I do have a lot of council members that would like to talk about it. You know, it's something that – oh, yeah, the last question. Is this a competing venue with the downtown multipurpose facility?
 They could have some overlap but that's part of what that non-compete project is there to come to Protect is the city's interest in the MPC. So it's two different venues. There are two different venues. They're not related I just want to make sure that anything that we did on the MPC would be separate action separate discussion by council but we want to be sensitive to the fact that they're in the kind kind of same event shed and
 So really a lot of that is also to protect us and to protect the voters Not just on the MPC but on future voter approved projects making sure that councils not restricted in that way And I do want to reiterate non-compete is something that we entered in with the Chihuahuas for all sporting events that To make sure because of the investment in Major League Baseball Thank you for that representative none as followed by representative canalis and
 Thank you, Karina, for the presentation. I have a couple questions, but first I wanted to welcome the Notes Live business and for investing in El Paso. A big proponent of your project. However, with this role comes a great responsibility to ensure that El Paso taxpayers are benefiting to its maximum potential.
 Because this agreement really ties our hands and so it has to be right and so I do want to talk a little bit about the non-compete clause because You just really quickly you mentioned there's overlap. Can you just define what that means? between the two venues
 just overlap in the sense that it's two sort of regional projects with a similar scale that would be targeting, I think, live events. And so really to make sure that there's no issues there. I don't know if there's a specific question about the definitions in the clause, because then I might defer to...
 the lawyer who wrote it just to make sure I don't miss state on that but we have competing venue defined we have the kind of area of overlap defined so it's a 60 mile radius and again it just limits the city as a as a kind of entity's participation it doesn't say that nobody in the city no developers I can't restrict what private sector might do or county or EPCC or something like that.
 And so because it's important what's in the narrative and that's not highlighted in the presentation So I'd like to read what this says and then I'd like to ask clarification on what it means and it states under section 4.1 I believe 4.1 point I okay city participation and development of competing venues and
 I'm gonna go down to section two the city agrees to not develop a live entertainment venue within 60 miles of The development having the capacity of more than 4,000 persons which is defined as a competing venue competing venue 4,000 persons and with the intent of competing with the development including applicants operator contract and
 IT GOES ON AND THEN SPECIFICALLY WHERE I HAVE A CONCERN IS UNDER ITEM 3. AND IT STATES THE CITY SHALL PROVIDE THE APPLICANT A FIRST RIGHT OF REFUSAL TO DEVELOP AND OR OPERATE ANY VOTER APPROVED PROJECT AS THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT. SO I MISUNDERSTOOD YOUR INITIAL CONVERSATIONS BECAUSE I UNDERSTOOD LIKE, HEY, WE'RE THE THIS VENUE WOULD NOT COMPETE WITH ANY VOTER APPROVED VENUE.
 But I have never been informed that there would be a first right of refusal that they would have the opportunity first to develop a voter approved project. Am I interpreting that correctly? If I can hear from the legal team, does item three of four I mean that I need to give notes live a first right of refusal to operate any voter approved project to include the arena multipurpose center? Hi, good morning, Mayor and Council Oscar Gomez with legal department.
 So the language here, the interpretation should be as it says there with the new live entertainment venue and specifically highlighting with the intent of competing with the development. So for events specifically undertaken by the development itself.
 I'm not sure if that answers the question. No, so let's do a yes or no question. Is it true that this non-competing clause would inhibit the city's ability to go look for a separate operator if we do decide to build the multipurpose center? So here we also have the language that specifically addresses that, and that's for border-approved projects.
 So we're not limiting the city's ability to do that, specifically concerning the MPC, which was one of the issues that was brought up with this agreement. But it says for right of refusal, and so that's where I'm hanging up on this clause. Let me take a swing at this. Please. I think it's actually in the city's best interest when you have a venue like Notes Live coming in with this amphitheater,
 and if the city constructs a multi-purpose center that you have continuity of operators, it actually is to the benefit of the city so that you're de-conflicting different events and you're not competing with a separate operator in being able to do that. It actually is for the betterment of us being able to get good events in the city and I don't think it's an unreasonable request for us to have continuity of operators at two very large facilities that bring in
 big acts on touring schedules coming into the city and being able to do that. So the answer to that is yes, the contract does in fact give first rights so that we actually have continuity of operators if the city builds a voter approved project that is a multipurpose center. We would wanna be able to make sure that we do that for the betterment of what we can bring to the community.
 And I'm just going to point out two additional lines in there. So it's as allowable by law. So that would, if there is some sort of bond restriction or procurement restriction, obviously that supersedes anything like that. And then first right of refusal still allows the city to set the terms. That's not saying that we put any project out and we say, OK, well, you guys take it. You tell us what you want. It'd be just like any other RFP, RFQ. We decide what qualifications meet at what we're asking for, what we would need that to be. It doesn't entitle them to any additional incentives.
 I mean, it's in the agreement. And I think we need to be crystal clear and genuine about the motivations here.
 I'm a little disturbed and I'm sorry to say that publicly because this is the first time I'm having to understand that you all just tied us in further in a non-competing clause to the multipurpose center. Those are two different discussions and they need to be separated. It should not be in one agreement and it certainly should not be.
 Hidden from members of council. I'm happy that I was able to review it that the non-compete was Specifically called out in the term sheet approved on the 23rd. Did you specifically say yes at any time that a first-rider refusal? Would be mandated as part of this non-competing class ma'am. It was a part of it was a part of the discussion And the the agreement of the term sheet by the City Council back in April of this year Okay, so
 I like I said this is complete news to me and it is concerning that we are conflating two agreements and not being genuine and forthcoming with the public so that's my number one issue mayor how much time do I have because I know you time me Mrs. Clerk you have three minutes three minutes okay
 So separate from the non-compete clause, maybe we can deal with that. Maybe council might agree that we should remove those provisions because we should not be having those discussions in this one agreement. I've made clear that I would like to see some more investment from the city. The city of El Paso, if this political body ties us to this agreement, what is it in return for the public? What is the specific return to the public separate and aside from the economic development?
 FOR EXAMPLE, NONCOMPETING CLOTHES WITH THE BALLPARK, WE OWN IT. THAT'S A PUBLIC ASSET. WE CAN DO WHATEVER WE WANT AS A PUBLIC ASSET BECAUSE IT DIRECTLY BENEFITS US. I DON'T HAVE COMPLETE ACCESS TO THIS VENUE. I DON'T. I MEAN, ONCE THIS IS APPROVED,
 We're going to rely on their generosity and would love to hear from the ownership group, what type of philanthropy will you be doing in this community? What type of wages, wage requirements will you have for this community to ensure that we have competitive wages? Are you willing to share parking revenues for city-owned parking spaces at the Cohen site? And finally, what kind of access, free access will you be providing to this city?
 as a government entity and to organizations throughout the community to include high schools and colleges so that they can access it for graduations and other events. And so that is how we have a community-led
 That is how we propel this community by leveraging corporate responsibility and their investment into our city in return for a economic development agreement. And if you can demonstrate to me the clear and convincing evidence, then you have my vote. Otherwise, at this time, I can't support this because I feel it's irresponsible use of government tools. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Canales followed by Representative Acevedo. Thank you, Mayor.
 I HAD A COUPLE QUESTIONS AND ONE THING I THINK IS IMPORTANT THAT YOU COMMUNICATE VERY CLEARLY. THERE ARE SEVERAL DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE INCENTIVE AGREEMENT. HOW MUCH IS BEING PAID FROM THE CITY'S GENERAL FUND? IT DEPENDS ON IF YOU THINK WAIVERS, THERE'S A FEE WAIVERS. THAT'S NOT A REBATE OR PAYMENT FROM THE CITY'S GENERAL FUND.
 none of it correct so zero dollars from the from the city's general fund and so what was your answer zero zero yes it is all being funded either by via TERS rebates the Texas Economic Development Fund and then for the future improvements right that might come forward as a separate funding resolution we will either be using again specialty ED funds with a combination of the site readiness fund that was already set aside
 Correct. And so can you explain a little bit more clearly to what the Texas Economic Development Fund is and what the source of that money is? Certainly. So that is funding as part of the intervention in the El Paso electric acquisition. Part of the settlement agreement was a negotiated fund.
 for economic development purposes and it has a policy set aside it's permissible for a range of economic development projects including things that are destination entertainment and would drive tourism. And also infrastructure projects so that is $80 million over 15 years I get about 5.3 annually. So that goes in there and I will also say again that this is structured not as a grant but it is.
 It's a note which is kind of, I mean, if you want to think about it colloquially as like a loan, but it's 0% interest. It's eight years term. It's forgivable if certain performance metrics are met, but if there is not, that is also recoverable. I will note also on the incentives, I know the question was about funding source, but we have recapture provisions in there in events of default. You're eating into my next question. I was like, we are protecting the city's interest. There are a number of risk mitigation efforts in this agreement. Okay.
 Just because I'm looking for one particular answer, very clearly you said that the Texas Economic Development Fund came about part of the settlement with the acquisition of El Paso Electric. What is the source of those funds? Who is providing the funds for the Texas Economic Development Fund? El Paso Electric. El Paso Electric, okay. So those funds are not coming from the city of El Paso? No. Or from taxpayers? Correct. Okay. And then you pretty much answered my next questions. Can you just explain...
 Maybe one more time. Sure. The clawback provisions we have. Absolutely. And the revertors on the land and everything. I know we say the word performance-based agreement a lot and it loses its meaning, but really what we're talking about is everything is based on real investment, is based on actual revenue generated by the site. So when I do a rebate, that is real taxable value that's added. So they get their assessment from CAD, they pay the tax bill, we reimburse it.
 So all of that comes out of there, but we wanna make sure that the performance is kind of not just retroactive. We don't wanna be paying out and then the venue fails or closes or something happens. So there are recapture provisions in the 380, so there's a repayment schedule. So in the event of default termination, if the use changes, if the venue closes, they're required to pay back incentives that have been given to them to date. On the land provision in,
 In specific, we've got a clawback. So if the use changes, the development is not constructed, the land either returns to the city's inventory or repaid market value. And in addition, that has a damages clause in there as well. So if the venue doesn't go forward, we have damages on the land that could be triggered there. So it's land or market value plus liquidated damages? Correct. Okay.
 Those are all my questions. I wanted to ask them to make it very clear that, you know, you're not flying blindly into this agreement. There are a lot of protections that have been included, and I don't mean in any way to suggest that the company won't perform. I think they are very, very invested in El Paso, and we've seen no sign that they won't be able to perform what they're
 We are incredibly protected and the city's investment is incredibly protected. So thank you for all the work. I know it's taken a lot of work to get to this point. And I think this, if you look at the projected impact, and again, what you presented is a conservative projection, I think this can be an excellent project for our community. So thank you. Good job, sir. Thank you. Representative Acevedo, followed by Representative Salcido, followed by Representative Fierro.
 Thank you Mayor. Thanks Karina. I know you've been pouring your heart and soul into this for months now and really appreciate everything that you've put together. I do have some concerns and I mainly wanted to talk to Notes Live if we could bring them up.
 Good morning, Council. Thank you for the opportunity. My name is Bob Mudd and I am the president of Notes Live. Good morning. Thank you for being here. And I know that we've been trying to schedule a meeting that the third time's a charm. Tomorrow hopefully we'll be able to talk, but I really wish we would have been able to do it before today's council meeting. I think a lot of that, a lot of my concerns could have been answered in that sense. So I'll just jump right into it.
 Wanted to ask about other projects that you've you've done specifically the first question that I had was on the Murfreesboro Project and what's been happening since last year there And I've kind of seen that there was economic conditions and bank lending and stuff like that And you're gonna get a proceed from an equity offering. So We're about a year since that happened
 that's started now. And so I wanna know where you are financially to be able to get this moving forward. I know the fire pits are a big deal and that's been discussed ad nauseum at this point, but I really need to understand that from your perspective. Yeah, I appreciate that question. Murfreesboro is a very different project than what we're discussing here because it incorporated also an indoor music venue and a restaurant.
 Things have changed substantially as it relates to financing on those so we've proposed some alternative approaches that were predominantly focused around just the amphitheater and Without violating I guess NDAs at this point. We are in discussions about whether or not that will make sense to the city redoing traffic studies and Economic impact analysis active conversation today
 Okay, so you but you feel strong financially, let's say the the fire pit sales are not gonna go really well can this project still move forward or I
 Absolutely, absolutely. We're talking about 132 fire pit sales here. You're looking at a company that has qualified to be publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange, anticipates doing so this year, if not in the next 60 to 90 days. Estimated very strong balance sheet, not including the project value, which would include our recent addition of McKinney, has a net asset balance.
 assets on the balance sheet today approaching a hundred million dollars we have been successful if you go to our website and look at our invest tab you will see a litany of projects that we have approached and we are very good at the underlying financing that's required to execute on these projects given the frankly the dynamics of the El Paso market which we believe is one of the top
 five or six kind of tier two markets in the United States that does not have a live music asset. The interest in the promotions side of the business in this market, which includes its access to both the customers that might be coming from Mexico but also El Paso, very popular market at this stage, so we do not have any concerns in regards to our ability to acquire the proper financing.
 Okay. Thank you for answering that. I was also looking at some of the other 380 agreements that you've done in in other cities specifically, I looked at McKinney broken arrow and Murfreesboro and Throughout those I did a popular command F search the document, you know for certain keywords use certain keywords such as non and non compete and compete and miles and radius and I
 development and throughout any of those documents that were quite long and as I kind of read through them, I noticed that there was not,
 a similar non-compete clause in those agreements. So I'm wondering why El Paso and not those other agreements? There's a couple of reasons, and that's a great question. When you look at El Paso, El Paso, and it's, call it the US side of the border, is about a million person market. So when we look at a market of this nature, if you go into south of the border into Mexico, that market expands somewhat.
 that we have to make sure that we have the ability to effectively program this for the long haul. We're making nearly $100 million investment here, and that's a critical element to it. The one difference that applies here is that there was a city project that was in play that already had underlying support and legislation that supported it. And so what we did with the city of El Paso was work very diligently to make sure that we –
 kept whole the commitments that were made through the bond project if that's the proper way to say it while at the same time protecting our interest to make sure we don't have a large competitor right down the street that ultimately wouldn't would would would compromise both of the projects
 If you look at a market like Tulsa, there was not a competing entity outside of the indoor arena. We understood well the dynamics of that, and we also had a promoter in tow. We've contracted with Live Nation in that market.
 And have an understanding of the long-term nature of their commitment to that market, which changes that dynamic a bit. In regards to Colorado, we came into that arrangement with AEG. AEG is the programmer for both Fiddler's Green and for Red Rocks, which some of you may be familiar with.
 those are all entities that are in proximity and we understood the competitive nature of those and again we're able to establish a long-term agreement with them and all that's a matter of public record and so when we began to look at this to have a venue that might be ten thousand or twelve thousand or fifteen thousand sitting right next to us in a market of this size that was what our interests were in protecting while at the same time protecting the city's commitments as it relates to the bond project
 That gives me a lot of pause. I'll be very honest with you. I think that when you look at this region, it's a region of two million people and we call it the region. We have three states, two countries, and it's one community and I think that that's really important to highlight. The confirmation that this non-compete is not in any other agreements is
 is really kind of shocking to hear at this point, because I was under the impression up until today that this non-compete was a standard thing that you had used in all of your agreements, and we have been singled out because of, let's say, we want to protect the,
 VOTER APPROVED THING THAT HAPPENED 12 YEARS AGO. BUT AT THE SAME TIME, YOU'RE IN MCKINNEY, THE DFW AREA HAS A PLETHER OF VENUES AND THERE WAS NO NONCOMPETE THERE, RIGHT? FROM AT&T STADIUM TO AMERICAN AIRLINES CENTER TO A LOT OF OTHER AREAS. IF WE JUST TOOK THE POPULATION OF EL PASO BY ITSELF, IT'S BIGGER THAN ANY OF THOSE CITIES THAT YOU MENTIONED. BUT WE GOT THIS NONCOMPETE IN HERE.
 I'm not happy to see that. Up until today was, oh, yes, it's standard. I was like, okay, that makes sense. I could see why there's a non-compete, but you confirming that we're gonna be singled out, I don't like that at all. And also if we look at
 if we break down this language a little bit more, you said 60 miles, right? Las Cruces is 46 miles away from the venue. So you're really saying literally nothing in El Paso, nothing in El Paso County, maybe Hudspeth County, if we get to the 60 miles, right? Nothing south of the border. So that's giving me a lot of pause. So I thank you for confirming that and being very honest with me. And I appreciate you coming and looking forward to meeting with you tomorrow.
 Yeah, and I'm just gonna point of clarification. The McKinney deal does have a radius clause and that's what the starting point for the language was. So that's the case. I think Bob's talking about our specific language, the voter approved projects, the first right, that has to do with our particular venue interactions. I think there's also a question about the limitation of that. It's unlikely but not impossible that the city would choose to participate in projects outside of our jurisdiction. But of course, again, this only restricts us. It doesn't restrict any other entity.
 And then there are those parameters around it. So it's voter approved larger scale projects would still be on the docket So if there was again For some reason enough an NFL team wanted to relocate here There was something that was not deemed to be competitive with this venue. So something sports focused something that was purpose built for I mean primarily you see it for sports, but for some other sort of thing and That would still all be allowable under this Clause and I'm looking at the McKinney one and I don't see the radius clause and you just said that there was not a
 So I'm trying to. Yeah, it is. Say that again, Mayor.
 Yeah, you're looking at two very different markets. So it's about a seven and a half to eight million person market. There's one other outdoor amphitheater that is very different than what we are building, and that is the basis of believing that the market can do that here. In the city of El Paso, we work very diligently to protect the city's intended and defined
 Objective for the the downtown project this language was very particular and making sure that that was protected
 So I understand your concern and would be happy to talk through it further Big key to this is you in the in the process of building a facility like this There has to be a promoter that would come along with it. We're very convinced that that's the case. It's a part of our agreement Promoters will come into these but not in the event that there is an oversaturation of assets that would be available for other promoters to come into from the perspective of a
 uh having two competing events on a night and so having the 4 000 below and the 12 000 and above which is is a significant divide in terms of capacity and products that could be put into bear we felt like it was a an even way to to sort that out thank you thank you dr oswego his 10 minutes are up um now let me make sure i caught what you're saying maybe i misunderstood the recent
 the other venues is you're using the same promoter for you and The other venues is that correct? Well in in Colorado We have a promoter that that is very active in Colorado And so they understood the dynamics and so that is aeg in the case of Tulsa Lavnation has committed to that market now
 In the case of El Paso, what we're creating is a framework where there'll be a strong commitment from those promoters because they know that they've got a facility that they can give a long-term commitment to of that nature. And they'd be happy to, as drafted in the agreement, to also program a 4,000-person venue, which is consistent with what is in the agreement.
 the in the bond package but the key here was there was an existing city established entertainment venue we asked what was the anticipated size of that venue we set the expectation above that number and at the end of the day we felt like we could find a ground where we can make this long-term investment without having the compromise of having
 City supported competitor right down the street. Yeah, and I understood I don't make sure I heard what you said and that Makes a huge huge difference now. You do know that Nostrusia's we don't control New Mexico. I mean what happens in New Mexico has none to do with us and That you know, we control our non-compete would be in our area. I wouldn't be in you know, I
 the other side of the border in Mexico we have no jurisdiction over that regardless whether it's you know 60 miles or not if Las Cruces is 45 miles away We have no jurisdiction over New Mexico. New Mexico is actually closer than that So we're we're just talking about within the El Paso city limits is where we control understood the
 I mean, one of the interesting dynamics that we're seeing with this El Paso market is we, in a typical facility you would anticipate about 25 to 30% coming from outside the MSA for a large scale concert like this. And we're being told based on the emergence of significant participation in the Latino genre of music that we could see as high as 40 to 50% of the folks coming to concert coming from outside the tax base in El Paso.
 No, and I appreciate that, and I think that that creates a big draw to El Paso from Mexico, and that's something we look at when we look at economic development and growth to our community. That's really, really huge for us, so I thank you for that, Representative Salcedo, followed again by Representative Fierro and then Representative Acevedo.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you also to Notes Life for being here and investing in our community. We appreciate it. I also want to thank the staff for really putting a lot of work into this. I know that the 380 agreement was posted on Thursday, and so I didn't really hear much from my constituents, but yesterday, you know, all the questions rolled in, and so I was just really trying to answer them all and answer.
 I did reach out to Economic Development. I had asked for that 5.4 economic impact report, but I didn't receive it, because I didn't get a lot of questions in regards to that. But I know that I'm the voice of my district, and so I want to go ahead and ask a lot of the questions that they asked me. So I know that on the, they got ahold of, I guess, a presentation you all had. I didn't get the opportunity to read y'all's agreement with, I guess, McKinney. And they'd asked, they're getting covered seats in parking.
 And why are we not getting covered seats in parking? That's one of the questions. I'll take first stab at it, but I think Bob's going to back me up here. This city is constructing in the EDC. That's part of the McKinney deal. That's their responsibility for those infrastructure costs. So since we still have, we're going to be responsible for providing the parking, that's something that could be an option there. In terms of the parking, it would just depend on how we do the design and engineering for our portion. The seats, I believe this will still have the roof parts of the city covered.
 this amphitheater will be covered in the exact same way that mckinney is to give you a sense of its overall structure there's a lower seating bowl followed by the fire pit suites followed by a high hospitality we call it the owner suites which will house about 350 people in a conditioned higher hospitality area followed by a second set of seating and then there will be bench seating in the rear all of that covered with a it's called a
 uh aeronautic steel type of roofing so shade fans in addition to adjacent parking in the case of McKinney McKinney conveyed 46 acres different than the smaller Platte that we have here it is 46 acres that is located at the corner of 75 and 121 and so it's appraised value in 2022 is over 35 million dollars
 And so that coupled with additional cash substantially, many multiples times the catch of economic support up front is why we were able to build the parking
 adjacent to the to the facility in this case there's a substantial amount of Parking that's available that can be multi-use. So we're not pouring concrete for 55 times of use per year Which seems a good use of both The asset as well as the environment and so we felt like it was a better partnership to approach it from that perspective with substantially less cash out-of-pocket on the incentive side of the equation and
 Thank you. That's really good to know. That was one of their biggest concerns amongst others. The next one was the impact fees, right? I think we read here on the presentation first $1 million paid by Notes Live, and I know that in regards to us, we're just completely waiving that.
 So this is not within an impact fee area for the city of El Paso. So what they are getting waived are development fees. So that's going to be your titles 18, 19, 20. So that's related to your zoning and plotting provisions. It does not, of course, waive fees that we do not assess. So El Paso Electric, El Paso Water, TxDOT, if any of those are needed, Notes Live will be responsible for their own kind of development and fee structures there, getting the new permits that are needed. So it really is just kind of what we have in-house.
 That's standard language across most of our 380 agreements. So that's not any different than other projects that you all have seen in the past couple of months or even going back years. It's the same set of fee waivers. Yeah, no, no. It was extremely prevalent to my district just because impact fees was so aggressive. I think that's why. So impact fees are not waived. They're not applicable.
 Yeah, that is why that question was really asked because you know that was really pronounced in the last couple of months And so they really wanted to know if they're y'all, you know being responsible and being a partner in Investing in our community like that. So that's a good for me to share that answer The next one that asked about hosting graduations culture events family friendly community civic events They said that there was really nothing
 Prescriptive or prescribed that we are or that they're willing to partner up on that is is that correct? So it's not a requirement of the 380 But again, if you've got 40 or 50 or however many events are set on non touring days The venue would be available for booking same as anything else right at the Plaza Abraham Chavez So really having this in our mentor, I think would allow for potential bookings of that But we did not request any specific like reservation days or anything like that on this venue just
 No, no, and like as we are partnering up with you all the communities is there taxpayer dollars They're just looking to you know, get a benefit be able to get a benefit and be able to enjoy it as well So that's really kind of they're looking at ways that you're going to you know, give back I guess that's one of the best way to say it and that rolls into I also another part where we read about
 I think a dollar was going to the city and 10 cents going somewhere else and so they were kind of particularly asking me Why would why are we not doing that and for us to really focus on youth youth? technology and programs and so I'm bringing up the customers because they just feel that they that with us their taxpayers dollars being being given that they want to be able to also receive and
 Okay. Again, I'll take, so no specific ones, but I will say even on our 380s for things like the ballpark, which we own, there's not free use provisions, right? It would be at cost of operating the venue, so either the company eats that cost or the city eats that cost. And that's the case for almost everything I can think of from our hotel agreements, convention center, again, Abraham Chavez Plaza,
 The Starlight Event Center, which I know we have a partnership on for almost everything except for the CC, the Center for Civic Engagement, and that's specific to the kind of grant funding source that was used for that. And you have to fill out a requisition form and do all that sort of thing there. So there's no, I think...
 it's reasonable to expect that there'd be a cost for operating the venue and opening it up for any event. And that, that would be there. I'll let Bob speak to kind of corporate philanthropy and how that works, but I will also say it's outside of this, but you know, when the company came to us, one of the one things that they were, one of the other things that they were very interested in was partnership with EPCC, with UTEP for hospitality programming internship opportunities. So really looking at workforce and kind of in that sense. And so again, not something I would tie EPCC's hands to.
 But I think they've done a good job in other areas and in other venues of kind of opening that up for what you're talking About the kind of workforce and skills alignment You know I think that prior behavior is the greatest indicator of future behavior and I would strongly encourage as I have in all my conversations for you to reach out to former mayors mayor Southers of Colorado Springs and
 to the sheriff there, to current Mayor Yemi. In Gainesville, Georgia, as an example, Sam Cuvion and Brian Lackey, mayor and city manager. We are exceptionally involved in the community. In Colorado, we hosted the 200th anniversary of the City of Colorado Springs in our facilities.
 The State of the State was hosted where the governor of the State of Colorado came to our venue and was simulcast from there. You will see if you go to our schedule a substantial number of nonprofit-based engagements, including proms, graduations occurring in our facility, including the U.S. Air Force Academy's likely use of it in the coming years as we've already discussed it. We have worked in the case of McKinney. We've already initiated. We have not broken ground yet.
 and we've already initiated discussions with Collin College about the integration and need for both entertainment and hospitality training and resources at the community college level there and the same with Pikes Peak College in Colorado Springs. We, one of our core criteria is, and we've walked away from projects,
 because this didn't end up working out in the nature that we had intended was that the community will see this as an asset to their local community if we cannot get there we will not be favorable to committing a long-term investment to that community and so when we look at El Paso you can expect us to be a prominent
 supportive, engaged member of the community, both in the nonprofit and in the government sector. In the case of Gainesville, Georgia, we have hosted the EDC conferences for the entire state. We have hosted funerals for people
 for prominent figures that were unable to afford. We've done a lot of things from the perspective of engaging in the community. It's just the nature of what our business is. And so we would look forward to engaging directly with the city to identify uses of the facility and to do that at a rate that is of no profit to us but would allow the community to take advantage of the facility
 on a regular basis for things that were not competitive, obviously in nature, and were a long-term benefit to the community. Thank you. It's truly good to know that you are very much hands-on and involved in the community. I do have two other things, but I'm out of time, so I'll circle back.
 providing more jobs for local students full time but but I think there's two more things like that I have and in regards to also to the the non-compete but I'll circle back because I'm gonna be over ten minutes the first part of your question is about the ticketing fee in the McKinney agreement so that's an additional dollar levied on all tickets so it's not a portion of ticket sales and of that ninety cents go to the company ten cents go to the city
 We did run the numbers on that. The equivalent would be about $50,000 to the city, which I don't want to say is nothing. But on the scale of the impact we're expected here, we, again, feel comfortable that the deal that we have put together and negotiated with Notes Live provides us a substantial benefit. And so there's no need to pass through, essentially, investment costs to the customers. Thank you. I'll circle back. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Representative Piero? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I want to thank you for the opportunity to ask some questions here. Can you please go over what the economic impact is? I believe you had a projection after 10 years, 12 years?
 10 years 12 yes i mean we do um i think the slides need to be pulled up again yeah we've got a construction impact versus kind of annualized um so that 5.4 number like i said big flashy number that gets thrown around that's for sort of the 25-year impact um okay and then we've got that person in 25 years it's projected to have the 5.4 billion dollar economic positive economic impact on the conservative side
 And we recover the cost of the incentives within 17 years and we recover the cost of the land within six. So we are ‑‑ and I think it's just under a 30% return on investment for the city. There we go. I think you can see that, Representative. Yes. Yes. Thank you so much. Now, let me ask you a question.
 Torn down? So demolition happened in 2019. I don't remember off the top of my head when we had the last game there, but I'm going to say probably earlier than that. And how much positive economic impact has that had in the Northeast since then?
 The last game was held there. So this property has been generating, I don't want to say no value, because again, the water park is out there, and we do have a variety of kind of bookings and events, but I'd say minimal economic impact since the demolition of the stadium. It's not in regular use, and there's no kind of large use or revenue generator out there. So nowhere near the $5.4 billion that's projected in the 25 years? No, sir.
 I had another question. I'm a little confused. We keep talking about this non-compete. I remember it coming up various times when we were briefed in executive. And I remember some of the same people asking questions about it then. I don't know if maybe I misunderstood, but haven't you already briefed us on the non-compete?
 Yes, it's been there since the beginning again. I mean Bob's talked about it. I've talked about it the city managers talked about it and the specific language and the discussion has always been about making sure that you know, the investment that the company's making is protected but really protecting voter approved projects and
 knowing that the MPC is on the docket for a project completion and making sure that we're able to deliver that project as Approved and as I think the most recent design maybe went to you all in March ish But yeah, we've had that going on for a while. And again the term sheet did call out a
 Kind of what we were going to come to mutual agreement on but defined the objectives for that clause Let me just add one more thing representative fear that I think is important to say on this issue And it's really I just want to put an exclamation point on what mr. Mudd said and although you may not have a very similar structure of
 you do and where you have your venue in Colorado and McKinney I think it's really important important to note that there is essentially the structure of a
 those areas as well he had mentioned that in Colorado and those venues they have a long-term relationship based on their venue and the in the primary operator of the other facilities and again the at the point of that isn't isn't to monopolize the point of that is to make sure that they're able to establish their business and protect their investment but not only that but the city's interest as well in getting
 events that are here and not not conflicting with the operations of a separate operator in terms of what they could provide to the community thank you for that detailed explanation i agree with it i think it's a a vital part of of making this a successful partnership moving forward i i can't
 tell you, share with you the excitement looking at the renderings, that beautiful sunset that you're going to be able to see from the arena. I'm looking forward to a year from now when hopefully we'll be able to be sitting there and listening to some great concerts
 That's all I have. I just want to thank staff for the great job they did in putting this together. And, again, just to make it clear that there was nothing that was sprung on us today at this meeting that we have not talked about prior to this. And in those meetings, legal was included. And so it's...
 This is not something that was done behind closed doors or just sprung on us today. I think it's a great project. I think it's a beautiful opportunity for our community, and I look forward to visiting it. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Acevedo, followed by Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to be very clear. The non-compete is not something that we just found out about today. I think it's more...
 the real details that are coming from the non-compete. I think the biggest one that's giving me pause is that you confirmed that the other places don't have that in their language. And up until today, I was under the impression that it was just standard language that all of your deals have been. And new information today is that they're not. And the other thing is, is that a lot of those places are suburbs.
 We are a large city and like I said earlier, when you take the whole community, it's two million people, it's a metroplex. I just don't see how it's fair to treat us like we're something different in that sense, in such a derogatory way where this non-compete is really an entire hands behind our backs, and that gives me a lot of pause.
 If you have something to say, I welcome you to say something, but I do have some other things that I would like to go back to. Sure, and that's what we're here for, to answer all the questions. We want to make sure it's transparent as much as possible. Mayor Maso, I'm a principal at Ryan LLC, former mayor of Frisco, Texas. Will you introduce yourself? Mayor Maso with Ryan LLC. Thank you.
 I think those are good questions and first we apologize that it comes across as derogatory. It isn't. We talked about it from day one. And frankly, the language you see is watered down from North's live perspective. They want it a little bit stronger. As a site selector for McKinney, I want to address that a little bit. That's a 20,000 seat theater and we only located two sites in the north part of the Metroplex. The Metroplex is 7.5 million people in the DFW area. So it's a fairly large Metroplex.
 Like I said, we've done a lot of projects, large projects, stadiums. Each one's unique. Each one, I was US Congress Mayor, Sports Alliance, where we addressed those type of contracts. We did address RADIUS and non-competing McKinney. By the time we got deep into the negotiations, knowing what's available around there and what could happen at that size of theater, and the operators, the AEG, the Live Nations,
 There really wasn't competition or could be competition. In this case, in El Paso, private entities can come up. There's nothing you can do about that. That's fine. That's the marketplace. But this is a public-private partnership. You're investing a lot of money. They're investing a lot of money.
 and for this to succeed here, for it to happen, you know, look, city managers hate me when I say this. Buildings and facilities, it's just money. You know, if you can afford it, you know what your city budget is, that's easy. But who's operating, who's in those buildings? When I did a deal with the Dallas Cowboys, it's the Jones family.
 We know they're good at what they do. And that's what you're investing in here. Public-private partnership is the entity that's proven and it has the players that know what they're doing to be successful. Those investors and those entities, if they know a community can come in with voter-approved bonds and compete directly against them, which doesn't make sense, right, for any of us, because you're investing in this also.
 But if you're able to do that and use public funds to compete directly against them, they probably won't invest. It's a big deal to the operation. So where we ended up was in a way that, okay, look, you're looking at the other, the voter-approved bonds and that's, you can't bind future councils. They can do that.
 And so at least the opportunity to bring in them. And I look at the negative and positive. To me, I actually would love if you were to do that. I think we've talked about this a little bit. It's the synergy of having a good operator programming two facilities will be amazing. You can really leverage against each other. So I want to actually encourage that and let's do that deal. But we're not talking about that today. We're talking about this facility and making this happen for the benefit of all.
 Really, this is just the beginning. I'm going to cut you off because I only have 10 minutes. Okay, sorry. I didn't know my time counted against yours. No, yeah. I think that if you want, let's go with your example that DFW has seven million people but
 At the same time you look at Broken Arrow, it's close to Tulsa. If you put the population of Tulsa and Broken Arrow together, it would still be less than El Paso, right? We're the 19th largest city in the country. And I think when we look at our venues, we do have a lot of venues here too. Yes, different capacities, some that need some love.
 At the same time, I just don't think that we need to be singled out like this. I think it's wild to me. And so I want to keep my ten minutes and I want to dive into something else. And so I feel like we're going in circles at this point. But I think I've made that point. In terms of innovative jobs, I do have questions.
 out of this venue, what is gonna come out of that? Do you have green jobs coming out of this? Any tech jobs? Any transformational jobs that will be part of this venue? Those are great questions. There will definitely need to be a workforce development aspect to this because the production of live entertainment
 experiences in these days is not just a sound board like it used to be it integrates audio-visual it integrates significant sound implications and so you have everything from summer college jobs that will be reliable and good-paying all the way up to professional jobs that will need to attract everything from audio-visual
 costume design to stage setups there will have to be companies that support the AV that come in on a show like this you can anticipate between 8 and 14 18 wheeled trucks that are coming going to come in and come out so there are jobs from all ranges from the design aspects and engineering all the way down to loading and unloading and so there's a broad perspective of the
 None of them green, none of them innovative jobs, would you say? Let's say there's a workforce development plan that comes after this, but you would probably say at this point there wouldn't be any. So in the terms of kind of the way we talk about like aerospace and defense, right, an innovative job in that sector, no. But these jobs are valuable. I'm going to say this as somebody, my sister is a stage manager. She works in this space. And so when you're talking about, they are tech jobs. I'm not doing software design, right? Right.
 There is a technology aspect. They're highly skilled. They're highly trained a lot of tours operate with union contracts So you can't just have anybody ray the light So I'm gonna say not in the definition that we use specifically in economics projects of green job tech jobs But I want to encourage you to think about these are very highly skilled positions and they're often well paid and they're very some of them Are can be very dangerous and so they're you know adequately compensated for that
 And I don't disagree, and I think that those are all very important jobs. The reason I'm asking is from my understanding, the El Paso Electric Impact Fund is to be used for these types of jobs, the ones that I just asked about. And so as we're using this fund for this package,
 How are we justifying that? You're talking about the TED Fund? Yeah. The TED Fund dollar has a carve-out for also tourism and destination entertainment. That's how this project qualifies. Impact Fund also has destination entertainment, retail, things that spur outside investment. It's not just for the infrastructure investment.
 Again, I know the talking points on that are very heavily advanced manufacturing aerospace and defense, but there's a whole list of key and target industries that we look at including something like this. Okay. What percentage are we using of the El Paso Electric Fund? I mean, also it would be 8 million out of a potential 80. So 10 percent. But again it could be recoverable if the note's not forgiven. So that's recoverable. We get 5.3 every year.
 I have current capacity of about 9 million and it refills over time and we get interest on that fund as well. Okay. Thank you. And I guess with the remaining time I wanted to kind of bring up a point that you said that you would love to be the operator of the
 Mpc and I know that's not the conversation that we're having today but at the same time like I feel like that's a very between the lines statement to make and I think that when you have a Right of first refusal in this contract it it's gonna make the public think that this is what you want it to do all along And that really worries me and so I
 Yeah to summarize I just I really do like this project a lot I do I was excited for it I think where I'm coming down to right now is the technical terms and the fine print in the agreement so I don't want you to take this as I am not supportive of the contract of the of the venue and what
 it's going to bring. I think it's really just the black and white that's coming into this agreement that has given me cause for concern and then also this conversation that we just had and the questions that I asked and the way you answered those questions has given me more information to make a decision for today. So I thank you for being here.
 Yeah and I just want to address this which is that Notes Live was looking at El Paso as an expansion market. We presented a variety of different sites to them. They selected Cohen which again has always been post 2012 right that plan was adopted in 2018 has always been dedicated for a use of this type. We brought the MPC conversation up to them because
 Really my job and the city manager's job and city attorneys were looking to protect the city's interest and things that are ongoing And so there would be no point in discussing a deal with notes live for this venue if it wasn't going to work with the MPC and so I really would just emphasize again that this language is a
 Really to protect both of our interests. It's not to give them special permissions. It's not to get around Bidding or procurement laws It's about protecting our interests and and part of our interests if the steel goes forward is also protecting the viability of the venue At Cohen, so just making that clear. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you represent represents at Nundus followed by representative Cito
 Thank you. I share the same sentiments as you do, Dr. Acevedo. I appreciate you being here and quite frankly I don't like having these conversations publicly. I urge that these questions be addressed privately one on one but unfortunately some of our voices haven't been heard and so that is what's causing additional questions and so no means of disrespect and I respect your business model. But with your business model,
 And the questions you've answered today you've highlighted that you're holding El Paso to different conditions and you said you said that as well However, our city is completely different. We're a binational bicultural one of the poorest communities and the country but one of the biggest cities in the country when you look at our Metroplex which were over 2.5 closer to 3 million people in this region and when you are dealing with significant challenges like the
 UNDEREMPLOYED INDIVIDUALS WHO NEED TO UPSCALE THEIR EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
 And we are investing over a third of your total investment in this community. So the city of El Paso is putting a third of your $80 million commitment. And it's 12,000 seats. And so we have to question, well, do we want to tie our hands for 12,000 seats for an outdoor amphitheater under extreme weather conditions? And I understand you're using technology to beat the heat, but I'd be really surprised if you can –
 fix that for her city and then you're you're very close proximity to the mountains and so I do have concerns with winds hundred mile winds have destroyed Co insights in the past and our canopies so that is that is the reasoning for my questions and so the only thing I want to mention cutting that
 On the Ted fund policy. I don't find that what you just mentioned. Can you refer in the Ted policy where it has a tourism? Maybe it was an amendment. No, it's a long list. It talks about key industries for permissible projects and there is tourism in there.
 And then this project was briefed with the El Paso Electric Board as part of their annual reporting on TED Fund and they had no concerns about the use of the project. No, I just, if you could specifically point out where in the policy because I was struggling looking for it. I'm not, I'm not disagreeing that it's in there. I just like to verify. It's a very long, I mean you were here for the negotiations of all that. Correct, correct. And yeah, and there was a, and there was a strong consideration for innovative jobs in green energy. And I'm sure that you can utilize some component in your building materials.
 and really think about green energy. But I do have some questions for you. The city manager mentioned that there was no intent for monopoly, okay, so unfortunately the unintended consequence of this agreement is monopoly in the industry. And so just a couple questions for you. Do you all have any current interest in any current venues today in the El Paso region?
 We do not have a current interest in any current venues. A couple of points on clarification from your prior comments. The $30 million is in addition to the $80. The $80 will be what it costs for us. Our facility that we're opening August the 6th in Colorado Springs is adjacent to Pikes Peak.
 winds are howling it's not as hot there but we are exceptional in our engineering we have the greatest engineers we have an understanding of what it takes to put a performance on in a high wind area just want to make sure you understand we don't we're not approaching any of this haphazardly we have a very clear understanding of the environment we're coming into and we think that understanding the dynamics that you even shared with El Paso it's a fantastic market for a live venue access like this correct and
 THANK YOU FOR THAT CLARIFICATION. YOU'RE CORRECT. IT IS IN ADDITION TO YOUR 80 MILLION. I WAS REFERENCING A THIRD OF, AND SO, KARINA, I'LL HOLD OFF ON YOUR RESPONSES FOR A SECOND. YOU ALSO MENTIONED PAST BEHAVIORS. YOUR PAST BEHAVIORS DEMONSTRATE PHILANTHROPY. I RESPECT THAT. BUT IT'S NOT A CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATION. WHEREAS IS IT TRUE THAT YOU ALL HAVE CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS IN OTHER COMMUNITIES WHERE YOU HAVE 3-8 AGREEMENTS?
 I'll let them answer that but I'll also say that that was not a point of negotiation or during the term sheet approval it's not indicated that that was sort of a priority of council so I don't want to put this fully on the company but they can speak to the agreement. Okay my questions are directly to the ownership group.
 Two points to that element. The city has the ability to use the facility at our direct cost. One thing to know, to understand, the facility's not twice as big as this and they are committing over three and a half times the amount of cash incentives. So there are other elements than just a pure view of A or B. There's things that go into any discussions that are the priorities of any municipality and we are very flexible, including on the,
 Our objective in the non-compete was to, you guys are making a significant commitment to Cohen District. You're looking at us and saying, are they gonna be a good partner?
 We're making a significant commitment. The return on that investment to the city of El Paso is predicated on us having a clear view to be able to put 55 to 65 shows a year into that venue. When we look at that, there are some pieces that are critically important, including who would program it and what would they be looking at in the context of that programming. So when we looked at it vis-a-vis the public budget,
 project that you had we said okay we understand that public project it's best to have that discussion today so that we're not having it down the road so we have clear expectations between us in the city as we move forward with all to respect these are just conversations this could be perceived as lip service but what's important is the way you make the El Paso residents feel and right now with not with excluding El Paso and holding us to a different standard I
 obviously and the emotional response is going to be well why are we treated differently why is there no contractual requirements for any venue events for philanthropy for usage of city private suites there was a statement earlier that the city of El Paso doesn't have any access to the ballpark that's just completely false there is access to suites and there's access to other venues and so
 What I'm asking for is continuity between your standards and the city of El Paso standards. And I think we can get there and we can strike a deal. Then now that I've seen that this non-compete clause has very restrictive language and has conflated both the multipurpose center and the...
 your amphitheater outdoor amphitheater I think there needs to be a clear deniliation that an outdoor amphitheater is a separate venue than an indoor amphitheater and I think that is incredibly important to distinguish difference in the non-compete clause that would make me feel a little bit more comfortable however the
 THE NOTION THAT THIS AGREEMENT TIES OUR HANDS, EVEN IF IT'S LIKE VERY LITTLE TO THE MULTI-PURPOSE CENTER I THINK IS COMPLETELY WRONG. YOU CANNOT CONFLATE THE TWO AGREEMENTS EVEN IF IT'S IN THE BEST INTEREST OF THIS COMMUNITY BECAUSE THOSE ARE TWO SEPARATE ACTIONS AND WE HAVE TWO SEPARATE CONVERSATIONS AND WE CERTAINLY NEED TO DO COMPETITIVE OR EXCUSE ME, PUBLIC DIALOGUE ON THAT.
 I'M HAPPY TO PROVIDE A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE TO THIS COMPANY IF THEY WOULD DEMONSTRATE THE COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE FOR EL PASOANS. THERE'S NO WAGE REQUIREMENTS, THERE'S NO CONTRACTUAL REQUIREMENTS TO HAVE PUBLIC FREE USAGE, AND THERE'S NO DIRECT BENEFIT TO THE CITY OF EL PASO IN THE FORM OF PARKING REVENUES AS WELL AS USAGE OF THE SPACE. AND IN ADDITION TO THAT, IT'S ONLY 12,000 SEATS.
 All of these conditions, if it were a larger venue, if it were indoor and there was more benefit to the taxpayer separate from the economic development, this would have been a beautiful agreement. I still think we can get there. I just am not getting the responses. I'm not hearing certainly the contractual commitment other than your words. And so contractual words matter more.
 So to be clear, unattended consequence is that we don't have clear contractual requirements for community usage. Unattended consequence, we have to build all these surface parking spaces, and we're not going to get any revenues in return for it. The other consequence of creating a competitive advantage for one company
 that we are you know essentially short sighting ourselves and we are not having the foresight to think bigger have a grand or type of vision for our city and that is the fundamental flaw in this agreement and
 I respect all the work that you have done, Karina, and I know you've worked tirelessly on this. And I've been very clear from the beginning of my conversations that we have to do more for the taxpayer. Otherwise, they see this as corporate welfare, a complete handout, but nothing in return to the El Paso resident. And that is a sentiment from El Pasoans, and I'm sharing that with you because I have a duty to share the voices of my constituency. Again, many thanks for considering our community.
 Understood. I'll just do a few items just for the record. So the TED Fund policy section CD target industry projects it's about line 5. It has tourism right there. That's how this is just to verify the qualifications and this is of course within the El Paso Electric Service area. There's a comment about restricting the use so the
 radius clause, the non-compete clause does say specifically purpose-built development. That is backed up by exhibit B of the document, so it is very specific to this development, this model, outdoor, this number of seats, this configuration. And that's part of the restriction on there is it's really specific to Notes Live.
 And then I'll also just note, again, just the parking spaces, right? But them taking down 17 acres, that leaves us over 30 acres that we can monetize in other ways besides just parking fee revenues on event days. So just noting. Tell me the policy item again. I'm sorry, ma'am. It's the TED Fund policy CD. Thank you.
 Question when we talk about parking the parking restrictions only during time of the events not 24 hours seven eight days a week Yes, it's event. It's event use parking. So Reverts back to the city and of course the plan is still to deliver on the master plan development So that's seven days a week or eight days a week seven days. Okay. I'll make sure feels like eight sometimes so
 Yes, and the plan has been always to deliver on the rest of those uses in that master plan. So shift that parking back, shift that into structured parking, and really make sure that we have activated uses on the entirety of the Cohen site. And I know there's been a lot of talk, but part of the benefit of us retaining that parking and having control over those improvements means that we can configure it in a way that supports our future development plans, supports the markability of the site, and also aligns with our kind of transit, picking up Metro 31, park and ride, those sort of priorities that council has.
 had thank you for that thank you mayor again I wanted to thank you all for answering all the other questions I had I think that really I've heard there's commitment from you and in respect to community involvement so that's really good to hear that was one of the biggest concerns I've heard the last one I had a lot of questions about was the non-compete I know that a lot of conversation has gone back and forth but I did want to hear a little bit more
 Yeah, from LIGO in regards to this, the non-compete, you know, we keep hearing it's not limited by law. I mean, can you further elaborate a little bit more of what that means in regards to the city of El Paso? Oh, yeah. Perfect, quick. Do you want to do Oscar? You don't want to put Juan on the spot? Oscar Gomez again for the record. So on the language, we specifically stated that it's
 as allowable by law. We would provide the first right refusal. And we also included, as I mentioned before, the pursuit of voter-approved projects as to not hinder any possibility of future projects approved by voters. I think there's a specific part that said by the law, like in regards...
 Thank you Representative Salcido. Yes as applicable by law the applicant has the eligibility to do the right of first refusal. So as we discussed if the law requires and Ms. Prascala has explained this as well as if the law requires that something be bid out it must be bid out. We must follow the law. However, if
 the if it is something that is able to happen that the company notes live is able to work and to help develop or operate a different facility that is voter approved they would have the right.
 to put in a proposal to meet our criteria they were asking for for that development and operation. The city would still have the power to say this is the criteria of how we want this thing to be developed, to be operated under the voter approved requirements and then they would have the ability to make an offer on that under this right of first refusal if it's allowed by law. And so just trying to further understand the bidding process.
 if they have the first right of refusal and you're going out for an rfp but they're the only ones that could really you know say yes if the first right refusal i
 Walk me through the process if the law requires a bid it will be bid out and they could participate as a bidder Under the law and they would be merely treated the same way as any other bidder So it would be analyzed and bid out that way So if just running scenarios I can better understand so if the bid is higher than others But since they have the first right of refusal we would have to burden the taxpayer with paying more. No ma'am We wouldn't there is
 legal requirement that we bid it out the right of first refusal is obsolete
 I see. So then the bidding would come. And so then why do we have that clause in there? And that's the case the clause is placed in there as negotiated and as discussed in order to be able to Coordinate the two if there is a second venue This would enable coordination between the two venues so that one venue isn't competing against the other venue for the same dates for the same events and
 it would enable that coordination between the two venues if the same entity is involved in scheduling out the planned. And I truly do understand that part. The coordination, I'm not opposed to it. I do see the coordination. The part that I'm trying to wrap myself around is the,
 It's out forbidden and that's what by law so that's I don't know It doesn't make sense why it's in there for me at least I'm looking at it as a perspective I'm a big proponent of business I'm looking at in the eyes of the best
 contract for the El Pasoans, I'm gonna, so I wouldn't put something in there. If the law allows for a bid exception that would allow for the project on a voter-improved project to move forward in any specific portion
 without having to go out to bid, that is where your right of first refusal would come into play. And so going back to the conversation that I think it's a good idea where you're saying two operator, I mean one operator operating so that it's cohesive to what's being planned. Can that be in the language and maybe you'll redact a lot of the other stuff that I don't think it's needed. You're saying that was the reason why it would be the best coordination for it.
 So, but not, then we can take that other wording out. Is that correct? Is that what you're saying? I don't know if we would want that amendment. We'd have to probably iron out amendment language. Yeah, I mean...
 So again, this language has been very heavily vetted and lots of tweaks have been made. It's very specific to address the kind of mutual concerns in this. I'm not sure I'm understanding. So you're asking for this language to be taken out or for it to be more explicit about the regulations? Well, the thing is that it's them together doesn't make sense when we're talking about it, right? You said per the law of the...
 If it's required to be bid, then that goes away. So then why do we have it in there? Because there are bid exceptions, and there's alternative procurement processes, and we see that sometimes, right? There are certain types of services that can be bid out. So the question would be is if there is an exception that allows us to do direct procurement or alternative procurement, I mean, you all see it with the three-bid process, that sort of thing, something aside from just like a closed, sealed bid. Right.
 for example, RFQs, right? Those don't require an award, and they aren't based on kind of best value. Those are... So that's something where I'm like, that would allow Notes Live to participate in that process. So it's an as-allowable by law. And again, that's to protect us from... We can't supersede state or federal regulations, right? And that includes... I believe there's also, yeah, affirmed by judicial decree, that sort of thing. So basically we're saying if there's an exception to...
 Procurement law that allows us to a first right of refusal We'd like to offer that opportunity because we know that it would be in our best interest to have a similar venue Yeah, and no and thank you for my treasure sharing But you know my constituents just can't wrap themselves around there and I'm trying to explain it as well And then you're trying to explain it right now. I think there's just the wording is just not where I feel comfortable Understood I think a non-compete is very important to businesses in order to protect investment is I
 I'm sorry? This is Barney Wallace. I'm appearing via Teams. I wasn't able to get into the office today. What we're thinking about on this provision of the restrictive covenant aspect is, or not the restrictive covenant, but the non-competing aspect, is that, you know, there are certain carve-outs in the law that are permissible and that are not.
 Notes live expressed to us that they wanted to make sure that they had the opportunity, if it was allowed by law to, you know, have a right of refusal to participate in the development of any, you know, what the development is described in this section. And we told him, you know,
 That's fine with us. However, our concern is that, you know, a lot of bidding and procurement and competitive statutes are very prescriptive. And we wanted to make sure that they knew that we would afford them that opportunity provided the law allows us to do so. It kind of makes sense if you read it earlier, I believe in the section above that statement.
 where we reference making sure that we don't undermine their operator contract for this venue because it's a big investment. It's a very transformational investment for our community, especially the Cohen area that's been attempting to get some work done and some actual reinvestment or redevelopment done for quite some time now. So what we tried to do is give the city the latitude
 to be able to pursue projects that are voter approved or currently voter approved. This one specifically, this section three specifically applies to only. Sorry Juan, I apologize, don't mean to interrupt you but I thank you so much for adding it. Just they're letting me know I have one more minute so didn't wanna really. I'll be quiet. Thank you so much but I very much appreciate it. Just going back,
 back to this, I do think it's important to protect an investment. I'm not opposed to a non-compete, I just don't think the wording is there. I don't think it's been ironed out well. And I have to look to the best interest of
 the taxpayer. So that's where I can't wrap myself around that part. But I think that we have the decision makers here and I don't know if that lends an opportunity to have that conversation right now. The term sheet is, I don't know, but that would be something that my constituents ask that they just don't feel that they're being represented in that area and I am the voice for my constituents and so this is why I am here to ask if they would be able to have that conversation.
 not with us necessarily, but here today. And I probably, the best way to do it would be, I would motion to table this so that you all can go have a conversation. We're gonna be here for quite a while and then come back and bring it. But as it's written, I don't feel comfortable, I don't feel comfortable looking at the constituents in their eyes about this particular wording of this non-compete. Second. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. With that, we have Representative Kennedy and then I'm gonna call the question. No more questions.
 We're going to go with representative Kennedy. Mayor Pro Tem are you still on? I am. Thank you very much. Then Ms. Pryor I'm going to call the question right after that. I know we have public comment. Yes, sir, and there was a motion and a second to table the item. Yes. Thank you. Yeah, thank you very much. I was saying that a couple of things.
 In talking about the non-compete, I did have a chance to look at this and I do think it makes sense for a couple of things. The city has a history, for example McElligan Canyon, using an existing contract that they expanded and did not bid it out because they weren't required and it was in the best interest of the city. Obviously, I appreciate the protections from city legal which was if you have to bid it out, you will bid it out and there's no preferential treatment.
 We talk how El Paso is unusual and El Paso is different, but why are we treated different than anybody else? I think that each of these deals is unique. Each of these deals makes sense in the parameters of the city. And so I think that the first right of refusal was also brought up. I think that that makes sense. And that's because the city can still say, and will still say, here's what we need, can you do this?
 We still control what it is we're looking for. They don't control us on this. We say, can you do this? We want somebody to do this. And if the answer is yes, then it's yes. And if it's not, then we find somebody else. We talk, there's the whole we have no parking revenue, which is absolutely untrue because with the exception of show days, we have all the parking revenue because we still own the parking. You know, we're talking about the city of El Paso investing in corporate welfare. When I've watched this...
 body at times give a 50-year completely tax-free deal, and I'm talking about Great Wolf, and I looked at the Great Wolf 380 that had been cut back years ago, voted on by current members of council, and it was giving everything to Great Wolf in an attempt to bring them in, and there was no complaints. When we talk about, to circle back to the non-compete, and the mayor said this, there is a non-compete with the operators of,
 the ballpark where we can't build a facility that competes with that facility because they're the operators. The non-compete is more to protect the operators than it is to protect the people that are building it. So if we have a non-compete for the operator of the ballpark, why would we not have a non-compete for the operator of this venue? That just makes sense. I mean, when we're down to, well, you know, there's send and wind, so I have a problem with this project, I have a concern.
 The concern is each of these are different unique projects. They've been researched, and I guarantee you it's been researched, because they're talking about putting upwards towards $100 million of their money into the deal. Any money that's coming back is not coming out of the general fund, is not coming out of the pockets of the people of El Paso. We are going to be making money off the parking lot. We are going to be making money off ticket sales. We are, which we do at the ballpark, also make money off ticket sales.
 So once again, it's good over there, but it's not good over here. I disagree with that. I think that this is a good deal, and I think that that's why we need to move forward on this deal immediately, and we need to go today.
 Thank you. Would you have a motion to table, Ms. Pryor? Is that what it was? Yes, sir. I didn't hear that. There was a motion and a second to table the item. All right. And second by who? Representative Acevedo. All right. So we'll take that action first. Okay. So the motion to table. Let's do a verbal on that. I'll do a verbal. Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy? Mayor. No, just table it to the leader. Mayor. How long are we tabling this? No. We're taking a motion to table it, but. For how long? Within the meeting. Well, during the meeting to go back. To move it to the end. Right. So, we're taking a motion to table it.
 All right, so Kennedy, no. Next. Acevedo? Yes. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Nay. Salcido? Aye. Fierro? No. Canales? No. And the motion fails. All right, so now we have a motion to approve. Yes, sir, and we do have public comment. Thank you, we'll take that. We have Ms. Osmond, followed by Ms. Turner. Well, this has been fun.
 Okay, so there's been a lot of word salad and a lot of talking points. So I'm gonna try do my three minutes in a few bullet points and
 SO IN REGARDS TO MONOPOLY, IF THE CITY MANAGER IS UNAWARE OR INTERRUM CITY MANAGER, THE DOJ ACTUALLY HAS ISSUE WITH TICKET MASTER AND LIVE NATION IN THEIR TICKET MONOPOLY IN HOW THEY PRICE TICKETS FOR VENUES. SO THAT WOULD BE AN ADDITIONAL ISSUE TO A FURTHER MONOPOLY JUST WITH ANOTHER VENUE. SO WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A TICKET MONOPOLY.
 In regards to, these are El Paso electric funds that we got, not taxpayer funds, but it's rate payer funds. Because in the end, the rate payers of El Paso pay that. Our rates get hiked up because of that settlement. So it's still the citizens that are affected by that. So an $80 million deal with all of this sentence, in essence, they're picking this up for about 49 mil.
 IN THE TARS, THERE'S AN AMOUNT THAT DROPS IT DOWN TO 46382. NOT TOO SURE WHAT THAT IS, BUT THE THING IS, IS THAT A LOT OF CARINA'S NUMBERS IN PAST IN REGARDS TO SINCE I'M BRINGING UP THE MPC, THEY DIDN'T EVEN BRING UP THE PLAT. THERE WAS AN ISSUE WITH THAT. SO WHEN THERE WAS AN ISSUE WITH A PREVIOUS PROJECT,
 I HAVE PROBLEMS THAT THERE'S ISSUES WITHIN THIS ONE AS WELL. FIRST RIGHT TO REFUSAL, YES, I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S IN YOUR BACKDOOR CONVERSATIONS, BUT I NEVER ONCE HEARD IT. FIRST RIGHT TO REFUSAL, NO. SO THAT DOES MAKE A MONOPOLY, NOT ONLY ON TAXPAYER FUNDED PROJECT, BUT ALSO ON TICKET PRICING. SO A MONOPOLY IN HAVING ONE PERSON, THE DOJ HAS AN ISSUE.
 And I'm looking at you because you brought that up. Yes, that monopoly is an issue for the taxpayers It's really nice that y'all want to put out a venue in the Northeast It needs it more than our needs needs that boost for his his votes But this is a thing is that it's also really nice so that the fosters can have something else out there For the rental community there. They're gonna put out it and in the end all the taxpayers get hit and
 The rate payers get hit. And yes, it is corporate welfare. In the end, that is exactly what is going on. But let's do a deal in all the eyes are always the people who have certain backers or need the votes right now. Thank you, Ms. Hosman. The next speaker is Ms. Turner. If I could just make one clarification, Mayor. This is Robert Cortinas. So the comment about the rates being or the.
 Revenue being recovered through the past electric rates. That's not accurate for this particular source of funding So in the policy that was created in the ordinance that was created on the IAF Acquisition in the policy and in the ordinance it actually states that contributions to this fund the TED fund Are not recoverable in a positive electric rates And that was one of the things that we made sure to negotiate was that they weren't going to include that and pass that on To the ratepayers. Thank you for clarifying that sir. I
 Miss Turner, great to see you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. Let me get started real quick. Did anybody forget about UTEP wanting $100 million to get on the ballot in November to redo the Sun Bowls, to take in the big concerts? I'm just curious how that will impact such a thing. The non-compete, this worries me. The city has a...
 The last three decades that I followed the city of this city when somebody does business with the city They tend to go with those people all the time So you do business with these people hand this out today, and then you want to have your arena built downtown They'll be the first in line. They will have an advantage over anybody else who bids that is if anybody bids Mr. Hernandez was worried about why do people why are we not being taken seriously? the glass beach study and
 Okay, remember that the glass beach study. That's why we are never taken seriously Representative Kenny was talking about the money in the parking Let me remind the representative and everybody else we don't get a penny on merchandise sales from ballpark Not one single penny my legal department failed us My city manager failed us on that deal if we're gonna build this I want a piece of every single bit of merchandise sold I
 Because I had to foot the bill for the ballpark because the so-called support that would pay for that fell through. So we had to pay every year on the bond, every year. I would ask you to postpone this. There are members of councils who haven't had their questions answered yet. And I think it's fair for every member of council to get their questions answered before they are required to vote. I think it is the responsible thing to do.
 Give it a month to get all those questions answered. Now, we call the fire pits property. Is that taxable property? Because you called it real estate. I wanna know if it's gonna be taxable. I'm worried this is no commitments. Again, the merchandise sales I want a piece of. Now, we talk about our population. We only have like two million. We have, we're one of those rare cities. We have a permanent population and we have a temporary population.
 OUR TEMPORARY POPULATION PLUS OUR PERMANENT POPULATIONS PUTS US OVER 20 MILLION PEOPLE NOW WHY DO YOU YOU'RE LOOKING AT ME CRAZY 35 000 PLUS CARS COME ACROSS OUR BORDER EVERY DAY 15 000 PEDESTRIANS CROSS OUR BORDER EVERY DAY THANK YOU MR OVER A YEAR 18.5 MILLION THANK YOU MR TURNER MS PRYNE
 Yes Mayor that concludes public comment. We have a motion and a second. Yes sir. There was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve and are you taking 38 39 and 40 together. Yes. You all didn't even get the first presentation.
 I think 38 and 39. 38 and 39. I thought 38 and 39 were together. Yes, together. They are. Yeah, 40 will be separate. They actually are. Thank you. This is for items 38 and 39. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy. Seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar. This is to approve items 38 and 39. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy. Thank you. Representative Fierro.
 Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes 4-3, Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Piero Canales voting aye, Representatives Acevedo, Hernandez, Salcido voting nay. The motion does carry. Thank you all for investing in our community and enhancing the life of our people. It's not only for Northeast, but it's for the whole community, and I look forward to being a big part of it. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, did you want to go to call to the public? I sure would, ma'am. Thank you.
 The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all the citizens of the city and meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance and virtually are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the.
 Without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language, public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group, character, or integrity which are not pertinent to city business. Nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during this call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic be posted on a future agenda. And we've got five members of the public signed up to speak, Mr. Mayor.
 The first one is Elizabeth Crawford followed by Steven Strummer, Renee Corral, Patricia Osman and Ms. Lisa Turner. Ms. Crawford are you on the line? Yes ma'am can you hear me? Yes ma'am you have three minutes and her topic is Independence Day. Good afternoon we're getting ready to honor Independence Day in our nation and we've just come off of Pride Month.
 We're warned in God's word that pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall. We as Americans pride ourselves on independence, and yet there is a very wrong way in which we have used pride.
 I'd like to speak briefly about a politician in our day who reveled in pride, reveled in pride for legislating abortion until birth and later went into free fall. Andrew Cuomo, former governor of New York State,
 2019, he signed into law the bill legalizing abortion till birth. January 2019, he had one World Trade Center, New York City, the building fire lit up in pink to celebrate this supposed accomplishment, quote, to shine a bright light forward for the rest of the nation to follow. So forward summer 2020, COVID hit full force. We all saw the images of New York City, the bodies piling up,
 the morgue's piling up. Andrew Cuomo later comes out with his book, 2020 American Crisis Leadership Lessons from the COVID-19 Pandemic. His famous quote related to flattening the curve on COVID, this number is down because we brought the number down. God did not do this, fate did not do this, destiny did not do this, a lot of pain and suffering did that. Hence his autobiography reveling in pride in all that he accomplished, his pride, his independence,
 has arrogance fast forward august 23 2021 andrew como resigned as governor at the request of the u.s president alleged cover-up of covid nursing home death he followed in the footsteps of the babylonian king nebuchadnezzar who is listed up in pride
 In mercy God humbled Nebuchadnezzar. Daniel chapter 37. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven, all whose works are truth and his ways judgment, and those that walk in pride he is able to abase. We are warned against human pride in God's holy word.
 In mercy, the prophet Ezekiel spoke God's word to the nation of Israel. As I live, sayeth the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways, for why will ye die, O house of Israel? This is the cry of God to the nation of Israel, and in further application, it's the cry of God to all of humanity. Thank you so much. Thank you, Ms. Crawford.
 Next person is mr. Strummer. Are you on the line? Mr. Strummer will move on to the next person. Mr Rene Quran you have three minutes sir and his topic is loose and abandoned animals in El Paso. Good afternoon Good afternoon, sir It's been a while since I last pleaded with the City Council to address the increase increasing loose and abandoned animals situation in El Paso and I was hoping to see a change in
 But unfortunately, very little has been done to address the situation. Frankly, I fail to understand why the City Council has not been more aggressive in taking action to resolve this issue once and for all. When the citizens of El Paso find a loose dog on the streets and try to contact 311 for help, all 311 does...
 is make a report and tell the finder that animal services will contact them, which could take several days and in some instances never get a call back at all. In the meantime, what are these people supposed to do with that found dog? Put them back on the street? Your constituents have completely lost faith in animal services to do its basic function.
 Every day more and more dogs and cats continue to be abandoned in the city because animal services is always at overcapacity Which makes it hard for people to surrender or take in found dogs This has led to an increase in the spread of diseases and other major safety concerns including an increase in dog attacks warehousing so many unwanted dogs and cats in inhumane conditions is not the answer and
 nor is it a long-term solution. What this city needs to do is address this root cause of the problem once and for all by increasing animal services budget so that they can hire more animal control officers to enforce current laws on so many irresponsible pet owners in the city, crack down on illegal backyard breeding,
 implement free and affordable spay and neuter clinics to decrease so many unwanted animals. My ask again is for this city council to once and for all aggressively address the situation that has been plaguing our city for so long by taking a hard look at animal services functional abilities and increase El Paso animal services budget.
 Will you please take action once and for all and put this issue to bed? Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Next speaker is Ms. Patricia Osmond, and her topic is ethics violations, mismanagement, self-feeling, and misappropriation by individuals paid by tax dollars. You have three minutes, ma'am. You know what? I come here, and I've been coming here since November. Okay.
 My district representative, Mr. Acevedo, when you were running for office, I gave you a complaint, and I showed you. And you know that never got resolved. And the issues in community and human development and their misappropriation of grant funds still happens. Y'all don't care. Y'all haven't cared since I started showing up. So I keep coming, and even though, you know...
 Our city interim city manager, who you call colonel, but he's a civilian. He should not be called colonel because there is no rank in civilian life. And he should, out of respect for everybody else, correct you on that. Because when you say that, quite frankly, the question should be,
 then how many people died under his command so that he could live in the end please refrain that's it i'm going to go that's not an attack no that isn't it and it's disrespectful i'm going to ask you to step down if this happens one more time this is a privilege not mandatory and that was the uncalled statement facetious before and colonel western does not deserve that type
 of attack from you. And I'm gonna ask you not to do that again. And there you go with the colonel. He's a civilian, that is Mr. Weston. All right, I'm gonna ask you not to attack Colonel Weston one more time. Mr. Weston. Colonel Weston, thank you. Mr. Weston, told me, being facetious, oh, that's a good question. See, my questions aren't necessarily the point. My point of coming here is for you all to see
 THAT THERE'S TRUE IMPACTS ON THE CITIZENS AND REGARDLESS OF THE DONATIONS YOU GET AND LIKE I SAID ONCE BEFORE, DONATIONS DO NOT SAVE YOU FROM DAMNATION. MS. CRAWFORD LIKES TO QUOTE THE BIBLE ALL THE TIME. YOU ALL LIKE THE FAKE PRAY ALL THE TIME. IT'S SHAMEFUL. IT'S SHAMEFUL THAT I HAVE ROOTS IN THIS COMMUNITY OVER 400 YEARS STRONG AND I CAN'T BELIEVE
 HOW HORRIBLE OUR CITY GOVERNMENT IS. THE DOGS ON THE STREET, YEAH, THERE'S MALLINGS ON THE WEST SIDE, BUT YOU ALL DON'T CARE. OUR CITY HAS BREAD SERIAL KILLERS. GO AHEAD AND LEAVE THOSE DOGS ON THE STREETS. THE CITIZENS, WHEN WE LOOK ON SOCIAL MEDIA, WHICH YOU DON'T SEEM TO CARE ABOUT, WE FIND OUT ALL THE PSYCHOS OUT THERE KILLING PETS. YOU KNOW WHAT SERIAL KILLERS DO? THEY TYPICALLY KILL PETS.
 So you all are all also, by leaving those pets out there, showing the rest of us how many serial killers we have among us. So when we find dead people out in the desert or they're go missing, you know what? The pets that you leave on the street, that was the canary in the coal mine. And you all are fine with us seeing it because you all don't care. Thank you. Your three minutes are up. And Colonel Weston, thank you for serving our country.
 Next speaker is Ms. Lisa Turner. And I appreciate everything you've done. And that was unaccepted and uncalled for. And her topic is streets, downtown crosswalks. Ms. Turner, you have three minutes. Afternoon, Colonel Weston. How you doing? Thank you, Ms. Turner. He earned that. Okay? He earned it. He's entitled to use that rank. And the DOD says he can use it. Okay, downtown sidewalks. Didn't see any pride walks this month, this past month.
 And when I inquired about it, I was told that even though there is nothing in the code, we're not going to do them. So if it's not in the code, then the only reason not to do them is bigotry. So explain to me why. That's what I'm here for. Ma'am, we did do sidewalks. The concern was on crosswalks. We had received a letter from TxDOT I think a couple of years ago with concerns of,
 Even though it's been done in other cities that they had some concerns over putting The different multi colors between the white lines of the crosswalks, but we did do some sidewalks this year well given the number of accidents that happen at Regular crosswalks the more visible the crosswalk is the less your accidents you're going to have and in 2016 in
 The city of Lexington, Kentucky was having 10 accidents a year at a crosswalk. So they put a rainbow crosswalk in there, and guess what? It went from 10 to zero. I've heard, well, you have to use muted colors. Let me explain something. Red's a muted color. And I picked red because what I was told was somebody might see red and stomp.
 Well, if that's true, then we have to take the flags down, the Texas flag and the American flag because it has the color red in it and people may actually see, oh, it's red. I got to stop. Okay. What I'm hearing, there is nothing in the code, period. You make your decisions on the code, not what somebody feels or somebody thinks.
 the code is what you follow you did not follow the code you refused to put that out and i consider that an insult because you were willing to go with that and i find it unacceptable we're citizens too thank you miss turner and i know that i just spoke with colonel weston and he'll um he'll get with you after the meeting thank you ma'am mr mayor would you like us to move on to item 40 item 40
 And that is an ordinance approving amendment number three to the final project and financing plan for tax increment reinvestment zone number 11.
 Should be simpler. Good afternoon again, Mayor and Council. Karina Brescala, Economic and International Development. Item 40 is a revision of the tax increment reinvestment zone number 11 final project and financing plan, and that is to update the development assumptions and a number of other administrative items in accordance with the recently approved development. I'm going to turn it over to our TIF consultant, David Pettit. He's done most of these project plans. You all have seen him before, so I'll let him run through the slides.
 How do I move this? Clicker. Mayor, members of council, thank you so much. It's a pleasure to be here. Good afternoon, sir. This is an administrative item to follow up to the discussion regarding the Cohen project. And so this is an amended project and financing plan that includes anticipated development related to the Notes Live Sunset project. So just a little background. In 2008, the TIF was created in the northern portion of the city of El Paso, approximately 50 acres.
 We expanded that TIF approximately 90 acres and we call it TIF 11A when we do an expansion. This amendment does not change the boundary, the term, the city participation. And so just a little bit of background, in 2018 it was created, had the original 50 acres. The October 29th of 2019 it was expanded and included the sales tax.
 the proposed or the termination date per the ordinance is December 31st 2054 city of El Paso contributes a hundred percent of its real increment and so and also a hundred percent of its the 1% sales tax so this is really kind of coming to fruition what we planned back in 2018 which was bringing a destination to this site and anticipating that and using a terge to its full potential and
 So with the addition of Notes Live, at the time when we were doing the projections, we didn't know what was going to happen. I think we now have a good idea, a very solid idea of what's going to happen and what's going to happen around that. And so we were, in order to move forward to make any allocations from the TIF, we need to make those adjustments to the assumptions.
 And so that's what we've done. The TIF, if you look at it, it generates $162 million. But however, the city of El Paso, and there was a lot of talk about economic development impact. What I look at is direct economic impact, not indirect, not what somebody spends. This is what comes from real property sales tax and what comes from hotel occupancy tax.
 So the city generates over that term period, which terminates in 2054, $310 million worth of direct revenue. What goes into the TIF is $162, and so the net benefit to the city is close to $150 million. So the proposed changes are the amended project and financing plan, which includes anticipated development related to the Notes Live. So we recommend adoption of this. Happy to answer any questions. Two comments before.
 Sure, and just a quick one. So while the city does 1% sales tax obviously half of that goes to Sun Metro So it's just the portion that's unallocated. Otherwise had another note and I can't remember it. So I'm sure it'll come back to me From questions go for it Mr. Pettit, thank you for being here and I I was assuming a cutting that you were referring to a
 the on slide number five if we can pull that up um yeah we can go back the city of el paso contributes 100 of the real property increment and then 100 of the city's one percent sales tax so is that the mass transit cell tax that you're referring to right so i'm saying we don't contribute the mass transit sales tax because that's obviously allocated to mass transit okay so so correct right but then what is a hundred percent of the city's one percent
 So it's the incremental sales tax generated within the zone of the portion that's unallocated. So we've got the 2%, right, the mass transit goes and then the half cent to the county. Correct. So it's the half cent sales tax collected within the zone. I'm not sure that that's accurate. The city does collect 1% that comes to the general fund. There's half a percent that goes to Sun Metro and the other half percent the county collects is separate. So this is 1% that does come to the city.
 Okay, so the one penny that our community gets? Correct. Goes to the general fund? Correct. And then from the general fund proceeds, then we're putting that back into the TERS? It never goes to the general fund. It actually goes directly into the TERS.
 Okay, so the notion that the general fund is not being used is inaccurate. Okay, it's because those are funds that should have gone to the general fund, but are now being reverted. I just want to make sure that we're communicating correctly. No, and so that was a decision in 2019 that basically you have two cent sales tax. You've got six and a quarter, so you get the eight and a quarter. One cent is going to the city, and then you have your other that's going to the county and the other that's going to the truck.
 truck 100% of that one incremental so at the time we didn't have anything out there correct so I understand what you're saying so that it's a redirection of those funds so instead of going to the general fund it's going into a special fund to help foster economic development within this zone
 OKAY. AND I GET THAT. AND I REMEMBER HAVING A LOT OF CONCERNS ABOUT USING OUR SALES TAX REVENUES BECAUSE THAT IS OUR SECOND HIGHEST SOURCE OF REVENUES FOR THE CITY OF EL PASO. MAYBE THE THIRD NOW THAT WE'RE DOING SO WELL IN GRANT INVESTMENTS. BUT THOSE ARE DOLLARS THAT WILL BE DIRECTED. BUT WILL THAT IMPACT OUR OVERALL BUDGET?
 Are you because there's a because there will be an increment just that increment portion will be sent to this terse fund None of that's currently captured in current sales tax. Obviously, there's nothing as mentioned. There's no property taxes being clear. There's no City property. Okay, so essentially a hundred percent of the increment because there's no development now, which is
 IT SOUNDS CONFUSING WHEN YOU SAY 100% OF THE INCREMENT OF THE SALES TAX REVENUE BECAUSE IT'S LIKE, WELL, IT'S ALL OF IT BECAUSE THERE'S NO VALUE RIGHT NOW AND THERE'S NO BUSINESSES TO ESTABLISH SALES TAXES. AND SO I ALSO JUST WANT TO CONFIRM, IS IT THE SALES TAXES THAT ARE BEING GENERATED ON THAT SPECIFIC SITE WHERE THE AMPHITHEATER WILL BE? OR IS IT THE ENTIRE TERS?
 Boundaries. Yeah. So this is for the TERS plan. The rebates for the notes live agreement are just for their development sites. So that 17 acre. The property, the real property. So they get rebates on what their actual increment and assessment is. So it does not affect the remaining 30 plus acres. Understood.
 And this is my other note which was of course every time we talk about the tourist amendments term participation would be an ongoing conversation with council as funds are needed or not needed and as improvements come online that sort of thing. So those are adjustable. And so but because there's two because this is like a really important question. So there's two pennies right. Half penny is going to mass transit half penny is going to the county of El Paso and then the other penny goes to our general fund.
 THE 1% ON THAT RESTRICTED BOUNDARY IN THAT TERS, 100% OF OUR ONE PENNY IS GOING TO GO BACK IN THERE ON THAT SITE OR IS IT JUST 1% OF THE TOTAL INCREMENT VALUE GOING BACK INTO THE FUND?
 No, it'll be the total amount generated from that 1% of the sales tax collected in the TERS boundary will stay within that TERS boundary It isn't it doesn't touch any other sales revenues Okay, so then all of the new businesses that will pop up the hope is will pop up as it relates to this amphitheater all of those sales tax revenues will stay restricted into that tourist fund and
 That's correct. Okay. So is there a scale on 100% or is it just 100% for until 2054?
 Right now it would be 100% until 2054, but that again goes back to your allowable project costs. Again, a conversation that we have every time we bring up the TERS, which is it's within the zone, but that doesn't mean I can't spend that money outside of the zone. So if there's infrastructure supporting projects that affect the zone or have benefits to the project intent, and then as always, if we did it with TERS 10A, right, if that money is not needed, if we've achieved the goals of the zone, if we've done the improvements we need, if all of Cohen is built out in five years,
 there would be no reason to continue participating at that high of a level. So we always reassess that based on our kind of current development. And I've seen that in the past to be fair. It's just, I wanna make sure the public understands that the stimulation of the economic development as it relates to the city's portion of the revenues that we receive are restricted.
 They restrict it. I can't take it and put it back into the general fund because 100% will stay in the TERS. And so that sales tax revenues that we're banking on stays there and it's not coming back to the city. I think to give a complete story, though, I mean, that's what you're saying is true from within the TERS. But I think what's also important to note so that everybody's got a full appreciation of this is that
 what we're expecting in terms of the development in the northeast not just within the teres boundaries but the development that's going to occur outside of the teres boundaries with this being a catalyst we'll all go to the we'll all go to the general fund not only that but also we talked about the economic impact and the induced and indirect effects of businesses that support the venue
 The services that they provide, all the things that they provide, those are outside of the TURs. That will also be of a great benefit and that will also potentially increase more revenue. And I get that, but take a look at the landscape. To the north is Trans Mountain, restricted land. To the northeast, I believe, is Walmart. Okay.
 And then it's all government properties behind you. So the TERS is really where you would bank on that economic stimulus, but we're not going to get anything because 100% is dedicated there. So there's got to be a real conversation about cutting that TERS and
 RESTRICTING IT TO 50% BECAUSE THAT SALES TAX REVENUES IS GOING TO BE A GAME CHANGER FOR OUR ABILITY AS A CITY TO PROVIDE CRITICAL SERVICES BECAUSE WE BANK ON THESE TYPE OF FUNDS. IT'S VERY LUCRATIVE RIGHT NOW AND IT CONCERNS ME, BUT WITH THE PROGRESS AND WITH THE DECISION WITH COUNCIL TO RESTRICT ALL OF OUR REVENUES, I MEAN, MAYBE IN YEAR 12 WE SEE 25% REAL PROPERTY TAX INCREMENT, SO WE'LL SEE 25% ONLY. BUT THEN BY YEAR 20, WE'LL SEE...
 Up to 100. So property tax revenues are restricted by 100%, 75%. There's that sliding scale. But you were not going to see that benefit here at the city of El Paso. And I need that money now. So I can reduce home residential taxes. And so I just I just want to clarify for the public that yes, there's a fund that's that's paying for this.
 But it's at the expense of the general fund and my inability to reduce taxes because it's very lucrative. And the hope is that more businesses will pop up aware if it's all government-owned land and we've restricted ourselves with parking spaces. And so when you have so much surface parking lots...
 then you don't have a walkable and a community, and that would encourage more business. So as this is being designed, we need to take a closer look at how we can maximize the revenue, sales tax revenues and property tax revenues. Otherwise, I'm not going to see any benefit to the city's portion of the tax bill. You also comprise the board, and you'll be looking and evaluating this, and I think to Karina's point, as the TURS meets its objectives,
 You also look at whether there needs to be additional investment or you can reduce that to your point. And I think you can also look at things like if it's very, very successful, you as a council then as the board representatives to make the decision can make a determination on whether you wanna do something like structured parking, which frees up more developable land.
 or not and so I think there's a lot of different points along the way where you'll be able to evaluate that review the project and finance plan and make sure that you're comfortable with the percentage that's going into the TERS and what's not So the 5.4 billion dollar income that's generated is that included in it or not?
 Does that include within the TERS? I'm sure some of that's overlapping with the remaining TERS portion, but that's generated, I'm going to say, largely off-site. That's primarily going to be your indirect spinoff effects. How much are we generating today? Zero. So without NoteLife, we still have zero? Correct. And if we get NoteLife, you've told me that very conservatively we're going to have $5.4 billion to help the taxpayers reduce their taxes. Okay. I'm making sure.
 Mr. Molinar. Thank you, Mayor. For the gentleman there? The gentleman. Yes, sir. How are you? Can you please state your name for the record? David Pettit. And your correct title or position? I am a principal with David Pettit Economic Development. Okay, great. So I'm a tax income and reinvestment zone consultant. All right. Well, thank you. I don't ever recall seeing you, but either way, thank you. You're welcome. Welcome. I was here in 2018 and 19 when we did this. Yeah, I wasn't here. No, so. But anyways. He sees me all the time.
 This is a TERS. I don't really agree with everything that happens in a TERS. That's why I'm against TERS for all these reasons we've been talking about. But in this TERS hearing specifically, certain things you have to remember. So it got expanded not only in acreage size, but it got expanded in year size. But I speak as the District 4 representative, hey, right there at...
 Dyer, excuse me, excuse me, Gateway North in Diana. You have Sam's Club 6246. That thing is a moneymaker. That is driving our sales tax revenue. You have Walmart, Walmart number 500, also on Woodrow Bean Trans Mountain. Great, great place to go shop.
 You have restaurants. You have different businesses that are all up and down that corridor that are not in that TERS boundary or even the expanded TERS boundary that are still deriving revenue for us as sales tax for our city. So I can see what people are saying, but I don't necessarily agree with it. I don't agree with it. And so with that, I move to approve. Second. Second.
 You're also next. Yes. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Can you please pull up slide 8, Karina? I wanted to look at the participation and the net benefit to the other entities. Of course, we've had conversations all day about the city's contribution here and what the city is essentially deferring into the TERS. Can you share those numbers again?
 I mean, I'll point out the school district, for example, EPISD, this TERS falls within the boundaries of EPISD.
 Can you share more about that total net benefit to the school district, to the county, to the medical center? Yeah, and I remember we had this conversation when the TURS 5 project plan amendment was here forward. But again, remembering that this is from today going forward. I know to date there has not been taxes generated on the site. But the city's participation, while that's in there, quite high there. There is not a single other entity participating in this TURS. And I, again, don't want to say, you know, things like...
 EPCC and the University Medical Center are restricted by state law, so they can't participate. But the school district, which is usually the largest chunk of your property taxes, county which collects a portion of sales tax, so they still receive the full revenue that is generated off of anything within this TERS.
 Also on EPISD, part of that expansion of the TURS boundary does cover a large piece of land that is to cover land that is in the El Paso ISD inventory. I think with the idea that at some point if they off-sell it, we would be able to assist with development out there. I don't know if that gets at the question or if you want me to read off the long numbers. No, that's okay. Okay.
 It's there on the screen, people can see it. They're sizable numbers. $1.16 billion in total net benefit to taxing entities. That does still include the city of El Paso because obviously we don't participate on HOT, and there are some other types of taxes and money we would anticipate seeing. So we still receive a net benefit even with 100% participation on property and sales, but $1.16 billion back, and that's direct to taxing entities. Yes.
 And then I just want to point out again looking at your slide number five. This was TERS 11 was created in May 2018. I'm looking at the agenda the minutes from that day. That was there was a motion made by Representative Ordaz seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Ngo.
 The ayes were Representative Shortspine, Anello, Hernandez, Morgan, Noe, Ordaz, Rivera and Lizarraga approved unanimously in 2018. The boundaries were amended and the sales tax was added in October of that same year. I think that coincided with the passage of the master plan for Cohen correct? Yes. For that site. And that also was a motion made by Representative Noe seconded by Representative Ordaz and the ayes were unanimous again.
 I think it shows that looking back at 2018, that master plan was approved. It showed exactly this kind of investment in a kind of central destination entertainment venue at this site in 2018, and there was full backing for that sales tax revenue to
 the fulfillment of that master plan back in 2018 and so I see today again I was I definitely wasn't on the council in 2018 but I see today as the fulfillment of all of that process that went into the development and all the public engagement that happened and the eventual adoption of that master plan today is where I think the city is coming good on that plan that we I wasn't here but that the city.
 made to the public in 2018 it's coming to fruition and I want to say from doing projections on this I do a lot of TIF agreements and very few are entertainment venues taxed because a lot of times they're tax exempt and so that really produces a lot of revenue to this project as well because a lot of times you'll put it into a sports authority and it becomes tax-exempt because it becomes easier this is gonna be taxable
 So we've included that into these projections. So it's nice to go from a crystal ball not knowing because we just had a plan to actually having real projects that we could program. So that's why this is just coming to fruition. All right. And I have seen you before, David. Welcome back. It's been a little while. Yes, sir. But thank you. And I know it's a.
 You're a leading expert in the use of TERS. It's not easy work, and so I appreciate all the expertise that you bring to us on this difficult topic. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez.
 THE ONLY THING I WANTED TO MENTION, I RECALL THIS CONVERSATION VERY CLEARLY. AND REPRESENTATIVE CANALES, I HOPE YOU GO BACK AND WATCH THE VIDEOS WHERE I SPECIFICALLY SAY I'M VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE SALES TAX REVENUE AND I WAS VERY HESITANT AND WE HAD THE SAME RESPONSE FROM STAFF WHICH IS, HEY, FOR NOW IT'S LUCRATIVE BUT DOWN THE LINE IT WILL SCALE DOWN AND WE CAN REASSESS WHETHER OR NOT WE WANT TO PUT ALL THOSE REVENUES THERE. SO ON THAT CONDITION I SUPPORTED IT. BUT IT WAS VERY EXPLICIT THAT SALES TAX REVENUES
 are damaging to our budget when we just give it all away because we really depend on that. So my hope is that in five, 10 years after development happens, we can reassess and do away with that because we could tremendously benefit from that sales tax revenue, thanks. Thank you, and with that, we have a motion and a second. We do have a member of the public signed up to speak on this item, Ms. Patricia Osman. You have three minutes, ma'am. You know what, thank you, Ms. Hernan. You've been making some really great points on all of this.
 But I do have a question, and I'm supposed to address it to you all, but I think you're going to end up having to ask Karina to come up here. Because in our projection there, it has a live note and then it has it down to 46 mil 382, 056. So is that what, why is that under their column? Is that what their final cost will be for that property?
 After all the incentives they can get with you at the end of your year three. Shouldn't the citizens know? No That's something they can get with you at the end of your time up you can they can go but I come here to ask these questions so that the general public also finds out just like when our representatives ask questions during City Council so that the general public in citizens know and
 and have those answers. So that's why general public comes up here and we ask questions, not so that those answers could be done offsite, but so that they're given in front of the public so that the public is aware as well. Yes, ma'am, he'll answer your questions as soon as you're done. Thank you, ma'am. Now, as soon as you're three minutes up on this. So what you are saying, Mr. Leaser, Mayor Leaser, is that you don't want them to answer questions
 the public smear so that the rest of the citizens and they did and all the questions were asked by the council members and answered if you have anything you would like to ask them they'll be more than glad to answer your questions I think that's very important that your questions so then why do we have public comment in questions during agenda items if they're not going to be answered during the agenda items when they're up in front of the public they'll answer every one of your questions ma'am this is not but not in public
 This is why public meetings, this is why city council is a public meeting. Yes, ma'am. And that's why the public can speak and ask questions during this. Yes, ma'am. But the questions, we can ask the questions, but your answers cannot be public. The questions were asked by the council members. Thank you. No, no. I just want to make sure that the citizens are aware that that is your stance on this. Thank you. Thank you.
 Will you all, would you mind please talking with Ms., no, go over there and talk with her if you don't mind? Absolutely. Would you like me to address the 46th? Sure, you're more than welcome to. As I had mentioned before is there's not a whole lot of comparables for stadiums. So if I do a multifamily, I can say, hey, the taxable value of that's $125,000 per unit.
 stadiums, there's not a whole lot of stadiums that are taxable. So that number was provided to us by the developer, and that's what they anticipate paying taxes on. And so it's also working with David Torres based upon their income. And so on an income analysis, they anticipate that the value of this will be a taxable value of $46 million on an annual basis. Thank you, and I hope that answers your question, Ms. Sussman. Thank you.
 We have a motion and a second. We do have a motion made by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, seconded by Representative Canales. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy, Representative Fierro? Aye. Can you turn on your camera please? It is. It's on. Oh. Now it's off. Mine is a black square. Yes ma'am.
 The item has been approved four to three and the nays are a sebedo representative Hernandez and representative Salcido, thank you. We go the think we go back to I'm in item 26 sir Yes, ma'am, and this is discussion in action declaring that the expenditure of district 8 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed ten thousand is
 goes to cover Segundo Barrio Community Block Party by the Southside Neighborhood Association. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, this is an excellent community and cultural event that's taken place for quite a long time now, several decades. Historically since before my time, the District 8 office has helped cover the cost of this event for the neighborhood. Again, it's a...
 one of the lowest income neighborhoods, not just in El Paso, but in the country. This is an excellent opportunity for the neighborhood to have a cultural celebration. And I think it's an excellent use of discretionary funds to be able to make that happen. I ask for the support of my colleagues. Thank you. And I move to approve. Second. Motion and a second. Any public comment? No. No, sir. Okay. Thank you. Pardon me? Did you? Yes. Alrighty. Come on up, sir.
 Yes, that is correct. And I also have Ms. Patricia Osmond signed up. Who else? Mr. Bariga Jose Gaston and Ms. Patricia Osmond. OK, thank you. You have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon, city council. Good afternoon. Welcome back. Thank you. I encourage this type of events. The only issue that I have is with the restrooms. I have attended a previous event several months ago
 And the restaurants were off limits. It was really hard for me. And I carry a camera. But the person who was in charge, he was more afraid of the cell phone. When I tried to call my wife, he thought I was going to record through the phone. He didn't realize that I had a camera. But I had to have the guard because when I have to urinate, I had to have the guard to help me out.
 to go to the restroom and things like that. But the location was the Museum of Archeological, the Archeological Museum. But they didn't have portable restrooms. Now you're gonna have a public event. Sometimes the restroom that they have down there, they don't have ADA accessibility for those. Or sometimes they don't have enough. That's the only thing that I'm asking.
 I think that's really important because it's kind of embarrassing for somebody to go through things like that. I don't mind. For somebody older than me, I think that would be really hard to handle. I guess I'll see you guys on September 1st. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Ms. Osmond? Go ahead. Hold on one second. Representative Canales is going to speak. Go ahead, sir. Yeah, thank you, sir. Again, this isn't an event that the city plans. It's planned by the Neighborhood Association, but I do want to share that for the past several years, I've helped them with the organization of the event, and I believe they've...
 rented six two years ago and then eight single-use portable restrooms the the standard size plus two family size slash accessible restrooms and I I don't anticipate that they'll change that for this year thank you sir miss Osman and miss Osman if you do have a question at the end of your thing we'll have them come up here and answer it to the public mr. canada say I want to thank you for spending your funds this way
 When I was a teenager, I used to hang out with people who lived in the Segundo Barrio. Unfortunately, one of those people actually happened to be one of our local serial killers. But it's a wonderful neighborhood that the city tried to take out at one point, and I'm very glad that you are actually supporting them.
 Because it is one of our oldest and most his it will in actual historic communities in our city Well one of our first communities in our city There's a nice youtuber here in El Paso and she's done a nice walk through through Segundo Barrio showing how look It's not the ghetto people think it is Everybody's friendly everybody's nice you come down and visit and I think events like this are
 to unlike the marketing for the MPC that made it look the whole area down there as though it is just a horrible environment needs to be cleaned up because oh you know we can't have tourists seeing what the neighborhoods like there's real people down there who want to celebrate the fact that they're just good El Paso citizens
 They're good family members. So they are the people, in fact, the lowest income in El Paso are the ones who are supporting our city the most. So thank you. Thank you, ma'am. And we do have a motion. I second. Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Acevedo. And this is to approve item 26. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy? Aye. Thank you. Representative Fierro? Thank you, sir.
 The item has been approved unanimously Thank you, ma'am. Next item is item 27 and this is discussion in action authorizing the expenditure of district 6 Discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed $6,000 and this is for movies in the park placed by representative Fierro and we also have two members of the public signed up to speak Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Who's that? Thank you, mr. Mayor. Go ahead sir. I
 Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm real excited about Movies in the Park again this year. This year, we're adding an additional park once we had not shown a movie there before. The constituents in the immediate area are, and we're looking forward to showing a great show, having a great evening, having people enjoy their park at night.
 So I want to thank the Parks and Rec Department for all the help that they do in helping us put this together. With that, Mr. Mayor, I make a motion to approve. Second. Thank you. You have a public comment you said? Yes, sir. We have Ms. Patricia Osman. Thank you. Followed by Mr. Bariga Jose Gaston. She has no questions. She has waived her. Okay. Mr. Gaston. Thank you, Ms. Osman. Two of them. Who? Okay.
 Good afternoon again. The only suggestion would be for movies in the park would be that weeks before you can have the sanitation department spray against mosquitoes. I think that would be something that will help or sometimes they can fumigate the areas. That's one of the
 I went one to once and there was a lot of mosquitoes. That's the only thing that I recommend. Besides that, everything is great. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Mayor, may I just make a comment, please? What was that, sir?
 May I make a comment? Yes, sir. Just real quick. Yes, sir. Thank you very much for that recommendation. I will tell you that the Parks and Recreation, they go a day before or two days before and they go and they spray it for mosquitoes. And thank you for your comment earlier about the public, about the restrooms. We make sure that we bring four restrooms in at a minimum. So you've had some great suggestions. I applaud you. I hope to see you there, sir.
 Thank you mayor. Thank you sir. And we do have a motion made by representative Fierro seconded by alternate mayor Pro Tem Molinar and this is to approve. Voting session is open. Representative Fierro, representative Kennedy. He fell off for some reason. It came back. Aye. He's back. There he is. Thank you. Technical difficulties. And the item has been approved unanimously.
 Item 28 is discussion in action discussion regarding the presentation of the 2023 animal shelter advisory Committee annual report to City Council. This is a no action item. That's a Analyst. Yes, sir Thank you for doing that All right, and all my time in this building I've never presented from this podium. It's strange council the animal shelter advisory
 You down there you got to go back so not do I not count toward quorum if I'm standing here hold on hold on Except for a sec none this do we have a quorum if he's up there does he need to be on the dais? I can present from there if need be you can do it from the dais if you need to be on the dais Thank you Okay back over here that didn't last long pull up the presentation here Thank you, thank you mayor
 The Animal Shelter Advisory Committee has been deep in conversation for at least the time that I have served since I got elected. And we thought it was important that you all be presented with the annual report that the committee put together for the calendar year 2023. And it did take some time for it to get prepared and packaged and ready for you today.
 WE'LL HOPEFULLY HAVE YOU THE 2024 REPORT EARLIER INTO THE YEAR NEXT YEAR. WE DIDN'T WANT TO LET THE MOMENT GO BY WITHOUT IT BEING PRESENTED. I KNOW FOR THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS IT'S BEEN PROVIDED TO THE COUNCIL ON PAPER BUT NOT PRESENTED AT THE MEETING. WE DIDN'T WANT THAT TO HAPPEN THIS YEAR. SO I'M GOING TO TAKE YOU THROUGH THE INTRODUCTION AND THEN WE DO HAVE TWO ADDITIONAL MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE HERE. STEPHANIE.
 and Ms. Barbara Candelaria, the Vice Chair, who are here to present some of the sections. So you can see on the screen, or you could until a moment ago, there you go, the current members. These are the current members now, but the current membership of 2023 is not necessarily reflected here.
 I WANTED TO POINT OUT TO THE COUNCIL THAT THE ASAC HAS ADOPTED ITS OWN STRATEGIC PLAN. THAT PLAN COVERS 2022 TO 2025. SO IT WILL BE NECESSARY BETWEEN NOW AND THE EXPIRATION OF THE PLAN TO DO A REFRESH AND WE'RE LOOKING TO POTENTIALLY DO THAT WITHIN THE NEXT FEW MONTHS HERE. THE MISSION FOR THE COMMITTEE.
 is the Animal Shelter Advisory Committee will advise, support and advocate for the well-being of all animals in the El Paso community with a vision that El Paso will be the leader in animal welfare.
 I WON'T GO THROUGH ALL OF THESE NECESSARILY. AGAIN, THEY'VE BEEN PROVIDED TO YOU IN WRITING. THESE ARE THE KEY FOCUS AREAS THAT THE ASAC HAS IDENTIFIED IN THE STRATEGIC PLAN THAT THE COMMITTEE HOPES THAT THE CITY CAN ACCOMPLISH IN COORDINATION WITH THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE. AND THEN THIS WILL BE THE LAST SLIDE FOR ME BEFORE I HAND IT OFF. BUT I WANTED TO RUN THROUGH OUR 2023 BY THE NUMBERS.
 WE HELD 12 MEETINGS. THE COMMITTEE BY LAW IS NOT REQUIRED TO HOLD A MEETING EVERY MONTH. BY OUR BYLAWS HAVE DECIDED IT'S A PRIORITY THAT THIS COMMITTEE SHOULD BE MEETING ONCE A MONTH. I'LL NOTE AGAIN THIS IS ONE OF THE COMMITTEES THAT IS PRESCRIBED TO US UNDER STATE LAW. THE CITY MUST AS THE OPERATOR OF THE SHELTER MAINTAIN THIS COMMITTEE. AND SO WE TAKE IT SERIOUSLY AND DO MEET EVERY MONTH.
 During 2023 there were 15 different appointees who cycled onto the committee as vacancies were filled. There were 62 agenda items discussed and about 32 hours of total meeting time. It's a significant time commitment from the members who were appointed. And I believe Stephanie you're going to present first, correct? Okay. So then I'd like to introduce Stephanie Frias to introduce us.
 TODAY. WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT SOME OF WE'RE GOING TO TALK ABOUT SOME OF THE HOT TOPICS FROM 2023. THE HOT TOPICS FROM 2023. WE SPEND A LOT OF TIME GOING WE SPEND A LOT OF TIME GOING THROUGH THE PREVIOUS AGENDAS THROUGH THE PREVIOUS AGENDAS FROM ALL OF THE 2023 MEETINGS. FROM ALL OF THE 2023 MEETINGS. THE STAFF TAKES WONDERFUL THE STAFF TAKES WONDERFUL MINUTES.
 Collate here some of the the biggest topics that pervaded the discussion throughout the entire year So yeah, if you can introduce yourself first and maybe what district you're appointed to serve and then also your your history And with animals and then take it away. I
 Hello, Council. Good afternoon. My name is Stephanie Frias. I am appointed by District 8, and I'm really happy to be here presenting the ASAC report. I have been with ASAC since 2018, and I'm really happy to be serving another term until 2026. And yeah, so I have some of my previous experience has been working with Law and Paws, which is a nonprofit here in El Paso. So I'll get started.
 Veterinary care throughout the year discussions on veterinary care were prevalent in ASAC meetings encompassing a wide range of topics including the post COVID national shortage of vets and the role of the EPVMA standards of care and shelters vaccination and spay neuter initiatives and the role of veterinarians in promoting responsible pet ownership and registration.
 Members actively engaged in dialogue to explore strategies for improving veterinary infrastructure, including certification of vets from Mexico, enhancing vet care delivery for sheltered animals, and addressing vet care disparities among El Paso populations.
 We have some community programs and practices. The ASAC discussed the importance of programs available to the community, such as spaying and neutering programs, public education campaigns, and other community interventions to address pet overpopulation and promote responsible pet ownership.
 The committee discussed vaccination registration compliance, the foster program TNR, volunteer-led microchip scanning, the provision of kitten kits at public locations with partner organizations Sun City Cats, expanding the low-cost spay and neuter program, and the efficacy of community return to owner initiatives.
 Review of Ordinances. The committee frequently discussed the importance of conducting a comprehensive review of existing ordinances related to animal welfare, Title VII of the Municipal Code, to identify areas for improvement and potential policy changes to enhance the protection and well-being of animals.
 The ASAC discussed the expectation that the City will conduct a thorough review in the coming months and look to the committee for support and advice throughout the process.
 collaboration between animal services, local rescues and partners. The ASAC discussed the vital importance of El Paso Animal Services, El Paso County Animal Welfare and other stakeholders including local rescues working together to develop collaborative approaches, sorry, enhance shelter operations and address emerging challenges in animal welfare.
 County Animal Welfare provided quarterly updates. The committee also sent a letter to rescues requesting data, but had limited success. Enforcement of breeding ordinances.
 Discussion on enhancing enforcement of breeding ordinances included exploring strategies to deter irresponsible breeding practices through stricter regulations and increase enforcement and oversight. Committee members emphasized the importance of promoting compliance with animal welfare regulations to safeguard the well-being of animals and address concerns related to illegal breeding and selling of unlicensed animals.
 PSA campaign. The ASAC encouraged the creation of a public service announcement PSA campaign to discourage backyard breeding practices and promote pet adoption from shelters, emphasizing responsible pet ownership. The City of El Paso's Public Information Office has filmed the PSA campaign and it is currently in the editing process. The campaign centers around the message, make adoption your only option.
 All right. Thank you, Stephanie. As you can see, there were a lot of discussion topics just within those, but those were just a handful of the many things that the ASAC has discussed over the 2023 calendar year. The next section of the annual report,
 I think outlines the core function of the ASAC, which is making recommendations to the City Council about animal shelters and animal welfare in general in El Paso County. And I think it's important that I say El Paso County. I want to note that this is not a committee that is only focused on El Paso Animal Services and the city-run shelter.
 But again, because this is prescribed to us by state law, it actually is concerning every animal shelter within El Paso County. So the recommendations aren't necessarily specific just to the city, but go beyond to the other shelters that operate within the county. Again, these recommendations, and you can, I don't have the clicker anymore, you can click to the next slide here.
 But the ASAC's formulated several specific policy recommendations to present to the City Council. They stem from the collaboration with stakeholders, review of the existing ordinances, and some efforts to address the issues of animal welfare that we find within our community.
 And I think we can actually skip right to slide 15. The other slides were basically just explaining what I just said. And I'd like to introduce the committee's vice chair, Barbara Candelaria, to speak about the specific recommendations that the ASAC would like to make. There are six of them.
 Thank you all so much for having us today mayor and City representatives and my name is Barbara condolaria. I've been on a sack for quite a while I am with district 6 under mr. Art Fiero, I've been involved with Humane Society for over 10 years and then went strictly with a
 Animal services. I've also on the side fostered preemie puppies fostered mothers to be mama pregnant dogs to be and just whatever else comes our way and in our homes and currently we have six rescues in the house and
 And I would like to encourage everybody you know to go by Animal Services and take a look at a set of those sad eyes and see if it doesn't pull on the heartstrings a little bit and go get you one or two. It does wonders for the blood pressure and the health.
 So getting back to more robust enforcement of breeding ordinances, ASAC recommends amendments to current ordinances and or greater enforcement of existing regulations to bolster enforcement mechanisms
 concerning background breeding and irresponsible pet ownership. This includes increased attention, expanded public awareness, campaigns, and additional resources for enforcement agencies to combat harmful breeding practices that produce more and more animals. Number two, increased cities' investment in spay and neuter programs.
 ASAC recommends increased funding for both El Paso Animal Services and partnerships with local veterinary clinics to expand access to low-cost spay-neuter services. This request aligns with efforts to manage the pet population, reduce shelter intake, and promote responsible pet ownership. It also addresses economic inequities affecting veterinary access across El Paso County.
 Number three, expand support for proactive disease control measures. ASAC recommends expanded initiatives to support proactive disease control measures, such as expanded vaccination programs and disease surveillance.
 This includes resources to prevent the spread of infectious diseases among animals at El Paso Animal Services, which posed significant challenges in 2023, and to mitigate the impact of outbreaks on animal populations across the borderland community, including at partner rescues. Number four.
 broaden effects to bring on additional veterinarians at El Paso Animal Services. Please, if you know anybody, send them our way. ASAC recommends that the city take greater steps to address the post-COVID shortage of veterinarians, including by exploring options to certify veterinarians from Mexico, implementing broader and more targeted applications,
 outreach in the veterinarian hiring process and considering competitive new approaches to attract veterinarians to El Paso Animal Services where they can sorely need it to ensure proper standards of care. Number five, develop new public education campaigns and adoption messaging.
 ASAC recommends an expansion of public educational campaigns on responsible pet ownership, animal welfare, and the benefits of adopting pets from shelters. This includes funding for PSA campaigns in both traditional, new media, community outreach events, and educational programs targeting schools, neighborhoods, and social media platforms.
 Number six, expedite successful completion and opening of Westside location.
 ASAC recommends that the City take all possible steps to expedite the adaptive reuse of the former Moorhead Middle School site on the west side into the new El Paso Animal Services shelter location and prioritize the removal of animals from Tales at the Times temporary shelter located behind City Hall.
 The opening of the new facility will offer significant expansion of the city's total sheltering capacity, providing much needed decompression of the main El Paso Animal Services shelter, which is over capacity. Special thanks to our director, Mr. Kepchell, and always our Maribel Kourish. We couldn't do this without her. She's been at Animal Services
 for close to 20 years. Mr. Adan Parra, who also has been at Animal Services and has served in different capacities. And Ms. Flores, she also fosters kittens. She's also there on the weekends with rescue runners. And
 She's awesome She has also been at the on and off with a sack and she has really helped us go through some Murky waters every now and then but I mean talk about somebody who was who was living it and doing it We couldn't do it without her and miss Otello She is she still our city attorney with a sack. No, so it's so it's miss Flores. Okay, so
 Yes, Ms. Sotelo was the attorney assigned for part of 2013, and Mr. Armendariz helps as well. And then Mr. Armendariz. Anyway, thank you all so much for listening, for our time. And again, please go out and get one of those sad eyes. It'll help, I promise.
 And again, I'll note that this is the report, again, from calendar year 2023. So it has been some time since this presentation was put together and these goals were adopted, these recommendations were adopted. I think we've seen some significant movement on some of them. Again, the animals were moved out of Tales at the Times over the past week. And so they're now at the Moorhead facility. Again, still not in its finished.
 YOU KNOW, FULL BUILDOUT, BUT IT'S A BIG CHANGE. AND SO DESPITE THE FACT THAT THE COUNCIL, YOU KNOW, YOU WERE SENT THIS A FEW MONTHS AGO, DESPITE THE FACT THAT IT'S NOW BEING PRESENTED TODAY, A LOT OF THESE THINGS ARE ALREADY BEING CONSIDERED, I THINK, INTO NEXT YEAR'S BUDGET AND TODAY'S OPERATIONS.
 And so it's a credit to the ASAC for the amount of time and effort that all the members have put in across the the 2023 calendar year and since then. And I don't know if either of you have any other additional comments you'd like to share before we close the presentation. You don't have to? Sure.
 I just want to remind the board this is an advisory board. We're not in charge of hiring or firing or budget or anything like this. We are in, we advise, we do a lot of research, a lot of homework, and it is all voluntary. If we go across the United States to visit other shelters, it's on our own dime and our own time.
 It is a tough board to be on, again, because, you know, we're dealing with the animals of our community, and there's a lot of passion, and of course, none of us want any of our animals to die.
 to die and we all truly want the same goal of El Paso being 90% live release rate, which is the no-kill terminology. So again, thank you for your time and your understanding. Thank you. And I'll emphasize one more time that that's...
 exactly the importance of being here to present today. I think it's important that council understand the huge amount of volunteer work and effort that goes into the service on the Animal Shelter Advisory Committee by all of your appointees, and that council hears the recommendations that are coming from the ASAC. So we can consider those as we adopt the budget for next year and make decisions about the future of animal services.
 Thank you all. Thank you for the presentation. Thank you all for volunteering. And I know one of the things that stood out was Morehead School, and I know that Chief D'Agostino and Chief Kitchell are working really hard to get Morehead open. That is one of our priorities, and the money has been allocated through the budget years ago.
 i know that we got all the drains done i did a tour just recently and we got the air conditioning fixed which was very important and we're working on getting the dog park out there for the dogs so we're um it's it's a priority so thank you for that and with that representative nundus
 I just wanted to thank you. I know you all work so tirelessly for our animal population. We really appreciate everything you're doing. I hope that you'll visit us at our budget hearing discussions coming up, I believe, is it next week? Monday? We're already July 8th. Okay, Monday. Monday, yeah. Specifically because we're going to be talking about.
 some of your recommendations and as a private citizen, you know, I would welcome you to to attend as well because that is ultimately how we are able to put more Resources to the department and we have seen growth in the budget for staffing and we haven't really seen like the direct Significant impact but it takes time but like things like kennels and in other needs like specifically hiring more veterinarians and and
 spay and neutering as we heard from my constituent earlier, Mr. Corral, it really is gonna take all of us to come united so that we can get some more resources for the department, but thank you all for what you do. Thank you, Representative, for having done this. Thank you all. Diana, next item please. There's actually Ms. Patricia Osman signed up to speak on this item. I didn't see it on there, but I missed it, I apologize. Yes, ma'am. Yeah, three minutes, ma'am. Yes. In the presentation when I didn't hear, although I heard a lot in regards to
 backyard breeding. There was nothing said, and I hope it's in your next presentation, but it shouldn't wait till early next year, in regards to the strays on the street. Because that is what's, it's not the backyard breeding that's as much of the issue, because people who are breeding are selling. When you're buying a pet, you're gonna try to keep that pet close. Not everybody is throwing those pets out on the street.
 But there was nothing in your report whatsoever in regards to, and I understand it was moving the animals from behind this building to Moorhead. But in that, it was not expanding Moorhead. You're just keeping the same capacity, really, from here to there. From what I understand, there's not currently an expansion that's happening on Moorhead.
 There's bigger space, but the kennels were going to be remaining the same. But honestly, the strays on the street, just earlier this week, you've got packs of dogs on the west side that are mauling residents' pets. So pet owners...
 are also affected by the strays on the street. And honestly, none of us want to see this. Some of us go and we volunteer to make the little pet shelters. We put out the food. We do what we can. But the problem is if you leave them on the street, it's not the backyard breeders. It's the pets on the street, the strays on the street that keep breeding and breeding and creating the issue. Perhaps...
 Picking them up neutering do what you do with the cats if you're if you're gonna leave them on the street So that they get hit by cars Then at least pick them up neuter them throw them back out if you don't want to take care of them any other way But unfortunately your your whole presentation I went through it never mentioned the streets on the streets You're focusing on ordinances in these backyard breedings It's a nice catchphrase
 But that's very minuscule to what the problem is in this town. And people across this city shouldn't have to, on social media, be asking, hey, look, I picked this pet up. What can I do with it? Hey, you know what? There's somebody in District 2 over there by Chelsea that's like poisoning cats. At least seven, eight have been found. There's solutions. People have been telling you all this for years. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you.
 Next item is item 29 and that's the introduction of ordinance authorizing the conveyance of real property owned by the city Hold on sir. We will lose quorum. Yes their motion for VTR development for first reading Seconds for item 29 made motion. He made a second just to approve the first reading correct Yes, this is the first reading and this motion was made by representative Sarsido seconded by representative canales
 And this is to approve just the first reading. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy, Representative Fierro, Representative Molinar. And the item has been approved unanimously with Representative Molinar not present for the vote. Next item is item number 30. Thank you.
 And this is discussion in action to issue purchase order for solicitation 2024-0554, restroom maintenance to public facilities and services incorporated to Excelco Automated Public Toilets for a three year term for an estimated amount of $270,000. Motion to approve. Second. Motion and a second. Yes, sir. And we do have a motion made by Representative Fierro
 Seconded by Representative Canales. And this is to approve item 30. I believe there was public comment on that item. Voting session is open. Oh, that's true. We do have Ms. Patricia Osman signed up to speak. Thank you, Representative Kennedy. I'm just doing this. This is my weekly, my monthly calisthenics. But the only comment I really have is that yesterday watching the work session, I found it rather amusing.
 that our mayor asked what automatic or automated toilet. So I don't think they answered that question for you necessarily, at least when I was listening to it correctly. He's like, oh, it's self-cleaning toilet. You know those little toilets with the sensor? When you get up, it automatically flushes. That's what it is. Just thought since you were unaware of what an automatic toilet is,
 That's what it is. So it's not that I'm in disagreement of this solicitation. It's just that I found your question yesterday during the work session on this item somewhat odd.
 That's what work sessions are for to make sure we understand what they are. Well, yeah, I know, but what he told you was that it was self-cleaning. But what it actually is, it's one of those toilets that if you look at the back, it's got a little square box and there's a sensor. So when you get up or down because of the shadow, it's automatically going to flush. Thank you for that. That way. Appreciate that. So that you know. Thank you for correcting him. Yes, sir.
 I promise I say this with total respect, Ms. Osmond, that's not what these are. They actually are fully self-cleaning, so the full interior of the restroom, it's a single unit prefabricated restroom, and the entirety of the inside is automatically cleaned with sprayers and disinfectants and things.
 These are located near the international bridges. So you and I both had the wrong answer. So you and I both had the wrong answer and I'm glad you guys informed us of that yesterday. So thank you. This is Azul Mendoza, Assistant Director for International Bridges for the record. Yes, Rep Canal is correct. These are actually self-teaming the whole facility. We have two structures, stainless steel, one at Stanton and one at PDN, two per facility, two toilets per facility.
 So that's how we ask questions to have the right answer. So you had the wrong answer. Thank you all for correcting us again. Mayor, I encourage you to check them out. They're pretty cool. Pardon me? I encourage you to check them out. They're pretty cool. Yeah, thank you. I like the self-cleaning. I might. Thank you all. We have a motion and a second. Yes, we do. On the self-cleaning toilets. Not the little box, but the self-cleaning toilet. Fierro, seconded by Representative Canales. We wanna make sure we approve the right thing. And voting session is open.
 Representative Kennedy? Aye. Representative Fierro? And the item has been approved unanimously with Representative Molinarna present for the vote. Thank you for that clarification, by the way.
 Thank you. Next item is item 31 and this is discussion and action on solicitation 2024-0395 general aviation ramp rehabilitation to Jordan Foster construction LLC for a total estimated amount of $10 million to $17,641. Motion to approve.
 There's a motion and a second. And there is no public comment. Thank you for that. So we do have a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Canales. And this is to approve. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy? Aye. Representative Fierro? Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously with Representative Molinar not present for the vote. Next item is item 32.
 This is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2024 0 to 91 fire station 38 to dantex general contractors incorporated for a total estimated award of five million and four hundred and seventy nine thousand dollars and we do have two members of the public signed up to speak motion approve Motion in a second, but we do have two members of the public miss Osmond. I
 I don't think these have self-cleaning toilets do they? The firehouse? You have three minutes ma'am. The UK has those but they're kind of for sale. Yes. I know which ones now. You know what the only reason I was going to come up here is Ms. Hernandez during the work session had asked about Dantex. Dantex has been in the community for decades. They've done huge projects for Teguas.
 So if you're unsure about them, they've been in the community for a long time. Thank you. Thank you. Just so you know, not a problem with that solicitation and we knew, you know, Darren was gonna get the last one. I feel comfortable for signing yay on this one. I misunderstood for another company, but thank you. You know what, I agree. You know what, a lot of solicitations for the city go to the exact same contractors time and time again. One would wonder why.
 Thank you. Mr. Barriga Jose Gaston is our next speaker. You have three minutes, sir. Yes, good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. We're building, we are reconstructing a lot of buildings, and we are currently into the old Cold War. It wouldn't be a good idea to start getting fallout shelters, just a suggestion. That's the real deal. Thank you.
 Everything is glass, everything is wood, but where we go? Is there a moment that happened? Where we go? We got so many people, but where we go? I mean...
 You're about to build a fire station. You're about to build certain things. I'm just suggesting. I mean, it's like, I don't know what's the code, if we have a code, but the problem is, even a little square where somebody get protected, because they are the ones that gonna save somebody, because it is anybody.
 because it's gonna be this, you guys, the fire department, the police, because if no, who's gonna control, who's gonna ensure that it's ordered? Who's gonna ensure that people get help? So it's just some fool for thought. That's the only reason that I'm here today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for being here, sir. And we do have a motion made by Representative Fierro and seconded by Representative Salcido.
 Okay, moved by. The other way around. Let me do it again. Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Fierro. And this is to approve. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy. Aye. Representative Fierro. I'd like to watch them. Thank you and the item has been approved unanimously. Next item is item 31, I mean 33.
 Thank you. And this is a discussion in action on a resolution to sign an agreement for professional services with Professional Service Industries Incorporated at Delaware USA Corporation for a project known as El Paso Public Safety and Fire Department Headquarters and Vehicle Maintenance and Logistics Center project for the amount not to exceed $744,720.30.
 Motion to approve Motion made by representative Kennedy seconded by representative Voting session is open representative Kennedy. I Representative Piero. Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. I
 Next is item 34, and this is discussion in action on an agreement for professional services with Decker LLC for a project known as Architect and Engineering Services for the El Paso Police Department headquarters for an amount not to exceed $4,058,587. Motion to approve.
 We have a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Tem Kennedy and seconded by alternate mayor Pro Tem Molinar. And this is to approve. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy? Aye. Representative Fierro? And the item has been approved with Representative Salcido not present for the vote. Moving on to item 35. Aye.
 This is discussion in action to issue purchase order for solicitation 2024 0599 police ordered a non-consent towing to three and this is five different vendors 3h towing LLC a direct or service incorporated doing business as a DT towing and recovery Raul Hernandez jr. Do a business as these dependables towing and
 Camel Towing Incorporated and Seoul Express Towing Incorporated for six months for an estimated amount of $489,649.75. Motion to approve. Second. Motion made by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linar, seconded by Representative Canales. Both of you did it at the same time.
 And we do have two members of the public signed up to speak, Mr. Mayor. This is Ms. Patricia Osman again, and also Mr. Bariga Jose Gaston. Ms. Osman, you have three minutes, please. Mr. Mayor and Ms. Hernandez, during your work session yesterday, you asked, both of y'all somewhat brought up the same thing. And some of the responses, and maybe part of what Ms. Hernandez brought up,
 is the issue. These contracts expired in December, they're asking for an extension, yet y'all are correct, they should have been put up for bid prior to the expiration. Now I understand, like Ms. Hernandez was asking, they were telling, they don't do anything until after the bid and then they'll work with whomever bid.
 But I think Ms. Hearn on this, you are correct, that there should be a process prior to the fact of working with the people who are bidding before it expires to say, hey, look, you know what? This is what we need. How can we get this before the bid is done with? I mean, your bids could be closed
 But they could still let them know, hey, this is what you are lacking. This is what we need. Otherwise, we can't go through. Because six months, I don't have a problem with it that it's going to go through. But apparently, there's no procurement director that might explain a lot of the issues that I have discovered in the procurement and purchasing department. I understand you have an interim, but apparently, interims really aren't doing the best of job across the city.
 because in procurement, as I have given the mayor and some of y'all other information, isn't going very smoothly over there. So I think Ms. Hernandez is correct. And Mayor, your questions were valid yesterday during the work session. Why aren't these coming up prior to expiration? Because if they come up prior, what you're doing is you're contracting at...
 at what the old rates are. That's even hurting the tow truck companies. Either way, I can't understand why it is that city employees are getting paid to not really do their job if they should be making sure that these procurements are done prior instead of bringing it to you at the last minute and then telling you you gotta do this or no service like you mentioned yesterday. Thank you. Next speaker is Mr. Barriga, Jose Gaston.
 Yes, good afternoon. You have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon. Yes. I don't know what's the policy about the towing. The only thing is it's really insane to see vehicles with orange tags right there where the exit of the 54 heading out to 605. And it's pretty dangerous. No time to call anybody because it takes too long. They're trying to transfer somebody else and it takes too long. And then they want to know who I am and so long. They want to get my whole script.
 So I don't even do that. I don't even call anybody no more. Because you start calling, they start saying, okay, this is the person that started calling. They started referring incidents or whatever. The other problem is debris. Who pick up the debris? Because there's debris everywhere. I don't know if it's environmental or streets, but when it's a wreck, there's a lot of parts of it that are everywhere.
 And that can cause another accident. I care less who does the service. I'm just letting you know what I see. And usually it's 54, 605, but sometimes it can be the interstate. It's not a complaint. I'm just letting you know what I see. Thank you. Thank you. Motion and a second. Mayor.
 Hi Nicole Cody managing director. I was wondering if you would allow me to provide additional information that both you and Representative Hernandez asked from yesterday. Thank you sir. So I wanted to make sure that council is aware of the timeline working with PD and then chief if you want to join me because Anil can help answer other questions as well.
 So the contract itself, we actually advertised the contract last year in August of 2023. So we did receive seven bids. We tried to extend the bids as we were working with the department and the various vendors that would provide the services, and they chose not to extend the bids. And so you may say, well, it's based on price. Well, the price is actually set by our code.
 So the price is set by our title title 7. I don't remember the title but it is that it is title 7. Thank you. So Title 7 does set the price for towing. But as I mentioned yesterday but I want to make sure that I'm clear as well and if you've got any other additional questions because it's a goods and services contract we must let the bids expire before we enter we start to advertise again.
 So we had to let the bids expire through the end of January and then we worked with the department to ensure that everything was correct and then we went forward for a replacement. We brought the replacement to council in February and then we did the re-advertisement shortly after for the re-bid.
 Should we have given probably six months not just four months. Yes sir. Absolutely. And so of course we're working with the departments to ensure that we always give ample time for hiccups in the process to be able to be able to award before the contract expires. But I just wanted to make sure that we had clarified for your your information and then if you want to touch on the debris.
 As far as the debris. Hi, Chief. Hello. Sorry. Julian Cediaga, Assistant Chief, Paso Police Department. Got to get used to this, right? Yes, sir. City Council, it has always been part of the contract in which our towing companies have to pick up the debris. It's also said in our policy as well that our officers are supposed to pick up, make sure that the towing companies pick up the debris. Right.
 So nothing has changed. We can always send reminders as well and also maybe go an extra step further in reminding officers again that they make sure that the towing companies are following through and cleaning up the debris at every scene. Thank you for that, Chief. Yes. Thank you, Ms. Cody, for clarifying it and hopefully moving forward.
 And there is a motion made by Representative Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, seconded by Representative Canales. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy? Aye. Representative Fierro? Aye. And the item has been approved unanimously. Item 36. Aye.
 Is discussion in action to issue purchase? Point of order. Yes, sir. For the record, I would like to clearly state that items 33 and 34, they state district 1, but it should be district 4 for both of those items. We need to go back to reconsider them? No. But just clearable point well noted. Sorry for jumping your district, Representative Molnar. Thank you.
 Item 36 is discussion in action to issue purchase order for solicitation 2024-0533, Career Online High School to Smart Horizons Career Online High School LLC doing business as Smart Horizons Career Online Education, the sole source provider for Smart Horizon Career Online Education for a term of three years and an estimated amount of $264,825.
 Motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Lina seconded by representative Salcido and this is to approve as I said yesterday in the meeting It's a great program and it's a great opportunity for people. So thank you for that voting session is open representative Kennedy Representative Fierro. Thank you and the item has been approved unanimously with representative Hernandez not present for the vote item 37 is
 is discussion in action to issue purchase order for solicitation 2024-0314 to PC and print management to Comprise Technologies Incorporated, the sole developer and provider
 of SAM, Smart LEC, Smart Pay, and Smart Kiosk Pavement Centers for a term of three years for an estimated amount of $120,203.59. Second. Motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Canales. And this is to approve, voting session is open. Representative Kennedy, Representative Fierro,
 Representative Salcido. Thank you ma'am and the item has been approved unanimously with representative Hernandez not present for the vote moving on to item 41 this is an ordinance changing the zoning from our four residential to c3 commercial and imposing conditions For the property located at north of thorn in west of Donovan emotional approve and there is no public comment and
 Motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy, Representative Fierro, thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. Item 42 is an ordinance vacating a 10-foot public utility easement, and it's located on Lot 9.
 Block 12 Stanton Heights unit 3 the address is 33 12 Martina place Motion made by alternate and there is no public comment for this item Motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Lina seconded by representative Salcido Voting session is open representative Kennedy Representative Fierro. Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously with representative Fernandez not not present for the vote. I
 Items 43 and 44 were deleted. Moving on to item 45, and this is an ordinance authorizing to sign a deed and any other documents necessary to convey approximately .0061 acres of land legally described as a portion of Section 35, Block 79, Township 2, TMP, or our company. Okay.
 Motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Salcido. And I think just repeat what I said yesterday, we have no water rights in New Mexico, thank you. And there is no public comment. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy? Aye. Representative Fierro? Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously with Representative Hernandez not present for the vote. Item 46 is an ordinance.
 authorizing the city manager to sign a purchase and sale agreement a deed and any other documents necessary to convey approximately sixteen point two zero nine seven acres of land described as section nine Township 27 South Range 3 East New Mexico principal Meridian Dona Ana County New Mexico and we do have one member of the public signed up to speak miss Patricia Osmond go ahead miss Osmond you have three minutes man
 In May I believe this is the item agenda that you were wanting to make the water rights comment on because it's the Dona Ana County. Correct. Correct. Because I had actually asked about the water rights and right now oddly enough we had had that discussion and our local news media just recently put out the fact that the U.S. and Mexico is back into the water wars.
 So all our water rights right now water is very precious. I know we've had other members of this community speak on protecting our water here locally but apparently I believe what they told you is that we don't own those water rights whatsoever on that property. Is that correct. What's your question.
 On this property, you're selling the property, but we never owned the water rights there. Right. We don't own New Mexico water rights. Okay. So you can have the property, but you can't have the rights ever? Correct. Okay. Thank you. According to John Ballew, I'm just quoting John Ballew. So if it's misquoted, it's John Ballew, and I got his number for you. There is no further public comment, sir. Is there a motion to approve? Motion approved. Second. Second.
 Motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Canales. And this is to approve item 36. 46. I mean 46. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy? Aye. Representative Fierro? Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. Moving on to item 47. Aye.
 Is discussion in action authorizing the city manager or designee to submit the FY 2025 grant application for the Motor Vehicle Crime Prevention Authority. The grant period will be from September 1st 2024 to August 31st 2025. Motion approved. Second. Any seconds? Second. Second. Who do I give the first to? Okay.
 We'll make representative Hernandez move and representative Salcido seconded and that we do have one two members of the public Signed up to speak sir. Miss Patricia Osman followed by mr. Bariga Jose Gaston Mr. Nunez, I believe you did make some comments about this yesterday that were very valid but in regards to the city's dependency on grant funds
 Very valid. So I do question if Not saying that we're going to be denied but in the event that the city was denied the grant funds Although we are going to match it with a little over half a million the total being two million six and some change with it if we don't get the grant and
 Is the city on the hook for all that or are we just not gonna have an auto theft tax force? No, that's why we want a grant if we don't get a grant and we still have to fund the auto theft department So it's really helpful to the taxpayers for us to be able to apply and get the 1.5 mil What was that? Well, we're getting we're putting in a little over half of that Correct as a match
 For a $2 million grant, a little over $2 million grant, correct? Remember, if we don't get the grant. So that means the city would have 1.5 approximately, correct? Right, additional, additional. So it's 1.5 additional, not 2.0, but if we don't get it, then citizens are on the hook for the entire over 2.0, correct? Correct.
 That would be correct. If we do not get the grant then the city with the police department still has to have the task force Correct. So it's very important that we file for grants and we get the grants Hold on chief one second Omar. There you go. Thanks. I
 yes ma'am first six months of the year how much we received as a city and grants uh total when we include uh technical assistance and just and uh formula grants it was 57 million 57 million dollars congratulations thank you for that no ma'am your time's up actually my time is still on i know but um you've already sat down you don't come back up no i have has none to do with your question ma'am thank you thank you and this has something to do totally different thank you omar
 thank you sir with that we have a motion in a second we do have another member of the public oh no i'm sorry we have mr mr buddy thank you i should have waited for him to i apologize sir i should wait for you to be done before i ask my question you have three minutes sir yeah sure thank you uh i see the subject that is like well i'm not gonna go through it just the way that they're stealing cars is totally it's totally new uh
 I would recommend that they using these funds to research the way that they learning from South America. Not too long ago, I heard somebody from law enforcement federal, that they didn't know how to get information. They just have to get in contact with somebody from South America, Ecuador for instance, and they can see what's going on, okay? The other part is I would recommend for motorcycles. Pretty soon if they haven't done it yet,
 It would be two motorcycles, one vehicle, taking one vehicle. That's how they do it in Ecuador. So they're going to do the routine that they're going to stencil the vehicles, or they're going to give the regular class. It's not going to work anymore. The way that we have the—I don't even carry my cameras anymore. Things have changed. So we have to be more aware. I would recommend that the—
 The way that we tell people, it had to be a little bit more, it had to be different. It had to be a way that people can defend themselves in case that somebody trying to take their car when they're shopping. It cannot be just like, what are you going to do? I mean, it's model to equal theft. What happened when somebody have the kids, or when somebody have an older person inside? That is the thing that nobody's talking about. And that's the reason I'm here.
 Because we're talking about grants, and I'm asking, please, use that accordingly. It doesn't take that much. It may take probably $5,000 to hire somebody to do our research. That's the best way that you're going to fight the vehicle theft. You're going to save some life. You're actually going to prevent the law enforcement get hurt. These individuals don't play. These individuals are well-trained, and they do not hesitate to pull the trigger. That's the only thing that I'm saying.
 Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you for your time. Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor. So the public needs to know that every time you pay liability insurance for your personal motor vehicles, you're paying a fee, and that fee is generated through whatever.
 Company you choose to purchase your liability insurance throughout the state of Texas there that fee funds this grant And so if we do not apply for this grant, it's your auto Your insurance rates are going to go up and the other way conversely is that we are doing something about out of combating things burglar vehicles at the same time and
 and they also provide steering wheel walks from time to time to different people. They provide education programs to the community. So it's a benefit overall for our county, our city, and others that live here. Thank you. Thank you, sir. With that, we have a motion and a second. We sure do. There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Salcido, and this is to approve Item 47-20.
 Voting session is open representative Kennedy. Aye Representative Fierro. Aye Sir, and the item has been approved Unanimously item 48 is discussion in action authorizing the submission of an application to the US Department of Transportation fiscal year 2024 strengthening mobility and revolutionizing
 TRANSPORTATION STAGE ONE. THIS IS STAGE ONE PLANNING AND PROTOTYPING GRANTS PROGRAM REQUESTING FUNDS IN THE AMOUNT OF $2 MILLION. MOTION TO APPROVE. MOTION APPROVED. BUT WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE PRESENTATION, YES. THANK YOU VERY MUCH, RUXATZITA. I'D LIKE TO INTRODUCE DR. AGUIRRE OLIGIN, WHO'S NEW TO THE DISCRETIONARY GRANTS TEAM. I KNOW YOU'RE PROBABLY TIRED AND WANT TO LEAVE. I'LL BE QUICK, I PROMISE. WELL DONE, AGUIRRE OLIGIN.
 All right, so let me see. My first time here, let me see. All right, so.
 This grant would be addressing specifically goal seven of our strategic plan, enhance and sustain El Paso's infrastructure network. Here's the overview of the presentation, but this is mostly for the people that is probably going to have access to it. Right, so there you go. I'll just go a little bit over what the SMART grant is, so strengthening mobility and revolutionizing transportation. It's part of the bipartisan infrastructure law.
 ESTABLISHING $500 MILLION, INCLUDING $100 MILLION FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024. AND WE'LL BE PARTICIPATING IN STAGE ONE, BECAUSE THERE'S TWO STAGES FOR THIS, TO ACCESS THESE FUNDS. THE FIRST STAGE, FOR THE FIRST STAGE, WE HAVE 50 MILLION AVAILABLE. THEY WILL SELECT 30 PROJECTS, UP TO 2 MILLION EACH. SO WE'LL BE REQUESTING THOSE 2 MILLIONS.
 being selected for stage one will open up the opportunity to be participating for stage two, which would be the implementation. So stage one is only planning and prototyping. And that's the grant we'll be applying for. Some of the eligible projects, you can see them there. They're technology areas.
 Any project must fit within any of those eight technology areas. So we're thinking of probably developing something around systems integration sensors and smart grid. You'll see the project. So basically the SmartGround is a purpose-driven, trying to provide purpose-driven solutions, innovative solutions to promote community travel efficiently and safely.
 All right. So our scope work would be two steps, designing new intelligent transportation systems for the PDN and Stanton ports of entry and the design of the integration of the Isleta and Bora ports of entry. So the thing is that we already have secured some money for the bridges Isleta and Bora
 They're already working on that. We already have some studies and design done for those bridges and we'll be integrating what has been done already with, you know, if we get the money, we'll be developing the same thing for the other two bridges. And some of our project partners are El Paso MPO, TxDOT, UTEP, and we're still working on the letters of supports from them and some others, some other partners that,
 We'll probably let you know later if they support. All righty, so what you see in this is basically what we envision for this project, which is integrating it with the Texas Regional ITS plan that you see.
 there on the screen and then the other image is what we kind of envision for how it would look, an intelligent system. And what we envision again is address and reduce congestions around, at and near international ports of entry.
 And this probably once we gather once we install these systems and we gather information will probably be able to address the traffic more efficiently either not only knowing the waiting times
 with more precision but also think of the possibility of having adaptable lanes. You know how Stanton has one lane that goes north and maybe sometimes we can use that lane in the other direction when there's not a lot of traffic. We're not using it when we have the southbound kind of blocked. So that would be it.
 Maybe address it address the traffic promptly informed to keep the community informed through Traffic signals on highways, you know like so people can make the decision on which bridge to go Let's say before before getting out of their homes and then yeah, we responsive traffic management
 So, right, I guess I'll move to the next one. Our budget would look like this, a million and a half to the system, to the design itself, and then half a million would be allocated for the integration of whatever we develop to what already exists.
 which would be part of the PDN project, PDN1, which some of you might be familiar with, and also we'll be integrating it with the border crossing information systems by CBP. Right, impact to the city. I almost done, I promise. We will improve efficiency for national and significant trade infrastructure, reduce greenhouse emissions, improve the flow of traffic,
 And, well, additional benefits would include modernizing city-owned assets, leveraging the amount of money we already have for doing the ITS at Isleta and Boda. And, yeah, one of the main things that we have, we are at the grants team actually dealing with, we have a special project for the
 What we know is coming, it's upcoming, the closure of commercial traffic through BOTA, as you probably are well aware of, so that this would be part of those efforts.
 to handle that traffic. And improve emergency response capacity at and near international airports. Here's the grant timeline. We have to submit this grant by July 12th, the full application. Then after that, we'll be fully advocating for the project to probably get it approved, hopefully get it approved. If you would just, if you might allow us to try to get smart. So there it is. That's the council action you would be
 voting today. Thank you all. And I welcome any questions or comments you might have. Thank you, Mayor. Representative Canales? Yes. Followed by Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. Welcome, Dr. Olguin. Yes? Okay. Welcome to the team. I mean, the mayor asked the question a few minutes ago. $54 million in grants year to date. That's incredible work.
 um from the team before you and with you so i hope there's plenty more to come um i've voted for this once at the at the transportation policy board of the mpl plan to do so again today i think gone are the days of uh i'll call them uts unintelligent transportation systems we really need to in that make this kind of investment um i think it's very clear to everybody
 that the ports of entry are major economic drivers for El Paso and so the the better we can make the experience of people crossing and trade right goods crossing as well the better for everybody in El Paso so thank you all for the work on it and happy to support today. Thank you. I don't know if that happened already. Yeah Representative Hernandez made the motion already.
 Thank you. Go ahead, ma'am. Okay. Welcome, Dr. Hildegarde. Welcome to the dream team. Thank you. It's a great presentation. I just wanted to clarify because at the I think you were there at the MPO meeting.
 was it last week or the week before? And there was conversations about a new grant that the MPO was going to approve to study the traffic of the trucks. And so I was just curious, if we're awarded this, how would that integration happen? And I don't, I'm not succinctly explaining, but I think Omar knows what I'm talking about because he was there. Is it with the doing of COLEF? The MPO with COLEF? Yes, that's a good question. No, no, go ahead.
 So there's a lot of agencies working on port of entry expansion and modernization. As you know, we have a problem and an opportunity before us. $700 million invested by the federal government to improve BOTA, of which the community has been very vocal on whether to keep or remove commercial traffic. What the city is acting on is as if we were going to have not only a temporary closure of commercial traffic where construction occurs,
 But there's still an opportunity there's still a possibility that commercial traffic will be removed completely So the traffic will be diverted the MPO is working on regional coordination between all of the ports that include Santa Teresa and Tornillo what we are the city are focusing on is the expansion of the sled a port of entry Which is where the majority of the traffic is going to go towards
 What we're addressing is 2,000 daily southbound traffic, I'm sorry, southbound trucks, of which the majority will be empty, and finding ways to accommodate that traffic at Isleta Port. We know from CBP that roughly 70% of that traffic is going to go to Isleta.
 And so there's multiple entities, including the MPO, working on different aspects of the ports. But we're all working in conjunction. As Representative Canales mentioned, we did present the same project to the MPO. They are working on their own ITS implementation on the Mexican side, and everything will be integrated at the end of the day. OK, that was, thank you for that whole painting that picture and putting it into context.
 But what I'm most proud of, and I definitely want to give kudos to our city manager and CFO.
 FOR GIVING THE DEPARTMENTS TO HAVE THE FORESIGHT TO PREPARE FOR THESE DRASTIC CHANGES THAT WILL INEVITABLY IMPACT OUR COMMERCE AND TRADE. SO IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT WE'RE THINKING ABOUT THAT. AND SO I THINK THIS IS PART OF THE PICTURE. AND IF WE'RE AWARDED, I FEEL VERY COMFORTABLE THAT WE'RE PREPARED FOR ANY OF THOSE CHANGES, INCLUDING REDIVERSION OF COMMERCIAL TRAFFIC AND THE EXPANSION AND REDEVELOPMENT OF BODA AND ISLETTA AND PEDIAN.
 But at any rate, just would like to see more of these. And as I mentioned yesterday, can we just look for others with no match? Because I think that's really important, too, so that we can leverage...
 More dollars that we were already receiving Maybe I missed that at any point in there in the presentation So this would require it no match will be asking for the two and I said it reverse no match I'm happy to see with mattress what I'm saying because we can see the return on investment Thank you. Thank you. And again, this one has no match. So thank you. And with that we have a motion in a second. I
 Please correct me if I'm wrong. I have that Representative Salcido moved, seconded by Representative Fernandez. The other way around, but that's okay. The other way around? Okay. Yeah, the other way around. Motion made by Representative Fernandez, seconded by Representative Salcido. And this is to approve Item 48. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy, Representative Fierro, thank you, sir.
 And the item has been approved unanimously. Last item is item 49, and this is discussion in action, supporting an application by Utah State University and UTEP.
 And this is to the U.S. Department of Energy, fiscal year 2024 communities taking charge accelerated grant program requesting $2 million to fund wireless integrated rapid energy link electric shuttle service project, no match required by the city. Second. Motion and a second. And no match again.
 Go ahead ma'am. We have a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares seconded by representative Canales. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy, representative Fierro. Thank you sir. And the item has been approved unanimously. Thank you before we adjourn I know representative Hernandez has two special guests that came here and have been watching council. Would you like to introduce them ma'am?
 Sure. Hey, guys, they got in trouble. So I made them come today because I wanted to keep a close eye on them. And but I think they had a lot of fun. So I don't think my strategy worked out. So but Betty, please stand up. This is my eight year old daughter, Betty, and then my son, Waylon, who's super shy. Thank you. Thank you guys for being here and being good kids today. Thank you, Mayor. Welcome to City Council.
 And with that, do we have a motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. Second. All those in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Aye. And the regular city council meeting scheduled for Tuesday, July 2, 2024, is adjourned at 2.47 p.m. Thank you.