Good morning, everyone. Happy Fifth now. Still not on? We can, we'll start, okay, we'll, good morning, sir. We'll go ahead and start, and good morning, everyone. Hi, we, our chaplain is not online, so what I'd like to do is for everyone to,
 Say a prayer to yourselves in your mind, and we'll take a moment of silence to be able to do that, and then we'll proceed with the Pledge of Allegiance. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. This is the meeting of the El Paso City Council for Wednesday, July 5th, 2023. It is now 9.03 a.m. Present and presiding is Mayor Leaser. Also present in council chambers are Representative Kennedy, Mayor Pro Tem Anelo, Representative Hernandez, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rivera, and Representative Canales. Representative Fierro is joining us via videoconference.
 And now if everyone please silence their electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise. Well, there's no, let me check once again. Can we turn that TV on, please? I don't see the chaplain. So for the Pledge of Allegiance, if everyone can please rise. Judge, will you lead us in the pledge, sir? Thank you. To the flag and the United States of America. Thank you, sir. Thank you, everyone. There's the chaplain. Thank you.
 Pardon me? The chaplain is just joining us. Would you like me to? What do you guys think? Yeah. Yeah, go ahead. Chaplain, can you hear us, sir? Press star six to unmute your microphone. I see you in the queue. Pastor Dennis Kaufman, are you there? Star six to unmute your microphone. Yeah.
 Press star six to unmute your microphone. There you go. So this is the invocation to be delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain and Sun Valley Baptist Pastor Dennis Kaufman. Go ahead, sir. Thank you. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your blessings. And I thank you for this opportunity to address this city council today. Father, I pray that you give wisdom and guidance and direction. And Father, as they do the work of our city, Father, I pray that you'd watch over our city to keep it safe.
 Father, let us be directed by your truth that we might glorify and honor you and do your will. Again, I thank you for these who here are serving you and serving us and serving our city. And I pray that you would bless them in a special way and give them wisdom and guidance and direction. Bless our city. And we thank you, Father, for the many blessings that you have given us. And we just praise you and thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. And with that.
 We begin always have a little something before we start and here's one the job that We've been doing as a city with when title 42 expired even prior to title 42 expiring and how we treated people with humanity and treated them right? I got invited Friday evening or Thursday evening to Mexico City to
 on request of the U.S. Ambassador to Mexico. He personally called and asked to go over there because they were going to celebrate America's 247th birthday. And it was a big honor. There was about 1,000 people there from...
 really from all over the state of Mexico and got to meet a lot of them. But he basically in his speech talked about the senators that Congress talked about, but only one person he introduced to the crowd, and that was me. And that was very humbling and honoring because of the job we've done, the way we treat people here. And then he went on in his speech and talked about how we did do the job. And he really, in his speech to 1,000 people from –
 high-ranking officials in Mexico City he talked about what a great job the city did and how the little town like El Paso he kept saying they know how to do it and so it's and you know so this really shows the teamwork between the city the county and everyone else that's done this to make sure that we continue to treat people with respect
 As I told you last time also that three days after Title 42 expired, I got a phone call from the White House to thank us again for what we've been doing. I think as a team, we've done the right thing and we'll continue the right thing. We're still prepared and we'll continue to prepare for the unexpected because we don't know what that will be. I know Mexico City, Juarez, yesterday closed down their tents because they have no occupants for the most part.
 Yeah, we see a calming right now, but we'll continue to be prepared. But I just wanted to share that honor with you all because it was very humbling to stand there and then meet, you know, Attorney General of Mexico and all the congressmen and everyone else that we got to meet and talk about our community. So people are watching what we're doing because we were the epicenter of the migration and the asylum seekers, so it's great.
 it was very very very honored to be there to represent not only the city but it was really the united states so it was great and i just wanted to share that with you all with that diana we have the proclamations next the first proclamation is dw i intervention and treatment program day absolutely
 Whereas the El Paso County DWI Intervention and Treatment Program has been recognized for the fourth consecutive year by the National Center for DWI Courts Academy Court Network for their commitment to reducing drunk driving incidents in the community, and whereas the Honorable Robert S. Unchondo has overseen the program and has played a crucial role in its success by providing leadership, guidance, dedication to reducing the number of drunk driving incidents in El Paso,
 And whereas the El Paso County DWI Intervention and Treatment Program has been instrumental in providing education and treatment services to individuals who have been convicted of driving while intoxicated offenses, helping them to understand the dangers of drunk driving and the impact it can have on their lives, the lives of their loved ones and the community as a whole,
 And whereas the program has also worked closely with community organizations and law enforcement to raise awareness about the dangers of drunk driving and to promote responsible drinking habits among the residents of El Paso, and whereas the efforts of El Paso County DWI Intervention and Treatment Program have resulted in a significant reduction in drunk driving incidents in the community, making our roads safer for all those who use them,
 And whereas we honor the El Paso County DWI Intervention and Treatment Program for their outstanding service and commitment to reducing drunk driving incidents in the community, and thank the Honorable Robert S. Unchondo for his leadership and dedication to this important program, now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso
 that july 5th 2023 shall be known as dw i intervention and treatment program day and this is signed by the honorable mayor oscar leaser good morning judge mr kennedy thank you so much for that wonderful proclamation mayor city council i along with miss leticia medina who is our program director of the program uh wish to acknowledge and thank not only the city
 but it's people and the folks that have participated in the program in rehabilitating and changing their behavior and making it more productive and safer for our community. You know, thank you for also advising me and, you know, kind of refreshing and recollecting what I do. You know, when we started this program over 19 years ago, we had a dream and a thought to be able to do something better with these individuals that come into the system.
 And what we have learned is by doing the proper assessments and treatment plans and doing what is necessary with our partners, because the courts don't do this alone. We do it with the efforts of many, many partners who help us, including our district attorney, our police department, our sheriff's department, our probation department, our treatment providers, our life skills folks, many, many.
 individuals, our community college, our hospitals, those who present an opportunity for these people to change their mind. If I can go on, it would take too long. But you know, I cannot ignore the fact that these individuals are very important in what we do to change these folks. We're very proud of the national recognition, but you know what? It's even better to get it locally because the city has been very important and a great partner since the beginning.
 Mayor, and we appreciate what you've done, our late chief, you know, what can I tell you? He's been so wonderful in providing the assistance with law enforcement and our current chief as well. And so I can only say that we will continue to help those individuals that want to be helped. We will continue to rehabilitate and make a better individual, safer for our communities. As you know, there's a lot of tragedy going on in our community nationally.
 We try to make those numbers stop. But you know what? Since 2007, we have not had, not had a fatality. I mean, I take that back. We've had a fatality, I'm sorry. We've had a fatality since 2007 in this state. We're trying to change that. But we are proud of those individuals that do graduate from this program, don't return. And we're very proud of that success rate. And so I wanna thank you so much for your recognition. Truly appreciate it. And on behalf of the court, Miss Medina,
 partners you the city and many others here in this community I want to thank you all for the recognition but I can't tell you that I just don't do this alone and with the good amount of folks that we have we do try to make a difference and we just hope that these individuals and the education we give will also impact those that will not come into the system but that they be safe when they're driving just an added touch on
 Councilman Fierro, thank you also for your recognition. The National Association of Drug Court Professionals, and I will tell you now has changed. They just met in Houston. So now they are known as All Rise. The department I'm under now will be driving impaired solutions, but that would have been too late to know, but that just occurred at our meeting here nationally in Houston. And we were very proud to participate. Also, so you'll know, and in closing,
 Part of our work is to help other communities around the country. So we provide and host trainings for those individuals who wanna start, these courts that wanna start these programs so that they can help those folks be more safer as well. So we're very proud of that as well. Ms. Medina, have I forgotten anything? We've successfully graduated over 800 individuals. So those 800 individuals, about 93% of those individuals will not return
 Into the criminal justice system. So we're proud of that. Thank you. Thank you, sir Thank you for being here, but you're not alone and we'll continue to work and support you as you well know Even when I was one in office You came to me and I'll continue to support you Representative
 Thank you. The proclamation of the City of El Paso, Texas, whereas International Drag Day observed on July 16th, aims to raise awareness about the contributions of drag performers and is an annual global celebration that recognizes and embraces the artistry, creativity, and cultural significance of drag performance.
 And whereas drag performance has a rich history and has been a vital part of the LGBTQIA plus communities for decades, serving as a platform for self-expression, gender exploration, and advocacy for equality and acceptance. And drag performers have played an integral role in promoting LGBTQIA rights,
 and acceptance, challenging stereotypes, and fostering understanding and dialogue within the broader community. And whereas the city of El Paso is committed to promoting and safeguarding the rights, safety, and well-being of all its residents, regardless of their gender identity, sexual orientation, or artistic expression.
 And whereas we value and promote equality, diversity, and inclusivity, and recognize the importance of acknowledging and celebrating the unique contributions of individuals who identify as drag performers, and recognizing and celebrating International Drag Day in the city of El Paso will provide an opportunity to highlight and honor the contributions of drag performers, promote a culture of acceptance and understanding, and further establish El Paso as an inclusive and welcoming city.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that July 16, 2023, shall be known as International Drag Day. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Council. My name is Michael Gutierrez and I am a community organizer. Today I represent Texas Rising El Paso and the Queer Texan Student Association at UTEP.
 Firstly I'd like to take a moment to extend my heartfelt gratitude to the organizations that have dedicated their time and resources to participate and support International Drag Day. These organizations and organizers have not only hosted spectacular events in our community but have also worked tirelessly to foster the spirit of inclusivity fight against discrimination and create a safe space for individuals to express themselves freely.
 Their dedication and commitment to serving our community has not gone unnoticed and their unwavering support has helped empower countless individuals offering them a sense of belonging and reminding them that they are loved and valued. Additionally I'd like to thank Representative Van Nelo and her team for their support and guidance in making this day possible. Without these organizations organizers and Representative Van Nelo the celebration of International Drag Day would not be possible.
 During this legislative session bills were introduced that directly targeted the LGBT community threatening to undermine the progress we have made and ensuring equality and acceptance for all. These attacks demonstrate a blatant disregard for principles of inclusivity diversity and respect that our state should strive to uphold. As organizer who traveled to Austin to participate in the legislative process it was disheartening to witness
 The bills that were being proposed that aim to limit the access to health care for trans youth and the outright ban of drag Performances our community deserves a fair and equitable access to medical care freedom from any discriminatory practices and restrictions and the freedom to perform as stated in the First Amendment of our Constitution. However, the one aspect that impacted me the most was witnessing LGBTQ youth fight for the right to be who they are and
 As a member of the LGBT community, I understood their feelings, I understood their emotions and their struggles. At the age of 17, I often felt like I didn't belong because of who I was. One night, I felt the best option for my future was to not have one. However, deep inside my soul, I didn't have the heart to take my own life. And in a moment of darkness, I reached out to a drag performer that I looked up to. Her name was Ms. Coco Peru, who is an established artist that has done drag for decades.
 Knowing that she undoubtedly receives a lot of messages, I didn't expect for her to respond to me. However, in the most difficult place in my life, she extended her hand. She shared her life experiences with me, and one sentiment that she told me was, nothing is so dark you can't find a reason to celebrate. I knew that coming back from Austin after this legislative session, we needed to find hope in darkness. This is where the vision of the proclamation came from.
 International Drag Day is a day that celebrates art freedom self-expression and the vibrant LGBT community which is an integral part and diverse is an integral part of our diversity and inclusion to our city. Drag is an art form that transcends boundaries
 TAP debates audiences with powerful performances, and drag has served as a vehicle for individuals to explore different facets of their identities, express their creativity, and inspire others to embrace their true selves without fear of judgment. By officially recognizing this momentous occasion, we are not only paying homage to the important contributions of drag performers in and outside of our community, but we also send a powerful message to our state.
 that we are seen, we are heard, and we are celebrated throughout our city. Together, let us rewrite a future for a great state where everyone can live their truth without fear and live the life that they were truly meant to live. Thank you so much, Council, and thank you, Mayor Leaser, for today and this proclamation. I want to go ahead and invite a couple of others to come up and speak as well, as this was a community effort. So I'll go ahead and lend the mic to Amber from the BRC. Thank you, sir, for being here.
 Good morning. Good morning. Probably one of the most important things of today is seeing this group of people, this group of individuals and organizations as well, working together towards the same goal.
 what has happened at state legislature, which we all know at this point. It's important to understand that El Paso is one of those places that can become that beacon, right? That can show the rest of the state that we understand that while we can't go against state legislation, we can put a stop and say, hey, we don't think that this is okay. It's like, we're not gonna try to change the laws, what we're gonna try to do is let you know in the ways that we can.
 that this is not appropriate, and we don't allow these things to go on. This drag resolution, or sorry, this drag proclamation allows the community to understand that there are moments of light within this darkness, as Michael just said. And thank you so much for hearing, again, how important this community is. And this is after Pride, and a lot of times what happens is,
 Pride happens, there's a month of rainbows and all sorts of good feelings and allyship. And then July 1st hits, and all of a sudden it's back to black and white. It's like, so this year we want to make sure that it never goes back to just black and white, that the entire year is filled with rainbows. So thank you. I will introduce Didi, who's actually the Drag Story Hour Coordinator at the Borderland Rainbow Center. Thank you. Good morning, everybody. Good morning. My name is...
 My name is Mo De Anda. I go by the entertainer Didi Camacho. I've been doing drag for about 13 years.
 As I stand before you I realize something that I realize that El Paso is the leading city in Texas currently that is hosting a drag story hour. Why is that? Because I believe that there is goodness in everybody to have to give the community the opportunity to stand before you and can express ourselves in a well and a proper manner.
 I've, drag has changed my life. I'm not going to go on and say all my experiences, but what I realized about one of the main goals in my life currently is that with Drag Story Hour, I've been able to save my life and save others while, you know, teaching literature with the art of drag and how beautiful is that?
 I appreciate everyone from the bottom of my heart that we're even talking about drag in this community, in this building. It is so amazing to me. And I just want to say that I will keep on doing what I believe is right, and there's nothing stopping me. And I wish thank you for everything. I really do. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you for being here. We have a question.
 Christopher Eck president for El Paso Sun City Pride. Honorable Mayor Leiser and city council thank you for having us today and thank you for Representative Anello for leading the front for this proclamation. It's much appreciated on behalf of El Paso Sun City Pride want to thank you for continuing the efforts of Adam Stewart who established international drag day back in 2009 and having it recognized in the city of El Paso. Drag is not just a.
 Men in dresses, you know drag has become mainstream and with all the legislation that's being put forth within our state and all around the country We're being pushed back and and to be considered abnormal
 And thank you for the city's efforts to becoming the beacon beacon of light in this state in such a time of darkness. Hopefully we continue all the efforts throughout the year because of course we aren't just gay one month we are we are LGBTQIA plus 365. And so thank you for shining a light
 a beacon of hope and light by writing this proclamation resolution proclamation and again just thank you on behalf of El Paso City Pride. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Good morning. I'm Kian I'm president and chair of the El Paso GSA board and I just wanted to say thank you so much and it's a pleasure on being able to speak to you again El Paso is
 I'm going off to college next year, and it warms my heart to see that the place that I grew up in is the peak of the light, and that we're different than most states and towns in Texas. And I hope that when I leave and come back, whenever I'm going to come back, that we still have hope and that it's going to get better because I feel like,
 We should be the change and spread love throughout. It's so time-consuming when you spread hate every single day and not realize it. We don't have time for hate. We should just spread love. And I just wanted to say thank you for that. Thank you for being up here. Thank you. Thank you again. Thank you all so much for sharing your stories. The next proclamation is Hamilton Appreciation Week. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor.
 Whereas in our community, Broadway in El Paso breathes life into the downtown arts district by bringing world-renowned musicals and performances to the historic Plaza Theater, and whereas this year marks the 18th season of Broadway in El Paso, anchored by Hamilton, performing at the Plaza Theater for 16 performances, telling an award-winning story now globally recognized as a theatrical landmark.
 And whereas Hamilton has received a record-breaking number of prestigious awards and nominations, having won 11 Best Musicals at the 70th Tony Awards, sorry, 11 including Best Musical at the 70th Tony Awards, the 2016 Pulitzer Prize for Drama, the Best Musical Theater Album Grammy Award, seven Olivier Awards, and an unprecedented special citation from the Kennedy Center Honors.
 and whereas the anticipated arrival of Hamilton's premiere in El Paso community will generate great wealth and exposure for the city, further identifying El Paso as a thriving theater market, aiming to consistently deliver audiences a diverse selection of acclaimed and sought after performances. And whereas the community is invited to come together to celebrate the craft and excellence of the blockbuster musical, and to spend an evening in the vibrant cultural center of downtown El Paso,
 to enjoy a remarkable production of Hamilton and now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that July 10th through July 14th 2023 shall be known as Hamilton appreciation week signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser good morning Jose good morning mayor mayor and council Brooke has prepared a song from Hamilton that she's gonna she's gonna perform
 I kid, I kid. Thank you for today's proclamation, Jose Garcia with Destination El Paso. Destination El Paso is excited to have Hamilton here for the next couple weeks. It'll be July 5th through the 16th. As Representative Canales said, we have 16 performances.
 2023 does mark our 18th season of Broadway in El Paso, and we're really excited that Hamilton does anchor this season's series. We're looking forward to upwards of 30,000 tickets sold over the next couple weeks.
 And that inevitably will have a tremendous economic impact on El Paso, on downtown especially, as these folks will be enjoying eateries, bars, and even some that are coming from out of town will be staying at our hotels here in El Paso.
 As we know, Hamilton is one of the most celebrated Broadway shows in the history of Broadway. It is said that Hamilton is the Broadway show that ruined all other Broadway shows in the future, just because of its innovation and what it does for Broadway.
 So again, we'd just like to thank Mayor Council for this recognition, for the proclamation. We'd like to thank the community for coming out to support Hamilton. Thank you so much, and we look forward to seeing you at the Plaza Theater. Thank you, sir. Good morning, Brooke.
 Mr. May would you like to recess to take no we're gonna go we're gonna go to representative at Nundas on item 14 and then we're gonna do item 17 at the same time right after that Discussion in action to approve a resolution that the city of El Paso honors and recognizes congresswoman for her tireless
 efforts and advocacy to officially have Kastner Range be designated as a national monument. In item 17 is presentation of a congressional record celebrating the city of El Paso's 150th birthday by Congresswoman Veronica Escobar, representative of Texas' 16th congressional district. Thank you, Representative.
 Good morning, ma'am. Good morning, Congresswoman. After 50 years of your advocacy, not your advocacy, but this community's advocacy, you proudly announced Kastner Range being designated as a national monument, and for that we wanted to recognize you. I have a resolution to read into the record. We'll take a vote, and then we'll proceed to your next item.
 So the resolution reads, whereas on March 21st, 2023, after 50 years of advocacy from the community, U.S. Congresswoman Veronica Escobar, Texas 16, proudly announced that Kastner Range, the crown jewel of West Texas, was designated as a national monument by President Joe Biden through his use of the Antiquities Act.
 And whereas Kastner range consists of over 7,000 acres of land that was formerly used by Fort Bliss Army base as an artillery and munitions range. And whereas the Army seized operations on Kastner range in 1966 and declared the land access in 1971, at which point community support ignited for conserving the range.
 as open space. And Razdreen, her first term, Congresswoman Escobar, introduced the Kastner Range National Monument Act, a bill to conserve and protect Kastner. And during a Natural Resources Committee hearing in May of 2021, Congresswoman Escobar testified about the importance of supporting her legislation and its significance to El Pasoans.
 And whereas in addition to zealously pursuing the designation through legislative means, Congresswoman Escobar invited several key Biden administration officials to El Paso to amplify the awareness of protecting Kastner Range, including hosting Secretary of the Interior
 Deb Havlin and a tour of Kastner Range in March of 2022. Whereas in June 2022, Congresswoman Escobar coordinated a meeting with several of the past stakeholders at the Pentagon with Under Secretary Camarillo and the White House Council on Environmental Quality,
 And in follow-up, she welcomed the Undersecretary of the Army and Native El Pasoans, Gabe Camarillo, back home in August of 2022 to continue discussions about the designation. And Raz, with continued enthusiasm to see the designation through, Congresswoman Escobar wrote to President Biden twice over the past year, urging him to designate Kastner Range through the Antiquities Act.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso honors and recognizes Congresswoman Veronica Escobar, Texas 16, for her tireless efforts and advocacy to officially have Kastner Range be designated as a national monument. And I make a motion to approve. Second. We do have a motion to approve by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera. Yes, ma'am. Okay.
 Thank you so much, Congresswoman Escobar. I wanted to, as the resolution stated, you brought several members of cabinet and President Biden's cabinet to come here and meet with local representatives. And I want to thank you for including myself, Representative Molinar, many of our state reps to meet with Honorable Haaland.
 It was an honor to be a part of that conversation. It was an amazing experience for me as a local elected official. And so I wanted to personally thank you for that and congratulate you on this amazing effort that you led that as Representative Hernandez said, had been something people had been working for for 50 years and I can't imagine a better leader to have succeeded in that. I'm sorry, I'm having trouble speaking today. But I just wanted to thank you personally for that.
 Thank you, Representative Esselstyn-Marke. Well, good morning everyone. Representative Hernandez, thank you so much for this resolution. It's very humbling. And Representative Anello, thank you for your kind words. Mayor, Council, it really has been such a privilege to work alongside all of you and other members of the community who have long fought for this designation.
 Of course, I want to acknowledge the beloved and late Judy Ackerman, who I know all of you met her, all of you saw her and her relentless efforts to gather signatures so that those
 for the president were always available in abundance. Also Dr. Richard Teschner who so generously gave to the El Paso Community Foundation really a remarkable sum of money in order to help continue to build
 the momentum for the effort and the countless advocates over the years, really over the decades, who worked for this designation. It would not have been possible also without President Biden, obviously. And I will tell you, he was...
 instrumental it was his decision the members of his cabinet were fantastic spending really a lot of time with me my team our community welcoming the community into the Pentagon to discuss this coming directly to El Paso to discuss this and I I'm so grateful to undersecretary Gabe Camarillo
 an El Pasoan, the Undersecretary of the United States Army, which is incredible in and of itself to have an El Pasoan inside the Pentagon. He is essentially, you know, in many ways, the Chief Operating Officer of the United States Army. And so his
 support his work, his effort, also instrumental Secretary Holland, all of the members of President Biden's team. It took more than a village. It took our community and the White House to get this over the finish line. And I am very humbled for the recognition, but I certainly was not alone at any point in the process of
 and I'm very grateful for the collaboration. Thank you all very much. Thank you, and I want to thank you for making sure that El Paso has not been forgotten and has not with your leadership. And, you know, bringing the Secretary down here more than once was very important and for him to see it. But, you know, when I talked this morning about,
 COVID, I mean COVID, about asylum seekers, everything we've done. We could probably do something on that because you were so instrumental in making sure we got the funding that people were treated humanely. And, you know, I think Secretary Mayorkas said he'd visited us 11 times since he's been in office. And so I thank you for that because I know that, uh,
 When I've talked to him, he really values your opinion, and that's one of the main reasons he comes down here to make sure that Health Pass was well taken care of and all the money we received from FEMA, which gave us the ability to do the job for the federal government and not on the back of the local taxpayers. So, I mean, we could probably talk another hour about those things that have happened. So I do want to thank you for, you know,
 El Paso having a voice in Washington because we do so thank you for that. Thank you mayor None of this would be possible without incredible partnerships and leadership here at the local level. Thank you all very much. Yes, ma'am Thank you Diana, and we do have a motion to approve hold on one second. I'm sorry representative Thank You mayor Congresswoman and Veronica's galore. It's always a pleasure for you to be here and be in our Sun City Thank you very much. I personally take a
 Words cannot express what I feel. To see those mountains, to see Kasna Range, now a national monument, I live just blocks away from that. I see that every day, every day, multiple times.
 Thank you for your leadership, your undying support. When you mentioned Dr. Richard Teschner, Judy Ackerman, the Frontier Land Alliance, and all these other people, all those people who signed those letters, that petition, they need to be thanked as well, and we'll never be able to do it the right way. But thank you again for your leadership, the Undersecretary, the Secretary of the Interior coming out here, taking the time out of their busy schedules.
 inviting us to go to those meetings and have one-on-one conversations with them. That was unprecedented. I was really, really impressed with everything that they said and how we were able to interact together. But it was a great day.
 I never really saw it coming. I know I prayed for it many times about this. Hey, we need to make this happen. We need to make this happen. We need to make this happen. And we did. So thank you very much for your leadership in Congress and helping us here at home. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you so much. And I do remember seeing you out there back in 2014 when –
 we were continuing to try to get a name the national monument but you were out there i see some of the old pictures and i see you standing back there with a sign so you know thank you all for all the hard work but thank you for pushing it over the finish line thank you with that diana we do have a motion to approve and pauline on that motion call for the vote representative fierro aye and the item has been approved unanimously representative kennedy not present for the vote
 Can we get a motion to recess? You're not going to item 17. Okay, I'm sorry, one more. I saw it up on the screen. Go ahead, ma'am.
 go ahead oh thank you sorry um well it is now my turn to be able to recognize our community in the city of el paso you know as i was sitting in the audience listening to brooke underwood and others talk about representative canales's resolution about the plaza theater and thinking about everything that makes our community unique
 and beautiful and great and all of the conversations that we've had even in our generation about improving El Paso.
 I was recalling when I worked for one of our prior mayors, for Mayor Ray Caballero, during a very controversial era and discussion about whether or not to preserve the Plaza Theater. And if you can believe it, there were advocates wanting to tear it down and turn it into a parking lot because it would cost too much money to preserve. And yet here we are 20 years later,
 enjoying the fruit of that labor and those battles. And it just was an incredible trip down memory lane. And it's so appropriate that this congressional record that I'm about to read to you is about our incredible history as a community. And so what I'd like to present to all of you is a congressional record. This is an historical document that will go into the Library of Congress.
 for future generations to see and read about. And I'd like to read it in our community's honor. Mr. Speaker, I rise to celebrate the rich history, culture and community that the city of El Paso has built over the last 150 years.
 The city of El Paso was officially incorporated in May 1873 by the Texas legislature. Since the inception of the city, we have been inextricably linked with Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, and communities in southern New Mexico. We are home to the Isleta del Sur Tigua tribe, the University of Texas at El Paso, the Texas Tech Health Sciences Center, and Fort Bliss, our nation's second largest military installation.
 We are a dynamic region, a vibrant metroplex, where cultures and traditions blend. El Paso is known as the Sun City, where people can enjoy a Chihuahuas or locomotives game, go on a hike or a bike ride on a scenic trail in Franklin Mountain State Park, walk through our historic downtown, or enjoy the poppies in the spring at the Kastner Range National Monument. The beauty of our Chihuahuan desert is unmatched, and at night, the star on the Franklin Mountain always shines bright.
 The city of El Paso is one of a kind. Our people are known to be warm, friendly, and hardworking. Our city comes together for unifying events, as we did for the Chamisal Treaty of 1963, when the United States and Mexico came into a peaceful settlement of a century-long dispute.
 We are a community of kindness and goodwill, one that always welcomes the stranger. But we also come together to love and help each other during times of great challenge, as we did after the domestic terrorist shooting on August 3rd, 2019, that took 23 souls. El Pasoans are resilient, and we have never lost touch with our humanity. I am proud to call the city of El Paso my home, and it is my privilege to honor the 150th anniversary of our beautiful city. The future is bright for our community.
 and i'd like to present this to the city of el paso and i guess we'll do that outside but thank you for the opportunity to commemorate the 150th year of our city and happy birthday to el paso thank you thank you now we have motion to recess motion to recess all those in favor and the regular city council meeting is going into recess at 9 45 a.m and we do have five members of council
 So there is a motion to reconvene the city council meeting at 10.01. Do you want me to wait, Mr. Mayor, or take the vote? Or go ahead and... Let's begin. All matters listed under the consent agenda...
 will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider at any time, any item at any time during the meeting.
 We do not have any revisions. Is there a motion to approve the consent agenda? Yes, ma'am. I guess I don't have to do my thing. There you go. Motion made by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, seconded by Representative Salcido. Nope. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Hernandez, thank you, ma'am. I don't see Representative Fierro. Are you there?
 He's not on the screen. No, he's not on the screen. In the voting session. The voting session has been closed and the item has been approved. The consent agenda has been approved with Representative Fierro not present for the vote.
 The first item on the regular agenda is discussion and action to appoint Edmundo Calderon as Chief Internal Auditor in accordance with the El Paso City Charter, Section 3.20b-5, who shall carry out the duties established in accordance with City Charter 3.20b, and directing the interim city manager and city attorney to prepare the necessary documents to implement this appointment. Second. Second.
 We do have a motion made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linar. On that motion, call for the vote. Hey, Mayor, I had a question. Yes, ma'am. To the City Attorney and Interim City Manager, is there any details or backup information as it relates to this item?
 Like, what are the employment terms, or can you just share a little bit of information for the public? So my understanding, thank you, Representative Hernandez. My understanding of the request is to direct us to come back. We've been doing some benchmarking in regards to what other internal auditors have across the state, and then we'll be working to accomplish something similar here and then bring it back
 okay so this action just directs to you that this is not the official appointment correct so it's okay it's asking us to prepare the necessary documents to implement this appointment and then what is the timeline to come back it doesn't have a timeline and it just if council wishes to give us a timeline to come back with um we've been contacting a few other cities to get a copy of their records so that just takes if they do it through the open record process it takes a few
 okay so so we should be able to bring this back then with regarding that within the month okay 30 days okay so there's no information other than directing you to do um to bring back terms although this is the the purview of city council correct yes ma'am that's and then i understand and then because it's a new charter item so how does this defer or change or is it any different from the appointment of a city attorney and city manager
 We are not processing it any different. So we are using the same method and processes that we would use for the appointment of the city manager and the city attorney since it's an appointment of the council itself. Okay, so...
 Are we seeking outside counsel to help with employment matters or is this redirecting you to do this? Are you hiring outside counsel right? So the direction is for this for the interim city manager and myself to take care of that process So we will be using our internal folks to do that. Okay, so
 Well, you know considering this is a an item to City Council, you know, this is my opinion. It's the prerogative of counsel We should take all the similar steps that we do for city attorney and city manager It should be no different this process in my opinion has been flawed from the inception and I'm not going to support this item today. I
 Thank you. I think this is just exercising the will of the voters. The voters voted on the change and based on the outcome by the voters, this is the next step we have to take as required. Correct? That's correct. Yes, sir. That's correct. Thank you. So there is no change in position, just retitling it based on what the name of the action that the voters took. And so with that, Representative Kennedy? I was just going to quickly say I'm confident that
 Having already started in the expertise in house. There's not it's not necessary to go to an outside council I think if there was that necessity that Ms. Neiman absolutely would have come forward to us and said she felt she needed to I don't think there's a reason for it And I look forward to seeing what comes back. Thank you with that
 Mr. Mayor, we did receive a statement in opposition. We just received it to be read into the record. Would you allow me to? Yes, ma'am. It's public comment, so we'll make sure we stay within the time limit. And this is from Ms. Anna Wan. And it is, I am writing to express my strong opposition to the appointment of Edmundo Calderon as the auditor for our city. Recent reports say...
 Recent reports on serious character flaws concerning Mr. Calderon have come to my attention, and they raise concerns that are fundamentally incompatible with the values and principles that our esteemed mayor and city council stand for. In light of the gravity of the situation, I would like to bring your attention to selected quotes from the personal evaluation of Mr. Calderon, conducted by respected retired city manager William Studer.
 These quotes provided by Mr. Studer shed light on the serious reservations that have been raised. One, it is evident that El Mundo thrives under conflict or creating such. Two, he needs to learn to keep things. Should I continue?
 It's the sharp This our personnel matter shouldn't if it's attack on anyone I think we should ask the city attorney because I have heard multiple members from the public speak about mr. Gonzalez Mrs. Neiman and so again process we got to stick to process. So so mrs. Clarification our rules for public comment can individuals sign up unanimously or or
 anonymously sorry anonymously or present public comment without being an actual person because I know we can't do that on our ethics so I mean this is a person that has attacked multiple members of City Council under a fake pseudonym who is now attacking a sitting member of our staff and I think I'm going to a point of order
 I'm asking a question about a- Well, what's your question, Representative Manalo? Representative Hernandez, will you please allow her to speak? Right, but there's a question- So my point of clarification is that what is our process for public comment? And if that needs to be amended, this council needs to do so. So the Rules of Order does state that we need a full name and address and so forth. Did we get that? This just came in at 9.56 and it was from Anna One. It was via email and it was signed as Anna.
 And there's no address, no phone number? There's no last name, and we didn't even have the time to go back and ask. Sure, so it doesn't, so it does not meet the requirements for public comment?
 Not with the last thing. Okay. So I would ask, Mayor, that we do not continue this public comment any longer. No, we follow the process just like Representative Nandez said, that we need to make sure we continue to follow the process. Right. And I think, again, if I can, Mayor, if we can ask Mrs. Neiman, because we hear public comment for, you know, just about you, about every member of this council. And so we shouldn't change process for one person. Okay.
 So, per the rules of order, as Ms. Nunez stated today, when people are asked to sign up to speak for the public, they're required to fill out all the information. From what I'm hearing from her today is that that wasn't done on this item. Correct. So we would need to go back and ask for that person to sign up properly. Yeah, it just has the first name. Thank you. And also, for purposes of asking for rules of order, the parliamentarian is assigned to answer questions of rules of order. Thank you.
 Thank you. Okay, and Mayor, I just want to say one more thing. So in the future when staff are being attacked, when our Animal Services Director, they're talking about their background, my expectation moving forward is that this precedent that you're setting today and inhibiting someone to share their public comment.
 is portrayed for every commenter, public speaker moving forward. That's all I'm asking for is a fair, consistent standard. Yes, ma'am. Point of clarification. My issue with Representative Manello, I'm still speaking. Representative Manello, I'm still speaking. Representative Manello, I'm still speaking. Well, you interrupt everyone else. Well, this is the first time I've ever interrupted because we are –
 actively asking the public not to speak. And so this is a public forum. We don't know who it is. We do have process and procedures. I don't know who the person is either. I don't even know if that's their last name. And so did the person say it's their last name? Yes or no? And so how do you determine that? So are we gonna go and verify and validate everyone's last name moving forward?
 We typically do. Yes, ma'am. We typically do email them back and ask for a full name, and if the email doesn't look right, we do. But this just came in at 9.56. Okay. Yeah, just to be clear, Animal Services Director attacked. Mr. Gonzalez is attacked. No one ever stops when we're talking about process. No, we have. Okay. And we'll continue to do that, ma'am. Okay. That's not true, but thank you. Thank you. Representative Rivera? Thank you, Mayor. I just want to get back to the issue at hand.
 To make it clear, Mr. Neiman, you said this is not an appointment. You're just staff is going to look into this issue? Well, that's not what the item says, and that's why I was going to say the same thing the item says. Okay, and so— Discussion and action to appoint Edmundo Calderona as chief internal auditor in accordance with the El Paso City Charter section, who shall carry—so this is the— So— And then they come back with a— So this is, like you said earlier, this is the will of the people. So my question to you is, are these—
 Are the same rules that apply to the city manager and city attorney? Are they going to apply to him? So that this is a public...
 So the public can understand what we're doing here sir, so what what I anticipate what I have prepared to do is prepare a draft document we would do benchmarking like we do with the city attorney and the city manager positions in terms of Benefits and salary etc. And then allow counsel an opportunity to review those documents before they're finalized Okay, so we're just voting to direct you to do that yes, sir state action to a point
 so we are appointing them at this point correct sir and then i will be coming and then you bring back everything else correct well that's mayor that's different from what i was just i know that's what i wanted to do so we need to have a clear a clear um example what are we voting for today to appoint the city auditor i mean window colored on the city auditor and then everything else will be brought forward based on what we vote on so with that we have a motion in a second
 We do have a motion made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Representative Molinar, and again, just to repeat, it is to appoint Edmundo Calderon as the Chief Internal Auditor in accordance with El Paso City Charter Section 3.20B5, and for the Interim City Manager and City Attorney to prepare the necessary documents to implement the appointment. Yes, ma'am. And the voting session is open for you. Question, ma'am.
 given the new information, the new light of information, could we appoint an employee, Mrs. Neidman, without understanding the employment terms? I mean, because that's what my fundamental concern is here. Like, so for the public, I'm gonna say,
 Your City Council just appointed their chief internal auditor and in accordance of the city charter However, I have no employment terms to consider here. And so what if the employment terms were fair? or they're not fair and so I think this body should have the understanding before you appoint an auditor and I think it's really critical and so I'm just concerned again about process and
 that it's not been clearly demonstrated to the public. I have not had an opportunity to look at employment terms. I have not had an opportunity to speak to an employment attorney to ensure that whatever is in those terms is fair. I mean, I'm very concerned with the way this is being presented today. Again, members of council were not invited to participate in a search. Members of council were not asked to have these questions and dialogue with their outside counsel.
 And so, I mean, like, honestly, why is this changed from every other process? And, Mayor, maybe this is the question to you. You're the one who placed the item on the agenda. Do you think it is prudent to the taxpayer to appoint somebody without understanding employment terms? Because I'm really struggling with the process. It's the same way the city manager's contract was brought to us. It was not brought up here at the dais. It was brought to us to extend.
 to make it a better contract and that was brought up when you brought it up to us in 2014 he was appointed i mean 2014 was appointed in october prior to that the two contracts that i vetoed so this is no different than that you did bring it up you did want action on it and council had the opportunity to do action so this is we did that council cannot approve the agreement and that's why it's being brought up for council to say yes or no but this this is actually and
 Met with the city manager and I met with miss Neiman and this is something that we felt it was a necessity based on our
 the charter amendment that was changed by the voters. I mean, they give advice, Mayor. We are counting on your leadership to adhere to process. And that's why I'm giving you the leadership that I met with. So by that logic, you mentioned the process with Mr. Gonzalez. He was appointed in 2014. There was a public outreach process. There was a search that was conducted. There was the opportunity for members of council to interview. There was an opportunity for council to go behind closed doors in executive session to discuss employment matters and employment terms.
 And again, I feel like if there were any other position, everybody would be up here very concerned. This is a serious appointment that we are making and you've provided no due process for members of council to inquire about employment terms. So based on your statements, Mayor,
 you want to appoint a chief internal auditor not understanding employment terms, not giving information to the public, not engaging your council as to what they would like to see in the process. And so really I'm offended. I'm offended that it's been presented this way without giving your council, who is the city charter responsibility, the authority is granted to your city council to make these decisions. And so all I ask for, because the same thing happened with the appointment of the interim assistant
 city manager the same thing is happening with your chief internal auditor I cannot move forward without highlighting the fact that process was never created your council was never engaged we have not seen your employment terms and we've not have the opportunity to speak to our attorney regarding employment terms and so again you know
 It may be well-intentioned, but these type of appointments need your consideration from your entire council and not just off-the-cuff appointments on the agenda without even engaging your council. And so that's why I'm saying I'm offended, because you're not engaging the council, and your city charter says it is the appointment of your city council. And you shouldn't be offended because she's been working for us, what, 19 years? So I think you've had more than one opportunity. Regardless of the person. Excuse me, ma'am. I am speaking. Yeah, regardless of the person. And I didn't interrupt you.
 So he has been the internal auditor 19 years, Colonel Weston. Has he been with us 19? So if I hope you've had an opportunity to meet him, talk to him. It's about that amount of time, Mayor. It's not like we're bringing someone new into the system. It's not like all we did was classify the difference with the voters. We weren't asking the voters to terminate anybody. Like I said, he's been the internal auditor and worked for the city 19 years.
 so i hope you've met with him i hope you've had the opportunity to meet him and understand who he is and what he does uh with all his certifications and what's been going on so if uh if you haven't then i'd be very surprised that anybody in here would have a um have not met or talked to a mom so this is just to change the quality of their classification not to go out
 to hire a new one, it was to change the classification, and that's what we're doing from working for the city manager and answering the city manager to going back to answering to the city council, which is us, and answering to the FOAC. So again, it's not going out and searching for a new auditor, it's not,
 If you don't like the auditor and you'd like to vote against him, this is the opportunity you'll have, obviously. But this is not going out to search for a new auditor. This is just to reclassify based on the charter that was approved by the voters. Call the question. The voting session is open. And Representative Fierro is on. Representative Rivera? Representative Fierro? Aye. And the polling is closed with Representative Hernandez voting nay.
 City TV, can we have the vote posted, please? So what was the vote, 7-1? Yes, sir. Thank you. Again, this was not to hire anyone new. This was reclassify and then come back for counsel for approval on his contract. Thank you. Next item, please. Next item is item number 16, and this is discussion in action to direct the interim city manager and city attorney to recommend amendments to the city ethics ordinance.
 Complaint review process in city code 2.92.170 to provide that we set a responded Timeline to address and file a response to a complaint begins after the city attorney refers a complaint to the ethics review commission mayor and council
 currently our ethics ordinance the way it's written as soon as a complaint is filed the respondent has 14 days to provide a written response to that complaint and what this is asking is that that timeline doesn't start until the complaint is actually referred to the Commission by the city attorney
 Yeah, it's just doing it. It's basically you answer and then it's not accepted. So we want it to be accepted. Then you have the opportunity to answer. But if it's not accepted, you don't have to go through all that motion of answering it.
 I mean, the city attorney has to make a jurisdictional assessment to make sure it's in jurisdiction of the commission. I met with the city attorney and Colonel Weston to discuss this, and they saw where it really was set up backwards because there is no complaint. It's a complaint filed but not accepted at this point. So once it's accepted, then you have 14 days to answer. We kind of got it backwards. Okay.
 Representative Hernandez. Mrs. Neiman, have you had an opportunity to share this with the Ethics Review Commission for any proposed changes? No, this has not gone to the Ethics Review Commission. Okay, again, process. I won't be supporting this today. Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor. Ms. Neiman, is this today's effective date moving forward so this does not go retroactively to any other pending cases? Correct. No, you don't retroact. That's correct. All right, thank you. So, and then this item will come forward in four weeks because it's an amendment to an ordinance that will do the introduction.
 Then the public hearing all right. Thank you I will make one other comment that this does follow the City Council the process for the for the ethics ordinance and that It's the council's direction irrespective of You know when we take it to the the ethics Commission You're the ones that direct us to make changes to the ethics ordinance, right? I
 And I put this item again on the agenda based on conversation with Ms. Neiman and Colonel Weston and an agreement that it's kind of backwards. So with that, we have a representative. Mayor, I just ask that the – sorry. I just ask that when it comes back or that it be in layman's terms so the public can understand. Yeah. And that's what we're doing. Yes, sir. Thank you. Go ahead, ma'am. Representative Kennedy. Just as a point of clarification –
 the ethics review committee doesn't make up their own rules right right no no sir so so what'll what'll happen just like we did when we did the really broad um changes to the ethics ordinance that took about 18 months that direction comes from the city council then we go back and work the language with the ethics commission and then we bring it back to the city council so they're involved there will be so they're involved they'll be involved in this as well you're just giving us the direction to go back to the ethics commission
 Ethics Commission that will work as a body to put the appropriate language Making that amendment in the ordinance and we'll bring it back to the City Council for your approval So this is the representative Nandez was asking. Yes, sir. This is the answer. Yes, they will. Thank you We have a motion in a second So we do have a motion made by representative anello seconded by representative Kennedy and
 And that's to approve item 16 on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Fierro? Aye. And we do have a motion to approve with Representative Hernandez voting nay. Thank you, ma'am. The motion passes 7-1.
 Next item is item 18 and this is a report on the streetcar service to include an economic impact modified operating hours An assessment of cost savings for event only services as requested by City Council on April 11th 2023 Good morning, sir and council place should be here can Connect to bring up the presentation
 Good morning we're here to provide your report in response to the April 11th 2023 council requested actions. Just to remind you of some of those items that were requested. First item was direct staff to conduct an economic impact analysis to assess the past present future economic development impact of the streetcar. Thank you.
 including potential future expansion and impact of our existing transit oriented development incentive program agreement. Item number two was to direct staff to conduct an assessment of the impact of the different models of the streetcar operating hours have on transit access in downtown.
 and uptown areas and item number three is to the city staff to conduct an assessment of the projected cost savings to the streetcar that would result in the elimination of regular operating hours in favor of event operating only. So good morning. My name is David Torres I'm with economic development and we have representatives from Sun Metro also speak on this item. So what we did is we took a look at.
 an array of studies done by different communities including the Metropolitan Council of the Twin Cities in Minnesota, Kansas City Streetcar, Portland, City of Seattle, Memphis, to find out what the best practices would be to identify and evaluate sort of those ways that those communities reviewed the impacts of the streetcar on the community itself or along the corridor.
 One of, we found out three key items.
 First item is the challenge of trying to isolate the impact of a municipality assets such as a streetcar and the cause and effect impact it would have on development. So in other words it's very it was very difficult for many communities to isolate the impact of just a streetcar and how that compared to additional development within the within that corridor or within that area.
 Item number two that we kind of looked at was sort of what ways can we evaluate or what ways can we make a streetcar successful. So one of the things that many communities do is to sort of create an ecosystem that involves public policy sort of like an uptown downtown plan along with economic incentives to expand retail base and housing development.
 and also to basically enhance the overall combination of these items and enhance the streetcar along with that corridor. And then the last item that we looked at was what are the metrics that we use to evaluate the economic impact? So we identified three key areas, land value premiums, retail sales activity, and sales tax revenue being generated within that corridor.
 So before we get started on what we looked at and what the data shows for us is that we going back to when the streetcar started in back in November of 2018. We've had we had a year worth of full operation and then we had disruptions, right? Disruption caused by COVID-19 pandemic and also by multiple migrant crisis that we faced in the downtown area. So.
 The data tends to be a little bit skewed because there is a lot of shutdown and closures that occurred over the past few years that have prevented a full operational streetcar the way it was kind of designed and meant to operate.
 So the first thing we're going to look at is land value premiums. In these land value premiums, we're looking at an analysis of what the street core corridor property valuations versus city-wide growth has occurred. So the map here shows you the streetcar route, which is in red, and in little green dots is your access points to the to your
 to each of the streetcar corridor access points where people can jump on the streetcar and start riding it. So we created using a mass transit transportation rule of thumb, a sort of half a mile radius around the streetcar corridor access points which creates sort of our buffer. And this is what we're gonna call the streetcar corridor. So this is our buffer zone.
 So the areas in sort of light purple represent the partials that we looked at using central appraisal district data from 20 net 2018 all the way to 2022.
 So what we're able to evaluate or find out is that back in 2018, values or property valuations around this corridor were significantly lagging citywide growth. So we saw an increase of 2.56% versus a 4.04% in 2018, right before the streetcar was actually operational.
 Since then, from 2018 to 2022, we saw an increase of 25% in valuations over that time period versus a 24% citywide. So in essence, the growth has basically stabilized, and it's roughly growing around the same rate as citywide. Where we saw a big difference was in single-family residential homes, where the valuations actually saw a jump increase of 36.8% versus 31% citywide.
 So that's one area that we kind of looked at for metrics. Second area where we looked at was retail sales activity. And this area, this is what for me was an eye opener because of the it represents the severe impacts of COVID and all the and the multiple closures that we had because of the pandemic.
 We built the same buffer zone corridor for retail sales activity and those little green dots are retail outlets that we have data from the office of state controller and with the help of Avenue Insight Analytics Company, it allows us to extrapolate the sales tax retail sales data so that we can be able to see what is how's the activity going.
 Our results indicate that this area in 2022 generated roughly about $4.1 million in revenue, in sales tax revenue, of which 1.4 goes to Sun Metro and 2.7 goes to General Fund.
 but the major item that we want to focus on on this area is that we did see a severe impact to this um to this area because of covet while we've seen retail sales activity city-wide recover and grow substantially this area has not seen that kind of growth yet uh in 2020 we saw a 7.2 percent decline in retail sales activity
 And as of 2022 data, we have not recovered fully to that 2019 peak that we saw in prior years. So there's an opportunity. This poses an opportunity for us to really focus on this area, to rebuild it and help those small businesses recover from the impacts of the closures and COVID and multiple crises.
 So I'm going to turn it over to Karina Bresgala to talk a little bit about the incentive programs. Good morning. Karina Bresgala also with Economic and International Development. So the back half of that first motion was also about the potential effects on any transit oriented development incentive agreements.
 So, for the same area, that same buffer area, the same time period, there are currently 16 active agreements in the streetcar corridor representing 121 million in investments, three historic building renovations, many of which council has seen because this does, of course, include our downtown core, 60 jobs created and 170 jobs retained. Some of those jobs are through the TEZ program, the enterprise zone.
 you all are aware, any agreements that are in place, as long as the
 applicants continue to perform we would continue to rebate in the terms of those agreements so streetcar service does not affect any active agreements with that said you know David was talking a little bit about how we use public policy to create an economic ecosystem that's really reflective and supportive of things like the streetcar of our other businesses so we wanted to also flag some opportunities for growth so the downtown and uptown plan which is a little bit later on today's agenda
 Key recommendations from the economic development side include things like a public facility corporation. This allows us to fill gaps on some of those housing projects. It does also require an affordable housing component, so helping us reach that 10,000 unit goal, but also making sure that we've got the affordability in place to make sure that our housing stock is sustainable.
 things like a low interest revolving loan program. So really looking at that small business recovery, building on the momentum we've got going with the ARPA funds and agreements. And then a transit investment district. This could be used for this streetcar, but I know there's also discussions about
 Potential streetcar phase two or expansion so a transit investment district is a way to capture Sales tax revenue within a zone and put it back into the funding for the operations It would work very similar to the uptown benefit parking district, but there's a couple different mechanisms for that
 And then in terms of the transit-oriented development, the TOD program itself, we are in the very early stages of a program refresh. There are several TOD areas across the city, El Dorado on the east side, Five Points along Dyer, and then, of course, the downtown-uptown corridor. Those all have very different needs.
 So we want to make sure that the program is very context sensitive, so just in terms of land use and design, you know, what kinds of commercial and housing activity are we trying to draw into those specific areas? And then make sure it's in alignment with the 2022 adopted infill and redevelopment policy. So really looking, you know, what are the vision and needs of each of those TOD areas, and then making sure that we're filling those gaps appropriately.
 And then just in terms of future economic impact, if we look at current trends and we kind of project that out, if things continue the way they're going, we would be looking at an additional $156.7 million in property tax revenue over the next 25 years. Again, streetcar utilization very much tied to retail sales and housing development, and then we know that those two are tied together, right? Retail follows rooftops.
 You all have heard this over and over again. So if we continue focusing on that retail base, helping with the small business recovery, but also expand our retail, expand housing, really could be a good driver to getting additional riders on the streetcar. And then the base expansion, we'd be looking at another 43.5 million, again, additional over 25 years for general fund and Sun Metro and sales tax revenue. So helping fund that corridor.
 Then I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to Anthony DeKaiser, who's going to talk about the operations side. Good morning, Colonel. Good morning, Mayor, City Council. So the first thing I'm going to talk about is what impacts do different operating hours. Would you introduce yourself, sir? I'm Anthony DeKaiser, the Director for Sun Metro Mass Transit. Thank you. Okay, so the first thing I'm going to talk about today is what impacts do different operating hours or models have on transit access to uptown and downtown.
 To do that, we have to take a look at the historical overview of what we've done before and how that affects transit operations. So if you look, we before COVID, we ran 98 hours of service.
 And what that gave us was about 273,000 riders per year. And then in March of 2020 to July 2021, we shut down because of COVID. And so obviously that brought our ridership numbers all the way down to zero. When we started back up again in January of 2022, we had about 45,000 riders, but we only offered this in the p.m., so in the afternoon.
 And then slowly as we've seen the ridership increase, we put some more hours, operating hours, into service. And if we could stay at that level for those months of September through December, that would give us about 105,000 riders a year. And so really what this did is we provided 65% less operating hours, and we received 61% less ridership.
 So for the ridership and the amount of hours that we provided, we're doing better than actually than we were doing pre-COVID. Right. So historically, now you can see the potential impact of service hours reduction, increased and removal of service. So when we look at current operations, we have to look back and see that there were two demographics that we that we service pre-COVID.
 One is a social or entertainment, and that happens more in the p.m., and the other one is travel and commuters, which happens more in the a.m. and the early hours of the afternoon. And this second demographic that I'm talking about we haven't connected with since we opened back up after COVID. And so we looked at some different cities that were like that.
 El Paso, at least the streetcar portion. It's Oklahoma, Kansas, Tucson, and Dallas. And so we took the average of that second demographic and what that did for them operating in AM and the PM, and that was about 42% of their ridership. And so just looking at our data, it's an indicator that I think if we brought the ridership back, we would be somewhere near that same boat. So when we look at current operations, it doesn't service the early morning commutership, students, service workers, shoppers.
 and currently we run with four streetcars and so this causes a bunching up so the streetcars end up getting close together so it's a little problematic there and it offers five days of service to allow for maintenance but what it does is it it doesn't give us the consistency for the riders right and so under this model we have not yet optimized what we're doing with the four cars with the utilization of the amount of drivers it takes and not servicing both demographics
 So what this slide here does is it helps to understand what event-driven operations are and how they compare to current operations. So in doing this, we kind of have to define what a special event is. So a special event is like the Chihuahua Games, locomotives, Winterfest, festivals, anything that's happened at the university,
 Southwest University ballpark or UTEP and so how do we define them hours we have to open up a little bit before and have a streetcar running and a little bit after so you can see in the first chart on your left there that there's eighty three point six three percent of the top rating time that we're open right now covers the special events and then you can see in the chart to the right it just covers the various days of service that were open in the special events and how they correlate to that
 So another thing that we did to gather some more information is we sent our outreach team down to the DTC to do surveys. And we surveyed about 1,600 people. And about 1,600 people.
 we were asked some questions like would you use would you use a streetcar and what times would you like to see it running and so 82% said they were use a service if was provided in the morning 93 said they'd use it if it was between 630 and 11 and ninety four point one percent said they would like to use it in some combination during the weekdays and the weekends
 So, based upon the survey, people want the adjusted hours. The second demographic would use a streetcar, as indicated by the survey, and it supports the idea of more service, right time, would bring more ridership.
 So this is the proposed modification because it addresses the five main points of operations, or excuse me, of optimization. Hours of operation, the days of service, the required operators, the demographics, and the cost savings. Specifically, it would increase hours from 34 to 81 hours per week. And we go from five days a week to seven days a week, given that consistency. Okay.
 It also would reduce our FTEs, our full-time employees that are assigned to the streetcar by five. And it provides for flexibility for additional hours in case there's any other special events, right? And so you can see the hours here in the slide, but it's open Monday through Thursday, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Friday, 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., Saturday, noon to 11, and Sunday, noon to 6. Okay.
 so when we start to talk about the cost of operations this plan here will save 360 000 annually from the sun metro operating fund right and we do this by reducing the number of street cars running which reduces the number of ft's that we have to have so reduce the number of operators
 and it modifies operations to include peak and non-peak hours to help us with the amount of hours, or amount of drivers that we need, and the amount of cars that have to be operated.
 And so you can see it's laid out there with no public service, how much that will cost. And you say with no public service, that will cost that amount because we still have contracts, like with the tri-state electric for the OCS overhead wires, contracts for the rail and the track, and for the signal switches in the sub-power station. So there's going to be a cost unless you just let all that go and deteriorate. But we have an obligation to maintain that.
 So this slide looks similar to the first slide that I started briefing on. The main difference is it shows the projected ridership with the optimization. And so if we go back to increased hours from 34 to 81,
 That would give us about 250,000 riders per year based upon what we're doing pre-COVID. Then we started with 24 and went back up to 34 and looking at the other like cities, right? And so this projection would give us 74% of the operating hours back, and we would receive back 92% of the ridership based upon this projection.
 So in summary, our recommendation is to go back from 34 hours to 81 hours and go from five to seven days, save $360,000 a year. And in addition, this potentially has a positive impact on land values, retail sales activity, and increased future growth from the streetcar corridor. And that concludes the recommendation from the staff to the city council.
 Mr. Mayor we do have some statements for public comment and two persons that are here in person to speak Yeah, we'll do that first Mr. Joe good and breath here. Thank you, sir. You have three minutes City Council City Manager city staff Joe goodenroth with the El Paso downtown management district and
 Being an efficient and effective organization is not just a goal, but I believe it's an obligation for city government and for organizations such as the Downtown Management District. So I want to applaud your desire to evaluate this service and other city services. I also want to applaud this comprehensive look at the performance of the streetcar system. This system was never designed solely as a transit option, but as a catalyst for economic development, investment and activity along the tracks.
 It has already made an impact and efforts to increase ridership have the potential to pay off with additional ridership or with additional investment. The downtown management district looks forward to this expanded service and continued efforts to grow ridership and investment along the tracks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next person that we have here to speak is Mr. Jose Barriga. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. Good morning, sir. Nice to see you again.
 As a photographer, I love the idea. Perfect. I love it. At 7 o'clock in the morning, with the sunrise, beautiful. But it's going to be empty. Or you're going to have students that are going to have prefer to use the streetcar rather than using the Rio, so you're going to lose money there. If you're going to do that in the morning, then you're going to do that in the winter, then you're going to have to adjust that with the lights.
 You have to remember that you don't have lights on the stations. You have somebody that got slaughtered right there by Cincinnati. Nobody forget about that. If you see how the stations are, they are at night, they are really dark.
 several months ago when the mayor was passing through, when they got the migrants crisis, the mayor, I don't know if you saw me, I was taking photos, okay? Let me say it like this, by then, there was no law enforcement passing through there yet. Okay, but a few hours before, a few minutes before, it was a crisis, okay? It was an emergency crisis. There was an ambulance, it was a fire department truck, and it was some metro vehicle.
 They were rushing the fire truck because they were trying to have the empty railcars to go through because they were trying to keep going. And they were going fast and empty. I rode one of them. So, I mean, definitely, I love the idea. But as an ex-military retired, as somebody who served, that's a fraud, waste, and abuse.
 because you got something that nobody's using. Yes, you're going to have somebody who actually is going to see it as something that it looks nice. Yes. But for somebody to see it as...
 It's kind of slow. It takes some time for that thing to go. And besides, it's a little bit unsafe. I actually couldn't... It takes too long to come down because the driver had to actually get out, and then he had to go through the stuff, and it takes time. And then if you actually go through the steps, it takes forever. So...
 You know, and besides, you know, if you're white, you know, you got a rail in the middle. So, you know, and the steps are really small. And I don't know if they are illuminated. So, you know, it's like, this is up to you. I mean, well, I appreciate for your time. I'm not agree or disagree. Thank you, sir. The rest are statements that will be read into the record, if you allow me. The first one is from Luis Lozano.
 Dear City Representatives Hernandez and Canales, I am writing to show you support for item 18 in the streetcar study recommending increasing the operating hours of this amenity. With COVID now in the rear mirror and with downtown events coming back such as the Sal y Limon Festival, Plaza Classic Film Festival and other events, the study shows that having this mode of transportation can only enhance and encourage more downtown activity.
 revitalizing our downtown is crucial for increasing the tax base and the streetcar amenity will only help in this endeavor I humbly ask that you support and vote for the recommendations from this study and also this to be read into the record Luis Lozano the next one is from mr. Stanley gate honorable mayor and members of City Council I'm writing to express my wholehearted support for the city street and
 City staff streetcar optimization plan as outlined in the agenda item documentation. As a downtown property owner on the trolley route, I have invested over a million dollars modernizing our law firm. We recently purchased another property along the trolley route and will begin remodeling the facade this fall.
 I I have wholeheartedly embraced the city's call to share with the city and investing in downtown for the benefit of the entire community I believe that this plan represents a significant and responsible step forward in enhancing our city's taxpayer investment in the streetcar and fostering economic development within the downtown area and along the trolley route
 The proposed streetcar optimization plan presents a comprehensive and well-researched strategy to improve the efficiency and accessibility of the streetcar system. By optimizing routes, increasing consistent ridership hours, and implementing real-time data, this plan promises to provide residents, tourists, and business owners with a more reliable and convenient streetcar system.
 As a downtown property owner, I'm confident that these improvements will not only bolster local business, but also attract new investments like mine to our downtown. I have traveled extensively in the U.S. and abroad and have witnessed firsthand the transformative impact of well-planned public transportation projects in other cities. Therefore, I wholeheartedly encourage the City Council to endorse and support the City Staff Streetcar Optimization Plan.
 Thank you for your time and consideration. I trust that you will make the best decision for the benefit of our community. Please do not hesitate to reach out if you require any further information or support regarding this matter. The next one is from Elena Lightborn. Thank you.
 As a member of the Rio Grande Neighborhood Association, I ask that City Council support the recommendations made by the City Planning Commission Downtown plus Uptown Master Plan Subcommittee in their latest report. I have lived within the physical boundaries of the plan for nearly a decade and I believe a name change to Downtown plus surrounding neighborhoods
 excuse me sir excuse me clerk's office you're uh reading now an item for um that that is a letter letter regarding another item on the agenda we're still on item 18 which is the streetcar update for council and that's going to be for item 20. yes thank you thank you ma'am thank you sir the next one is for from oscar thank you so much oscar martinez and this is
 It reads, I request, okay, to be read into the record. First, change the name of the master plan to downtown plus around. Excuse me, ma'am. You're on the wrong item yet again. Those are all for item number 20. Right. And we're still on item 18. Thank you. To clarify, it's item 23. Right. That's item 20. 23. Item 23. Yeah. Okay. Is that it? Yeah.
 There's a correlation, just for clarity for counsel, there's a correlation between these two items, but they're not the same item. Exactly. Thank you. Is that it? So then that's it, because all the other ones. Okay, thank you. Okay, no, we did have, we do have item 23, Mr. Former Peter, Former Representative Peter Schwarzbein. His statement reads,
 Dear Mayor and members of City Council, I'm writing to express my strong support of the City Staff Streetcar Optimization Plan. As a resident, I have had the opportunity to thoroughly review the plan, and I firmly believe that its implementation will bring significant benefits to our community and the community of El Paso.
 The proposed improvements outlined in the plan, as detailed in the backup of the agenda item, promise to continue to enhance transportation efficiency, reduce costs, and contribute to a more sustainable and environmentally friendly urban landscape and promote heritage tourism.
 Many residents and streetcar supporters are fully aligned with the vision of a vibrant, accessible and interconnected city. We recognize the potential of the streetcar system as a crucial component of achieving this goal.
 fostering economic growth and enriching the quality of life for all residents. We wholeheartedly encourage the City Council to support the City's staff streetcar optimization plan and work diligently towards its swift implementation. We believe that by supporting this thoughtful initiative
 by actual mass transit experts on our city staff. We are investing in the future of our city and its residents, creating a more environmentally efficient, interconnected and sustainable community for generations to come. Thank you. And there is no action on this item. Representative Saucedo. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. I just have a quick question in regards to the study that was conducted.
 So just for the benefit of the public, you know, what was the sample size? Who did you ask? When did the study take place? So there was 1,650 individuals asked. It was conducted down at the DTC. And we were asking the questions of people who were riding the Mesa Brio. That kind of parallels the streetcar track. And we did it last month.
 We did it over a two-week period. Two weeks. Excuse me. We did it over a month period. A month. And then I also have another question, but I think it's for Mr. Cortinas. And I know that there's been some budget proposals. Did they include this item, part of it, in regards to the funding or the savings? So the budget proposals that are coming up?
 In that budget proposal, we stayed at $3 million, which is what we were doing before. But as I had stated in the brief, that saving $360,000 gives us the flexibility. So if ridership increases or decreases, we can adjust to that operationally. Okay. Thank you for answering the questions. Thank you. Thank you. And I do have Representative Canales that got knocked off for some reason. And then Mayor Fulton. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir.
 Yeah, I think we've heard the criticism that the streetcar runs empty. I don't think that it does run empty. Again, we're on track this year to serve about 84,000 riders, and that puts it above average among Sun Metro routes. So it's not empty, but I do think that we've –
 through the decisions in how the streetcar has been operated, we have held it back from a significant amount of ridership, only running it 34 hours, not running it during some of the peak transit times. So I want to commend staff on the full presentation and also the proposed changes here because
 Again, this will allow folks to use the streetcar for their commute, both to and from work. It would run during hours that make it more usable. I think that we will see, as is projected here, a rebound to close to, if not more than, the pre-pandemic ridership numbers.
 approach 275,000 people per year. And that would put it near the top of Sun Metro routes in terms of ridership. Again, I know we have the $3 million currently budgeted. We've come in just shy of that in terms of operating costs over the past few years.
 And this will leave us some space, hopefully, below the $3 million to adjust upward. I would just as happily see us...
 not reduce the number of cars, so continue to run the full four cars at peak hours to make sure that we are meeting the demand and we're not causing excessive wait times for riders. I think that this is a sufficient compromise for now, and the expansion of the hours, I think, will help to prove out that
 we will have the riders and the demand for the service and hopefully we can adjust upwards that you're utilizing your full allocation in the budget into the future. So thank you all for an excellent presentation. I was the one who made those motions. I know we asked you for a lot and you put together, I think, an excellent presentation.
 analysis of the street car both economically and in terms of its ridership performance. And you've shown again that the bulk of the costs are fixed costs, upwards of $2 million that we –
 We can't change, right? Those are costs that we're paying regardless. And so within the remaining approximately $1 million, we need to optimize for ridership and making sure that we're meeting the service demand here. I think that was the intent of the original item that the mayor placed. So thank you, Mayor, for placing that item. And I think this really has helped us get to the bottom of
 how we can make changes to our streetcar program to make sure that the money we're spending, and especially that excess $1 million above the fixed cost, is being used prudently, smartly, and in a way that we can get more people circulating into downtown, more eyeballs on the businesses, hopefully greater investment along the fixed route tracks.
 And again, serving the folks that we need to in terms of getting to and from work, getting around downtown, enjoying the evenings downtown after work as well. Running through all those hours I think will be a boon for downtown and everywhere along the streetcar route. So thank you for the hard work that you all put in. And hopefully we can, like I said, prove out the ridership demand and maybe even increase the number of cars. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Kaiser. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. And I think it's important when the item came back, while back was to maximize the usage, to maximize the ridership, and I think you all have done a good job of doing that, and we need to continue to give you the flexibility to make those changes as needed and required. And, again, the presentation is a really good presentation, but the study really, you know, kind of,
 how can we stay consistent? How do we do the consistency of the usage so people know when and when not to ride it because it's not riding? So I think that we need to give you the...
 Freedom to operate it based on the data and information you have and continue to have and maximize the usage to You know really save the taxpayers money, but also give the the taxpayers What they need to be able to use it them. So one thing that I
 Do you ever plan on charging for the streetcar? I know that the streetcar, we don't charge for it. That's not in your presentation anywhere. Are you looking at any time? Because I know that as people stop taking the circulator, which they do pay, that will be money from Sun Metro that will now be not being earned, which is okay at this point, but when are we planning to change that into a charging entity? Okay.
 So at this time, we don't have any plans to change and go in that direction, but certainly we can look into that and come back to city council with updated information as we continue on through this optimization plan and update you with any information that we have about changing directions and going that way.
 Are you still going to continue the circulators and the downtown buses or are we down are we? Downsizing in the action of those buses So the routes that kind of parallel streetcar right now are the Mesa Brio and route 14 and we're going to continue with both of those
 But we also keep an eye on the data to make sure that we're optimizing not just a streetcar, but also the fixed route Okay, I think again. I think we need to give you the freedom to look and maximize as we continue to move forward Mary we're also gonna have to I mean this plan is a plan and it's gonna have to be proved out you know, I think that's the point that you're making up that and the council so and
 If we're not seeing the numbers, then I think we have an obligation to come back to you and make an adjustment to the plan. But I think that the plan is in place. We'll see what the outcome is with limited numbers of cars. Obviously, people typically get on a streetcar to be able to have some, you know, be able to get on and get off without a long wait. So we'll come back and report out if there's a considerable change to...
 Ridership levels and bring that to you. I appreciate that. That's well needed Thank you, I want to congratulate you I think I said last council meeting or the last time that we spoke about this. I was extremely frustrated by
 just how the streetcar had been run right there was issues with payment when it first started issues with hours um there was no creative solution coming out of the pandemic and we were seeing uh streetcars not picking people up after events and i think that you put a lot of time into this plan um to figure out how this was going to be successful right and i think that this might not be perfect right we might need to see some adjustments made and i think
 What I'm excited for is the data that we're going to have coming out of this plan. I think this is the first time we've really addressed this issue in a smart way. I would...
 I disagree with the mayor a little bit. I think, especially since we see that it's going to cost the same, that I think that we had the ability to be creative about this. I just don't think that we were. I think that the department had the ability to come up with the scheduling and make these changes and I just want to, again, thank you for stepping up and actually doing it. But I do want to ask some questions about the budget because I think your slide is a little bit different than what you said.
 I lost the slide, so I'm trying to find that very quickly. Okay, so on slide 19, it says the FY 2024 service optimization plan is about 2.6 million. But I heard you say that you wanna keep it at three for that flexibility, and I just wanna double check that that's what you're doing. I'm saying we already budgeted for three. And so since we have that, it maintains us the opportunity to have flexibility. And again, I'd like to move from a known point
 And so if ridership goes up, we can address that and increase, or if ridership goes down, we can address that and decrease. Okay. And I'm fine with that. I just wanted to clarify on that slide what was happening. I'm going to get a lot of questions from the public about this, though.
 We're operating on the same budget, but I would say more than two times the amount of hours Can you explain for the public's edification? Why that happened? so the the reason why I can increase the hours is because I decrease the amount of drivers that it it takes and so if an average driver takes
 about $69,000 a year with benefits. That's their average pay. And if I just reduce from 11 to 6, you can just do the math real quick and say there's $360,000 right there. Let me interrupt you a little bit just because he didn't. I want to make sure he finishes his statement that even though we're changing the amount of drivers, those drivers will not be losing their job.
 Correct. Those drivers will not be losing their first one before you can come a streetcar driver. You have to get a CDL with the P endorsement. So first you're a fixed route driver. And so everybody that that we're not utilizing on the streetcar will be utilized back that fixed route. Thank you. Sorry about that. Representative.
 I also want to ask if there's the ability to adjust these hours right now in your plan for special events. So again right now We cover 83% and we adjust accordingly when they're special events that were requested extend the hours But our intention was to start to set the beginning of fiscal year. Okay, great. Thank you so much. Yes, ma'am Thank you, ma'am. We have representative at Nanda's followed by representative Fiora. I
 and mr um you lived up to the task and you you asked for time to to put this together so i really appreciate the hard work that you and the team have put forth i agree with representative canales that this is okay for now but we absolutely need to scale up and and so my hope is that after you we have a continuous and solid plan and a routine
 and that way we can demonstrate to the ridership that we are committed to this time. So is this gonna be for the entire fiscal year, and when does it commence? So again, we plan on starting it at the beginning of the fiscal year. September one? Yeah, September one, and then,
 Our plan is to continue on with it, but assess the data each month that we do. We take the data and we assess it each month. And then as appropriate in the future, we can look at changing that. But again, I'd like to keep the flexibility to be able to adjust to what the public demand is. Okay. And I think so long as you have the baseline standards,
 days and times available and then you add on to I think that would be beneficial because you know in the CFT there was a Lot of exciting ideas and so would love to see some of those ideas come forward So so it'll start September 1 now, and I'm sorry I had to step away because I took a telemedicine doctor's appointment in the back so pardon me if you you're being redundant in your and your responses, so
 So the $360,000 annually, does it go back to the general fund or excuse me, to your enterprise fund for Sun Metro?
 So just wanted to understand where the savings were going to go. Again, kudos to the team. I know you all worked hard. I was very impressed with the economic development responses. I mean, this demonstrates to me that our strategy has worked. Our policies for innovation and economic development.
 is there, we have a vision and so long as that we stick to it then we can see definitely more retail sales and increase of the Renaissance in downtown. So thanks for all that you do and I know this is one of the few first times that you've come to council and so you certainly didn't disappoint. So thank you, Mr. DeKaiser. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Representative Piazza.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. A couple of questions. First of all, I hear the number that the budget is that the streetcar budget is going to stay at $3 million. Yet the proposal is a change to save $360,000. Is that correct? It is correct. Then why aren't we taking that money out of your budget and moving it to somewhere like the the lift fund for people with special needs? Why is it that you're going to keep this let's call it slush fund?
 in your budget when it's not needed there. If you're telling us you're saving the $360,000, let's move it somewhere we can really use it. The focus, this budget cycle is especially mine and I know there's some people up there on the dais who's gonna focus on not raising taxes. And I think this is a good step on showing the constituents that we could function and we can supply services without raising their budget.
 The Colonel had a wonderful idea on bringing follow-up to the Council. The only thing I would ask, Colonel, is that we put a timeline. And then the Director from the streetcars, I asked, since you're doing this data monthly, can you attach it to the Council agenda on a monthly basis or send it to our emails on a monthly basis?
 We certainly can can send you the data Let me let me address what you were saying about the budget because I concur I mean, I think I think we still give them the flexibility. We need to stay disciplined with the budget and what we're Showing we're going to do with with the optimization of the streetcar that money goes back into the savings goes back into other transit and so we we need to to keep it to your point and
 where we budgeted for the optimization plan until we prove that out. And we'll do that. And Ms. Smyth can recognize any of the savings to that to put that into the other public transit related things that we need to do. Yeah, and I think that's gonna be really important this year as we were going over the budget. And it showed that Sun Metro got some ARPA money.
 and also had some additional tax money that made it profitable last year. You take that away, now it's not going to be running in profit. So we need to look at a lot of things to...
 That budget because last year we talked about how it was making all this money But it actually it was money that was injected at a one time into Sun Metro So I think we need to look at that. So this is gonna be really important Yeah, and I think the other point is as I said, I mean this this becomes a policy direction to us And so if something changes on the streetcar route in terms of proving it out then I think that's an action we need to bring back to the City Council and
 to show you the data and you can make that determination based on recommendations that we would make. But other than that, if you're approving or you're seeing this plan, we need to prove out this plan first before we do any adjustments upward with the budget. Yes, sir. I agree. Mayor, if I can just add, Colonel, thank you for all your work, your breath of fresh air. Thank you. I appreciate that. Representative Kennedy. Thank you, Representative Fierro. Hi, I just...
 I'll try to keep it short. When you were looking at land premiums in the survey area, you said it was within a half a mile. That's not by diameter. It's actually from the track a half a mile out, correct? Yeah, it's just a half a mile from each of the access points. Right. So some of this would be looking at this potentially seven or eight blocks from the tracks, right? Yes. It was about 4,100 individual partials, property partials.
 Did you guys track to see if there was any difference from the downtown circle route to the route up towards the Sun Bowl towards. No, we did not. But we do have the data. And at a later time, we can extrapolate a little bit more detail.
 i'll blow through some of my questions i was just going to say that anytime i see an investment district it brings a bad bell for me because that means we're taking money out of the general fund and dedicating it to something that we could decide to dedicate it to later if we chose so just as a point of order my question my question really was on the the results snapshot you were talking to people that were either in this was it the brio or the 14 which were the downtown routes themselves
 So they've already voted that they would ride mass transit because they were riding mass transit, and that's why they were surveyed. That's right. That's what they indicated. So basically we were saying, hey, if you could ride for free on the streetcar, would you do it? And 94% said yes. That's correct. I think the other 6% needs to be asked again because I can't figure out why somebody would choose to pay rather than ride for free. I mean, seriously, I'm like, okay, you say you're going to ride mass transit. Would you ride for free? Yeah, most of them would.
 When I take a look at the cost of operations, you say there's a hard floor of two million, right? That's correct. Not if we shuttered it, though, correct? Yeah, that is true. But I did talk to the FTA vice chair for the multimodal transportation and planning, and I talked to the director of advanced transportation planning at TxDOT. Both indicated that there would be a –
 cost recovery um if we did what you just said have you said that so i have to can i get that huh could i get that yes i got it in an email i'll make sure that you get it cool um so so um
 both of them indicated that there would be some cost to that they couldn't tell me what the cost would be but they said the next step would be taking it to the tech engineer department and then eventually up to city council to or excuse me tech stock council um to get the final information for that okay i don't have the numbers for that right now is there any other area in town where we have free public transportation not with sun metro but there's is there any other area where we have the duplication of
 services like the trolley and other routes right behind it there's not can i get just for my own information can i get a list of any routes that we've either um limited or eliminated over the past 36 months yeah we'll get us to you great thank you that's all i have thank you representative canadas thank you mayor one final thing i think to close this out i just want to do uh
 ask to make it clear for the public this is not posted for action today correct correct so this is just an operational update uh you know the city council is a is a policy making body this is an operational decision that Sun Metro is making in terms of how to run your your programming for the streetcar um you know again we very much appreciate uh seeing the plan but this is a plan that that
 the city council isn't going to vote on today you're able to execute this as part of your operational decision making that's correct that is correct okay um and then just you just answered that there's no uh there's no uh other areas where we would essentially duplicate a service but we do have other circulator type routes that run near brios or other lines that is true so this would function similar to a circulator for downtown
 And the UTIP area. In the definition of what you said, yes. Sure. Okay. That's all again. Thank you one more time for the hard work that you and your team did. This is the type of analysis we've never really seen on the street car ridership.
 and the economic impact as well. I know that the timing of COVID was really unfortunate for the streetcar because it was new, it was popular, and we had a very small window to capture data before obviously the whole world shut down and so transit ridership tanked.
 And so I think this will really, as I said before, provide us an opportunity to collect a lot more data. As my colleague the Mayor Pro Tem said, I'm also very excited about the data that this will generate to hopefully prove out the fact that this has been a smart investment for the community. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you, sir. And with that, we have Representative Moldenard. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. Colonel, thank you very much for your presentation. To everybody who worked on this presentation, thank you very much. Great job. I know we met individually throughout the city council members, and there was a lot of dialogue going back and forth. But you already mentioned that it's going to be taking effect September 1st, the fiscal year, correct? Yes, sir. Okay. And do you have any idea, let's just say, when you make, analyze,
 what you're doing and how are you doing it, whether it be the ridership, the cost, the full-time employees coming back. I'm not saying necessarily coming back to us, but analyzing that data in eight months. I wouldn't want to wait a whole year, but to make sure that what we're doing or what you're telling us today is working in fact.
 Yeah, so the data is analyzed every month. Okay. The ridership is. But again, I think we just need to give this new optimization plan time to come to fruition. So over time and space, we'll have the data, and then we'll know which way to adjust. Okay. And you mentioned you had flexibility within the budget. So this coming this month, we do have the Plaza Classic Film Festival. That's, of course, to me, it's very great. Right.
 moneymaker not only for the city but to me it's a movie goer you know you want to see a nice film an old film a new film something maybe you remember from your childhood or early years and you know it's in the big screen I think I mentioned to you and the other people that hey was great to go downtown spend some time downtown
 watch the movie, get something to eat, get something to drink, go back to another movie, you know, depending on what the schedule is. But would you be able to adjust the ridership during that two- or three-week period? So we adjust for special events. Yes. And this very well could be one of them. But I'll look into it, and then I'll come back to you if we're not already covering that time.
 Yes thank you representative. The programming staff is already coordinating as they have in the past and they will continue to do this as an annual event that's incredibly important to us in the downtown. As you said it brings a lot of attention so yeah that coordination is already happening with programming. Okay great. Thank you so much. I just want to make sure that.
 To me, it's a great event downtown that we capitalize on that. And it's not necessarily for the economic part of it, but just the fact that people enjoy a good movie. They like to remember the past, have a good laugh, bring in your kids, your grandkids, see other people that you probably have never seen before and just say, let's have a nice time downtown. And let's talk about it. So that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you.
 thank you thank you again for the presentation the hard work by the whole team and when i put the item on the agenda i wanted to make sure we start maximizing our resources and i think this uh brings that forward so thank you carl thank you mayor no action on item 18 and moving on to the public hearings and second reading of reading of ordinances item 19 is an ordinance amending title
 the El Paso City Code to adopt the 2021 edition of the International Fire Code and to provide for local amendments to the 2021 International Fire Code and we do have a motion to approve by representative Rivera seconded by representative Salcido on that motion call for the vote representative Fierro aye and there's no public comment for that item in the motion the item the ordinance has been approved
 unanimously item 20 before we go the next item miss Newman would like to us to reconsider item 16 it's not correct miss Newman and she's nice add some language to it to be directed to add some language so miss we need to take a motion first to reconsider that item motion to reconsider item 16 we do have a motion by representative canada seconded by representative Rivera all those in favor all those
 And this is item 16. I'll read it into the record again. It's discussion and action to direct the interim city manager and city attorney to recommend amendments to the city's ethics ordinance complaint review process in city code 2.92.170 to provide that a respondent's timeline to address and file a response to a complaint begins after the city attorney refers a complaint to the ethics review commission.
 in your language ms newman thank you mayor um we i would we would ask that the council add language to give us authority to amend the current ethics ordinance to add the jurisdictional requirement for the internal auditor currently the internal auditor does not fall within the jurisdiction of the ethics commission or hr since it's a new position being appointed by council we would ask that the language be amended to allow us
 amend the ordinance to include the internal auditor ethics complaints to be filed with the mayor and the mayor pro temp their motion second it's a motion in the second and that amendment is to include that the ethics complaints be filed with the mayor and the mayor put in we do have a motion by representative an ELO seconded by representative to approve on that motion call for the vote
 representative Salcido and representative Rivera it's just what the ordinance is we're following what the charter was we're just okay following the law so currently mr. Rivera the the ethics ordinance doesn't provide for where ethics complaints go when they're filed against the city the internal auditor
 Due to the change in the charter, it's our recommendation that it be the same as it's currently for the city attorney and the city manager. So the ethics complaints would be forwarded to the mayor and the mayor pro temp. Rep. Fierro, your vote please. Yes. And to confirm, you said aye, sir? Yes, aye. Thank you. And on that motion. And the item has been approved unanimously. That's again item 16. Thank you, Ms. Neiman. Thank you, Ms. Neiman. And the item has been approved unanimously. That's again item 16. Thank you, Ms. Neiman.
 So now going back to item 20, it is an ordinance amending title 18, adopting the 2021 international building code and adopting appropriate local amendments. And we do have two members of the public signed up to speak on that item. Mayor, would you like to have them come forward now? That is Ron Lord followed by Adam Valdez. Mr. Lord, are you present?
 Sir, you have three minutes. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor, Council members. My name is Ron Lord. I'm a U.S. Regional Manager for the International Association of Plumbing Mechanical Officials, IATMO. And I'll get to the basic point. The building code...
 This item includes a mechanical code and a plumbing code the International plumbing code IAPMO produces the uniform plumbing code and uniform mechanical code we had requested a meeting with staff to
 We had a preliminary meeting, but we wanted to go into more detail, and we were never offered that meeting. And we believe we have something to offer the citizens of El Paso. What's the basic premise for a plumbing code? You design how to get water in a building. That's the basic premise. And everyone uses what's called a hunter's curve. That was a time survey.
 done in the 40s. In every plumbing code, there's only two plumbing codes now, but every code uses that as the basis of how they design water systems, pipe sizing. IAPMO, almost a decade ago, started working on a new survey of how to do pipe sizing because we have very efficient plumbing fixtures now.
 So we have what's called a water demand calculator included in our code. And unfortunately, it would make, it would help with water savings. It would help with construction costs because the system would be slightly smaller. So we believe we have a way of helping with affordability.
 On construction mechanical code our code has geothermal which is cutting edge language and If we had been provided an opportunity to make a presentation I know they outreach to home builders home builders usually build to one and two family homes not an Amazon warehouse or a
 refurbish a building into condos, but plumbing contractors do, and we work with plumbing contractors. Matter of fact, we have contractors listed on our plumbing code as partners, Mechanical Contractors Association of America and PHCC, Plumbing, Heating, Cooling Contractors, so we work closely with them. Plus, in workforce development, we'll be
 producing plumbing and mechanical code in Spanish within a couple of months. And so, and I don't believe that is an offer from the current plumbing mechanical code. So we would ask respectfully if there's a way for us to participate in this. I know this is going and moving forward, but if there's a way for us to be a resource to this, to the citizens, we'd appreciate it. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you.
 The next person is Adam Thank you Representative vanilla, would you like to go ahead? Good afternoon mayor representatives Tony de la Cruz planning inspections and I guess to clarify some of the comments so right now we have been working and all the Representatives and the mayor were briefed on these items. We have been working on a
 Coordinating meetings with the stakeholders whether it's plumbing contractors electrical mechanical Development focus group the builders association for the last year and a half We were aware that I Apple had reached out to us. We did reach back out to them and really our response was at this point in the state of the game where we're at and
 This would require one, well two things. It would require change from the international plumbing and mechanical codes to the uniform codes. We haven't been on those codes since probably about the 90s when they started phasing out. They made a resurgence. But at this point what we said was simply the municipality and the stakeholders that we've been coordinating with have been heavily using the international codes for 20 years.
 and at this state in the game we're simply not interested in modifying into a different code because we're not as familiar with it and neither is a public that uses these codes and that was our response. Thank you for that Tony. So I've asked you previously to reach out to this group. I'm disappointed to hear they're saying they weren't a part of this conversation when I see that you have some stakeholder meetings. And I think kind of the conversation you're having I understand that we're not switching
 I was actually connected to them with a lot of the builders and a lot of the unions group that are saying that some of these changes would make it easier on them, would make it easier for working with individuals in New Mexico, which is one of our sister cities or sister states.
 And so, you know, I just, I'm really hesitant to understand because what I hear the gentleman coming up here saying is that there are certain codes that would benefit the community, right? And I don't understand if, I mean, I do understand that we don't want to go from international to national, but if there are certain codes that are making it easier for builders and unions in our community to work, why we're not addressing those?
 and I feel like the conversation that we had had previously is now conflicting with what we heard from public comment and so I'm not super confident in those conversations that we did have previously and so I mean I would ask to maybe postpone this but if not I'm not going to support it because I do think that I need to understand some of those conversations a little bit better. And just in response ma'am the meetings that we had were open to the public.
 In some of the meetings we had well over 100 people attending. So we had, like I mentioned, all different trades, contractors and everything else. Again the issue is we're going to start mixing and matching codes.
 Largely when you see a municipality adopt a code they're either going completely uniform Which New Mexico does have that las cruces and I believe they're shifting over in the next few months to the new code cycle But largely the consistency of maintaining all the codes They're interrelated and it really makes it simpler for one staff and the public to really keep track of all the different changes because of the interrelation and
 And do you have any feedback from these meetings? From the stakeholder meetings? Mm-hmm. Really, the feedback that we've gotten is saying, why haven't we adopted yet? Yep. I don't know. I'm not going to be comfortable supporting this because I do feel like I need to be reaching out to individuals who had reached out to me previously about this. I mean, I thought that this had been mitigated, and now I'm hearing that that might not be the case. So thank you, Mayor. Thank you, ma'am. Representative Fiora?
 Thank you so much, Mayor. I have a concern in regards to the economic mindset that we're in right now. We're trying to bring in more Amazons, more Marshalls, more huge million square foot warehouses, and there's a bunch being built south of I-10 going east.
 Wouldn't these changes in the code or additions to the code, wouldn't it make it easier for those big contractors to develop safely and quicker in our community to bring more and more economic development?
 Again I'm not familiar enough with a uniform code to make a thorough comparison between the two. That was the direction that we had originally started and we have been going for the past 20 years is consistency with the international family of codes. My final question is is there Tony is there any way to again all due respect to all the work you do. Is there any way to.
 slow down this process and like the Mayor Pro Temp said maybe postpone it to look at these codes more specifically more you know really in depth and see there is a way to make the process safer and assist us when it comes to economic development.
 The options always there for this council, of course I mean one item to keep in mind we have been working on this for the last year and a half reaching out to multiple stakeholders at this point our recommendation was simply to adopt now and really Have the implementation of the codes in September so but it is an option for this council if we choose to go with that route and
 If the council would like to to take a little bit more time to address the concerns that have been raised up with us But the guys today we you know, we certainly can do that I think it has been very well vetted over the last 18 months But if there's clearly additional information that you that you'd like us to look into a little bit further, but we can do that You know, I Would agree with staff that I think everybody's comfortable in terms of how we vetted this in terms of the international codes but
 The answer to your question is we could pause that if you'd like more dialogue before we bring it to you. Okay, I'll make a motion to postpone. May I just say one final thing? The last thing that I wanna make the council aware of is right now due to our lack of adoption currently, it is impacting our ISO ratings. One of the things that they really rely on is are we on the most current code cycles?
 And the ISO basically impacts or has a potential of impacting insurance rates for businesses and residences throughout the city. But I would be, I appreciate that, and I concur that the ISO is important, and we need to adopt and make that determination. But I think if we postpone it for 30 days to meet your concerns, we can do that. And I second the Mayor Pro Tem's motion. No, sir. Sorry, Mayor. Representative Kennedy. Thank you.
 Never mind. Mayor, we have a motion to postpone. Pardon me? We do have a second to postpone. Yeah, so I'll wait. Oh, okay. So we have a motion and a second to postpone. Representative Anello, is that what you're wishing for, 30 days, or you just... Yes, ma'am. And that would take us to the council meeting of... August 2nd. There you go. Postpone to August 2nd.
 Motion made by Representative Anello and seconded by Representative Fierro. On that motion call for the vote. On my calendar it shows for August 1st in case it changed I'm not aware. What was that ma'am? I'm sorry. The next City Council meeting in August is August 1st. That is correct. August the 1st. Let me make a quick edit. My apologies. Oh that's right I went to 30 days from your right. Representative Rivera. Go ahead.
 This is to postpone, correct? Yes, for 30 days. This would be to postpone to the August 1st council meeting. Representative Fierro? Sorry, you were muted. You were muted. I'm sorry, I. And we do have nay, Representative Hernandez. Motion passes 7-1. Motion passes. Thank you. Thank you.
 Moving on to item 21 and that is an ordinance vacating a portion of city right-of-way over father from Avenue Right-of-way 6th Avenue right-of-way and Ochoa Street right-of-way The subject property is 700 South Ochoa Street And we do not have anybody signed up to speak on this item move to approve second motion in a second. I
 We do have a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem, oh, by Representative Rivera. And on that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anello. Thank you, ma'am. Representative Fierro. And the item has been approved unanimously. Item 22 is an ordinance changing the zoning of
 4819 Titanic Avenue from R4 residential to A2 apartment and imposing conditions, imposing a condition. And we do not have any public comment. Do we have a motion? Second. Motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linar to approve item 22. On that motion, call for the vote. Rep Rivera. Representative Rivera. Representative Fierro, you were muted, sir.
 Since I'm gone. Thank you. We can hear you now. Okay, good, thanks. I. And the item has been approved unanimously. Item.
 Go ahead, ma'am. You're okay. Item 23 is discussion and action on a resolution adopting the City of El Paso Downtown and Uptown Master Plan. And Mayor, we do have several people signed up to speak. We have two people in person, and the rest of them are statements to be read into the record. Do we have a presentation by staff? Yeah, we'll do the presentation, then we'll take public comment. Thank you, sir. Hi, T, can we pull up the presentation for item 23, please? Good morning, Joaquin.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Joaquin Rodriguez with the Capital Improvements Department. I'm joined today by my esteemed colleague, Alex Hoffman, who is returning from paternity leave, and by our consulting team who are online.
 Today is the third presentation in a series of presentations that we've done to council on the city's downtown and uptown master plan. You'll recall presentation one was back in March where we focused on our public engagement efforts. Presentation two, which was back in April, we visualized some of the goals and visions and some of the recommendations to get there through the development of these five catalyst
 And today's presentation is really going to focus on some key implementation actions. It's not an exhaustive presentation of all the recommendations that are in the downtown uptown plan, but just some key ones that we feel really stand out. So I'll pass it over to Alex now to start on those recommended implementation actions. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Great to be back. Glad to see each of you. So again, Alex Huffman for the record. So today we're here to talk about implementation.
 This plan, we worked with the community to develop a vision of what we wanted to see this area become. So, a lot of the strategies that we have in place are a reflection of those conversations with the community. So, we wanted to first start by talking about some of the key regulatory changes that are going to be necessary to bring this plan to fruition. Again, this is a visionary document.
 doesn't change these things today but we're going to be working again with the same stakeholders and with this council to bring forward some of these changes that are necessary in order to make it happen. So the first one is looking at increasing allowable densities. So we're looking at this from two perspectives. One is that we're looking to preserve some of the neighborhoods in their existing state and legalize what's already there. So that's where we're looking at allowing, for example, quadruplexes in these existing neighborhoods and in other areas.
 where we worked with the community to identify transformational areas. We're looking to propose increasing maximum densities to allow for mid-rise development, again, to help achieve some of the goals that we have.
 The way that we're looking to offset that is by the second key point, which is we'll be bringing forward urban design guidelines. So one of the concerns that we heard from the neighborhood is making sure that any new development fits in with what's there and that it's compatible. And so we want to be bringing forward those urban design guidelines to make sure that that takes place. And the third item, which is really important, is looking at the minimum parking standards. So a lot of the development that we want to see, that the community wants to see, we're
 We really need to take a close look at those minimum parking standards and right now we're proposing that we'd be eliminating them within Our study area and the reason for that is that there's an affordability issue and by eliminating these parking requirements we can Help to bring these projects From the ground up and also to see the type of development this plan imagined so it's mixed-use and we've talked a lot about in
 and our infill CFT, some of the challenges that our parking requirements, how they stand in the way of bringing that development forward. So that's the third key regulatory change.
 We're also looking at some key investment and financing structures. We identified in previous presentation some of the feasibility gaps that exist currently with bringing forward market rate projects and affordable projects, and that's where we really need to be taking a closer look at our Chapter 380 agreements, looking specifically at affordable housing as well as new construction, looking at adoption of an uptown TERS, again
 We know that there's not only going to be issues with housing, but also how do we bring forward some of the recommendations related to infrastructure and the TERS is a really key component.
 Also looking at the public facility corporation to attract the mixed income housing developments and affordable housing. And then finally looking at creating a housing trust or bond. Again, because those funds, the funding needs to be there in order to bring some developers to the table and to see these housing units that the plan proposes come to the study area.
 So the second goal is looking at addressing the infrastructure gaps. So this plan was really exhaustive and that was a key element of it. We wanted to know what infrastructure was necessary both in terms of street, street trees, street lighting, those types of elements as well as public space and bike lanes. The reason that infrastructure is really important to planning, planning studies, is because it signals to the private developers that this is an area that the city's invested in. And so we in turn want to invest in the infrastructure and that's why it's really necessary.
 So this first slide is looking at some of the changes that we're proposing or some of the investments that we're proposing within the public realm. Again, those are parks as well as bike lanes. And then we also have the same thing related to illumination, street trees and sidewalks. We have a lot of need within this area. So again, it's going to be really important that it be a combination of public and private investment in that infrastructure in order to see this area change and be an attractive place to encourage investment.
 So I'm going to hand it back to Joaquin to close out the presentation. So one of the other goals of the plan was to focus on. OK thank you. So one of the goals of the plan was to also focus on increasing economic activity and talent retention within the study area. So to that end we one of the recommendations is to really focus on training and education needs of low and moderate moderate income residents to improve their access to new industries. These are.
 industries that we know are coming through the demographic changes within the area and looking at land use within the study area as well. We know that some of the outdated industrial uses are no longer drivers for economic growth. We also want to ensure that
 provides recommendations for Transit within the area not just the streetcar you all heard a lot about the streetcar earlier today specifically But extending a lot of these policies to increase ridership on all of our transit options and investments with it within the area So the plan envisions making Brio an all-day service to expand that ridership base increasing frequency and combining some services in key downtown corridors to focusing on overlapping routes and achieving higher frequencies and
 Again, looking at transit, we want to establish a virtuous cycle between public transit and development. So establishing an interdepartmental working group to jointly review development applications will be key to that success. So looking forward at upcoming developments and seeing how those would tie into transit use and what their impact on transit might be in order to make proactive changes to transit, if necessary.
 In terms of celebrating El Paso's unique living culture we want the plan to focus on developing an equity framework. You all also heard us discuss this with the upcoming comprehensive plan update. One of the items on that scope of work is to be looking at a citywide equity framework within the downtown uptown study area. There is a high diversity of incomes high diversity of.
 other demographics so we really want to look at all of these future investments and ensure that we're looking at them through an equity lens a couple of key recommendations here that you'll see which were also recommendations that came from the CPC subcommittee were to look at neighborhood partition put participation plans to really look at combining our great community assets within the study area and giving them an opportunity to interface directly with developers who are making changes to their built environment and
 So towards the end of the process with help from the community we acknowledge that there was perhaps some gaps in our outreach efforts through the city plan commission.
 We really focused the past few months on coming up with strategies to ensure that we're minimizing displacement to the extent possible. The plan does that in a number of ways. Really structurally it's set up to provide different recommendations for different context areas. But in addition to that, we've added specific recommendations.
 for anti-displacement measures. So part of those focuses on retaining the existing affordable housing units within the area, creating a program to identify and monitor and preserve at-risk affordable housing. The plan recommends that we consider a right-to-purchase ordinance which would give
 current residents the ability to purchase a home that they're currently living in if the owner of that home decides to put the home up for sale Also, we want to look at encouraging developers to execute community benefits agreements again Just keeping in mind that these are all recommendations that we have to vet out from a legal standpoint from a feasibility standpoint But the plan provides that recommendation and gives us as staff the green light to start seriously exploring those implementation steps
 Finally, we wanted to pass along the recommendation from the City Plan Commission at their meeting about eight weeks ago, sorry, probably 10 weeks ago now. They did recommend to form a Downtown Uptown Master Plan Subcommittee within the City Plan Commission. The subcommittee conducted some extended outreach. As staff, we provided support for that outreach.
 A COUPLE TARGETED MEETINGS, ATTENDING MEETINGS WITH THE SUNSET HEIGHTS NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION, THE RIO GRANDE NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION TO MAKE SURE THAT ALL VOICES WERE HEARD THROUGH THIS PLANNING PROCESS. THE CITY PLAN COMMISSION DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THIS MASTER PLAN WITH A FEW RECOMMENDATIONS. THE FIRST BEING TO CHANGE THE NAME OF THE PLAN FROM DOWNTOWN UPTOWN TO THE DOWNTOWN AND SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOODS MASTER PLAN.
 As staff we aren't recommending approval of that change the city's made significant investments in the uptown name It's been something that the city has pushed for for quite some time You'll see uptown referenced in a lot of other planning documents including including the city's housing strategy So at this time we don't recommend that that Recommendation is adopted as part of the plan, but the other recommendations from the city plan commission are
 As far as implementing neighborhood participation plans, we have added a implementation action
 in the master plan specific to exploring that and explore adopting that by ordinance. The other recommendations really our recommendations is that we will make sure to implement throughout the next phase of the planning process which is actually the implementation phase of starting to adopt some of these things by ordinance starting to adopt some of these administrative or policy changes as well.
 So with that for the immediate next steps for staff upon adoption of this plan should city council choose to adopt it we'll be looking specifically at these three next steps in the short term and that's exploring the uptown TURS. So going through the process of developing that plan
 That boundary and developing the parcels that would be included in that boundary looking at code assessments with targeted amendments for building zoning and smart code this not only supports the downtown uptown plan but also the Infill and redevelopment policy that City Council adopted unanimously last year and then finally to ensure that all of those changes in terms of investments from the tours and future code code changes
 are being sensitive to the context of those areas, we'll look at adopting urban design and development standards. So that's all we have today in terms of the presentation. Happy to answer any questions you all have for us. Representative Canales, you wanna hear public comment first? Public comment please. The first person and person to speak is Mr. Joe Goodenrath, followed by Rich Wright. Good morning again.
 Mayor, City Council, City Manager, Staff, again Joe Gudenrath with the Downtown Management District. I'm here on behalf of our Board of Directors, made up of 21 property owners, business owners, and residential tenants. I can't tell you how important plans are for a city and for our downtown. To me, it's a public declaration of where we want to go as a community and how we can get there.
 It's the voice of our community providing direction to our current and future elected officials and sending a message to people looking to relocate and invest in our community. This plan sets a bold vision for our downtown and uptown areas and it's one that is definitely needed as certain sectors and parts of our downtown face significant long-term challenges.
 I want to thank city staff, especially Joaquin Rodriguez and Alex Hoffman, as well as the consultants who participated on this project. Their leadership and outreach throughout the process has helped get us to where we are today.
 I want to encourage your support for this plan, but not only with your vote today. Today simply marks the beginning of this plan and its implementation will be critical to addressing our challenges and capturing the opportunities that are in front of us. I hope to be back here many times in the future as we implement this plan and pursue the goals that it establishes for the future of our community. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Hi, y'all. Mayor, city council, staff, how y'all doing? My name is Rich Wright. I was looking at the Uptown-Downtown plan, what I could see on the Internet, and I asked myself, what's it for? So I did a little research there, and right there on page 3 of what in the agenda is called Setting the Stage, the presentation says the challenge, the demand...
 for housing knowledge workers will require managing growth and preserving our creating affordable housing to ensure that downtown plus uptown maintain their economic diversity. The demand for housing knowledge workers will require managing growth. The problem is the city's not growing. You know the city acts, the city of El Paso, the bureaucracy, acts like they're managing growth but the city is actually not growing. Knowledge workers
 We've been pursuing them since for the last 20 years. First we called them the creative class, and then we called them young professionals, and now we're calling them knowledge workers. And whatever we've been doing hasn't been working.
 There are some good points in this plan, like neighborhood participation, anti-displacement measures, education and job training. Those are all good things, but we can do that without subsidizing housing for developers downtown and up Stanton Street. We don't need to do that. We should just do these things instead of giving tax incentives to developers to provide housing.
 The 380 agreements and the TIRSs don't reduce taxes that the rest of us are paying. They're just providing services to those people who receive them either for free or at a reduced rate.
 And I know that city council, the city staff has worked long hours on this plan, but effort doesn't make a bad plan a good plan. And this is a bad plan. I've got a question for you. Those knowledge workers, are they going to live down here on Stanton Street or are they going to live up there in Monticello? I mean, it's not realistic what staff is proposing. I would suggest that you...
 not pursue tax incentives for this plan thank you the rest are statements to be read into the record if that's okay with you sir how many we have about 12 of them first is Jerry Kurtz get reads I am Jerry Kurtz Kia and El Paso resident of district 1 since 1996 and active now as an environmental
 and community activists I respectfully ask for the council consider and act upon the recommendations of the Rio Grande neighborhood association pertaining to the currently named downtown uptown master plan. I have presented my concerns
 before the plan the plan commission and personally and in writing to the subcommittee form to consider community responses to the plan. The association will present their concerns to you and I want you to know that I support the recommendations. I especially ask that the council rebuff any intention to displace current residents of the area in favor of more affluent residents also to assure that future development encourages homeownership of affordable housing energy independence and that local residents
 are given the opportunity to participate in development decisions and small business creation in the affected area. Thank you, Jerry Kirchgaard. The next statement is by Cito Negron. Honorable Mayor and Council Members, I write on behalf of the Sunset Heights Neighborhood Improvement Association regarding the Downtown and Surrounding Neighborhoods Plan
 We thank city staff for their work and the city plan commission for their consideration and support the plan as passed unanimously by the CPC. We also have an added recommendation. The critical part of this plan is to is the implementation matrix, which, in addition to incentives, projects and
 which incentives projects and regulatory changes includes concepts to counter displacement. Again, we thank city staff for their work and ask that you prioritize implementation of these non-displacement strategies first to ensure that this plan supports current residents if, as envisioned, new residents flock to our wonderful downtown adjacent neighborhoods.
 When they do, they should be joining, not replacing our already vibrant and diverse communities. Sunset Heights is one of the most income diverse neighborhoods in the city, if not the most. This is a tremendous value for El Paso, presenting opportunities for mobility and enrichment. This is true of many other neighborhoods. However, speculation has been rampant and rents have rapidly increased.
 The city has a responsibility to leverage public resources equitably. This plan's incentives and investments for infill development can be worthy public goals. We subsidize sprawl and stretch budgets in ways that are largely invisible to the broader and public and rarely questioned. Hundreds of millions of municipal dollars go to new roads, water, and sewer.
 flood control, parks, libraries, police, and fire stations. The list goes on. Population stability in established neighborhoods, let alone growth, is easier on taxes and budgets than the horizontal growth patterns we have typically seen.
 THEREFORE, WHILE IT IS IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST TO INVEST IN OUR CORE NEIGHBORHOODS, WHICH HAVE BEEN PAYING TAXES FOR MANY GENERATIONS AND HAVE BEEN LEVERAGED FOR THE DEBT TO DEVELOP NEW NEIGHBORHOODS, IT IS NOT EQUITABLE TO DISPLACE PEOPLE IN THE PROCESS. PLEASE PRIORITIZE PEOPLE AND ENSURE THAT WE HAVE NON-DISPLACEMENT STRATEGIES IN PLACE BEFORE IMPLEMENTING REGULATORY CHANGES AND DEVELOPMENT INCENTIVES. NEXT STATEMENT.
 It's Marcia Labora. Oh, yeah, no. Next one is Veronica Castillo. Are you there, ma'am? Carrillo. Star 6 to unmute your microphone. Ms. Veronica Carrillo. We'll go ahead and read it into the record. Honorable Mayor and City Council and Council Members, neighborhoods drawn in the boundary of the downtown-uptown master plan would likely...
 would like to respectfully make a request pertaining to item 23. We ask that the name of the plan be updated to better reflect the character of the plan area and be changed to downtown surrounding neighborhoods master plan. We believe that supporting this change is crucial for several reasons and we would like to share our thoughts with you. Firstly the name Uptown carries connotations of affluence and luxury which do not accurately reflect the true essence of our neighborhoods. We are a diverse community with a rich history and a strong sense of identity that should be appropriately represented.
 By choosing a name that better aligns with our character we can ensure that our neighborhoods are accurately portrayed and that all residents feel a sense of belonging. It's important to consider that the name of the plan sets the tone and vision for the future development of our neighborhoods. By embracing a name that truly represents who we are we can influence the type of growth and changes that will take place.
 We should strive for a name that reflects our community rather than one that caters to outside interests. The name chosen for the master plan will play a significant role in shaping the perception of our neighborhoods and attracting potential developers. During January 2022 kickoff meeting.
 Stantec emphasized the aim to attract high earners i.e. knowledge economy workers from out of town by catering to their preferences and creating housing located within a five minute walk of attractions that align with their level of disposable income. While development is important it should not come at a cost of losing our community's identity or displacing current residents. A thoughtful name change can help ensure that the development aligns with the needs and desires of our existing community creating a more inclusive and sustainable future.
 In conclusion after considering the concerns and aspirations of our community we propose that we support the name downtown and surrounding neighborhoods master plan for our collective vision of the future. This name promotes a better sense of belonging for neighborhoods in the master plan emphasizing the significance of our downtown area while acknowledging the neighborhoods that make up our community. Let's rally behind this name and shape a plan that better represents us and paves the way for a future that reflects our values and aspirations respectfully. Sunset Heights neighborhood improvement association and
 And Veronica Cardio, my bad. Next statement is from Ms. Kathleen Stout. Greetings to the council. I ask that you support the city plans commission subcommittee and neighborhood residents who have pursued constructive engagement around planning the downtown uptown area. I use my public administration lens based on teaching political science and public administration for 40 years at UTEP. Good quality governance,
 requires that city staff engage with local residents and draw on their expertise. As such, I support the following recommendations and ask that you do likewise. One, change the plan's name from the Downtown Uptown Master Plan to the Downtown and Surrounding Neighborhoods Master Plan. Two, implement neighborhood participation plan meetings. Residents need to know developers' plans and their likely impact on neighborhoods. Three.
 3. Sustain communication with the neighborhoods throughout the life of the plan. And 4. Create workshops to empower residents with knowledge and tools to interact with developers and city staff. Next one is Marcus Conde.
 I'M EMAILING MY PUBLIC COMMENT FOR ITEM 23 TO BE READ DURING TOMORROW'S CITY COUNCIL MEETING. PLEASE, I AGREE TO ALL RECOMMENDATIONS ON POINTS ONE THROUGH FOUR OF THE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY. THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME. MAY GOD BLESS YOU. NEXT ITEM IS, NEXT COMMENT IS FROM ELIZABETH BERKLEY.
 El Paso City Council, this letter is confirmation that El Jardin Birth and Family Resource Center supports our neighborhood organization, Rio Grande Neighborhood Association, in its request to City Council to support the four recommendations of the City Plan Commission Subcommittee Report. El Jardin is located in the Rio Grande neighborhood and we are all impacted by the Downtown Uptown Master Plan.
 We on the executive committee all live in the Rio Grande neighborhood. Our organization has been in the neighborhood since 2013. We provide a welcoming space for young families to connect with one another as well as with health professionals and a space to learn about life's natural transitions such as pregnancy and parenting.
 We support one, changing the name of the master plan to downtown plus surrounding neighborhoods master plan. Two, implementation of neighborhood participation plan meetings to increase transparency of developers' plans and how they will impact neighborhoods. Three, maintenance of regular communication with the community throughout the 15-year implementation of the plan.
 for creation of workshops to empower neighborhoods with the knowledge and tools to effectively collaborate with developers and city staff by leveraging the community and human development department. It is of utmost importance to us that the city does not facilitate squeezing out small community oriented organizations from our neighborhood in favor of large developers. Next statement is from Carmen Rodriguez.
 This was submitted by Carmen Rodriguez for Abdullah Anchondo. Abdullah Anchondo commented, I live on Durango Street in historic Barrio Duranguito, my neighbors and I want to know more about the plans and changes that are being considered by the city. If the city is making changes to parking regulations, I would ask that the residents who live here now be considered. It is very difficult for
 For us to find street parking near our homes, my neighbor is disabled and cannot walk long distances. Many of our residents are elderly. People who come for events at the Civic Center, the baseball stadium, and the Chavez Theater take up parking spaces. There is also a brewery on my street. All of these events are too much for this small area. Please add rules so that the residents will have priority to use spaces in front of their home like they do in their neighborhoods near the university.
 Also people who don't have vehicles need a cooling center they can walk to. There are no cooling centers within walking distance. Finally the abandoned buildings have been vacant for too long and should be restored. Thank you for your attention consideration of these requests. There's a section in Spanish.
 Next statement is from Cynthia Renteria. Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Dr. Cynthia Renteria, and I'm writing in support of the Rio Grande Neighborhood Association and the recommendations made in the City Plan Commission subcommittee report that was formulated using feedback from the neighborhoods impacted by the Downtown Uptown Plan.
 We agree that the name of the plan should reflect the community identity and not erase in name the unique character of the residential areas. Please consider revising the name of the plan to downtown plus surrounding neighborhoods master plan. In addition, I ask that the mayor and council consider the following one implement neighborhood participation plan meetings.
 2. Maintain communication with the community throughout the 15-year implementation of the plan. 3. Create workshops to empower neighborhoods with the knowledge and tools to effectively collaborate with developers and city staff by leveraging the community and human development department. Taking these steps ensures the area residents have a seat at the table and stay in a development process
 that truly considers the impacts of the plans of, of plans on El Pasoans. Please consider taking an action that shifts away from top-down generated development plans to one that truly engages residents of El Paso's neighborhoods and genuinely listens and addresses their concerns. Next statement is from Carmen Rodriguez.
 Dear Mayor Leaser, Mayor Pro Tem, Manalo, Rep Canales and all reps. My name is Carmen Rodriguez. I reside within the boundaries of the Downtown Uptown Plan and I am a member of the steering committee of Community First Coalition. Our request is to pursue neighborhood development from the perspective and needs of the residents who live there. Although we believe this plan originated with the view that it would be an economic development driver, there are also real opportunities to use to use it to address long-standing housing issues. If there is one chronic and deleterious condition
 condition that the city has tolerated for too long it is the lack of affordable housing for the large segment of our family who have low incomes live with the minimal resources and reside in substandard housing.
 Shortly after the Community First Coalition formed, we identified a number of priority issues. Among the 37 or so priority issues, approximately 10 were related to housing and the need for neighborhood improvements in barrios and other poverty prone areas. We agreed that previous city administrations have failed to give this problem proper attention and that much of the reason was simple disinterest and neglect. Thousands of working families with children and elders have lived in all eight city districts lacking adequate housing for too long.
 Such conditions breed hopelessness in our youth which may stifle their futures. Understanding that this is the most and in almost an intractable condition there is more than can be done.
 There's more that can be done. This plan presents the opportunity to do more. Thus, we ask that it be modified to begin to improve neighborhoods from the perspective and needs of the residents who live there. We therefore endorse the recommendations brought toward the by the Rio Grande Neighborhood Association and accepted by the city plan commission, including one change the name of the master plan to downtown and surrounding neighborhoods master plan to implement neighborhood.
 Participation plan meetings three maintain communication with the community throughout the 15-year implementation For create workshops and empower neighborhoods with the knowledge and tools to effectively Collaborate with developers and city staff finally such an approach could be a model to address other areas in need of improvements in each of the other city districts and
 Next statement is from Danny Villanueva. Good morning, Mayor, City Council, and City Clerk staff. My name is Daniel Villanueva. I am a resident and member of the Rio Grande Neighborhood Association. I'm asking for your support of the recommendations of the CPC subcommittee report,
 TO ONE, CHANGE THE NAME OF THE PLAN TO THE DOWNTOWN PLUS SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOODS MASTER PLAN. TWO, IMPLEMENT NEIGHBORHOOD PARTICIPATION PLAN MEETINGS AS A REQUIREMENT BY CITY ORDINANCE TO INCREASE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT. THREE, TO MAINTAIN COMMUNICATION WITH THE COMMUNITY AS THE PLAN IS IMPLEMENTED BY CENTRALIZING UPDATES AND ANNOUNCEMENTS. AND FINALLY, FOUR, CREATE NEIGHBORHOOD WORKSHOPS TO EMPOWER NEIGHBORHOODS TO COLLABORATE WITH DEVELOPERS AND CITY STAFF.
 The next statement is by Dora Villanueva. She's representing the Valverde Neighborhood Associations. Dear El Paso City Council. We the Valverde Vecinos Neighborhood Association request the four recommendations in the CPC subcommittee report. Recommendation one neighborhoods drawn into the boundary of the downtown uptown master plan.
 Would like to respectfully make a request pertaining to item 23 on the agenda for July 5th City Council meeting. We ask that the name of the plan be updated to better reflect the character of the plan area and change the downtown and surrounding neighborhoods master plan. We believe that supporting this change is crucial for several reasons and we would like to share our thoughts with you. Firstly the name Uptown carries connotations. This is a similar statement to that read earlier. Mayor would you like to me to continue.
 Yes, sir. This is a similar statement to that read earlier into the record. I'm sorry, I can't hear you. This is a statement that was very similar to what was read earlier. Would you like me to continue with it? Does it have all the information required? Correct. Yes or no? Yes. Then go ahead, sir. As long as if there is some personal attacks on somebody, you can skip it but read the whole statement. Yes, sir.
 The name Uptown carries connotations of affluence and luxury which do not accurately reflect the true essence of our neighborhood. We are a diverse community with a rich history and a strong sense of identity and should be appropriately represented by choosing a name that better aligns with our character. We can ensure that our neighborhoods are accurately portrayed and that all residents feel a sense of belonging.
 It's important to consider the name of the plan sets the tone of the vision of the future development of our neighborhoods by embracing a name that truly represents who we are we can influence the type of growth and change changes that will take place. We should strive to name for a name that reflects our community rather than the one that caters to the outside interests. The name chosen for the master plan will play a significant role in shaping the perception of our neighborhoods and attracting
 potential developers. During the January 2022 kickoff meeting, Stantec emphasized the aim to attract high earners, i.e., knowledge economy workers from out of town by catering for their preferences and creating housing located within a five-mile walk of attractions.
 that align that align with the level of disposable income. While development is important it should not come at the cost of losing our community's identity and displacing current residents. A thoughtful name change can help ensure that the development aligns with the needs and desires of our existing community creating a more inclusive and sustainable future. After considering the concerns and aspirations of our community we propose that we support the name downtown and surrounding neighborhoods master plan for our collective vision of the future.
 This name promotes a better sense of belonging for the neighborhoods in the master plan emphasizing the significance of our downtown area with while acknowledging that neighborhoods that make up our community. Let's rally behind this name and shape a plan that better represents and paves the way for the future that reflects our values and aspirations. Recommendation to implement neighborhood participation plan meetings to increase transparency for developer plans and how they will impact neighborhoods. Recommendation three maintain communication
 with the community throughout the 15-year implementation of plan recommendation four create workshops to empower neighborhoods with the knowledge and tools effectively collaborate with the developers city staff and human development department thank you next comment is from paviola campos lopez
 El Paso Neighborhood Coalition, EPNNC, strongly supports the downtown plus uptown master plan for downtown and the surrounding neighborhoods, Segundo Barrio, Chihuahuita, McGuffin, Rio Grande, Rim, Kern, Mission Hills, and Sunset Heights.
 EPNC, as a participative member of the Downtown plus Uptown Core Stakeholder Group, witnessed and participated in numerous community meetings and individual and specific neighborhood interviews on this master plan throughout the phases and on several occasions. All community recommendations were taken seriously, like the neighborhood concerns on displacement and the generation of low-income family housing opportunities in the residential areas.
 All were considered for the result of this plan. We believe the realized, transformed, and enhanced reinforced models described thoroughly in the Downtown plus Uptown Master Plan clearly addresses the different opportunities and challenges in this diverse 3.5 mile radius planning area.
 ALSO, THE SPECIFIC STRATEGIES COVERED IN THE MASTER PLAN, SUCH AS AN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SPECIFICALLY, THE REAL ESTATE OPPORTUNITIES WILL SHAPE THE FUTURE LAND USE, MOBILITY, AND PUBLIC REALM IN AN ORDERLY WAY.
 The Downtown Plus Uptown Master Plan extremely aligns with the El Paso Neighborhood Coalition mission, which is to unify all of the El Paso's diverse neighborhoods in matters of common interest and actively encourage, endorse, and promote issues of livability and remarkable quality of life in our communities. The next statement is by Elena Lightborn. As a member.
 As a member of the Rio Grande Neighborhood Association, I ask the City Council to support the recommendations made by the City Planning Commission, Downtown, Uptown, Master Plan Subcommittee in their latest report. I have lived within the physical boundaries of the plan for nearly a decade, and I believe a name change to Downtown and surrounding neighborhoods master plan is far more appropriate for said area.
 I was to see a higher level of engagement with local communities affected by the plan and hope for the city to develop and maintain consistent open and honest communication throughout the plans implementation including full consideration and active response to request and concerns raised by the community members.
 I support introducing a neighborhood participation plan process and creating workshops for our neighbors and to gain knowledge and civic empowerment. Please pay attention to the needs and wants of the people who already live in these communities. I want to be able to live in a safe healthy walkable affordable community that is still distinctly El Paso and not have to worry about pollution getting hit by cars or being priced out of my own home. Thank you. And last statement is by Oscar Martinez.
 One, change the name of the master plan to Downtown plus surrounding neighborhoods master plan. Take a look at the attached letter from our GNA that has been drafted and feel free to pull language from this. Number two, implement neighborhood participation plan meetings. Number three, maintain communication with the community throughout the 15 year implementation of the plan.
 And number four, create workshops to empower neighborhoods with the knowledge and tools to effectively collaborate with developers and city staff by leveraging the community and human development department. And that is the last statement. Sorry, I hit the wrong button. Thank you. Representative Canales. Thank you. Planning for the future is so important. And a lot of the problems that we face today in El Paso in the areas of
 infrastructure, housing, transportation, utilities, urban sprawl, stem from previous lack of formal planning for our city's continued build out and growth and adaptation to new situations and paradigms. Area master plans like this one, they make sure that we grow in a way that's sustainable and controlled.
 that works for the existing residents in our core neighborhoods, that improves housing options and preserves affordability, and that makes a better future for our downtown and the surrounding neighborhoods and the people who live and work here now and in the future.
 So I want to thank the the project team both from the city staff and from the the consultant teams Who've worked on this plan for many many months? I will read out some specific names. I want to include Joaquin and Alex who presented to us today Daniela Casada Marcella Antolini Apollonia Roldan Cynthia Albright David Dixon Nels Nelson Joel Mann Matt Prosser and Matt goble. I think I got everybody there and
 And I also want to thank all of the individuals and entities and associations involved throughout the length of the planning process who attended stakeholder groups and public meetings and neighborhood association meetings and city plan commission hearings and provided all of the invaluable input and feedback and sometimes criticism that that shapes the the plan into what it is now and
 And finally, I think it's really important to recognize the city plan Commission's downtown and uptown master plan subcommittee Who took a pretty substantial draft of the plan? And I think made it even better through feedback from the community specifically from the neighborhoods Who would be most impacted by? What's recommended in the plan?
 I'm specifically very proud of and grateful for my appointee to the to the city Planning Commission Brandon Carrillo He's hiding in the back over there Who was really the driving force behind the work done by the subcommittee and who thoroughly and diligently? interfaced with the stakeholder neighborhoods And and interested parties and put together a very professional subcommittee report with four really meaningful recommendations
 Three of those recommendations as Joaquin and Alex presented numbers two through four have been incorporated into the draft plan that we're considering today. But the first recommendation of the subcommittee report is to quote change the name of the plan to the downtown and surrounding neighborhoods master plan to reflect the goal of improving the quality of life for current residents.
 As we heard in the presentation, this change has not been recommended by staff and is left to us as the City Council due to the nature of the change because it represents a name change for a plan that's gone through such a long public process and because of the city's ongoing use of the uptown name in other planning documents.
 I hear those concerns from city staff, but I also think it's important that we as the council make a change to reflect the will of the neighborhoods within the plan area because ultimately it's a plan for them to make sure that the plan's name reflects the diversity of historic and significant individual neighborhoods with really unique identities and distinctive needs within the plan area.
 I see a middle ground option here that I think will work for most if not all of the the interested parties I know they can't speak for everyone, but I did run out to the gallery a few minutes ago and run it by both mr. Carrillo and our presenters Joaquin and Alex here from city staff and kind of got the thumbs up from everybody and
 So with that, I move to amend the name of the plan to the downtown, uptown, and surrounding neighborhoods master plan, and to make all adjustments as necessary throughout the text of the plan to reflect the change in the verbiage. Second. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Mayor Pro Temp.
 Thanks mayor a couple things Representative canal I want to address representative Crowley's motion and Joaquin and I have spoken about this a lot I I completely agree that there needs to be a change to this name I just don't think that we've got the right one like Downtown Uptown and surrounding areas to me it like actually takes out the integrity of those surrounding areas And so I don't know if there's a way Instead of that motion to maybe kick back that to the community and the subcommittee to come up with a better I mean, I don't know if I'm kind of
 beating a dead horse at this point but I just don't think it's a great name. I don't think any of that I don't think the up down plan was a great name to begin with. And so I don't know Representative Kanellis you can comment on that after I mean I'll obviously follow your lead or Joaquin if you want to comment. Well I'll just comment for our purposes today. I think the name of the plan is really just at the discretion of council. Our main goal is to get the recommendations and implementation actions from the plan adopted
 There's always opportunity for us to come back if council so wishes with sort of a renewed branding effort for the uptown nomenclature if that's something that council wants to direct us to do. My concern is just that we move forward with adoption of the plan so we can start to move forward with those implementation actions. But again completely at council's discretion as far as what we named the plan today.
 Okay, well let's talk about the plan then. Let's move on to that. Couple things, a couple of things. So I first wanna talk about the TERS. Kinda the first time I heard about a TERS today. Don't love the idea of a TERS, got a lot of concern about a TERS. I'm gonna keep saying the word TERS. And I just wanna ask the question that if passing this today directs you all to look into the TERS.
 Yes, it would it would direct us to start the process of looking into the TERS But no final decisions would be made on whether or not that TERS is implemented before coming back to council I think all these implementation measures would be would be on the table for us to take a look at but all of them would require And these these certainly require councils decisions on anything that we would implement Within that plan area so we would have to bring those back individually. I
 I feel some sort of way about that right now, but thank you, city manager. My other question is, when we first saw this presentation a long time ago, one of my concerns was the historic aesthetic of the neighborhoods. And so I want to kind of talk about some of the incentives for building. Did we look at all about keeping the aesthetics of the neighborhood with this?
 Sorry, I can answer that question. So one of the implementation strategies from today was looking at the urban design guidelines. So urban design guidelines are another way of saying looking at the aesthetics of buildings.
 And so I think part of what we're proposing are two things so on the one side There's going to be an aesthetic component. The second is going to be looking at the building and development perspective That's where we're looking at making sure that existing buildings stay in place and that they're used their highest and best use not that they're demolished And you know, we see something new go up in its place That's the two ways that we're proposing to address the concern about maintaining existing aesthetics and existing building stock within the plan area
 the microphone is off i've been trying to go through the plan that's on the backup and i just don't see any reference to that and i don't know if i'm i might just be missing it but i want to just be very clear about what is actually on paper and what is
 So the recommendation, I don't have the exact number off the top of my head, but it's the recommendation to adopt urban design guidelines. So what we would do is when we come forward with the actual zoning code amendments or building code amendments, whatever, whichever they may be, those will be attached to context sensitive neighborhood specific urban design guidelines.
 Okay. And then I want to comment on what one of our public speakers said, Mr. Wright. I think he brought up a really good point and it kind of got my head going a little bit about how we're incentivizing this kind of development for housing. And this might be more of a Mrs. Neiman question, so I'm sorry if I'm catching you a little bit off guard. You might not have the answer. I know in the state of Texas we are not allowed to require developers to put aside units for low-income housing. But with the state of Texas, we are
 a kind of plan like this in which we're incentivizing, are we allowed to look at something like that where developments are required to put in low income units or I think another option that other states have done is put dollars aside for that in a fund? So we do have a process through the low income housing
 application process that is handled through community development which is how we traditionally do through tax credits. So that's a process and I think you all looked at that as well right as part of your project so it's it's folded into the recommendations coming forward. Yeah that's a conversation I would like to have a little bit more. I mean I.
 think there are a lot of adjustments that could be made to this plan I've said before I think it's really smart that we're looking at housing at the urban core when we have the opportunity to I think the public has had some issues but those are being addressed by representative Canales and by you all and happy to support this today but I do want to be very clear that I do want to see more from that the conversation that we just had one little learn a little bit more about those design standards you're talking about but
 Have a lot of concern about the chairs and we'll be really hounding you about that as we move forward So, thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am Nundis Thank You mayor
 I first wanted to congratulate you on your new appointment as the grant funded program director. Congratulations, really well deserved. I wanted to lend my support to the amendment that Representative Canales made. I just have a question about if that item moves forward, if there's a way that we can
 formerly known as that way you know as the public is looking at our researchers are looking at it they know to reference that this specific area had that name and then it changed and I think that'll be helpful because when I look at plan documents planning documents sometimes it's only what it's being references only
 evident at that historical time and when you're trying to decipher 10 20 years later like it's really hard to determine that so that would just be a recommendation in the event that the changes. As it relates to the downtown tree master plan and some of those other things really really concerned about some of the the statistics.
 specifically in downtown. It does have a very low tree equity scorecard. And so if there are opportunities to collaborate with the Love Your Block program and 915 Treekeepers, we certainly would love the opportunity to work with Representative Canales and in downtown to try to improve the overall climate
 And downtown and then the other thing I just want to mention is kind of just looking at this holistically over the over my tenure. I have seen some like really great reports and then and these strategies. And but then the public is is not necessarily aware.
 understanding what the intent is they don't feel like they're being involved as much and then a lot of these decisions are being made and then there's these requests to change them after the fact which is why I'm really big believer in some of these planning practices and having a robust team to do that long-term visioning planning and strategies with the public and so in the past we have had
 these what were they called these cohorts and they're not cohorts they're where you where the public comes out and then we look at some plans sure it's there you go we used to have these really great surets
 throughout the city and you know I really do believe that should be no different and I know you all engaged the public but there were some concerns about being engaged consistently and early on we do have public facilities in downtown dedicated for this the blue flame building on the 17th floor is an option opportunity but we also have other downtown properties like the the one in front of San Jacinto and so I I would urge this administration to look at making sure that we are providing the space
 providing the team and then providing that coordination between the public and staff not after the fact where we're hearing these complaints and so I really do believe that that should be a direction the team should take but that is up to the city manager I just wanted to lend my support for that but overall really great plan I think these amendments are are reasonable and I just wanted to thank you and I appreciate your support Representative Canales thank you ma'am
 Thank you Mayor. One last time to close us out. I just wanted to comment on what Representative Anelo had to say about focusing on on affordable housing.
 operating within this plan and then I think in addition to this plan I'm looking at other ways I would love to collaborate with you on on other ways that we can we can look to do this and community land trusts are a great option In Texas, there's a specific kind of I know you don't you you the TERS gave you pause But there's a specific type of tax increment fund a TIF called a homestead preservation reinvestment zone which takes a portion of of
 of the tax increment and reinvested into homestead properties within a particular typically low income area. Those are currently allowed only in Austin and Houston. There's some bracketed legislation that allowed them. I want to work with the state delegation from El Paso for unfortunately it'll be the next session two years from now to see if we can expand the
 see if we can expand the bills that allowed those in Austin and Houston to El Paso. I think there are tools available to us like that that can help us accomplish some of the goals that are in this plan in addition to some of the, I think, very strong implementation recommendations that are in the plan itself. So I think it's overdue that we have a sit down and talk about some of these strategies
 You know, we have a few years to work on implementing some of these things before the next session and then hopefully after the next state legislative session we can have even more tools available to us that, like I said, hopefully get us to a point where we are strongly implementing a lot of the goals in the plan. Thank you again for the hard work and I hope everyone can support today. Thank you.
 we do have a motion first for the amendment and then we can vote on this amendment is there a second for the amendment yes representative uh okay and the motion is to amend the name of the plan to the downtown Uptown and surrounding neighborhoods Master Plan and to make all adjustments as necessary throughout the text of the plan to reflect the change in verbiage
 And that was moved by Representative Canales seconded by Representative Salcido on that motion call for the vote. Representative Pietro. Aye. And the amendment has been approved with Representative Molinar voting nay. I move to approve the plan as amended. Motion made by Representative Canales seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the resolution as amended. One second please Representative Pro Tem.
 Thanks. I just want to clarify another some other ask from the community. I know that they were brought up about working groups, the subcommittees. I want to make sure where we are doing this because the language just says the uptown downtown master plan. I didn't know if those needed to be added in there. Okay. So the one of the recommendations specific to the neighborhood participation plans was added to the plan as one of the implementation actions.
 The other two recommendations from the City Plan Commission and from the members of the public really are steps that we'll take during the implementation. I don't know that you all need to take specific action to direct us to do those things. We will make sure as staff that's part of just the best practice of implementing a planning document like this that we are doing those things and we can commit to reporting back to council maybe on an annual basis of the updates on our implementation for the plan.
 Thank you, Joaquin. I think saying it in the record is a good thing for the public to hear. So thank you very much. Thanks, Mayor. Thank you, Diane. And we do have a motion to approve as amended made by Representative Canales, seconded by Rivera. Representative Rivera. On that motion, call for the vote. It is to approve the amended item. The resolution as amended. Rep. Piero. Aye. Thank you, sir. And the item has been approved with Representative Molinar voting nay.
 Can we take call to the public please? Call to the public next. And then we'll recess for one hour afterwards. The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and meetings focused, must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of the city council.
 ALL PERSONS IN ATTENDANCE ARE EXPECTED TO DISPLAY CIVILITY AND DECORUM THAT IS RESPECTFUL TO OTHER PERSONS WITHOUT THE USE OF INSULTING PROFANE THREATENING OR ABUSIVE LANGUAGE PUBLIC COMMENT WILL NOT BE USED FOR PERSONAL ATTACKS AGAINST A PERSON OR GROUP'S CHARACTER OR INTEGRITY WHICH ARE NOT PERTINENT TO CITY BUSINESS NOR MAY ANY MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC USE THIS FORUM FOR POLITICAL STATEMENTS
 campaigning please note that during the call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda however council may propose that a topic be posted on a future agenda the first person is mr. Aurelio by Valdez jr. his topic is police gender discrimination sexual harassment mr. Valdez jr. was in chambers earlier I don't see anyone
 No. No. The next person is Elizabeth Crawford. Ms. Crawford, start six to unmute your telephone. Elizabeth Crawford, are you on the line? Start six to unmute your telephone. And her topic is urban planning. You have three minutes, ma'am. Yes, Anthony. Can you hear me? We can hear you. Okay. Thank you so much.
 Good afternoon. I wanted to just address some of the things that have come up in the recent city council meetings. I've been trying to stay up to date with international news as well as much as possible and have been looking a lot at the plans of the World Economic Forum, which has close ties to the United Nations. As most of you are probably aware, the World Economic Forum is a big part of the world's
 founded and led by Klaus Schwab. And there are many global projects on their agenda, projects with words of sustainability, environmentalism, stakeholder capitalism, et cetera. And many of their goals have the word zero in them. The 15-minute city is part of that. Several weeks ago, one of my friends texted me a website to look at just some of the World Economic Forum plans.
 And I was in shock because when I saw that, I was like, wait a minute, these exactly match a large portion of what's been coming up at city council meetings in El Paso. Just a lot of the language, a lot of the planning is identical to the World Economic Forum agenda. Why does this matter? Globalism, there's a plan for globalism within our nation, within the cities,
 What is globalism? It's the unifying across national boundaries.
 From my understanding of God's holy scriptures, our world is headed toward a world of totalitarianism. In the future, it's headed by evil. Both in the Hebrew scriptures, which are called the Tanakh, we would refer to them as the Old Testament, but the Tanakh, and the New Testament, in the book of Daniel, the book of Revelation, many prophecies about cities. God has a lot to say about cities and what is to come in the future.
 The Bible is God's word. It is full of prophecies, and the test of whether something is true is do prophecies come true? We see in the Old Testament scriptures the prophecies of the coming, the first coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Isaiah chapter 53, talking about Jesus, a man despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. We hid, as it were, our faces from him. That chapter, Isaiah 53, describes his crucifixion.
 speaks of his resurrection, his first place in Micah was prophesied, his perfect holy life and ministry in the cities of Israel, all prophesied came true, one to the next to the next. The fact that the first coming of Christ was prophesied accurately gives us confidence that when things of the future are spoken of, that also will come to pass.
 Daniel chapter 9 in the Old Testament speaks about the Messiah being cut off before the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A.D. When a book prophesies with this level Thank you ma'am your three minutes are up Next person Thank you Ms. Crawford Efrain Saucedo and his topic is health of the city council You have three minutes sir Three minutes Give me one hour
 Good morning. Good afternoon, sir. Afternoon, yeah. The first thing that I want to say is God bless you, OK? God bless you because you have a hard job. You have a real hard job. Now, I want to congratulate my senior rep because we had a meeting with George De La Torre. As electrical engineer, he knows a lot. I'm an electrical engineer, but he has a lot of knowledge.
 how to save light, electricity. He's a very well-known man, and also I'm real tired right now. Also, you can call him and make an appointment with him, and he can take you to the plant, electrical plant over there on Montana and Zaragoza. I've been there a lot of times, and the engineers, electrical engineers, they know what they're doing.
 Okay, and also I want to congratulate all of you guys because my city is looking a lot better, a lot cleaner. And I know, Mayor, you are a kind person. I wish you all the best. Oh, before I forget, I always forget this. If you know a person who went with a dentist and took out one molar, one tooth piece molar or tooth,
 where and then in the person, especially the ladies, got cancer. That's because the dentist hurt a nerve. Now, take her to a better dentist and explain the situation. And if he fix it, the cancer will go away in one month or before. Okay? And I see you guys real relaxed. You probably make contact with Mother Earth.
 and father, son. How many of you make contact? Nobody? If you do that, you're going to feel a lot better. No stress at all. No stress. Okay, now, I'm going to give you another tip. If you can stand in one foot, in one foot for 20 seconds,
 You are okay or you are hard. If you don't, you will start doing something. Thank you very much. God bless you. And see you in two weeks. And we'll see you in two weeks. Yes, sir. God bless you, all of you. You too, sir. I love you a lot. That's a joke. Next person is Mr. Stephen Strumer. And I see him.
 topic is street stripes needed on Nevada Street in Florence and also in Arizona by st. Patrick's Church you have three minutes hi how are you mr. Strome I'm asking for striping on North Florence Street from Montana up to Murchison there is no stripes I'm asking for striping on North Campbell from
 the county building up to Murchison. There is no stripes. These are city employees, their lives important too. I'm asking it for Nevada. There is no striping on Nevada since at least January of 2015. Nevada looks like a, well, like a rural road. The last time I was here, I came back, there was a two car accident at Nevada at Kansas.
 People are coming down Kansas Street as a this runs in kind of patterns More and more now we are asking for striping. I do not have the Stripe on Kansas at Nevada at all mayor. I have very very little shadows of it at all I do not want my provider to be struck and
 She's a longtime resident of this community for 58 years. I have a friend of mine, sir, that has served seven wars, seven different times, not seven wars. I do not want him smooshed like a tomato. He's from Port Isabel. We have about four different people at Nevada Apartments that have served in the military. Their lives are important to me. They're not all intimate friends, my provider is. I'm asking for striping around St. Patrick's Cathedral. These are children.
 Their parents are deeply important. We had an advertisement back home for Martin's paint. He used to say, it ain't just paint. The reason is if a car strikes and there's no paint, sir, the driver can say, I didn't know. I didn't see it. I couldn't, it was dark. Paint, can't say that. So I'm asking,
 We don't have the cross, we don't have the stop line at North Mesa at Arizona, sir, at St. Pat's. We don't have it. It's very, very light shadows. I'm asking for it at North Stanton at Arizona, if you can help, sir. I'm glad I spoke to you on the 15th. I know you all are good. It's nice to see you, sir, about this. I'm just asking for a little bit of help.
 Thanks so much. Thank you for your comments. The last speaker is Mr. Jose Gaston Barriga. He's coming up. And his topic is awareness. Good afternoon. Mayor and city council members, there are a couple of things. Number one is I will appreciate if you keep your time scheduled. You may have certain things that you have to do
 Have things as well. I just appreciate that have give me that respect as well. The second thing is Their awareness is there a couple of things that you change? Okay It's a is you're gonna change the name of something at least implement something new into something into the plan Because it's changing the name is just like what's going on right now in today's that we're in today's world, Riga You can't speak on items. No, I'm not generalized generalized and anything just change in street and
 Just change the name of the street, at least do something, just push something. It's a fever that was happening. I will tell you the problems that I have encountered. Number one is as a veteran at the airport, there is no, number one you have a sign that says no entrance.
 But at the same time, when I parked, because I had to drop off somebody, I had to drop off somebody, and then I tried to exit, but there's nobody down there. For some reason, it says that it's an automatic system. There is no information on the Internet. There is no information on the website. And the ordinance is from 2006 from Mayor Cook.
 So that's the reason, it's an awareness. So yes, stop changing names, make things happen. That's what I'm asking, that's an awareness. Stop wasting my time, my being standing right here waiting for me to say something. That's what I'm asking. Make things happen. The other thing is several months ago, I tried to use the Brio. I was gonna use coins, I couldn't make, I couldn't, just for one dollar, I had to use my credit card.
 I couldn't put a dollar because the machine was inoperable. It's nowhere in the website that says that I couldn't use the machine. I mean, come on. Today we have so much technology. Give that type of information to us. I mean, I'm a user. I barely use your systems. I mean, I'm not complaining. I'm just barely using it. You barely see me now.
 I mean, it is the reason that you see me today, you know? So you have a great day. So let's see when you see me again. Take care. Thank you. Thank you for your time, sir. Do we have a motion to retire into executive session? No, we're going to do one thing. I know we're going to do it. No, we're going to break for lunch, as we've said from now on, except that we do have item 26. Twenty-four. Don't we have item 26 that I think you're all here? Yeah, just 26, and then we're going to take an hour for lunch. If we could take 26.
 Yeah, but 25 is not here. You also have item 24. I know that, but they're not here.
 I'm just gonna take the one item there here so they don't have to wait for us to go to lunch, and then we'll come back. Okay, item 26, discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services with DEC El Paso LLC, a domestic limited liability company LLC, for a project known as Vista del Sol reconstruction, resurfacing for an amount not to exceed 473,436.82.
 Motion to approve. Motion and a second. And we do have a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Hernandez, to approve. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Fierro. And the item has been approved with Representative Anello not present for the vote. All right, can we have a motion recess for one hour? Motion made, seconded, and unanimous. All those in favor? Any opposed? Any opposed?
 and City Council will recess for one hour. It is 1257 p.m. We have a quorum now. Do we have a motion to return and reconvene? Thank you. Do we have a second? All those in favor? All in favor? Aye. All those opposed? And we are back at the July 5th regular City Council meeting at 2.02 p.m. The next item on the agenda is item 24, and that is discussion and action on a presentation of the Public Safety Bond Program.
 Good afternoon, Ms. Hernandez. Yvette Hernandez, Capital Improvement Department. Chief, tell him he can't hide behind you. Good afternoon. This is a presentation on an update for the Public Safety Program.
 I'll go over an introduction, so what was approved back in November, an overview, give you a project status so you can see the projects that have been completed under this bond program, and some of the challenges that we have encountered over the few years. And with that comes the recommendation for the next steps.
 So the Public Safety Bond Program, this was passed back in November of 2019. This was the issuance of $413,122.650. And this was looking specifically at our Public Safety Program, both PD and Fire. If you remember, there was also looking at placing new facilities within our city because we're growing, so making sure that we can still meet our response time within different areas.
 Also, a feasibility study was performed prior to developing this program, and this really looked at major maintenance and facilities.
 Facilities that really do need attention to their heating and cooling and roofing specifically also wanting to improve working conditions for our city employees and then really making sure that we can where possible really join our
 and other facilities so that we have that improved savings in combining both fire and PD together. More specifically on bullet item number four is the joint academy. So the funding overview program,
 If you'll remember, about $222 million was passed specifically for PD. This looks at the new Eastside Regional Command Center. As I made mention, the joint venture of the training academy, our police headquarters.
 Central Regional Command, which that we will get into further detail in executive session because that is one of the projects that we're looking to site that location. Also set aside approximately $44.8 million to renovate our regional command centers and also the fleet replacement.
 So the program is going to be rolled out over nine years, and you see how we have worked with Robert Cortina's and his staff to make sure that we issue the debt as we start to begin those programs.
 For the fire department, it was $191.2 million, and this looks at some new fire stations, 36, 38, also that joint training facility, fire headquarters, and vehicle replacement as well. We also have the rollout over the next few years ending in 2028 with Fire Station 40 being the last to be constructed.
 So, project program status update of the work that we have completed. So as I made mention, we've done the programming for the police department headquarters. That is something that we'll talk to you about with regards to the siting of the headquarters. Also addition to the siting of central regional command.
 Northeast Region Regional Command Center, we've already started. As many of you might know, Mayor, we had a couple of calls. The temperatures were pretty hot last summer, so we've already started the work to replace that HVAC to make sure that we change out that aging infrastructure that we have in that region.
 regional command center. And then lastly, we've already identified the property for the training academy and we're working through an alternative procurement method which is design build. So we really want to make sure that with this facility that we do design build so we can release it in certain packages
 That allows us to secure pricing with the contractor ahead of time so that as the time increases we don't see an increase in that budget and we know what our guaranteed maximum price is for those projects. And then currently under construction is the Eastside Regional Command Center. Here you see renderings that we had provided to City Council of what the proposed facility would look like. And then here is the update with the construction that we've started out there.
 So the Joint Public Safety Academy, this is a total of 79 million. This is going to be located in District 4. It will have the Police Academy, Fire Academy, so that's where we're joining the two facilities, and then also the location of the Fire Department headquarters.
 This is the design build. We are currently reviewing the rankings. Can't say much about the process under the CONUS Islands, but we have already conducted the interviews for this next firm. And this is the location where the facility will be sited.
 And just a close-up, this is roughly 212,000 square feet. So this will have the vehicle maintenance, fire logistics and warehouse, the training academy for both fire, PD, indoor shooting range, a shared gym, weight, and locker room. And then we also have supplemental equipment.
 facilities that will be located here. And this is really focusing on the training. So this is the Hogan's Alley and then the structure, the fire training structure for their training at this facility. So looking at a schedule, we started this back in August of 2021. Once we approve the design build contract, we're ready to start design. We really want to break ground next year.
 And so looking at the portfolio for the fire project, the status, so design has already been completed in 15, 16, 18, 25. We're working very closely with our fire department to make sure that we're rotating when you're under construction, when we start renovation so that there is no delay in their response time.
 As made mention, the headquarters, the training academy, were working on the rankings. Fire Station 38, we're currently negotiating with the contractor, so we anticipate as soon as contracts are signed and execute to start construction in the fall of this year. Here is a rendering that is proposed for Fire Station 38.
 The project status on renovations, we're near completion in 19s, 21s, and 36, which is out on the west side. And we should be completed with 1026 later this year in the fall. So here are some of the pictures of the progress throughout the city. This one is slated for the fall of this year. Fire Station 19 is soon to wrap up.
 Fire Station 21 is also scheduled for this summer. Fire Station 26 is later this fall. And here's a run deal that we proposed to council. This is what we presented when we were going through the design process. This one's out on the west side. And here is pictures of the completed project. And we're soon to wrap this one up in the next two months.
 And then here are pictures of Fire Station 5, the gym floor replacement. Also, we worked on the exhaust at 37s and 5s. And then the taller bottom right corner is the new addition for the vehicles that the fire station is getting. If you'll notice, this bay is taller and it allows for them to house one of their newer vehicles at Fire Station 20. And so some of the impacts that we're seeing as we're developing this bond program,
 We've really seen a rise in material and labor delay. As I made mention in the Northeast HVAC, as soon as we realized we had the problems, there was valves that were not functioning correctly. I mean, they are beyond their life expectancy. We went in there, did some fixes, we ordered them. We're barely gonna get them this August. So that's an entire year that we're waiting for HVAC, just to let you know some of the delays that we're experiencing.
 Also, a lot of the contractors are experiencing some of the delays as they do masonry work or different of their subcontracting. So we're seeing that reflected in the bid prices that we're receiving. And one thing I do want to note is that in 2019, we did know that this was going to be a rollout. We weren't going to complete everything in 2021.
 Granted, we didn't have a crystal ball. We didn't know what was going to happen in 2020. We did build in a 30% contingency plus inflation costs over the rollout of this bond. And we're seeing that these costs are not sufficient for the bid prices that we are receiving now.
 And so some of the things that we've seen this experience, this inflation in the cost is specifically with steel, with iron and steel. So if you're looking at structural components, if you're looking at rebar, any concrete that you pour needs rebar, copper wire, any of the IT items that we need specifically for PD and fire it's required. These are some of the materials that have an increased in costs.
 And so these are just proposed penciled in. These are not inked in. So when we do design, we ask our consultants to say, OK, based upon the programming, what you've heard, what we need to complete within this design,
 what do you think the cost is going to be? So they've provided us cost estimates, and you'll see this does not look well. And that's one of the reasons why we wanna make sure that we're citing these correctly, where we can share facilities to save in the cost, where we can make sure that we are programming to meet our needs, but then also look, okay, do we have enough room to expand for the future?
 And so those three, we've already seen that there is a gap that we need to fill. Eastside Regional Command Center, currently we are flat on that budget.
 But one of the things we did is we do have to be strategic on how we roll out these new projects. So with Fire Station 38, it's a joint site with the Eastside Regional. So there was some shared costs there, the emergency generator, parking, fueling stations. So that did help alleviate some of the burden when we brought the Eastside Regional online, or as we bring it online, excuse me.
 PD headquarters, we've worked on the programming and you'll see in a later presentation of where we're at with the allocation of square footage for programming and some of the ideas that we have to reduce this down. All while working with our chief to make sure that we are meeting the intent of this bond program.
 So for the capital projects, fire station 38, as I said, this is still estimated. We're currently in negotiations. So once we finalize that, we'll understand what the funding gap is. And special units, special unit station, we're currently working with the contractor as well. So this is an estimated funding gap.
 As I made mention, the good news is 19's, 21's are going to be completed here shortly. And so I do want to come back to council and say we have an estimated funding gap. But as we complete out those projects, want to make sure to report back to council how well we did with the projects that have been already awarded.
 And so the reason to really highlight some of the issues that we've seen in regards to the bids that we've received, some of the material increases, labor shortages, is that we are asking council in order to meet that funding gap, we want to utilize some of those monies that you saw within the first two slides for the renovations.
 to be moved into the newer facilities that we've identified that funding gap. So we still want to maintain the integrity of the bond, making sure that we're looking at HVAC, making sure that we're looking at our roofing system so we extend the life
 But if there's any savings that it could be into the new facilities so that we're making sure that we have the response times in the different areas of the city that we need those new new buildings. So we'll continue to coordinate with PD fire, really addressing what their needs are hearing from the user groups directly, making sure to be strategic that we're not building out all as once, but we're looking to where there's future growth.
 Also, working hand in hand with our consultants, we want to make sure that we reduce any complexity in their designs. Sometimes they get a little bit fancy and you see that risk in the contractor's cost and they increase it because they're not certain of how exactly it should be constructed.
 Making sure that like we did with the academy to use the alternative delivery methods. Thankfully, the procurement purchasing department allows us that and we're able to secure bid prices sooner than later in releasing those separate packages. And then just working with the contractors and making sure they really understand the design intent.
 So any changes that are done within this bond and identified monies, they need a million dollars and above. They need council approval. So council will see any movement of the renovation funds into the new projects and have to be approved by the council. So we're asking for council approval this morning, afternoon. Thank you. Mayor Potem, thank you very much for the presentation and the update. I know you've got a lot of things, seems a lot of things working. Thank you.
 So we thank you for that. Mayor Fulton. Thanks. Yvette, I'm sorry, what is the ask today? So the ask is should there be savings in renovation? So really focusing on primarily heating and cooling and roofing and focus on those items first. Any cost savings that we realize would be moved into the new facilities where you see that there is a larger funding gap.
 I'm sorry, you want us to move cost savings in from renovations, of renovations that weren't originally scheduled, instead of doing the other renovations that were, regional commands were told they were going to get?
 No, sorry, let me clarify. I'm sorry, I'm confused. So with the renovations, you can do anything from painting to replacing countertops to adding a new window, right? So not focusing on the aesthetic, but really making sure that those dollars are concentrated in the HVAC and the roofing. So meeting your critical infrastructure first, and then the cost savings would be moved to your new construction.
 Yeah, I mean that's so it's exactly what I said I guess my thing is I'd like to see that before we made that decision because I do think that there were a lot of these regional commands that were Expecting a lot of renovation. I mean paint is paint but it they were bathrooms right? They were windows those things are
 I mean, they were put aside for those renovations. And so unless there's a specific item of savings to go to new construction, like I'd like to see it as those savings came on board versus what can be done at that regional command. Does that make sense? Right. And so we will bring those before council. It's giving us that toolkit to say, okay, this is something that we can do because right now,
 I'm short on cost, but if I have that savings that I can look at it, I can bring that to council for your approval with the scope of work to get that and keep the projects moving. I'm sorry? For new construction. Correct. But I guess what I'm saying is, I don't, I mean, it's a tricky thing. I don't understand. You're saying you'll bring them back individually, but you want us to give you direction today to do that? To allow us to do that.
 Yeah, I don't know how I feel about that today because, again, I do – I mean, what are the needs? We haven't seen an entire assessment of, say, Northeast Regional Command and all of the renovations they need. I know that HVAC was an issue last year, but I don't know about what other renovations were scoped out in 2019. I don't know what is needed in that facility to make that decision. Does that make sense? That makes sense. So I would like to kind of see those to be able to understand. Okay. Yeah.
 Okay, I have a few other questions about the presentation. Fire Station 16, the location of that has not changed? That is still at Fred Wilson? Mm-hmm. Okay. Just because I see that construction is going to start in fall of 23, and I just wanted to make sure that was still correct. Yeah? Yes. Okay, great. Y'all moving quick since we got that lease. My big question, so I'm going to bring up the training facility again, see if we're going to do outdoor shooting at the new training facility. Anybody have any comments on that?
 It's been an issue since 2019. I still say that constituents in that area voted to move all of the shooting and blasting from the outdoor facility to the new facility. I've been told for years it's not going to happen. I don't know if there's any comments anybody wants to make, if that has changed. I know Representative Canales can probably tell you about a lot of the complaints he gets about it. I'm going to bring it up again. I'm going to keep bringing it up.
 Peter Pacias for the record. So the new academy will have an indoor shooting range.
 as far as that goes, but that's for handgun, shotgun type weapons. As far as the bomb squad training and the disposal of suspicious devices, the only location that we have to do that is the current 2300 scenic drive. And I guess my question is why. Like why are we not building that out at the new location? Yeah.
 It comes down to dollars and cents. Just moving it out there, we're still going to probably have the same problem as far as if we have to use to counter charge suspicious devices, you're still going to have the same
 Yeah, but not as many residential neighbors, and so you're going to have a lower impact to the community. Eva, would it be possible to see what the cost of that would be? Because I know we're, in the future, not in this presentation, going to be talking about a little bit of savings and co-locating on that property, and so I would like to see what that would cost as well. So a portion...
 The academy was the design build, so we have bridging documents. So a portion of that scope of work was included in that, and we're looking to expand on that scope. So we're currently in discussions with the consultant. That makes me happy. Could you share that with me? That would be great. Can you share that with me? Or is it still in the –
 Once we've selected the consultant, so that should be within the next two weeks, we'll be able to do that. And we're also having a meeting, I believe, next week to discuss that increase. Thanks. As soon as I asked it, I realized it probably wasn't possible. But I appreciate it. Chief Pacillas, I know that that has been the case. Like I said, I'm going to continue to push that we look at that until... Well, I want to always push to do that, so just letting you know. The problem is the...
 what we're dealing with when we're doing dealing with bomb squad type issues yeah okay well thank you and then i guess um my last question is about headquarters um without getting into information that is pertinent um to your upcoming presentation i know that this was originally scheduled for the beginning of the bond obviously covet delayed it to 23 although we have completed some projects correct you said that the east side command center was it's soon to be completed correct
 Okay. Well, yeah, and I've still never understood why if the headquarters was the focus to move forward, why other things did and this didn't. But you have there that it is scheduled to start in 23? Is that correct? Am I reading this slide correctly, slide six? Or are you just kind of saying that's where we are now? So the headquarters would be the same design build, so it would be starting the design.
 So you wouldn't see us breaking ground and that is dependent upon some of the decisions that council will be asked to made and make Inciting of the headquarters I Presented with it. Do we know when that will happen? We're taking it to executive today Thank you, Mary Pro Tem Thank you very much
 So the voters approved this bond in November of 2019, the amount roughly 413 million. And so what are your projected concerns that we will not meet that, where we're under budget? Do you have a figure on that? So right now, I didn't add up that last slide, but I think we're around 56 million. Okay, can we go to slide 10, please?
 Okay, so let me make sure I'm at here. Could IT please bring up the presentation and go to slide 10? Okay, so the police department headquarters, where do we anticipate that you're going to be located? That's for executive, sir, because it's discussing. We will discuss that in executive because it's discussing real estate. Okay, all right. Then moving on to slide 13.
 So, on slide 13, we talk about the delivery strategy that is design-build. And I understand that, you know, the same company, the same architects, and everyone builds that, if I'm correct on that, correct? Yes, sir. Okay. And so, here in El Paso, how many construction companies have that means to do a design-build project in large scale?
 I don't know the exact number, but I would say it's anywhere from 7 to 12. 7 to 12 here in El Paso? Yes. You'll see if they don't have experience with the city, they also have experience with El Paso water and the school districts. So since some of the school districts have recently awarded larger bids, they have utilized design build to do that as well. And some do have also experience outside of El Paso.
 And they are local firms to qualify or to answer your question. Okay, well, I'm going to cut my questions there. We're going to go into executive sessions. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Lundes, followed by Representative Canales. Hi, Yvette. Thank you for the presentation. I have a lot of concerns with, to be honest, I –
 I remember when we were talking about this to the public, one of the major concerns were renovations to existing facilities. And so I think we need to create some kind of parameters or at least show the initial approval.
 and then what will change facility by facility. And one of the reasons why I was trying to initiate a public safety bond committee so that we can have a committee that would look at every change, because none of us could have predicted this worldwide pandemic. And so while I recognize the challenges that you're facing with
 I think this very much needs some public vetting and I
 Number one, we want to make sure that when we present a bond that we're being incredibly transparent with any of those changes. And I know that you want that, which is why you're bringing that here to us. I just think it's absolutely necessary that given the constraints and given the rise in cost that we demonstrate to the public and give faith through potentially a public hearing or something of that nature, specifically with the men and women community.
 and all persons who work in our police and fire department that they have an opportunity to share their input currently it's internally and i know that you all do a good job but we still have a constituency that we have to respond to and so when we make changes to our bond program rollout you know i know that that's the purview to us but given the amount of dollars that are that are being spent in these voter approved bonds i think it's absolutely necessary that we need to go to the public
 The other thing I wanted to mention to you, there's a couple of discrepancies in your slides, specifically the amounts. Police headquarters, excuse me, the police safety...
 training station, there's errors throughout the slides. So I just wanted to bring that to you because I'm seeing two so far. The other thing I wanted to mention is the 2% arts. The 2% arts funding that's allocated to this.
 I know that some of them were earmarked in the public arts rollout of the plan Presented to council earlier this year. My concern is that no public vetting again outside of the MCAT process to incorporate Both the police and fire associations That was a commitment that was made here on the days at a past meeting and so as part of this planning I absolutely think that that we need to get there get the information because some of the plans that I've heard and read
 It concerns me because I don't know that those who actively coordinate memorials, those who, especially for fallen service members, excuse me, fallen police officers, you know, the location of where the future memorial will go, you know, I think absolutely needs to be part of this rollout for the police headquarters. And not to mention the other station renovations.
 The renovations, I think it makes sense what you're recommending. You want to put it to the bones. You want to put it to ensure that it's a safe environment. I support that. But I also have the public to say, here's why we had to make these changes. This was a very expensive bond, and we need to do as much as we can to share with the public. I've already shared this with some of the architects and internal staff. I just wanted to make sure that I reiterated that.
 But the renovations, I think we need to just do a little bit more vetting and communicate with the public, specifically members of the association as well, and then get their feedback. Even if it's just a presentation at one of their board meetings so that we can hear their
 But that's, again, my opinions. I understand the constraints. I understand the struggles. It's difficult, and we're in a position now that we've got to make decisions to pay interest rates and labor costs.
 versus getting the output on some of these expectations from the public. And so I think this is a good first step to have a conversation. I just don't feel comfortable at this time to make any recommendations to transfer any of the funds without some form of public vetting. And so, but I appreciate the work that you've done. I think it just needs a little bit more review. Thank you, Yvette. And for the comment on MCAD, we'll coordinate with them so that we're expanding their outreach.
 Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Representative Hernandez followed by Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, I'll try to be brief mostly by just saying ditto on what my colleagues have said. I think I have similar concerns in just wanting to see the level of detail of what we will be sacrificing in the renovations before we give any direction here. I think it would be a perfect subject for a work session where we can dive in a little
 and look facility by facility at what changes we would need to make. So I guess that's all. Again, I think it was eloquently put by my colleagues, so I don't need to rehash. But I would like to see that before we take action. Okay. We can do a side-by-side so that you can see how the focus would be on HVAC, roofing, in lieu of some of the other items. Excellent. That would be very helpful. We'll do that.
 Just hearing the direction from the council, if you choose to go this way in terms of giving us that direction, I think bringing this to the public in terms of public engagement prior to a work session, if you want that additional vetting, we can do that first and then schedule time so that you can get that feedback as well as a plan. Yep. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Representative Moulinard?
 followed by representative no i'm sorry representative thank you quick question uh when you bring those back are you going to show the the drawings that were given to us before um the bond was to pass or when it passed i'm sorry there was drawings there were uh pardon me yeah remember the
 Well, you bring those back to so we can see what kind of renovations he station was supposed to get Thank you. Thank you Thank you this question is for chief Macias chief Macias Sorry to interrupt the meeting there's a
 Chief, good afternoon. How are you? Good, and you? I'm doing well. Thank you very much. Appreciate you being here and helping us out. So I'm going to ask you a generic question. And so currently right now at 911 North Rainer.
 police headquarters that's been there since probably late or middle maybe middle eight uh 80s i'm not really sure when it started 1988 1988 okay thank you so anyways currently right now and of course i know things change and i'm trying to do a walk through right now both on the basement the first floor and the second floor so i'm going to miss a few things but just off the top of my head there's of course the police administration we have planning and research
 We have human resources, court liaison, CAP, special traffic investigations, OCD, records, and the property office. And I'm sure there's more that I just haven't been inside there, and I cannot remember everything that's there. How many people...
 would that encompass there at police headquarters, 911 North Raider? If you have a ballpark estimate. I can get you an exact number. If you give me some time, I'll give you that number. We don't have the property office there. The property office is right across the street. But what we have grown into is we no longer have dispatch in the building. It's moved to the 911 facility. But we have headquarters traffic and motors are there. We increased...
 room or we had to squeeze in the crisis intervention team is now there and
 So we have that in there. Back in 1988 when we opened up, we did not have PDHR or backgrounds. So that has been put in there also. So the short of the answer is I'll get you the exact number. But, yeah, we're busting at the seams. If you could get that information for us as far as uniform and non-uniform. And, of course, like I said, I know it changes just like you just mentioned right now.
 I used to get the uniform is at the property office. Well, they're not there anymore. Oh central supplies is still downstairs, but the Property office where evidence and all that is held is just but somebody still occupies that room the property office issuing supplies Yes, sir, and our fleet is down there same location, too Thank you chief and if you could share that with all of us here at For the City Council, we would appreciate it. Thank you Thank you
 Thanks, Mayor. I don't know who this question is for. But I'll start with the pre-question event. I want to be very clear about what we're talking about, that HVAC was not included in the scope of work for a lot of these command centers. Is that what you were saying? No, that's not what I was saying. Okay. And so HVAC, this is not the first time that we've heard that HVAC and roofing is a serious issue across the city. I'm looking at you, Mr. Westing, because I guess you're the one who's going to answer this. Can you tell me what we're doing to address that across the city?
 Do we have a fund for it? Has council made any decisions when it comes to a fund to deal with HVAC and roofing? I don't think we have anything specific other than other than facilities funding and frankly To maintain facilities there will need to be more incremental funding year over year than there is now
 Yeah, I mean I guess I'm sitting back a little bit and saying it's not the first time we've heard this issue at a city Facility since I've been in office. We have not addressed it It sounds like it seems very irresponsible of this council to continue having conversations about where we're finding money for HVAC If we're not going to address it's not just at these command centers. It's in this building it's in all of our buildings and so I
 i guess my ask today would be if possible if we could be reminded of all of the hvac and roofing needs across the city um and what those numbers look like because as a council we need i mean we just it we've passed the buck too long and it's now impacting this bond
 it's you know we always kind of i don't want to use the word joke but but say you know someday it's going to become an issue even in this building and we're going to we're finally going to have to address it um which i think is is really unfair to the rest of our employees right it has to impact us before we recognize that it's an issue across the city um and so i would like to start having that conversation about how we're addressing these hvac and roofing needs um for our employees because it's just it's you're not the first
 to staff member three, four staff members to get up and say this is an issue and we've yet to do anything about it and we need to take responsibility for that. Yeah, no, for sure. We're getting ready to get into the budget discussion so having that conversation and looking at a longer term plan I think is,
 important I will say this in terms of the discussion about HVAC as an example I think what Yvette was doing was just saying that if the council were to move forward on looking at being able to realize some savings from renovations that you'd prioritize those particular renovations and these were some of the more you know high priority types of things that you'd want to look at making sure that you're funding
 I mean, what you're doing is being creative with the funding to deal with an issue that we've passed the buck on for so many years. I get that. I understand that. But I also think we should take responsibility for that and look at it as a bigger picture and see if there's another way to address it. I mean, I appreciate you doing that. If you weren't doing that, we'd all be in a much worse position. But it shouldn't be your responsibility to fix things with Band-Aids until...
 the council takes action you know so I don't want to I want to thank you for that comment Mr. Weston and I very much want to say that I'm not making this as a reflection of you I think it's a reflection of us as a council and representative vanilla if I could just add that they're currently doing a facilities assessment I believe they're about 50 percent complete so I'm pretty sure we'll bring that department will bring the presentation once that has been finalized yes ma'am thank you
 and we have no further questions and we don't have a motion to approve would you like to make motion to bring it back at the work session or we'll just leave it up to Colonel Weston you want to bring that back Colonel Weston on a work session yes sir let me let me work this with with staff and come up with a plan I don't think I'm ready to give you an exact okay great right now but we got we have the direction thank you so there's no motion for any action on this item
 Thank you. Thank you for your presentation again. No action on item 24. Moving on to 25. That is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services by and between the City of El Paso and Moreno-Cardenas Incorporated, a Texas corporation for a project known as Pebble Hills Reconstruction, resurfacing for an amount not to exceed $585,000. I move to approve.
 We have a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the item. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative? Representative Fierro? You're muted, sir. Try that again. Unmute and mute. Tap your feet once or twice. If it's an I, shake your head for us.
 Thank you. How about that. In the voting session the motion passes unanimously to 0. Yeah. Well we couldn't hear any one of you guys because you have your mic off. Into executive session. That's all the items on the regular agenda. So I got the motion from Mayor Pro Tem Manalo seconded by Representative Canales. All in favor. Any opposed. So moved. Seconded by Representative Canales. All in favor. Any opposed. Seconded by Representative Canales. All in favor.
 Yes. The City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into Executive Session pursuant to Section 3.5 of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551 Subchapter D to discuss any of the following. Executive Session Item Number 1, Claim of Willie Fuller, Matter Number 22-1026-1199 under Section 551.071.
 Executive Session Item Number 2, Claim of Aida Rodriguez, Matter 23-1036-3689, under Section 551.071. Executive Item Number 3, Villegas Daniel versus City of El Paso and Police Officers and All, Cost Number 3,
 15-CV-00386, matter number 15-1026-6957 under section 551.071. Item number 4, ZTEX Construction Incorporated versus City of El Paso, 243rd District Court, cost number 2023-DCV-1942 under section 551.071.
 Item number five, ZTEX Construction Incorporated versus City of El Paso, 448th District Court.
 COST NUMBER 2023 DCV 1939 UNDER SECTION 551.071. IN ITEM NUMBER 6, PURCHASE, EXCHANGE, LEASE, OR VALUE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED IN CENTRAL EL PASO, TEXAS, HQ NUMBER 23-895 UNDER SECTION 551.072. AND RETIRING TO EXECUTIVE SESSION AT 2.43 PM.
 Go ahead. Representative Maripoto, do you have them? Yes. Item number one, a motion made in second and carried that the city attorney's office be authorized to deny the claim of Willie Fuller in matter number 22-1026-11999 and to take all steps necessary, including the execution of any required documents in order to effectuate this authority. Second. Second.
 And we do have a motion made by represent by Mayor Pro Temanello seconded by Representative Molina alternate Mayor Pro Temanillo to deny. On that motion call for the vote. No do we I don't see Rep. Tierra. And on that in the voting session the motion passes unanimously 5 to 0. Representatives Hernandez Tierra and Canales not present. Next item.
 Item 2, claim of Aida Rodriguez. Motion made, seconded, and carried that the City Attorney's Office be authorized to deny the claim of Aida Rodriguez in matter number 23-1036-3689 and to take all steps necessary, including the execution of any required documents, in order to effectuate this authority. Second. And we do have a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Manelo, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, to deny. On that motion, call for the vote.
 Representative Canales do you want to vote on it? There you go. Thank you. And the voting session motion passes unanimously 6 to 0. Representative Hernandez and Representative Fierro not present for the vote. Item 3 is Villegas Daniel versus City of El Paso. No action. Item 4 is ZTICS Construction Incorporated. No action. Item 5 is ZTICS Construction Incorporated in the 4040 448th District Court. No action.
 And last item is the purchase item six purchase exchange and lease of value of or value of real property located in central El Paso No action motion to adjourn all those in favor and The regular City Council meeting for July the 5th has been adjourned exactly at 5 p.m. Thank you. Thank you Do we have a motion to adjourn? I? Want to say no I know I