Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, July 16, 2024. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding in council chambers along with Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Fierro, Representative Rivera, and Representative Canales. It is 9.02 a.m. Mayor, we have a quorum. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. And I'd like to take a moment to reflect on what happened this weekend.
 And the attempt on former President Trump's life was something that will never be condoned in our country. Something that, whether you agree or disagree, our country was built on people having the opportunity and the ability to express themselves. So what happened on Saturday night is something that our country is not built on that type of hatred.
 And I do want to send out our condolences to the family of the firefighter that lost his life and the two people that were injured and recovering in hospitals today. And know that we were elected to run to represent our community. And not 100% of the people will ever agree on everything we do. But one thing we do need to agree on.
 that we must respect each other. And with that, I want to have a moment of silence for the firefighter, his family, and the people that are in the hospital and pray that they recover and make a full recovery and that we never see this type of hatred again in our country. Thank you. May God bless America, and may God bless El Paso.
 miss pine thank you mayor and for the record representatives acevedo and hernandez join the meeting at 903 a.m that brings us to the mayor's proclamations for those receiving a proclamation this morning your group will have up to six minutes collectively to speak at the podium the first proclamation is sunset heights garden club 100th anniversary proclamation is uh representative canales good morning sir good morning mayor welcome everyone
 Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the Sunset Heights Garden Club was founded in 1924 by Elise Stevens and other El Paso families and has remained dedicated to the love of earth and educational programs for the past 100 years.
 And whereas while the members are no longer all from Sunset Heights as they were a century ago, the Sunset Heights Garden Club has continued to foster a strong sense of community, with membership open to all and many current members coming from El Paso's west side and spanning multiple generations. And whereas the Sunset Heights Garden Club offers its members enriching programs and activities, and all are eager to learn about nature and aspects of gardening through speakers who share their knowledge and encourage their efforts.
 And, whereas, the Sunset Heights Garden Club members are proud of their fellowship and encourage all to learn about nature and its needed conservation. And, whereas, the club has contributed to the beautification and environmental sustainability of our community through the promotion of xeriscaping, efforts such as the donation of a wolf statue and cactus at Keystone Heritage Park in memory of Dr. Enrique Bustamante and Magdalena Bustamante.
 and maintaining the yellow bells Tacoma stands flowering shrubs in memory of Rosa Negrete. And whereas current members of the Sunset Heights Garden Club include Anna Elena Allen, Victoria Anna, Norma Ballinger, Margo Barela, Marsha Brand, Bonnie Bristol, Enrique Bustamante, Bertha Isaacson, Carmen Ito, Dixie Lee Jackson, Vicky Kidd, Lori Olivas, Carol Pittinger,
 Jennifer Pratt, Ellen Saad, Wayne Ellen Segura, Anoy Whitler, Elizabeth Yeager, Margaret Yeager, and Lynn Polk. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of July 2024 shall be known as Sunset Heights Garden Club 100th anniversary, signed by our honorable mayor, Oscar Leeser. Congratulations.
 Good morning, all. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Waynlyn Sagada, and I would like to thank you all, and particularly for Sanda Hernandez, for recognizing the Sunset Garden Club for being in existence for 100 years. We are 20 members from all sides of El Paso.
 The president is Ellen Saad and she sets the programs for the year and she has been the president for eight years. We have learned how to plant and take care of a garden from mustard seed.
 we've learned how to plant amaryllises, and we have toured the Rose Garden. That's just part of the programs that Ellen has set for us this year. And I would also like to thank Victor Martinez of El Paso Inc. and his staff for the article that they put in their paper, because without that, we would not be here today. So thank you very much for having us.
 I want to congratulate you all. You still have about four and a half, five minutes, so if y'all would like to introduce yourselves, it'd be great.
 Thank you. I just want to thank all the members of the club who were able to join us this morning. They had to get up early and they had to do a lot of different things to get ready, but we do appreciate it. Thank you so much. We've got a great honor. We're very flattered, very, I mean, we're shocked that you called us, Ms. Hernandez. Thank you so much. Thank you. And I got a really strong feeling that the members of the Garden Club are no strangers to getting up early in the morning.
 And I want to congratulate you all. And, you know, a tradition is so important in 100 years. And I know that Sunset Heights has so many great traditions. And to have the Garden Club that be in existence for 100 years is a great accomplishment. And congratulations to all of you. And happy birthday to the Garden Club. Thank you. Thank you so much. Up in St. Cornelius.
 Thank you. A hundred years is incredible. I read the proclamation this morning because Sunset Heights is in my district but I need to give the credit where it's due and thank you to Representative Hernandez for I think reading the El Paso Inc. article and realizing the importance of marking a hundred years of this fantastic club. She and her staff did the work to get you here today.
 Mr. Canales you're in our district so your area would love to have you. Oh I'd love to go. Oh it's amazing. I mean the people are wonderful. They truly are. An open invitation to all of you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you. Representative Hernandez? I don't have a green thumb, but I would love to learn a little bit more. I have pecan trees, and so that's a good starting point. But what you're doing is beautiful. It's amazing. It is.
 what makes our city so beautiful and resilient. And of course, more greenery, more shrubs and flowers is really gonna help our overall environment. So welcome to the Centennial Club. You're joining the city. We just celebrated 150 years, so hopefully in another 50 years, you'll get to enjoy this milestone like the city of El Paso. And congratulations and thank you for joining us today.
 Thank you Representative Hernandez and I know that you said the next 50 years so looking around at our council, I'm gonna go ahead and volunteer to be here and wish you all a happy 150th year. So I want you all back, make sure you get up early that morning too.
 Excuse me but I'm one of those multi-generational members of this club and I'm not quite there at the hundred mark. But I hope that my children and the children and grandchildren of the people behind me continue to foster this program because the environment is important to us all. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Thank you. And for the record Representative Salcido joined the meeting at 9 12 a.m.
 That brings us to the next proclamation. And the next proclamation is Ray Monsera Day. Representative Ferro. Next is Representative Ferro. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Welcome, Mr. Monsera, and thank you for making a great entrance. Mayor, I have the honor and privilege to read this proclamation today. Whereas the League of United Latin American Citizens, LULAC,
 Founded in 1929, the nation's largest and oldest Hispanic civil rights organization that advances the economic conditions
 Attained political influence, housing, health, civic rights, and Hispanic population in the United States. Whereas Raymond Sera, a proud El Pasoan, was re-elected by his peers as LULAC's National Vice President for the Southwest June 29th in Las Vegas, Nevada at the LULAC National Convention. Congratulations.
 Whereas in 1981, Mr. Monseta became a member of LULAC, and in 1986, he was honored as Man of the Year by Texas LULAC, recognizing his outstanding contributions and services to the organization. Whereas from 2006 through 2008, and again from 2019 to 2023, Mr. Monseta served as LULAC National Parliamentarian, providing invaluable guidance and leadership during his tenure.
 Whereas during his time at LULAC, Mr. Mancera worked tirelessly and passed 64 amendments, the most ever passed since the LULAC founding. And whereas Ray Mancera has demonstrated exceptional leadership, dedication, commitment to the principles and mission of LULAC, under his leadership, the Southwest region of LULAC was undoubtedly continue and thrive.
 Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council the city of El Paso July 16th, 2024 shall be known as Ray Mancera Day. Congratulations. Thank you, Mayor, representatives,
 I don't need to introduce myself, but I will. Ray Manceta, I'm so used to it. I do want to thank you all for this wonderful proclamation. I would not have done it without my wife to my right, the baby, better known as Dr. Manceta, and to my left, my son, Marcos Manceta. Thank you all so much. Thank you. Mayor Lutzer, City Council. Good morning, sir. Good morning, sir.
 Most appropriate and well deserved the proclamation from mr. Ray Mancetta this election took place last month in Las Vegas at the National Convention We were well rewarded Ray is now the national vice president for LULAC for the Southwest It's a harbinger of what is to come history will tell us that we have had six National LULAC presidents from El Paso. He would be the seventh one. I
 And most, if not all, have been national VPs for the Southwest, so we are right on track for that. I just would like to take a short segment to say that you are all familiar with the Company E Memorial Highway. And I want to say that publicly that it is due to the efforts of Mr. Raymond Senec. When I first came to El Paso after being the co-author of the book, The Men of Company E,
 I went to Ray and I said, how do we get something named after the men of company? And he said, give me a couple of weeks. And he came back and he said, this was during the first time, Mayor Lee, so that you were mayor. And he said, go to City Hall, take your book, tell them about Company E. They're going to pass a resolution to name the 375 East Connector in honor of the men of company on Memorial Highway. So he did that.
 A year went by and during the time that DeMarco was the mayor,
 Said where's the money to put the signage? She says give me a couple of weeks He came back and he said go next Tuesday to City Hall and thanked him for appropriating $30,000 for the signage now one on Montana the other one on Las Americas that says this strip is now known as company Memorial Highway And it's all because of mr. Montserrat and I thanked them publicly and I'm sure the El Paso thanks in public. Thank you Thank you. No, you all still have three and a half minutes if someone else wants to speak. I
 Mayor Lisa city representatives Thank you, thank you for the Proclamation he had Bishop for Ray a couple of things that I'd like to mention is since he became the national vice president Ray one of the one of his first initiatives was to start Lula's first Veterans Council and that's in action right now secondly, there's a
 What I'd like to add, we have deported veterans initiative that Ray has also led. And one of the things that we cannot forget is that we have veterans who served honorably in the US Armed Forces and some of them were non-citizens. And after they came back, they made a mistake and because of the current legislation in place, they were deported from the US.
 Not only to Juarez to Mexico Central America South America and other parts of the world. And one of the things that we're taking on as LULAC is to work to return to bring back home our deported veterans. And just one more thing that I'd like to mention. One hundred four years ago El Paso City Council Mayor dedicated a local park Memorial Park to the veterans in the community.
 They honored the veterans that were killed in action and the nurses that were killed in action during World War I. And at that time, in 1920, Mayor and City Council dedicated Memorial Park as Veterans Memorial Park. On July 4th, 1969, the Mayor and City Council rededicated Memorial Park as a Veterans Memorial Park. And this is to remind people that park was set up to honor our veterans.
 It is time for a rededication and I am pleased to say that we were working with Dr. Josh Acevedo to work on getting that done. So with that that's some of those are some of the initiatives that are taking place with Ray Mancera as our national vice president for LULAC. Thank you. Thank you sir. Thank you all. You want to come up and we'll do a picture. Oh Representative one last thing I'm sorry Representative Molinaud.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much for being here with us today. Mr. Ray Monseta, and I say that with the greatest respect. We've known each other for quite some time. I've always seen you as a strong leader in the community for El Paso, this region. The fact that you've just been elected Vice President of LULAC, that is just awesome. Like the gentleman said, someday you're going to be president, and that makes us even more proud. So to you and your family, thank you very much. Our heart deserves. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Salcido?
 Followed by Mayor Potem. Thank you, Mayor.
 Again, hi, Ray. Great to see you. Congratulations. It's a great accomplishment to see you up there. And I just want to thank you for all the hard work that you do. You're very much community involved. Since I've been a council member, you did not hesitate to sit down with me and tell me what the issues were and just ideas of how we can progress El Paso. And so I want to thank you for your commitment to El Paso and just to see all the support that you all have here.
 We continue to see what you're gonna do next, and however we can support you or myself in any effort that you have or idea that's gonna make El Paso the best place to be, I am here to serve, thank you. Thank you, Representative Mayor Potem, followed by Representative Fiorello. Ray and I have known each other since I had a waist. Ray and Bebe, you have always been there. I remember back walking Fiesta de las Flores grounds
 in the heat and in the rain to try and make something work. And it's well-deserved. Congratulations. And it's always a great moment when an El Pasoan does well nationally like this. And next step, one more. Just move over one chair. You're going to be there. And congratulations. Representative Pirro. Thank you, Mayor.
 Mr. Mancetta, congratulations. Bibi, it's great to see you, congratulations. And I'd just like to take this opportunity to really show you our support, my support, for your tenure when you become the president of LULAC National. And Mayor, if I can just acknowledge Commissioner Coronado who walked in. Thank you. There he is, thank you. And again, Mr. Mancetta, congratulations. It's, you know, when we do a proclamation and when we do things, we,
 it we take at the heart and we we're really very um grateful for what you've done but also the way you represent our city and that's really you not only yourself but also you represent the city in a way that makes us all proud so thank you and i know i've known you probably not as long as representative kennedy but um i've known you a long time from uh
 And you've always had the best interest of our community, so I thank you for that. Thank you. Let's have coffee. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, if we could get a kind of spread out just a little bit for me, kind of spread so I can see all the faces. Ma'am in the gray, can you come out just a little bit? There you go. And can I get you all to just take a step back for me, please? There we go. One, two, three. A couple more this way. Ready, one more. Do one more just in case. One more just in case. Just to be safe. One, two, three. Can I get one more just in case? Yeah. Just kidding. We'll just do one more just in case tomorrow. I can already talk to the class.
 Thank you.
 In council per the rules of order no use of personal cellular devices nor personal communication should take place on the dais while the meeting is in session. Once you obtain the floor from the mayor you will have up to 10 minutes for a debate. You may speak twice per item and please speak into the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the dais while the meeting is in session. For those of you joining virtually please make sure your microphone is on mute to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 I don't have any amendments. There are no amendments. No amendments. Make a motion to approve. Second. A motion and a second to approve. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda. There is no public comment on any of the consent agenda items. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously.
 We now turn to page 11. The next item will be item number 29. And item 29 is discussion in action to authorize the expenditure of District 5 discretionary funds as an amendment in an additional amount of $158.32 for the Office of District 5 to cover costs associated with attending and participating in the 2024 National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials
 for 41st conference this item was placed by representative salsito there is a motion made by representative fierro seconded by representative rivera to approve item number 29 on that motion call for the vote before we vote our representative salsito would like to make a statement please thank you mayor yes ma'am good morning everyone just wanted to um
 Kind of give you all an insight of how great this conference was. It's the Naleo conference is the National Association of Latino elected appointed officials and they hold an annual conference that offers exceptional education and conversation among individuals A lot of the conversations that I was able to be a part of was a lot of AI AI artificial intelligence in regards to government so meant to several sessions not only that they had health and
 HEALTH CARE, HEALTH ISSUES, MENTAL ISSUES, MENTAL HEALTH CARE. SO IT WAS JUST A CONFERENCE THAT HAD JUST THE GREAT CONVERSATIONS TO HAVE WITH OTHER ELECTED OFFICIALS IN OTHER CITIES. AND IT'S IMPORTANT FOR US TO ATTEND THESE BECAUSE IT GIVES US PERSPECTIVE OF WHAT THE WORLD AND THE UNITED STATES ARE DOING AND THEN BE ABLE TO BENCHMARK PRACTICES, BEST PRACTICES.
 like other council members go to a lot of conferences and want to just highlight that it's a benefit for the Constituents for us to get out there and get educated and bring all that knowledge back to El Paso. So, thank you Thank you, ma'am. We have a motion and a second. Yes, sir the voting session is open council in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously and
 We now continue with item number 30 and this is discussion in action to direct the city attorney to prepare an ordinance ordering an election on the November 5th, 2024 uniform election date.
 to permit voters to determine whether to revoke the city's authority to issue the 2012 quality of life bonds that have not yet been sold or delivered, and to direct the city manager and city attorney to undertake all actions necessary to defeace and or redeem all or a portion of the outstanding 2012 quality of life bonds issued to fund the multi-purpose performing arts and entertainment facility project. This item was placed by Representatives Canales, Kennedy, and Fierro.
 Thank you, ma'am. And I just want to clarify something that because I've heard people talk about it and it's not to delete the item or It's to take it back to the voters and I know represent canalis Will speak a little bit more on it But and so but it's not to delete it's to really take it back to the voters and you know It was never going to have the ability to ever be built for 180 million dollars back in 2012 the voters were misled that you could build one for that kind of money and
 And today it would cost probably and I know that we've talked about this had close to 400 million dollars and back then when? We had our council meetings after it was first proposed It was quite a bit more than 180 and that's where it stalled out and then we had a lot of litigation But back in 2012 it couldn't be done and definitely can't be done today So to take it back to the voters and allow the voters to make this determination I think it's very important and I do thank representative Canales Fierro and and
 Kennedy for putting the item on the agenda represent canales Thank You mayor. I want to start off here because I don't think I'll taught my own words and so Over the weekend. I published an op-ed and miss Brian I'd like to enter a copy of it into the record and I'm gonna read that first and then I have a few more comments after that Opinion ask El Paso voters if they still want a downtown venue. I
 The MPC's proposed downtown location is in my district, so I feel the need to explain why we think this is an important question to pose to El Paso voters. Bond laws are complex, but the City Council has the legal option to make this decision ourselves without an election to choose not to issue these bonds and abandon the project due to a material change in circumstances. Instead, I feel it's appropriate to ask El Pasoans how they want to proceed.
 Voters have been waiting 12 long years since the passage of the 2012 quality of life bond election for some resolution on the Multipurpose Center or NPC project and after so much time they deserve to have their voices heard again at the ballot box This is a project that the current City Council should never even have inherited in the 12 years since the NPC project was first approved The project has through a series of high-profile headwinds and hang-ups morphed into something that no longer resembles the initial concept.
 The reality now in 2024 is that there's nowhere near the amount of funding required to deliver an arena. A project of that scale would cost something in the range of $400 to $500 million, not the $180 million approved in 2012 or the $128 million remaining in unsold bonds. Even the $128 million in new debt would exert significant pressure on the city's tax rate for years to come.
 While the city of El Paso is doing better than many peer cities in our recovery from the economic difficulties caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, that recovery is still in progress. Our citizens are still feeling the impact in the form of inflation and increased cost of living. This raises the vital question of whether the timing is right for such a sizable debt-funded project. That question is one I think the city must now pose to the public, which is why we are proposing this for inclusion on the ballot in November.
 I won't say that the proposal of the MPC project was the wrong decision in 2012. The economic context was very different more than a decade ago, and a whole lot of socioeconomic upheaval has happened since then. I also won't say that building a large entertainment venue in downtown would definitely be a bad idea for El Paso's post-recovery future.
 Just as the context has changed since 2012, it will continue to change with the march of time, and there may be a future, perhaps a near future, in which the idea of a downtown arena can be reconceptualized, realistically priced out, and proposed to the voters again as a far more complete package, including a specific location. That option is far better than continuing to modify the existing project again and again, to the point where it's no longer recognizable or even wanted by its original supporters.
 If a downtown arena is desired in the future, El Pasoans deserve to make a decision about such a large project with full knowledge on what would be developed, the potential benefits and challenges, and of course the real cost to the taxpayers. I don't want to presume that a proposition on the ballot will pass and that the MPC project and its current iteration will be ended. There is of course the possibility that the public will choose not to revoke the city's bonding authority for the project, implicitly saying that the project should move forward.
 There's a current proposal to build an 8000 capacity indoor outdoor hybrid venue next to the Union Depot rail station That admittedly wasn't very popular After years of pivoting and studying alternatives I believe that this proposal is still the most viable option if the project does move forward But I know many others don't agree if the City Council doesn't pass this agenda item or if the voters ultimately don't pass the proposition on the ballot
 I'm sure there will still be plenty of discussion about which direction to go in next. We will cross that bridge if we come to it, or more aptly, if the voters lead us to it. So again, that's the editorial that I ran in the paper this week. I've heard before that and since then, several questions from the public and from media that I think it's important to clear up. Again, lots and lots of people have asked
 can you instead just take this money and use it for something else? And the simple answer to that is no. When money is approved in a bond election, those bonds are dedicated to a very specific purpose, and in that case, that is a multipurpose performing arts and entertainment facility located in downtown El Paso. They can't be used for any other purpose. People have also asked about
 simply returning that money to the taxpayers? Can that money just be given back, for example, through a reduction in property taxes? And the answer to that is that for the $128 million of unsold bonds, the city doesn't have that money yet. So the bond election simply authorizes the city to sell the bonds, right, to take on that debt.
 And those bonds are unsold, so that hasn't happened yet. The city doesn't have that money to return. But this kind of debt funding does have a pressure on the future of our debt service portion of the tax rate. And so a decision to not issue that additional $128 million would alleviate that future pressure on the tax rate.
 And I've heard a lot of people ask the question, why now? And I tried to answer that as best as I could, you know, in the limited words I had in the editorial. But I think the simple answer is that I saw the immense amount of work that city staff put into developing the proposal next to the Union Depot.
 all the way from a really thorough examination of any possible site where that facility could be proposed and really maximizing what they could get out of it with the remaining funds. It was a huge effort and I really do think that it's the best effort that the city could put forward with this amount of funding. And again, I heard from people from kind of a variety of approaches and opinions, but unfortunately I think
 pretty much universally people didn't welcome that proposal. The real answer to why now is that this seems to me to be the logical next step. If people don't like what I think is the city's best proposal then we need to ask if they want the project at all.
 And we are approaching the deadline that we have as the city council under state law to place an item on the ballot in November. And so that's the answer to why has this happened now? Why have I decided to put this on the agenda with two of my colleagues right now? The reality is that we have to act now if we want this to be on the ballot in November.
 And I think that that's the appropriate thing to do given that the current proposal that was running its course has you know seen no action over the last few months. And in my opinion as a result has kind of run its course or hit a wall so to speak. Again I want to make it clear
 I'm not telling the voters which way to vote. I think it's important that we're just asking and getting an honest response from the voters about what they want. I've made the point a few times that there are voters who would be eligible to vote in this election who are six years old in 2012 when this was initially passed, and their opinion on this is just as valuable as El Paso voters. And so...
 I think it's time that we ask the public if they want to proceed and if they if they choose to revoke the bonding authority and the city can take the steps necessary To end the the project as it's currently proposed and again, I don't think that that means that this is necessarily gone forever There's definitely space in the future to look at a new proposal for the voters and if they say that they want to continue forward instead and not revoke the authority and
 We'll hear that loud and clear as well and continue to develop potentially a better alternative or look for partnerships or continue to do everything that the city was already doing to advance this project. And it'll maybe be a new boost for a project that it looks increasingly like it installed.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Do you have a motion, sir? And I move to approve. Second. Thank you, Representative Fierro. Thank you, Mayor. Representative Canales, thank you, first and foremost, for putting this on the agenda, and secondly, for being so eloquent on your description of what the item actually is. Let me clarify a couple things here, Mayor. I constantly opposed spending more money on this project than the voters approved 12 years ago.
 I personally voted for this bond. I voted for a $180 million project. I personally, along with many other El Pasoans, were misled. Never did I vote for a project that was going to cost us $400 or $500 million. That's where we're at today.
 We're going to hear naysayers say, well, had we put it in Duranguito, we could afford it. No, we couldn't. We could put it anywhere. We could blow up this city hall and put it here. We still couldn't meet that budget that was approved 12 years ago. So the location wouldn't matter. I want to emphasize again, I, along other Opasquans, were misled 12 years ago on the
 12 years is a long time for the citizens of El Paso to sit here and wait and wait and wait and wait. That's why I was very honored to cosponsor this amendment, this item, because it should be up to the constituents. It should be up to the taxpayers and the voters of El Paso to make the decision on what they want to do next. Do we want a hybrid behind the train depot or do we want to clear the board and start anew?
 Again representative knowledge. Thank you for putting this on the agenda. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir Thank you mayor good morning everyone We're at a crossroads here in our community and have been for quite some time It's been well over 12 years now approximately 12 years before November of 2012 when this went to the voters if you think historically it wasn't really November of 2012 and
 There was, I'm sure, a select group of people that met, discussed this, came up with a plan well before the voting date of November 2012. What were their clear intentions? Just like other representatives stated publicly, and I'll state again, we, the voters, were deceived. I did vote for this quality of life in 2012.
 However, deception has been confirmed in a court of law in Travis County, state of Texas. We were lied to. There is no way that it was going to happen. If you can see, we have the Children's Museum. It hasn't really officially opened up. How much did that museum cost? Over budget. The Mexican American Cultural Center, over budget. Still haven't opened it up officially.
 So not only has it taken 12 years, they certainly didn't do it on time, but it also went over budget. So do you really believe that $150 million is gonna create a multi-purpose center here in the city of El Paso? I don't think so. Just like Representative Canales said, it's gonna be 400 to $500 million for us to do. It's gonna be all kinds of stuff that is gonna happen that is gonna make your property taxes go up.
 Period that's going to be the end result. We have other taxing entities who are now creating their own Bonds coming up for a vote in November of this year So I do I support this to take it back to the voters that we began a clean slate and start in you Thank you. Thank you, sir
 Thank you, Mayor. I've been thinking a lot about this, and I don't disagree with a lot of what's been said. The fact that we're still talking about this 12 years later is insane to me, and I do think that we were set up for failure even with $180 million in 2012
 and even thinking that this was gonna be something that we're still gonna be talking about 12 years later, it was never enough money. And I think that that's where it's also really difficult since that's happened, we've seen that for years, this project was in the courts and that really prevented a lot from moving forward on this project and I think that
 The councils that have seen this prior to ours have really seen it more as a let's just do it in Durango without really thinking about the repercussions of doing that in Durango. And I think there was a lot of community community organizing that happened to save Durango and I truly believe that that was the right thing to do. I think that really trying to put that project in Durango was horrible trying to use them in a domain to.
 get people out of there and we still see it fenced off and we still don't have a project for that side or anything like that. And I think that on the flip side, what worries me about this is if the voters do choose to move forward, because I honestly think that this could be a 50-50, right? And I know that any election when you have two options are 50-50, but I think people are so divided on this on where to take it.
 that a new council next year can bring Durango back to the table. This council last year voted to make sure that this project was going to be removed from Durango that then directed city staff to make sure that we could find city property where this project could be. And then now we're here. And so I think that my worry right now is that Durango could come back into the fold earlier this year.
 It was a pretty unpopular plan to do it in Union Depot and I think that when I've talked to my constituents there wasn't one person that was excited for that plan and I think that we shouldn't ask people for more money for this project more taxpayer money specifically but I think that when we reach this this.
 This point I I wish we would have explored more options other than directing city staff to find a building and then designing something with the money that we had left over because I truly believe that we need to look at partnering with other Entities whether that's gonna be a county a state government You know the University the the Regents or anything like that or any private investments I I just wish we would be able to explore that and then it's such a I
 it's such a hard project as well because we can't decide on a location right so i think that if this does pass and people say we do want to have this project move forward we're going to start the conversation that we've been having all year all over again next year and we're just going to be back to the same status quo we're not going to have a place to do it and we're going to see what the new council is going to actually
 Act on which again brings back the do don't eat the option to the table Which I don't think is the the best place to do it at and shouldn't be done there And so it it's it's a it's a really difficult topic. I acknowledge that and I think that I
 When we're also looking at this, a lot of my constituents have said, why don't you just do it at the convention center? And I told them, I do agree that we need a larger convention center. Ten years ago or even 12 years ago when this was passed, we didn't have enough hotel rooms. And now that situation has been flipped. And so we cannot use the...
 the bond money on just a convention center like that because the bond language is very clear and says that we need to have a multipurpose center. So it has to have multipurpose events. The majority of that has to be at the convention center. So that just worries me in that sense that we can't just move that. And I don't know if that's an option that
 is on the table but I guess for for Kristin I had a question on what what the language look like for the ballot on this. Thank you Representative Dr. Acevedo. The ballot language will.
 be very similar to the language that is in the statute, which is on the posting language. We will work that language out with our bond council as well. I'm asking actually right now whether or not it would say the word downtown. I know that that was an issue that the voters weren't clear that it needed to be downtown. The ordinance required that, so I think that
 The goal is that the ballot language would be as clear as possible for the voters to know what they're voting for or against. The ballot language by law requires that it be clear and that the voters can say yes or no. But will yes mean no and no mean yes?
 And so I think that. So yes will mean yes revoke the council's authority. So the operative word would be revoked. So if you vote yes you would say yes I want to revoke the council's authority to issue the remaining bonds for the multi-purpose entertainment center. Don't.
 I know we have about 2.2 million dollars in the city clerk's budget for the election that is upcoming so would that be sufficient money for this and
 The election is already a citywide municipal election because it's a mayoral election year. Therefore the election agreement with the county would be able to include whatever other citywide elections and we can ask Ms. Prine to verify but I don't think that would affect
 the price for the election because it would still be the same number of of election sites etc okay and then laura prime for the record so the county is already going to conduct a city-wide election as miss hamilton said the only increase would be to the publication cost because we would need to publish the ordinance calling for this election as well
 Publish that in the paper type of thing. So that's what $3,000 publication. It depends on the length and its publication and translation of the ordinance. Okay. And then any other money that would be required specific to this? No, sir. No. Okay. So we don't have a campaign to tell voters what this is. We're not going to spend money on.
 Or we can't do that right. We can do an educational outreach. We cannot persuade the voters but we can educate the public on just like what we were just discussing. Yes means yes revoke. We can explain and educate so that they understand what it is but we cannot be persuasive. And we have a plan for that yet or no. That would be a question for our communications director.
 And I'm not sure. Is that something that would. That would be something we'd plan after council directs. OK. An in-house or we don't know yet. For the communication outreach typically I believe that we do those in-house. But Ms. Cruz Acosta would be able to provide more context. Sorry for making you run in. I was upstairs in another meeting I'm listening to this one. Sorry. Laura Cruz Acosta communications director for the city. So the question I apologize.
 So the question was in terms of a campaign. It really depends on how extensive you all would like for it to go. A mailer campaign across the city would cost about $250,000. So if the council members wanted to do something along those lines, we could do along that line. We could do smaller campaigns. But if you want to hit it a little bit harder, then I would recommend at minimum $250,000. Maybe better $300,000.
 And let me ask a long question to help you catch your breath. I'm just kidding. Please, thank you. But more than anything, I think that we, what we need, where would this money come from, I guess? We currently don't have that budgeted, so we would have to have that discussion on where that money would come from. Okay. And we could...
 work to develop primarily a social media campaign an educational campaign as as Kristen said the primary focus is education it cannot be influential in any shape whatsoever it has to be strictly educational in terms of what voting yes means and what voting no means thank you sir representative Rivera
 Everything's pretty much has been said here regarding this issue with the multi-purpose center. I think the seek out City Attorney Hamilton for explaining the fact that The ballot will read exactly what people will be voting for Correct and not have any terminology in there that could send it into a tailspin and say that's not what was on the ballot and
 Secondly, as we all know, when this issue passed, yeah, I was one of the many that wanted it. As the sixth largest city in Texas, we don't have an arena. We don't have a multipurpose center. We don't have somewhere where a true convention or entertainment venue can happen.
 Now we've got the one coming up that in the Northeast which is a plus but nothing says that we can't have competition so The fact is that the majority of the funding that was added to this and nobody has said this was tied up in litigation litigation by a man an individual doesn't live in live in El Paso and one that does but in any case I
 This issue needs to go before the voters again to determine what they want done with their bonds. So nobody's really stepped up to the plate that can step up to the plate to say, you know, let's have a partnership here. If I had a billion dollars, you know I would, but in any case,
 I'm doing it for the voters. I want to hear from my voters again because I, like I guess many others, have heard from our constituents who also supported to say yes and others to say no. So it's a good issue to be put on the ballot, and I think we'll get our answers at that point. So thank you all very much for listening and for putting it on the ballot. Thank you, sir. Representative Adnandus.
 Thank you, Mayor. So this issue has been ongoing for a very long time, and I appreciate the conversation here. You all know how I feel about this issue, but I think it's important to codify in public record issues
 where we were, why we're here now, and where we should go moving forward. And there was conversations earlier about, oh, well, you know, the public was not informed, the public or, you know, these issues came forward before I went to vote, and as a city employee at the time, I can assure you there is lots of public vetting, there was online surveys.
 There were meet and greets, there were door knockings, it was a very concerted effort and it really demonstrated the power of unity in El Pasoans to the point that even private entities came together and they created a political action committee and what they did is raise over $300,000 to promote this vision of let's not be left behind when the nation moves forward.
 Let's invest in our community because the community that invests in itself will attract businesses to invest in our community. And this goes beyond just one matter of a multipurpose center. This is a vote for the vision of the future of our city and to have opportunities. We have a contract with the voters who have overwhelmingly approved this by over 71%.
 It is very rare that you even see that kind of engagement from our public. And even in 2012, when you did see some economic indicators and some hurting of our economy, and specifically El Pasoans, when their wages weren't what they were today, the wages back then were significantly lower. And El Pasoans spoke on this matter. It is not the voters' fault that bad actors put us in a position where we could not plan.
 It is not the voters' fault. It is our leadership here today
 who has the ability to put forward a plan and to do their due diligence. And I've mentioned this several times. We have not done our due diligence. We have not even heard from the courts because the city of El Paso prematurely removed themselves from the courts. We have expended over 20 million dollars in real estate acquisition. We have paid for three to four consultants to determine economic impacts.
 And just less than about a year ago, we finally made the decision or city council did. I opposed it to withdraw from the lawsuit. And so when all of these things are happening and then you have a council who abandons the project,
 then you are left with uncertainty. But this council has not done its due diligence, which is why I'm asking, don't ask the voters to reverse that because number one, it's offensive, it's disrespectful to the voters. We already have a contract with the voters, and it is our duty to fulfill that contract. We have to be bold. We have to put forth a plan. Otherwise, it's disingenuous to ask the voters,
 What do you want to do with the money if you have not demonstrated to them what we can do with the money? We have not issued an RFP. We have not asked for requests for proposals for competitive processes. We have not asked for naming rights. We have not put together a proposal to ask if there's any entities, investors who want to come forward. We're not even sure, 100% sure, that this Northeast Amphitheater comes to fruition. I'll believe it when it's built, and I hope that's the case.
 but we have heard from the chambers of commerce that there is capacity to have additional spaces an indoor arena is different than an outdoor amphitheater and so let's not conflate the issues that are happening and let's keep this uh this one issue singular to the city of el paso so we pulled out of the site at union plaza city council abandoned that site although we found
 A RESOLUTION BETWEEN THE PREVIOUS COUNCIL WHO WERE OPPOSED TO THE DURANJITO SITE AND SOME MEMBERS OF COUNCIL WHO WERE OKAY WITH KEEPING IT AT THAT SITE. THEY FOUND A WAY TO SAVE 12 HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND TO CREATE A CAMPUS.
 city council disagreed moved out of there that's a million dollars of expenditures right there there was over two million dollars of expenditures and legal fees those are all public monies the notion that we're saving you money is false because we've already invested and spent some of that money
 And if we do go back to the voters, we have to be honest about what is this going to cost you? Well, we spent upwards $20 million. That's what it's going to cost you, coupled with the educational campaign. So my expectation is that if this passes based on what I'm hearing today, it will,
 That you are going to be honest with the voters to let them know that you've spent the money and you did nothing in return for them, and that's a cost and expense to the voters that they are paying for right now as part of the debt service rate of the interest of the tax rate.
 I've heard that they've been misled. The public has not been misled. The public is being misled by a faction that is disguising saving you money, but the reality is if you don't invest in your community, it hurts our city because we're not investing in ourselves, we're not creating opportunity, we're not supporting businesses, and so that means the unintended consequence of this is a perpetual state of poverty.
 We can't just say, oh, porcitos, we can't afford it. With that mentality, we're never going to be able to get out of poverty. We have to invest in ourselves. And it's my expectation that leadership does the same. Why now? Why are you asking the voters now? It's been less than a year since we pulled out of the court system. Less than a year. You have not done your due diligence. You're not demonstrating to the voters what you can or could do.
 You don't even know the real facts and figures of the cost. You're just throwing numbers out. Show me your empirical evidence that proves that. You don't have it. That's all lip service. The Texas Supreme Court had not made a decision, so we cannot say that it's not legal because we don't have a final say on that. And then there's mention about other entities issuing out bonds and debt. And so what I ask the voters to understand is that the numbers that you're hearing from the different entities, including the city of El Paso,
 Those are highly inflated conservative numbers under the current market standards, under the current rates of inflation, under the current interest rates. Those numbers are incredibly conservative. And your taxes don't get hit overnight. You are voting for a vision for your investment for the next 20 to 40 years. And the decisions you're making today are going to have long-lasting and detrimental consequences if you don't.
 truly understand or if we don't reflect the media, if you can reflect that accurately to the media and to the public that the numbers that you're seeing today are not true. There is snapshot in time and they are a very small indicator of what your true taxes will look like.
 BUT WHAT YOU'RE ALSO NOT HEARING IS EVEN THOUGH IT'S GOING TO COST US MONEY BUT WHAT GENERATION OF FUNDS WE'RE GOING TO SEE WE'RE GOING TO SEE REVENUES INCREASE OVERNIGHT WE'RE GOING TO SEE SALES TAX REVENUES WE'RE GOING TO SEE ALCOHOL REVENUES ALCOHOL TAX REVENUES WE'RE GOING TO SEE MORE REVENUES THAN YOU SEE TODAY BUT BUT FOR THAT INVESTMENT YOU'RE NOT GOING TO SEE IT
 SO THE NOTION THAT IT'S GOING TO COST YOU TAXES IS TRUE, BUT YOU'RE ALSO GOING TO GET MORE REVENUES FOR YOUR INVESTMENT. LET'S BE HONEST WITH THE PUBLIC. STOP WITH YOUR FEAR-MONGERING TACTICS. IT'S NOT HELPFUL. YOU HEARD FROM MEMBERS OF COUNCIL TODAY, THEY DON'T WANT TO SEE IT DONE.
 If you didn't like the way the outcome of the vote happened the second first time You don't ask the voters to reverse that because you don't like the project the voters have already spoken on this And so it's important that we keep that trust and commitment to the voters otherwise We lose all trust from the voters and that is not what you want and a government a government has to work for the public and has to have the trust and
 And the only thing that I find misleading here is that we're misleading the public to make them think that we're saving you money. But the reality is, is that this is gonna cost us a significant amount, millions of dollars we already expended, waste of time and money, the loss of credibility as a government. Businesses are watching us today. They're trying to determine, do we have a strong and sound government, a leadership, or are we flip-flopping because we didn't like the outcome of the first vote?
 THAT IS THE MESSAGE THAT WE'RE SENDING. I'M VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THAT, WHICH IS WHY I ASK YOU NOT TO APPROVE THIS ITEM BECAUSE OF THAT CASE. BUT I WANT TO GO BACK TO THE CONVERSATION IN THE BALLOT LANGUAGE. MRS. CLERK, MRS. PRYON, HOW MUCH TIME DO I HAVE? ONE MINUTE. THE LANGUAGE, BALLOT LANGUAGE, WE HAVE A DUTY TO INFORM THE VOTERS. I HEARD SOMEONE SAY, OH, WE CAN, LIKE, NOT DO IT. NO, WE HAVE TO DO IT. HOW ARE YOU GOING TO DETERMINE THE COST?
 what this action will be will you include all the costs we've already spent all the monies we already spent on this project as part of your educational campaign I'm not sure I'm understanding your question are you asking me how much the educational campaign is going to cost that's really gonna function of what the council is directing in terms of how they want that outreach to look and then we would have to look at how we would budget that
 Or are you asking about how much money has been spent already? The outreach has to happen. And we have done this for every bond initiative, and it's my expectation we keep that similar way. We spent overall right now, right now we have from the original $180 million that was put forward as part of the bond back in 2012, we have $128 million that's unissued. We have $34 million in cash.
 for this, so we've spent roughly all in about 18 plus million.
 So about 162 total, yeah. Representative Hernandez? We're required. I can pose my question later, yeah. Yeah, I can come back. One thing I do wanna make sure, we made a statement and I wanna make sure we clarify that statement, because it's not a true statement that we spent over $20 million in real estate. We've only spent a total of $18 million. So I would think that Ms. Neiman, now the real estate acquisition was roughly 12 to 13 million?
 I would defer to Mr. Weston, but yes. Roughly $13. Yeah, $13 million, not over $20 million. And do we have the ability to sell that real estate or recuperate that money? We do, sir. We do? Okay, so that's not, at this point, we didn't lose $20 million in real estate.
 Correct. Part of the language that the council is considering includes whether you would direct us to redeem the additional amount that's already been spent at that site, sir. Right. Which is the defeasance of the bonds. And all the, right, but we still have the ability, again, to sell the real estate and
 Hopefully real estate this has gone through the city's gone up that this would be no exception Education effort Historically when we put on education effort for an item on the ballot We go through a legal analysis regarding whether or not any of the proposed education effort is
 goes beyond simply educating the public on what the result of their vote is. So we would need to vet whether or not including or not including what's already been spent would tend to sway the public to vote yes or no. Remember we're prohibited from spending money that would be campaigning. So so it would have to be we would have to evaluate what other campaigns have done as well as what the attorney general would have to say about.
 whether including the cost of what's already been spent would tend to sway one way or the other. Thank you. We don't have a specific answer we would need to look at that. Thank you. We got Representative Acevedo followed by Representative Fierro and then Representative Nunez. Thank you Mayor. I guess I want to talk a little bit more and just more layman's terms.
 around the The amount that's been used so out of the hundred and eighty million dollars We have issued fifty two million dollars in bonds, correct? And then out of the fifty two million dollars in
 We have $34 million in cash. That's correct. And then we have spent $18 million. Roughly. From $18 million, 13 million, about 13 million has been used to acquire property in the Durango area, right? Yes. And then the other five or so million has been used in litigation. Litigation and some consulting costs as well.
 Consulting costs for what. Studies that have been done on different locations that the council approved identify different locations in the downtown area. OK. Thank you for clarifying that. And will will we have this item on council if it passes today. Will it come to council again for approval of final language.
 Yes and that would happen in the next two weeks because we have until August what to put it on the on the ballot. The deadline. So we have two more meetings to make that decision.
 And put it on the ballot. And does that mean that we would have a first reading and then it would be in an August meeting or we could just do it. This ordinance doesn't require two readings so you can just put it on and approve it so it could be done in the meeting the next council meeting which is the last meeting in July or the following meeting which I believe is August 13th. OK OK thank you for clarifying that. And I think just overall one other thing that I wanted to say is that.
 I just feel that when we are saying that no one has stepped
 to help or anything like that. I also don't think we've officially made that ask of anybody. So I feel that when we're kind of thinking like, well, no one's reached out in 12 years, no one has done this, but we haven't officially asked private sector public entities to come out and say, hey, would you like to partner with us? The county's just about to have a bond and they've been planning on it throughout the last few months.
 I feel like that was something that maybe could have been a time that we could have talked to say would you like to partner. Maybe not with adding it to your bond but just in general having those conversations. And so I also think that when we're thinking about something like this we've spent some money on consulting to kind of have site plans like we just discussed.
 I wonder if we could have come up with some sort of master plan to say this is what we're envisioning. But then I also understand and this is what makes this issue so complex that we can't agree to a location. Right. And so I think overall we really need to think about what this location looks like. And I think that
 If this does pass and goes to the voters and the voters decide to continue the project and say yes we want you to build it that's going to be the number one thing that will challenge the council next year. And so I I just want to make it clear in in that sense and I feel that we're going to have a whole this discussion over and over again in the next year's council to see what we're going to.
 do if it does pass but I think that that one thing is I just kind of want to wrap up and not use 10 minutes again but really just say that you know my worry is for Durango and the unintended consequences of putting this on here and it still passes. We have a new council and they say
 use the money that has already been used to say that Durango is the best site and we're going to move forward and do it in Durango and the years of organizing is going to be undone with that. And so that that is my biggest worry. Thank you, sir. Representative Fiora. Thank you, Mayor. Colonel Weston, can you just off top your head?
 Give us an example of how many times staff has come back with different sites and different proposals to this Council and previous Councils? Well, I mean, it's been several. I don't have the specific number off the top of my head. I think this has been studied on a couple of different comprehensive studies going back to when the bond was established.
 was issued originally and then certainly as it's pivoted based on costs years of time that's exacerbated the the ability to be able to fund a project like this we've had to go back and and come back with an alternate plan which is the latest plan that's been briefed to the city council for the site downtown. Sure you know one of the things that comes to mind right away is everyone in this council was briefed over and over and over again on.
 I want to say 15 or 20 locations in the footprint that staff did a very good job of dissecting and looking for all the positives, areas of opportunity that would fit into this. I want to say there was maybe 15 sites. Do you remember the very last one? I don't have the number but I don't think you're that far off. So for us to say that we haven't seen any alternative locations.
 think is misrepresenting staff's work in which I want to congratulate staff for being so detailed and that was just one there was we have we've been pretty two or three like that but staff has really done their homework even if we were to find a location today I guess this would be for miss Cortina could we build a twelve or fifteen thousand seat arena with the money it's left
 No, sir. And I'm actually just looking at the presentation that was done in January of 2023 in which the consultant that we hired Actually identified what their estimated cost would be for different sized facilities and this was done by Gensler What was can you just read that number? Do you have it available? So depending upon the the type of facility so they gave different estimated costs whether it would be an arena and they gave different scenarios whether it be 8,000 10,000 12,000 or 15,000 seats and
 And then they gave different estimated costs based on flexible hybrid venue. And so an arena, 15,000 seats, they estimated total cost, including existing building renovations at almost 513 million. Okay. And we're going to sell the property in Duranguito and I'm sure we'll retrieve, at market value, retrieve our 13 million back or 14 million back. So we can throw that in there. 180 and 500 don't come out the same.
 And so that would mean that this council would have to put debt on the voters and constituents, undue debt that they didn't vote for to get the project done. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Hernandez, followed by Representative Canales. I had one more. Go ahead, ma'am. City Attorney Neiman, you said you would have to conduct an analysis.
 And the thing I'll mention about that is it is factual that the city has spent money and it is actual It's factual that we are spinning back we were paying back that those dollars and I think that we need to be transparent about that and
 I don't think there's anything persuasive about that other than that it is a factual statement and the upwards to 20 million, thanks Mayor for the correction, El Pasoans like to round upwards in the up to 20 millions for real estate acquisition.
 for relocation cost, for attorney fees, for real estate attorney fees, for litigation in Traverse County and at the Texas Supreme Court, as well as the acquisition of the properties, as mentioned, about $13 million. So in total, and all the consultants we have hired, there has been an expense to that, and that expense is directly tied to the bonds that we've issued and to support the remaining bonds, the issuance of the remaining bonds.
 and so all of that is factual and I don't think that's a secret but what I will say is that those costs you know
 are important because we need to advise the public that when you make expenditures you know it's it's our leaders it's the expectation of our leaders to ensure that we are spending the money wisely and then not trying to reverse a contract with with the voters who
 Who's going to want to buy is anyone in this room want to buy 13 million dollars worth of buildings. Some of them have holes in them. Some most of them have deterioration due to neglect and.
 And I would be quite surprised if we were able to sell those unless we went into some kind of extreme 380 agreement to give them away so that they can build barbecue joints or whatever else vision they have for that area. So I want to be realistic about what we're sharing with the public that these buildings are not in good condition.
 And so it does not seem like we can sell them for market rate other than going into a public-private partnership. But you know what we're gonna have to do to do that? We're gonna have to do our due diligence and we're gonna have to go out and issue an RFP or RFQ or request for proposals to do that. We can figure that out for the next steps of the Union Plaza site, but we haven't done the due diligence for this site. Did you know that the city council self-imposed a restriction to only look at city-owned properties in downtown?
 THAT'S WHY WE'RE IN THIS CONUNDRUM WHERE WE CAN'T FIND THE BEST LOCATION BECAUSE WE'RE LIMITED WITH THIS SELF-RESTRICTION THAT CAN BE DISMANTLED AT ANY POINT AND WE CAN LOOK AT OTHER PRIVATE PROPERTIES. THE SITE THAT THEY FOUND, THE UNION DEPOT SITE, HAS UPWARDS OF $3 MILLION OF POTENTIAL REMEDIATION, AND THOSE ARE THE AMOUNTS THAT WE HEARD.
 Give or take around. I don't know the exact amount upwards to from 300,000 to 3 million dollars of remediation at that site They were okay doing that there well what's the difference in purchasing property in downtown to get the best viable economic impact and that's why we selected Union Plaza and See if the City Council doesn't want to go to that site remove the self-imposed restriction and do your due diligence and look at all sites in downtown and
 And so when folks are saying like, oh, well, we've looked at 15 locations, well, most of them weren't viable. Some of them had no economic impact return. And a lot of that was because we were restricted with this requirement that city council placed. It's disingenuous to say that we've done our due diligence because we have not. And to be clear to the public, outside of the Union Depot site,
 Members of Council heard opposition and you know what they're doing? They're penalizing us now. They're saying well then fine We're gonna send it back to the voters We're not gonna work harder to find a better site and we're not gonna remove the restrictions that we imposed Because we want to mislead you as a public to let you think that we've done our due diligence and we have not so let's be honest of what we're saying because they did not like one site and
 does not mean that it is our duty to say, let's reverse it then. Why were you okay in the first place with selecting one site? Then you say, I'm sorry, well, now we just can't afford it, and it's been long overdue, and now the voters should decide because we did our best, and so now let's just send it to the voters.
 like take these arguments that you're hearing today and then bring those back to the discussion of the site of Union Depot where was where was this outrage about affordability where was this outrage about disingenuous or misleading statements we're not dumb El Paso voters are not dumb we care about the future of El Paso we care about revitalization of downtown we have a contract with the voters
 Let's not mislead the public. Let's be factual with the educational campaign. Let's be honest with the timeline and how we got here and the flip-flopping from different councils and the sites and the self-restrictions that we've imposed and the amount of money we have and the lack of funding that we have not even sought outside of debt. We're not saying that we're going to make up the money with debt.
 We just agreed to an $81 million investment from the private sector in the city, pitched in $31 million, and they were okay with doing that. So that's already $31 million. They're setting aside over there. And then the $18 million we put here. So we've essentially spent the $30 and the $18 upwards to $50 million in...
 and you still have nothing you still have nothing in return we're spending the money we're investing but we need something tangible for the public to see the revenues to see the growth and not to mention the commitment we have made to the downtown businesses you specifically have downtown businesses who've invested in in downtown
 under the false promise that we were gonna build the multi-purpose center. You have hotels who have done multi-million dollar improvements and historic remediation and renovations back to its original state for this vision of a renaissance of downtown and for the revitalization. Not only are we breaking a contract with the voters,
 But now we are jeopardizing future investment in downtown and we've disregarded the all the investment that's happened in downtown. This vote has a lot of weight and this vote beyond measure will will hurt the city's credibility. So again, for those who are wavering on this decision,
 It's okay to commit back to the voters. It's okay to commit back to them because they've already decided on this matter. And so I ask for you to vote against this. And if you do vote in favor of it, to direct the city manager and the city attorney to be genuine, factual, authentic about what's taking place, how we can 
 like at least notify the voters that we spent a lot of money and we're still paying for it we're still paying for it and if we say it's going to cost nothing that's that's completely false it is going to cost us money in fact we're already paying for it um and so again council vote against this thanks thank you ma'am and um i'll speak uh right after you represent canalis and then i'll speak and then i'll call the question i think we have one uh
 I have one person to speak, so after that, but I'll speak right after Representative Canales and then I'll call the question right after that. Thank you, Mayor. A couple of things that I've heard that I wanted to address. I appreciate Representative Hernandez's comments. There are a few things, a few quotes that I wrote down, she said, characterized myself and my cosponsors our position as being because they don't like one site, then it's our duty to get rid of this.
 I want to make it again absolutely clear we are not asking to get rid of this project. We do have the option to do that. The council could have placed an item on the agenda and unilaterally made the decision to back out of this project. That is not what we proposed. We are looking to ask the voters what they want. Not to get rid of this project.
 ourselves, but to ask the public how they want to proceed. And then I also heard the quote, we are breaking a contract with the voters. I don't think that this action would be breaking a contract with the voters. If the voters themselves decide that they don't want to proceed, I don't understand how the voters could be breaking a contract with themselves.
 This is, again, not something that we're looking to impose on the voters, something that we're looking to make a decision on unilaterally. We are going to the people to ask what they want. There's no way that whatever decision that they make is going against themselves. They will tell us what they want.
 And then I do also actually and I mean this genuinely like really greatly appreciate Dr. Acevedo's concern for Duranguito. Obviously that's a neighborhood that's in my district and I think I've shown over the years my genuine concern for the future of Duranguito and what's going to happen there. I just want to make it clear regardless of whether or not this goes to the voters and regardless
 I guess not regardless of the decision they make but if if they made a decision to persist with this project or if we didn't go to them at all there is still the possibility that a future council could make any decision to move a project back to Duranguito. I don't think that will happen. I think it's become very clear that that's not the direction that this project has been moving in the past several years now.
 But regardless of what we do today, we're not able to bind future councils and their decision making authority that that could happen regardless. And so I don't see how that plays into any decision today to ask the voters whether or not they want to revoke the city's bonding authority on this project. I just wanted to clear those things up. Again, I think it makes sense to ask the people what they want and I can't,
 really understand opposition to Asking voters if they want to persist with something and their answer might be yes, and their answer might be no. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir And with that I'll make a few comments that back in 2013 when I ran for office I opposed a
 I opposed it because it was not clear and cut back then. And when I ran, I said I opposed it because it was hidden amongst other things. It didn't stand on its own. If you wanted to vote for other things, then you had to vote for them all together. So I said if you really believe this project is a project that needs to move forward, let the voters vote on it alone.
 and we didn't so i opposed it and i did vote against it back in 2013 not knowing that once i took office and i took almost 75 of the vote which is the first time i ran for public office so i was very clear where i stood on this item back then and
 And when I took office and Mr. Gonzalez started talking about it and we had our first presentation, we realized that we couldn't even come close back in 2014 that we could build this for what we asked the voters to vote on. So were we disingenuine with the voters at that time? Absolutely. Back in 2012, who led the charge in bringing this forward, wrote a bunch of editorials and called us and insulted this council.
 Why? Because she wasn't able to produce. She wasn't able to bring that project forward because you couldn't do it for what they said. So then what better way, deflect and insult everyone up here. And that's unacceptable. This council has done a great job and this council has really worked forward, worked really hard to try to find an alternative, try to find a way of doing it. Even though we all knew and we know today, you couldn't build it then and you definitely cannot build it today.
 And so I couldn't agree more that the voters are not dumb. Voters are very smart and that's why we're going back to the voters and say, you know what, we're not canceling this, but we want your opinion of what you wanna do with it. And I think that's really important. So again, in 13 I didn't support it because it was hidden and not being straightforward
 And today I support the item, which I don't believe I'll have an opportunity to vote on, but I support the item that the council has brought forward to make sure that we become very transparent with the voters. And I'm sure there'll be another editorial by this person that come out and insult us and call us names to try to justify what they brought forward was not even possible to do back then. With that, we have a call to the public and then Representative Salcido would like to speak.
 Yes, sir. We have Miss Jerry Halbert Carmen. She signed up to speak on this item Additionally, we received statements from Joe good rep from the downtown management district and from Carmen Rodriguez. Good morning, ma'am You have three minutes. Thank you. Good morning council. Good morning, El Paso and I love our morning, ma'am. Good morning, ma'am I've been in El Paso since 1959 I was born and raised here born and raised in El Paso and
 $500 million is a lot of money. Let's think about it in terms of sweat equity. How many hours does it take for a person who's working on minimum wage and trying to raise a family of three or four, or a single parent who makes less than $23,000 and is trying to raise her children or his children? Put it in terms of sweat equity.
 There's a person on this council and I was told to be respectful, which I am respectful. I'm a Hallberg. We are respectful. $5, $10 for an elder on a fixed income is the difference between getting their medicine, getting their medication, or maybe getting calcium pills or milk or vegetables or even some red meat. This is a reality. We know the name of the game here.
 There are people in El Paso that are extremely impoverished. How many school districts and how many tens and thousands of children do we have that live in poverty. We have to be realistic. I love El Paso it's my home. We stick together and we do good things for people. Personally I don't have the education you all do. I don't I'm not an architect I'm not a developer. I'm just a citizen.
 So I actually came up to say one thing, which is please save the Union Depot. This is a landmark. We have no business tearing that down. Number two, if you're going to educate the public, first, I do believe it does need to go before all of the voters. We're talking the time of people's lives, and I am going to go back to the term sweat equity. Okay, so number one, save Union Depot.
 Number two, the value of the dollar now. It's not inflation, people. It's the value of the dollar. Let's be realistic. We've had the pandemic. We've had businesses closed. We have inflation, which means the value of the dollar has gone down. We have an increase in crime, which is going on. I don't think a week goes by that there isn't a high-speed chase. Buildings are damaged. People are damaged.
 We need to be honest and we need to be forthright regarding sustainability of long-term health insurance for any employees who may even be employed in this Fantastical idea and thank you miss. Thank you. I Just do want to clarify one thing never was it on the table to get rid of Union Depot. Thank you for clarifying Thank you that yes Representing South Cedar and then I will call the question this prime right after that. I
 Thank You mayor I want to thank representative Canales mayor pertemp Kennedy and Fierro for putting this very important item on the agenda it does give us that opportunity to have that healthy respectful and fruitful conversation that we need to have in hopes that we get to a positive you know solution that's gonna be the best for El Paso so I do have a few questions per legal and it I know that you mentioned you all are working on the
 the proposed language. When will that be done. So the language will be will be completed once council gives us whatever council decides to do here today then we move forward. Usually how long would that take you after that if that's done. So the council wishes to put it on the agenda for the last week in July we'll have it by that time period or if you want to put it on the first meeting in August that's when we'll place it.
 But it'll take a few days or weeks to working with bond council. DIRECTOR RIVERA- OK. And I know that you mentioned what is the last day that you could put this language on the agenda. So the last. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Or last I guess would it be last meeting. The next meeting of council is August 13th. Remember this item does not need two readings. It's just a one reading. So it would be the August 13th. That's the last time that you could vote on the item.
 Because the state election law says you have to put everything on the ballot no later than August 19th. Okay. And Dr. Acevedo brought up a good point. I just kind of have more questions in regards to El Dorigando. We're looking at selling those buildings, correct? That is correct. We are.
 We are looking I think he said something concerning so like future councils They basically get somebody buy him up some privately do something there basically, right? It's that safe to say as long as there remains in City control the council has the ability to to do what they wish by both. I
 Got it, yes. So we could definitely sell the building. So that's one thing that I guess thinking about it, I guess, but that's in the future, right? So I can't really predict the future on that.
 Well, just wanted, you know, on this MPC, I wanted to personally say, you know, I did vote for this. You know, I voted for, you know, I did wanna see entertainment here in El Paso. I did wanna see sports. But I will agree with everybody. I have heard the sentiment in regards to the wording, right? How it was presented. I will have to say that that was not the best way to do it. And I think that when we're looking and crafting this language, I wanna make sure that doesn't basically repeat itself.
 And that's the biggest thing for me right now. And so we don't wanna repeat another error. And so, in my opinion, sending this back to the voters right now, it's irresponsible. I don't think, one of the biggest elements we're missing here is the community's voice.
 We need la voz de la comunidad. I have not heard it. We need to know what are their thoughts, what are their solutions. I received an email here from Carmen, and I will read it for the record because it was impactful. She was just trying to offer solutions of how to get to where we need to get.
 And I think that in voting for this or supporting this, I think we just need to make sure that the language is already crafted and is being able to present it to the community and then get feedback from the community before we decide to put it up in the ballot and then spend millions of dollars trying to educate
 We need to find ways that we're going to really get the voice involved, the community involved. And that's what I keep hearing. We are missing the community. We missed it before. Have we not learned anything from this?
 I mean, I want to present a friendly amendment. I think we should have language drawn up of what it's gonna read and have community meetings in every district, meet with everybody, show them the language more importantly, and also get their feedback. And at that point in time, then we all agree on what would go on the ballot. They are included, we're missing the community's voice,
 I DON'T FEEL COMFORTABLE. I'VE HEARD, I READ THAT E-MAIL. I'VE HEARD IT FROM MY CONSTITUENTS. WE CANNOT MISS THIS AGAIN. WE CANNOT MISS THE COMMUNITY'S VOICE. WE KEEP DOING THIS. EL PASO NEEDS TO BE A PART OF THE CONVERSATION. AND SO RIGHT NOW I BELIEVE WE NEED TO PROSPONE THIS. WE NEED TO DIRECT YOUR STAFF TO MOVE VERY FAST.
 eight meetings in every district, explain the language of what is being proposed so that nobody ever says what I said right now. I want this, but I didn't understand the financial literacy of what it was gonna cost. It was not correct.
 I didn't fully understand what the whole proposed language was. I don't want to hear anybody saying that anymore I want the language to be crisp clean explained and when it goes before the voters they vote They vote and they know what they're voting for So I do want to make a friendly amendment my amendment would be I would motion to postpone direct the city manager and the staff to have community meetings in all districts to inform them on all the language that will be proposed on the ballot and
 Also to have time to get their input I don't know everybody's ideas to better inform and receive the community's outreach and to make sure that they are included That's my motion Motion second to delete the item This is to postpone and direct the city manager to go out to the community and and
 Show them the language to postpone for how long just the neck I actually would divert to city or staff I don't know what much time you all need to have a meeting and craft language So the language on today's council meeting is to direct us if it passes to draft the language if you postpone it there's What are we gonna craft? Yes or no? What is the the?
 So Carla, as our city manager, how would you... A city attorney. I'm sorry, a city attorney. I'm already changing your position. I didn't like...
 What would be the right wording of what my my intent is and I think you understand what my intent is here I think her what she's asking is you you have to give us direction on which way you're going Before we can go out and have a conversation with the community and so what's on the table today is whether you're actually going to move forward with the item or not and us bringing a
 Language ballot language for we don't know what the council's position is until you vote today. You're correct Thank you so much city manager care on Colonel Weston So then I will direct to create or craft the language of what it would read in the ballot and to have community Meetings with all the districts and then also get input in regards to it going on the ballot or any other proposed solution I
 So you want to amend the language, correct? No, she wants to, I thought she wanted to postpone. No, so no postpone, well, we ought to be postponing. Yeah, she wants to postpone, so we need to take a action to postpone the item.
 So let's take a vote on that. No Information for how long no no mayor my motion is going to be I want to postpone for as long as staff is needed But in my motion it is to crack No, we got that but we got to take you can't direct them to do something on an item That's been postponed and not passed right you can either postpone it or pass it and ask and give them a direction So we have a motion to postpone this but it already it already says direct. Everybody's talking. I
 But you can, so let's take action whether we can postpone it or not. Right, Ms. Pine? Okay, so no. We'll postpone and then come back. Let me go ahead and clarify and then I'll give guidance on my motion or my intent. And Carla is the city attorney. If my intent is to craft the language that will be read as what this item says, and then go out to the community and get their input.
 So that vote can take place, but we would need direction to tell us craft the language and then have the community meetings. Okay, so then I think it would be then you're walking me through that. So I'm going to motion to have community meetings in regards to the language.
 that is being talked about on this. But the requirement is that the council say we wanna move forward with crafting the language to place the item on the ballot and then direct us to have community meetings. Correct, and so this will be a motion to the motion. So if we vote on this and then you would vote on the main motion which would be accepting to put it in the ballot. So we have a motion already on the table.
 So if you make a second motion the second motion will only come through if the first motion fails I would draw my motion. My emotion will be this it is to go out to the community once the Yeah, go out to the community and inform them of the language, right? So there's one motion on the table already if that motion fails then we'll take your motion, correct You're making another main motion. Is that what you're saying?
 She's making another motion. I'm making another motion for it. Are you making an amendment to the main motion? If I could step in, sir, I think what I'm trying to understand is that you're trying to postpone the item, direct the city attorney to come up with the language. She's not trying to postpone the item. So let's just stay over here. No, no, but I think this is like. Hold on, Representative, I didn't call on you to speak, sir. And you've already spoken twice. I know that.
 But anyway, so do you want to postpone the item or do you want to make a second motion? Laura, just so that I make sure that we get everything correct, I'm gonna motion to postpone this item so that we can then craft the correct. And that's what you second, correct? Well, I was trying to clarify, but you didn't let me. No, I know, well, that's what I said, let her speak. So she wants to postpone the item. You have a second.
 Is that the second you would like to keep? Now I'll call on you, sir. Yeah, I mean, I think what she's trying to do is to postpone the item, direct the city attorney to come up with language and go into the community so they see the language before this becomes official. I think that's what she's trying to say. That is correct. And as a second, that's what I was trying to say. All right, so let's take that point of clarification. Yes, sir.
 THE LANGUAGE THAT'S PROPOSED ON THE AGENDA IS ASKING FOR THE CITY ATTORNEY TO CRAFT THE LANGUAGE. RIGHT. AND BRING IT BACK. NOT TO PLACE THE ITEM ON THE BALLOT BUT IT WOULD HAVE TO COME BACK TO THE COUNCIL FOR THAT DECISION. THAT APPROVAL, CORRECT. I DON'T SEE WHAT THE DIFFERENCE IS BETWEEN POSTPONING THE ITEM AND ASKING FOR LANGUAGE OR APPROVING THE ITEM WHICH ASKS FOR THE LANGUAGE.
 Basically, I just want to be able to include the community. So let's take the motion to postpone. Yes or no For how long there till next meeting next week for two weeks Next meeting. All right. There's a motion to postpone the item to next meeting and bring back the language Let's just take that motion So just remember traditionally
 We act based on what council's direction is unless we know that you want us to craft the language to say certain things. What do we craft and then you haven't approved it. So we go out and tell the public council hasn't approved this language we want you to know. No she wants you to bring it back before you take it out to the public. So let me let me clarify something. Correct. Yes sir.
 You cannot postpone an item and at the same time direct the city attorney to take an action. Is that correct, Ms. Bryan? That's correct, Mayor. You can either postpone it or not postpone it. Wait, wait, wait. You can either postpone it or not postpone it.
 or you can pass a motion and direct them to work on the language, but you can't both at the same time. Well, there's already a motion on the table, so if you make a separate motion, that'll be if it doesn't pass. Right now we're voting on postponing the whole thing and having this same conversation in two weeks. That's correct. The motion to postpone would simply just postpone the item and bring it back exactly the same.
 Exactly so that I can sit down with city attorney and we can really that's irrelevant, but it is you're postponing the item, right? Correct. You still have a second on that. All right, miss prime just to postpone the item this motion There's a motion by representative Salcido seconded by represent up I said I don't this is to postpone the item for two weeks on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion to postpone fails and
 Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Fierro, Rivera, Canales voting nay. Representatives Acevedo, Hernandez, Salcido voting aye. The motion to postpone failed. All right let's take the motion we have on the table please with no more discussion. And then I have the second. No you don't. I have two things to speak. Laura? You're already past the ten minutes. I've only spoke once so.
 Do I can they grant me the floor mayor at 14 minutes? Okay, so my next there's a motion on the table if that motion fails you can make a separate motion exactly said So there's a motion on the table. Let's take that action now, please. No, I can make a motion I have the floor to make a motion here. No, no, I'm running the meeting I'm not sure you're aware that if that motion fails I will
 Point of order, Laura, can you, can I make a motion if I have a second time to speak? You may speak twice. If you make another motion, we have to take the main motion. Right. By Representative Canales. So we'll take the main motion. If it fails, I will take your motion. So then I can make the motion as I'm speaking right now. Yes, ma'am. All right. So we're going to take a motion. If it fails, I'll take your motion next.
 No, I have to I can't have the right to make the motion if the other one. All right I'm gonna take the motion now. You've spoken twice. I'm not giving you the ability to speak a third time. I
 You have 14 minutes. Have I commenced my 20 minutes? I defer to the presiding chair. He's running the meeting, ma'am. Okay. You have spoken twice. Have I arrived to my 20 minutes, ma'am? I know, but you've spoken twice. You can't speak three times, ma'am. Have I arrived to my 20 minutes? Okay, no, that's not the rule, ma'am. The rule is you get to speak twice, 10 minutes each time. Once you speak twice, you can't speak a third time. Correct. The mayor can branch to the floor twice.
 That's always been the rule ma'am. Thank you. So let's take the motion now, please So the motion was made by representative canales seconded by mayor pro Tim Kennedy and
 And this is to direct the city attorney to prepare an ordinance ordering an election on the November 5th, 2024 uniform election date to permit voters to determine whether to revoke the city's authority to issue the 2012 quality of life bonds that have not yet been sold or delivered and to direct the city manager and city attorney to undertake all actions necessary to defeat and or redeem all or a portion of the outstanding 2012 quality of life bonds issued to fund the multipurpose performing arts and entertainment facility project.
 On that motion, call for the vote. And the voting session. And that motion does pass. 5-3. Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Fierro, Rivera, Canales, voting aye. Representatives Acevedo, Hernandez, Salcido, voting nay. The motion does carry.
 Thank you, ma'am. The next item is number 31, and this is presentation by Strategic and Legislative Affairs in the National Renewable Energy Laboratory on an awarded U.S. Department of Energy Community's Local Energy Action Program Technical Assistance Grant and Upcoming Energy Resilience Projects.
 Good morning Mayor, City Council, Good morning. Martinus with strategic and legislative affairs. Today we have a presentation from the National Renewable Energy Laboratories or NREL discussing an awarded technical assistance grant. The presentation will be very brief but it will highlight some of the direction that we're hoping we can go for energy resilience projects. So we have Mr. Mendoza here. Good morning. Distinguished members of the council my name is Ismael Mendoza.
 Native of El Paso and an alumni from Bowie High School. It's an honor to be here. I'm a senior researcher at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory here to focus on the strategic plan regarding the partnerships to focus on the resiliency and the climate initiative that it would take all of us to take action to provide us the information and resources and talent that will require to give us that necessary to reach the
 national goal of carbon reduction and electrification. So I'm accompanied here by my colleagues Lorinel Ojeda and Sophia who are part of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory team that is leading the clean energy initiative to help the community give them a platform to move forward and provide them with the
 the platform to provide projects programs and have a platform for the community to address some of their concerns to be between the initiatives that give us and highlight the promotion of renewable energy from El Paso del Norte Stanton ports of entry and the bridges of the Americas.
 A little bit about the project. Like I said we're the department one of the 17 national laboratories of the Department of Energy that is mainly focused on the as the name states renewable energy and energy efficiency. The program is part of the community sleep which is a local energy action program pilot program that enables the communities to come together and voice their concerns and be provide an equitable solution for the energy transition. This.
 Two year program will facilitate the platform to bring the communities together key stakeholders and facilitate that community engagement to empower through those communities and spark potential economic growth improve local environmental conditions as we know that with the reductions of greenhouse emissions can.
 Thank you. Can help reduce health concerns as well as to open ways to continue our partnerships with the Department of Energy and the Clean Energy Workforce Development. As you can see here, El Paso is one of the 24 members of this second cohort that covers the continental continuous United States and communities in Alaska and Puerto Rico. As highlighted earlier,
 This platform provides the opportunity for the communities to voice their concerns and be more effective at addressing some of their their needs. So the National Renewable Energy will provide technical assistance to create the viability of some of those projects that will be enhanced and provide a roadmap for the communities to develop those and make those projects a reality.
 So the technical assistance pathways focuses on some of these pillars to provide clean energy and energy efficiency clean energy planning and development clean transportation planning and investment community resilience microgrids and energy storage and flexibility energy efficiency of buildings and.
 planning and investments and then enhancing new manufacture and industry as we know that the puzzle is one of the capitals of manufacturing provides us an opportunity to spark that workforce development and empowering the upward mobility of our community.
 It tries to highlight other of the NREL capabilities. We focus on the various energy resources, as solar, how we can better improve the efficiency of solar, wind, water, and geothermal that can be combined with current energy resources and enhance the diversity of the energy generation, as well as...
 It's a multi-pronged organization that focuses on identifying ways that we can be more efficient, optimizing the energy by developing new biofuels, hydrogen storage and transportation, and then also building efficiency by improving energy.
 standards to decarbonize the manufacturing process, advance materials to do carbon sequestration, and then working as an example for this project with local and state and tribal governments to accelerate the implementation and assessment of
 renewable energy and self-sufficiency. And overall, now that technology and digitalization has continued to grow, it provides us an opportunity to do systems of systems and provide the cybersecurity that can mitigate any potential threat and hazards, attack vectors that potential threats
 unwanted resources can can can can exploit as well at the same time as we continue to provide this grid modernization and integrate new energy solutions. So.
 These are some of the portfolios that NREL can have has and one of the main advantages of the national laboratories is that to provide a bridge between the viability of bench and fundamental research to the scalability and commercialization of products. Our goal as a national laboratory is not to sit on our research but to commercialize it and get it to the constituents and our.
 stakeholder as soon as possible because there is no benefit for us to just shelf our advancements but to get it to the hands of the individuals and bring those benefits to them as soon as possible. So we're trying to collaborate with startups with industry with academia to accelerate and make cutting edge technology that can improve the lives of everybody.
 One of the tools to highlight here is this renewable energy optimization that can provide a framework so that the utilities and countries and governments can utilize this to develop a framework to see what will be the best mixture of energy that can help you reduce the energy cost, the resiliency, and what type of mixtures of generation will be adequate for your energy
 current needs to do your greenhouse gas emission reduction as well as to try to optimize and provide you the viability and costs required to implement such programs and then provide you then the road map that can be applicable and make it a reality. And finally just to highlight that our main goal is to.
 be here and showcase our opportunity to enhance and strengthen our partnerships. As you can see NREL as being a national laboratory where agnostic can we partner with local institutions governments as well as international organizations. So we bring a variety of our knowledge that can provide us the knowledge the opportunities such as the projects for making
 L.A. reached their 100 percent renewal goals that can that has been utilized as a framework for Puerto Rico and now it's being translated as an implementation plan for other countries around the globe like Lithuania Vietnam and then
 and such. Like I mentioned our main goal is not to stay with that technology but how we can be able to customize it and tailor it to everybody's needs and be applicable for the resources necessary for those communities. And just to highlight some of the ongoing opportunities we are continuing to foster and straight in here with El Paso. You know
 that the universities have here such as the University of Texas at El Paso we have an intentional program that it's hard that it's tailoring to recruit from the minority serving institution so we bring a minimum of six students to Denver Colorado and to come in and
 as interns each summer for the last three years to work hand in hand with the researchers and develop cutting edge technology that is making an impact on their communities as well as to developing that network necessary that can enhance the opportunities for this community. As well we're trying, we're fostering on this FACES program the faculty
 advisory curriculum development so that we can develop the workforce of the future that is necessary from technicians researchers business professionals that are required to reach our main goal which is the decarbonization and
 and streaming of our communities. And finally like Omar mentioned how we can continue to enhance our community sleep program to take that technical advancement and knowledge that we have in the national laboratory and translate it and provide it to the local community so that can be self-sufficient to move forward some to some of their goals. Another.
 Great highlight that I want to emphasize is this our collaboration with Infinite Elements we're in the negotiation states with the Department of Energy to provide them over half a million dollars in the next two years to validate and vindicate their approach to try to extract
 critical minerals and resources that will be necessary for the development of this cutting-edge technology batteries silicon for microprocessors and things necessary that is a beacon of the
 industrial factory that's here in El Paso. So it's a showcase of the opportunities with your investment has been able to provide this new startup with the necessary resources to try to scale it and provide the viability to make an impact on the market and provide jobs to the community.
 So to add a couple more details, Infinite Elements is being sponsored by the City of El Paso at the Innovation Factory in the Advanced Manufacturing District. They are a success story. We didn't just cultivate their technology by housing them at the Innovation Factory, but now through the work of NREL, they've been able to secure half a million dollars to take their investment into the new level. It is just a very successful pilot. And we
 NREL to discuss this achievement with city council letting you know of the strategy that is available before us. NREL is here to stay for the next year. They are technical assistance funded by the Department of Energy through a grant award at no cost to local taxpayers. We hope to continue working with them to guide our grant strategy like Representative Hernandez
 your request on additional information on the EV charging network strategy, or working with our coworkers at the climate office, making sure that whatever NREL strategy we come up as part of this grant is very well aligned with their climate strategy. So we want to start bringing in NREL to these discussions because you'll find that the next set of grant projects that we bring forward will have NREL's participation in them.
 Thank you. Representative Hernandez?
 I'm very proud of you, Bowie Bear. Thanks for being here and congratulations on all your achievements. Very excited about this partnership and opportunity. I'm learning a lot today. And I'm just curious, you've kind of seen the landscape in El Paso, especially our efforts to focus more on renewable energy. Of course, coupled with El Paso Electric's commitment to be carbon neutral.
 Where do you see El Paso's biggest advantage and opportunities and what we should be focusing on for the future. Excellent question. Like I said the main resources and opportunities that El Paso has is its people. Like I said being here proof of the potential that we have here in this city. But overall we have the opportunities we have the abundance of solar resources we have more than 300 days of sun so that can provide us the opportunity to harness that
 free energy to help us bridge the potential roadblocks or challenges that we might face at the transitioning to carbon-free energy.
 Thank you and again congratulations we look forward to seeing you more often in El Paso and to see how we can strengthen that partnership. I think I can speak for most of us here that we want we want to see more innovation we want to partner with different entities and the more united we are the better we are overall environment will be. So thanks for coming to El Paso. Representative Canales. Thank you. Yeah happy to see you.
 also orgulloso here in doing good things in the city. I'm someone who has a background working in the sustainability,
 world and and I've done a good amount of work in the clean energy space. It makes me really happy to see both the Department of Energy recognizing El Paso's potential and and making this investment in our in our city and also NREL being here and and being willing to contribute so much work to making El Paso I think really a leader and we have some a
 great potential to be a leader in the clean energy space. I have to give a special shout out to Omar and your staff again. You're just delivering us victory after victory, I think, both in this space and just across all of our grants in general. So thank you and your team for delivering once again, and I really look forward to the partnership here with NREL and what you'll be able to deliver for us. Thank you.
 Thank you again for your presentation. Thank you everyone. Appreciate it. Thank you. The next item is number 32 and this is a presentation by focused advocacy on policy developments leading up to the 89th Texas legislative session. Good morning. Jasmine Flores. Good morning. Yeah, that's what I'm here for, the drum major. Just kidding. Good morning. My name is Jasmine Flores. I'm with Strategic and Legislative Affairs.
 We began meeting with you formally back in May. We introduced our draft legislative agenda with our legislative priorities. Just a refresher, our three focus areas are infrastructure, public health and safety, and workforce.
 I introduce our guests from Focused Advocacy. They're going to give you a legislative update, kind of taking the temperature of what we expect the 89th Texas legislative session to be. So if you remember these three areas, lenses, as they go through their presentation, I think that will be helpful. We plan to come back next month and present our presentation.
 as our meetings that we've done with our community partners and sort of this preliminary work we've done So this this is kind of the segue into next month's presentation. So with that I'm gonna hand it over to Car and Lily
 Mayor and Council, thank you. Snapper Carr with folks to advocacy. I'm a partner in general counsel and have Lindley Hurd, our legislative and regulatory counsel here today. And as we were coming, I always, it's a great honor to be out in El Paso. It's always one of my favorite trips to get to come out here. And I don't just say that because I'm here. In addition, y'all have some great food that I find all the time when I'm here.
 by way of background July of 2005 is when we first started having the honor of working with the city on legislative and regulatory items so we've had a nice long run and seen a lot of issues innumerable issues to to think about some of those are still present in this agenda item and presentation that we're gonna do some of those things that the legislature are like that movie Groundhog Day they keep coming back time and time again as
 representative free air can can attest to but thank you again today I'm gonna do some of the presentation but I'm also gonna hand it over to to Lindley in our office to cover some of the items much like much like politics in the legislative realm around the world it's it's a very interesting time around the Capitol a lot of change a lot of contentious debates
 that have gone on over a course of the last few sessions of course cities have been at the epicenter of some of those and really what you will see as a theme as we talk about this is where we find that balance between
 city authority and local authority community decision-based decision-making versus preemption or mandates from the legislative realm on policy areas that y'all have to provide I want to cover a few of the El Paso specific issues in areas as miss Flores just mentioned kind of in y'all's large categories
 Talk about preparing and the timeline. Lindley will cover some of the items about the timeline, key dates that we're gonna be looking at, quick discussion about y'all's delegation, the places that they hold, the impact that some of the discussions that are outside of their control might have on your delegation.
 Just the legislative environment and the speaker's race play a lot with that as we will discuss General city issues which when I say general city issues as y'all can can guess the city the size of El Paso will be impacted by The large debates that go on at the Capitol and then open it up for any questions and comments that y'all might have.
 as miss Flores mentioned y'all have laid out three main kind of headings if you will subgroups of topics that y'all would like some focus on workforce development infrastructure and then public health and safety all of those items and I made a note there of course will be considered in kind of the larger silos that the legislature and the legislative leadership whether that be governor lieutenant governor speaker
 that holds those positions. More so now than in past sessions, we have a bit more of a top-down system where the leadership agendas do dictate a lot of what the dialogue, debate, and public policy issues that are gonna be highlighted. That hasn't always been the case throughout my career, but it's very much the way that it works now. Obviously there's very solid majorities in the Republican
 leadership in both chambers so those agendas get I will give you an example lieutenant governor did not miss passing one of his agenda items priority items his 20 items that he identified out of the Senate so
 Those items get talked about. So part of these issues, whether it's economic development, additional funding for transportation, certainly land use related issues, which we'll get into in a greater depth at the end of this presentation.
 all kind of fit within different silos that will be debated. Of course, border security is a major issue for our governor and for the legislature as a whole. Obviously, unique impact to El Paso in comparison to some of your other cities around the state. And the
 The very last one that I'd like to mention, that protecting local authority and defending against preemption in a variety of areas. The converse again of preemption is really just retaining local decision-making tools, giving you all flexibility, whether that be in your budget, debt issuances, public safety concerns, can go on down the list. But that's really at the heart of the debate that we have seen at the Capitol, and it will continue
 Your peer large cities that you interact with face many of the same. You each have your own uniqueness from the communities. But, of course, there is definitely overlap in the issues that, and candidly even for the smaller cities, that will be a part of those debates, too, and how they impact them.
 As we've talked about, now is the time to start advocating and educating the legislature on issues and the public on issues that will impact El Paso. Your strategic and legislative affairs team, as I would say, is ahead of that curve and is being very proactive in that outreach, and that's an important thing. It's even more important now to have that interaction with your delegation and colleagues
 council department heads other stakeholders that will be a part of this process. Lieutenant Governor and the Speaker have issued robust series of interim hearing charges, which those hearings are happening now. I'll tell you they started up in the latter part of May. They've already been scheduled out. Most of the hearings that have occurred earlier in the Senate,
 as the Speaker was dealing with his runoff election, and so were a number of House members, they kind of had a little bit later start. But in those early hearings, cities, even on various topics, had a central seat in the discussion, if you will, that could be on housing availability and affordability, which they had a hearing on.
 eviction processes and squatter rights which they had a hearing on cities were central to that utility matters in a variety of issues whether it's with electric utility or water and wastewater services we've had hearings on all those that cities are at the forefront of that discussion
 As we move forward kind of identifying from those interim hearings we can get a good idea of what some of the proposals will be Some will be I'll just be candid some will be good and many will be we will probably consider Having issue with or needing changes and that's not unique from the position That we as local governments and cities have been in in
 For a period of time, but really the idea and what we're working on this interim is to try to really enhance that notion That cities are the partners to the state. They're the service provider for the citizens and they carry out a lot of the state's
 mission and work right here at the local level that y'all do in providing these services and so the more we can have that discussion the more that we can kind of keep the dialogue and policy debate in that while pursuing those things that y'all want to is where we have the best chance in this environment it's not where
 the old days where cities large cities would come in and say these are the agenda items we'd like to see highlighted or considered and we get our way with that that that's not the the reality of the legislative environment that we operate in anymore sharing your your agenda item early as you have with your delegation and identifying which community partners
 an active on those topics is very important we tend to have a much better success on whether it's proactive issues or getting change to issues that we might have opposed proposals if we have support outside of just government I you have your community partners lined up to express
 their opinion especially when you've worked and it's in line. We have to do that with outside stakeholders. We do that in our role with y'all. The various trade associations everywhere from the restaurant association to the
 landscapers Association I mean anybody that has a coalition down there we have to interact with them on behalf of local governments because ultimately you all as cities have more issues before the legislature than any other entities public are private and there's really not a close second about a third of all legislation that comes through the legislature impacts city operations in some form or fashion everything from budget to public safety
 down to ordinances dealing with your water conservation matters and everything in between. So having that agenda, having those partners lined up, very important. And then, of course, executing on a defined plan that you all will adopt.
 And with that, as we get to the time, I'm going to ask Lindley to cover a little of the key dates. Sure. Hi, Mayor and Council. Lindley Hurd with Focus Advocacy. I'll take you through the legislative timeline here. As Snapper mentioned, we're sort of in the thick of the interim process where interim hearings are being held. There are several scheduled in both the House and Senate leading through the fall.
 Then we'll get to Election Day and shortly after Election Day the following week bill prefiling begins and that as Snapper likes to say is when bills with actual numbers that can and do become law will be introduced and that is when we will start tracking them. January 14th the session convenes and the speaker will be elected.
 And then committees will be named. The Senate committees are more of a known entity going into the legislature, House committees. There will likely be a shakeup depending on who the speaker is. Even if Speaker Phelan retains his speakership, there will still probably be some changes. We'll get to a slide later that will show how many representatives will not be returning. So there will be new chairmanships for those.
 and then we get to the bill filing deadline March 14th and then starting about in May is when the bill passage deadlines arrive and bills will start dying in mass and then we've got June 2nd sine die so a little less than a year from that great day here is your very capable legislative delegation and
 Everybody will be returning, as you all know, except for Representative Ortega. This also shows their committee assignments. As we discussed, some of those will probably be changing. They have done a really great job of operating in Republican-controlled Senate and House and delivering for El Paso. So very great delegation.
 This slide shows the legislative environment that we'll be going into in the Senate. There are currently 19 Republicans and 12 Democrats There are no longer any Democrats holding chairmanships. There was one John Whitmer was a chairman and he became mayor of Houston So and lieutenant governor Dan Patrick has said there will be no Democrat chairman in the Senate in the house there are 86 Republicans and 64 Democrats currently and
 32 House incumbents won't be returning next session. It's 24 Republicans and 8 Democrats, and that includes nine committee chairs and a House Appropriations Subcommittee chair, so there will be a lot of shakeups in some important committees. There are some contested races in November where there is a Republican and a Democrat running, so there may be some changes in the partisan makeup, but it won't be significant. It will still be Republicans will still hold the House.
 And then there will be two new senators. And again, we expect there will be 19 Republicans and 12 Democrats in the Senate. So I will turn it back over to Snapper now. Thank you. Those changes, just by way of background, having 35-odd members replaced in the House is a very large number.
 having 10 chairman is a very large number. I would guess there's probably, given that one of Speaker Phelan's chairman is challenging him for his role as speaker, will probably not be speaker if he were to prevent.
 chair if he were to prevail again as well so a lot of turnover in that area and one thing that's of interest there is and again representative can attest his time in the legislature a chairman has a great deal of sway over how an issue will be handled how it's dealt with or if it's dealt with at all
 and they have that latitude. So when we get new chairman in key committees, like we will have a new chairman in the House Land and Resource Management Committee, for example. Well, that committee deals with all of your ordinance making power, land use powers, annexations, and the way that that chairman, wherever the new chairman is from, how they perceive those issues and how their history with them will play a major role in how we start off with those topics.
 I guess saying it this way we're going into a very uncertain time and we'll have a lot of Question marks heading into session that we won't know the answers to write off. We won't know the answers for sure who the speaker will be Speaker Phelan is running and You know, I think if the vote were held today Probably would be the speaker still but there's a lot of time between now and the start of session to see what what occurs the
 the issue we had that was also there and we talked about chairmanship and that partisan makeup before we dive into this is that there was a letter that was put out by 46 current and rep elects to some that aren't in office that signed a letter saying they were not supportive a speaker that that would allow for minority party chair
 chairmanship which would be the first time in the history of our state that that has occurred it will have a dramatic effect on the overall legislative and policymaking process if that is to take place I can't tell you what what the full effect of it will be but it will be would be significant departure from how Texas legislative debates and processes have gone forward
 So a lot there and a lot to be determined as we move forward. The issues that are at hand, and again, I mentioned we had a record number of bills filed last session. I expect that we'll probably beat that record this time based on the number of bill requests that are already pending with our state legislative council who drafts the official bills. We're in the thousands already.
 November as Lindley said those will start being being filed second week in November and many of the issues that I'm about to discuss with you here are things that we've dealt with before and we'll be back overall I would say again circling that word preemption that's going to be the crux of the debate on a lot of these topics how much authority is retained at the local level how much discretion do you all have
 here at the council dais to make decisions and to direct staff to handle certain topics. Those are wide-ranging topics, whether that be with your property tax, whether that be with your development processes, whether that be with how you issue debt, and everything else in between. It will be there, and that is some of that discussion.
 As you all know, last session, a major preemption bill that was referred to as the Death Star Bill, House Bill 2127, was passed. That bill attempted, or at least purported, to preempt cities across the board if there wasn't expressed statutory authority, i.e. turning home rural cities into general law cities. City of El Paso is part of that challenge, the constitutional challenge of that bill.
 There will be legislation filed by the authors of that bill that will attempt to dress some of those challenges And try to maybe make this bill better and the author Of the bill who happens to be the calendar chairman as well Chairman Dustin Burroughs out of Lubbock area has said he also wanted to look at greater penalties to get compliance with that bill even though its constitutionality is in question now, but I
 Those penalties in the past had ranged from limiting cities authority to impose Property taxes if they were deemed out of compliance with that bill and some other punitive measures that were intended to to to
 not be a carrot, but definite stick to get compliance with the preemption legislation. A preemption issue has been present in almost every single debate that we can find. Every item that's on this page that you see has some level of that discussion. Land use is a perennial area that cities and the legislature debate over. The development community and special interests debate
 both large and small, go to Austin to seek changes that often override certain community authorities. That's in this environment, too. We have already had one hearing in the House and the Senate have issues on housing availability and affordability, and not
 affordable housing in the sense of subsidized or incentivized housing programs But truly in the private sector of how they allow more housing stock what has generally and what last session had been the the Bulk of the proposals to help with that were things that preempted city authority on zoning lot sizes
 mandating by right accessory dwelling units or back houses all came very close to passing within one week period a number of those proposals died by very slim margins they're all back for consideration during the interim in that issue of that in the list that you see here
 will all be considered and I suspect that we will be fighting to maintain some of those those issues it again have it back here you see under city administration this is another one I wanted to make sure and it's somewhat preemption we listed as community censorship or limitations on advocacy and
 Go back to I mentioned that cities have more bills that impact departmental operations and citizen services than any other entities. And they also often are the cities are the focus of a number of private sector special interest groups that go to Austin and seek certain things in, again, a variety of areas.
 There's going to be a very serious discussion again on the ability of cities to join TML and for the Texas Municipal League or like groups and whether that group can advocate on behalf of local governments. Also, whether cities can hire consultants such as myself or my groups that we work with or to even have in-house positions that would be deemed to be advocating on some topic that
 The narrative that has sold this issue, which is probably why it hasn't passed because it's candidly not accurate, is that the city of El Paso engages in this process, joins TML, hires folks like us to be consultants because you all want to go seek greater taxing authority over the opposition of your citizenry.
 And I mentioned this my 19th year of working with y'all and y'all haven't once asked me to go do that not a single council nor mayor or city manager to do that, so We've been involved in whole lots of matters and some I would argue have been to the great benefit of your constituencies and the citizens of El Paso but
 That is not and so That discussion will happen. It'll happen again at the Capitol the issue of school Choice and the debate in the public education arena elevated that topic again Because there was obviously a number of school districts superintendents and school boards that engaged in the legislative process over the last two years in particular and that's really elevated that that item and
 One area of concern that I have that will be revisited is city debt authority and putting restrictions on your ability to issue debt And for what you can issue debt for whether that be through CEOs Or just again limiting what you can use certain debt instruments for to different types of projects That are very narrow
 And this has been an ongoing issue, and it's one that we have some interim study charges on. It's an area that is very big. We get to taxes and fees from that. There's two very large property tax items that the legislature is sitting in. One, the Senate is intended to look at the ability to eliminate all property taxes, what it would take to do so.
 Of course, they've taken a step towards paying For the homestead exemptions at the school level and trying to eliminate M&O taxes at the school level of course cities Counties other taxing authorities don't get funding from the state in that manner. So it's a little different program, but I
 Overall, I think there is going to be a look back at the effective tax rate calculation or the no new tax rate calculations and formulas that that will be considered that would probably be.
 Detrimental to cities whether that's not allowing for an exemption for new construction, for example Currently, it's not treated as a windfall of property taxes because you have a new property to serve But looking at those items issues related to street maintenance and street maintenance fees and taxes That can be used or on a
 board again there are members that will file legislation that would limit cities ability to engage in those certain areas and so very healthy discussion on again on your local authority with regards to the property tax formulas and in that one will probably consume a great deal of time and energy
 There's going to be a lot of issues. Some, there were bills filed that would have required partisan elections at the local election level for all local government offices. Those will be back and some considering. Ability to put ballot language restrictions or to require certain things on the ballot, particularly for bond or debt issuances, will be considered in another hot topic.
 Public safety issues always number one as y'all the biggest budget item. It's also one of great interest and concern to the legislature Mayor I will say that I know the item of juvenile curfews Will be back. I would place that under under this item and
 There are some members that were surprised, I think, by the effects of that. Some that didn't even know that it was mandated and criticized certain cities for taking action to repeal those. That will be back, I think it'll be talked about in the course of the interim too. You know, it's funny you say that because I talked to a lot of the mayors in other cities around and they weren't aware that that item had passed or when it was and it was, I guess, late one night and it was packaged together with a package.
 So I mean you're 100% correct because I did make quite a few calls on that. Yes, sir Mayor and in fact, there were only two cities in the state There were some law enforcement groups, but two cities in the state that opposed that at the time El Paso and San Antonio And we happen to be there in that hearing when it was taking place very late in session Yes, some uniqueness to it. So that was one that will will be brought back and I think considered for Reconsidered if you will
 There's some good things, too. I know we spend a lot of time defending and opposing, unfortunately, a number of bills on behalf of cities. And I would say in that opposition, your delegation's with you 98 percent of the time. Truly, you know, your delegation generally is going to vote with you on those items that y'all are opposed with.
 That's not 100%, but that's a very strong record in comparison to others. It's the broader discussion of these topics that gets folded into it. But we're going to see some opportunities for some good things, too, some things that make good government sense, y'all being able to modernize and do postings online.
 increase competitive bidding thresholds or more discretion again to the local things that are coming about I would also note that you know this is going to be a good budget session as this slide puts out we had a massive budget surplus last time we're looking at the comptroller's indicated 15 to 20 billion again for this biennium plus we have a bunch of unexpended federal funds and
 That makes for great opportunities to tap into some of those, whether that be in parks, in transportation, technology deployment like broadband issues, but also in public safety. Great number of things being considered in that. One unique thing, because your strategic and legislative affairs office, as Omar's prior
 presentation highlighted its great job of identifying Opportunities for funding at the state level it is a little more challenging in that the state can't really Appropriate money directly to cities. We have to go through a program That's administered by a state agency or have a state partner in some way a university or some other program That's administered say by the governor's office like D AG like the military grants program is and
 With this level of state budget, a number of these areas, I think, will get additional infusions of cash. The D-AG program is a prime example. I think they will look for a permanent funding source for that. Cities, this city has played a major role in the history of that, being funded and benefiting cities across the state for military value grants. And we will see that again.
 As far as large-scale initiatives by leadership, school choice and the voucher debate will be front and center. There's no question that will be the number one and probably one through five in terms of the focus. The governor, lieutenant governor in particular, stating that this will be the session that they 
 don't hold back if you will and certainly the election cycle indicated that that would be the case we're having ongoing issues with the electric system as y'all probably seen in the news Centerpoint Electric in Houston areas is struggling with regards to their preparedness and storm response the area one area in in the city of El Paso and it's very specific has been
 very active in y'all's role as Having original jurisdiction over your electric utility and over the rates of that utility that historically since public utility a commission of Texas was created back in the 70s Cities have been able to do that and as a public service to represent in those areas this city has probably done that as well as any that I've worked with and
 They're able to do that because you get reimbursed for those costs that you engage in that it's it's deemed a public good For y'all to be in there and that's why you get reimbursed There will be proposals to to consider to limit that or to eliminate it altogether there have in the past they will again and So we'll be prepared to tell that story and to tell y'all story as it is a good way of defending against that. I
 Um, additional investment and appropriations for the governor's operation loan star will happen. This is a prime example of trying to find ways to, we know that money is going to be expended in ways that might help y'all offset expenses that you've occurred or to seek some funding for, for additional programs, uh, that, that might benefit from an infusion of state cash. Uh, there will be that opportunity.
 Again, a number of affordable housing and availability of housing around the state. That is one that I think TML and other cities are concerned about because it is going to ultimately get into y'all's authority of what you have here.
 It is definitely a challenge for cities right now with regards to kind of the relationship that the legislature Overall and particularly legislative leadership has had with local governments around the state But I see I see that improving so I really do it's I see a lot of opportunities especially on the budget front
 that we could see some improvements. You know, going back a little bit to, again, to y'all's delegation has done, one, they're more unified than in some past delegations.
 And that has allowed for them, I think, to be more effective in defending and helping pursue proactive items. They really are well thought of, despite being in the minority party of the legislature. All of your members, I think, are thought of as very constructive members.
 Able members and and that has shown with the committee assignments and the positions that they've had again a lot of this can change if we come in and have a new a new chairman our new chair or speaker that says We're only having one party chair. For example, y'all would lose a chairman Y'all would lose some of that space that you have here. And so that's something that will will I
 monitor and evaluate as we go forward. You know, for our role, we view ourselves as extensions of your city staff and proud to view ourselves that way. So we will be working hand in glove with you
 City administration city legal department of course your newly formed strategic and legislative affairs team to try to pursue those things That have the most bang for the buck if you will for this community for the items that y'all are dealing with here on council and again, we appreciate the opportunity and Happy to answer any questions and discuss any items in greater detail. Thank you, and I appreciate the presentation I know that
 This always becomes a moving and a working document. Yes, sir. And as, you know, the session starts in January, that kind of.
 Could change a lot depending who gets elected in State offices so that that'll mean what we look at and when we start supporting and not supporting Kind of totally changes based based on that So I know you've been how long you've been working with us 19 years and thank you do a really good job and I appreciate that sir, thank you, so I look forward to
 Working with you and working with the rest of your team for the fence important to have a voice in Austin for our community Thank you. Thank you. Thank you mayor. First and foremost. Thank you and welcome. Thank you I hope that you were wearing comfortable shoes because Ian's gonna make you work. I mean, he's very focused we've had more meetings and briefings with him and
 up to this date than I think any other institution I've been involved in. So he's going to really make you work. You made a comment about the delegation. And I think our delegation has been really successful and done above and beyond with their little numbers. Having said that, though, this week, I think, or late last week, Representative Kane jumped off the bandwagon for the speaker.
 It really seems to be snowballing that way, that the potential of us being in a situation where there is no other party chairs. Representative Moody and Representative Gonzalez have done a great job of being in leadership and working both sides of the aisle. That's gonna make your role even more difficult, a lot of late nights and,
 I'm do you see any possible scenario where we can keep this the speaker feeling stays where he's at yeah so you know I would go back maybe you know to those
 You've gotten to vote in in several speakers Elections, so you know that it's it's I say the the most high-profile class president election that there can be it's 150 people They get to vote we can all have opinions But there's 150 votes and that first person that gets to 76 seen a lot of these happen You know Joe Strauss was elected with a magic number of 12 Republicans
 Republican votes his first election and Oddly enough if you look back to those partisan numbers if they don't change which I think they might buy handful Maybe actually if I had to predict maybe a couple of DC pickups there So but at the end of the day if it were held now all the Democrats plus about 12 members would produce a Republican speaker that could select a Republican speaker out of that and so I
 I think Speaker Phelan still has a good number. I think some question will be how the Democrat caucus and how unified that is in voting for someone. My suspicion is that at the end of the day, there will probably be a pretty strong indication to continue to support Speaker Phelan. And so then the question is, has he maintained 12 to 15 votes?
 Republican members. Now that doesn't mean that that makes for an easy road as you know. Those Republican members are already catching a great deal of blowback politically and pressure from outside groups not to support his candidacy and
 And so we will see that play out. There previously were laws on the books that limited outside participation in that. Those have been deemed unconstitutional. So now massive amounts of money and political activities outside of the Capitol occur, push calls, mail, everything, just like a political campaign.
 So it will be difficult again. I think Ultimately if that were held today, I think speaker feeling would still be This the speaker. I don't know that and again, you got to get 76 I don't know if there there's a real big anybody outside of speaker feeling that would garner the the majority of the Republican caucus to kind of supplant him so that Democrat
 support doesn't matter in the race and again it's it's kind of just playing with that hundred and fifty number and looking at what that is but you know so far speaker Phelan has not committed to to what many again 46 members of the Republican caucus said we are no longer going to support Democratic chairs and
 And I hope you're right, because I believe he's a man of his word, and I think he would stick by it. My concern is the Republican caucus, other than coming out with their goal of 56 names to run behind. But thank you so much for that briefing. It was very interesting. We look forward to the next one.
 Ian's come sending information from your office to our office And again, welcome to El Paso. Thank you. And I agree Ian's gonna make us work and we're gonna enjoy it we like working getting some victories and We will have no shortage of Evaluating things between now and January When that election for speaker will take place. I'll probably have a lot of plot twists between now and then to take sure I
 Representative Acevedo. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you for providing all of this information. It's a ton of information, so I just wanted to go a little more in depth, and if you could elaborate on some of these issues. Absolutely. Kind of the likeliness of this happening, and just a general overview, if you could.
 Kind of tell me as I tell you which topics Specifically on present page 8 page 8. Yeah so one thing that a lot of my constituents have been relentless and in advocating for and asking questions about and I and I joined them in that sense is the appraisal set
 have been happening and so I saw the appraisal cap and kind of want to have a better understanding of what's going on there because I've been telling them this is a state law that that's been going through and we need more advocacy at the state level to get the appraisals under control really right. So a couple of things happened as you know.
 One, appraisal caps have been being debated as a form of property tax relief for a long period. We, of course, have the 10% homestead cap currently. That was passed back in the late 90s, and it hasn't changed. There's been proposals across the board. Lieutenant Governor used to be a big proponent of appraisal caps. He is now an opponent to appraisal caps, and that's somewhat because of how they're viewed as the effect. Thank you.
 The business community also generally has opposed appraisal caps because they generally apply to two residences only And so they view that as a split tax roll that would allow for kind of that property tax to be split So in addition appraisal caps why one reason?
 represented that they also become difficult for those initiatives to pass because they require constitutional amendment they have to the amend the uniform and equal taxation provision or our state Constance's they have to have two-thirds majorities in both chambers that's very difficult to achieve in this environment and so they haven't happened I will say for the first time in our state's history with the
 property tax relief that was passed during the special session the speaker Proposed and got into that final reform the first commercial property appraisal cap for properties over under a
 2 million I believe in that number don't I might have that that number wrong but there's a limited and it sunsets and in a couple of years kind of a pilot program on limitations on commercial appraisal caps
 I think where you're gonna see And then the other big appraisal reform is of course we elected we have now have in the larger communities elected appraisal review board members There was a of course elections for that which has been a proposal for a long time and it went about like What everybody thought it would I think around the state that'll probably get revisited at some point as well they
 At least in our area, they became partisan, even though they weren't partisan, and different issues arose in those elections, but that was intended to be part of that appraisal review. I think you will see them look at that, but that they're going to revert back to what are the things that they can do. Lieutenant Governor's idea has been less now about appraisal caps and more about homestead exemption increase.
 I think we could see proposals to grant more authority for local, to structure homestead exemptions in different ways, whether a flat amount or a percentage base as well that will be there. But again, this is one of the biggest topics. I mean, it ties to school finance, so it's kind of in there with it. But there's three separate interim charges in three separate committees looking at property tax reform that includes appraisal reform.
 So we're going to have a host of proposals to evaluate to see how they affect. But so it will 100% be there and there will be bills filed to lower appraisals to 3% increased growth. The question about whether or not those will pass I think is difficult given that it requires super majorities.
 And there's opposition but but I think we will come out a session especially in a year where we have a big budget surplus Where they've done something substantial again on Property tax relief the lieutenant governor's announced that he would like to increase that current hundred thousand state funded homestead exemption for schools to a hundred and fifty thousand So the first hundred, you know and not get on a path to eliminate all skip school M&O taxes Which would of course provide?
 significant relief but but it will be probably you know next to the school choice area property tax
 Okay, no, thank you for that and the other one that I was kind of looking at was the street maintenance sales tax reforms street maintenance on utility bills and kind of an overview of that would be great Yeah, so there's two areas there there They're of course ability to dedicate a portion of your sales tax for street maintenance purposes And there are some election requirements that have to happen if you have availability under your local level to deal with
 There have been proposals to where you only have to have one election, maybe not have to come back for a number of years. A number of that's just received some attention.
 There are a number of communities that collect a fee on different variety of utility bills. That has garnered any, let me say this, anything that is a revenue generating or that produces revenue, whether through a tax or a fee for cities, is under a spotlight. How it's expended, how it's imposed, what you can expend it on and the level of it.
 of those things have been under and so I think we will have very serious proposals some of it on the street maintenance piece that might outright prohibit cities from imposing those but I couldn't give you a percentage of how likely it is but I will say it'll be a real debate these are members that are in the majority party and can have their bills heard and
 can pass things, put it that way. So they're real bills that will get real consideration. And the financing reform for PAYGO, what does that look like?
 So pay as you go finance reform, that kind of was a catch all that we put there because again just in general the way that cities particularly are funding capital infrastructure, debt financing, all of those things kind of get looped in and so there's been some that have penalized pay as you go proposals and some that highly encourage it of course as a means to avoid debt issuances on it
 to be real honest they haven't had they've at times been contradictory of one another nothing's passed in regards to it but overall that that is going you know generally in years past communities that have followed some level of pay as you go reduced debt issuances have been kind of favored by some of the folks in the legislature that have oversight over these areas
 That that's the topic. No real specifics that have come out of that one yet. It's just kind of more in that overall discussion about debt and finance, particularly of large scale capital projects. Well, thank you so much for the information. It's very thorough. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir. There's no additional questions. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council, for the time.
 We have a call to the public. Yes sir that brings us to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is local government body charge with serving all the citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have two members of the public that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Ms. Elizabeth Crawford. Her topic is International Day of Justice. Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford. Star six, please, to unmute your microphone. And you have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you. July 17th is the note of International Day of Justice.
 Isaiah chapter 9 verses 6 and 7 the prophet Isaiah wrote under the inspiration of God's Holy Spirit for unto us a child is born unto us a son is given and the government shall be upon his children and his name shall be called wonderful counselor the mighty God the everlasting father the prince of peace of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom
 to order and to establish a judgment with justice, sometimes both even forever, reveal a relative post to a performance. We are living by God's design between the first and second evidence of the Lord Jesus. And we live in a world raging with injustice. As our media and our world have grown increasingly pro-Palestinian and have increasingly engaged in anti-Israel rhetoric, I'd like to speak briefly about a small number of people living in Gaza who are often overlooked
 There's a small group of Christians who live in Gaza. These people are twice the victims of Hamas. They're regularly terrorized and discriminated against in the faith in Jesus Christ, and now they are suffering with the attempt of the IDF to track down and eliminate Hamas. They're doubly the victims of Hamas.
 All over our nation we see the protests of this slogan, Free Palestine. Free Palestine to what? To be governed by its elected officials? By Hamas, the terrorist group? This is freedom? No, the UN and the mainstream media are seriously deceived and deceitful. The Hamas charter, you can read it online, the Hamas charter, the Hamas covenant, explicitly lays out its goal, the destruction of Israel.
 Instead of free Palestine, why not free Gaza from Hamas?
 Truth matters, justice matters. My friends and I pray almost every day for the people of Israel and for the people of Gaza so the gospel of peace could go out even in an area ravaged by war. Until that great day when the Prince of Peace returns to establish true peace in the first. For unto us a child is born, unto us is promise given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, the Everlasting Father,
 Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ron como. Mr. Como's topic is animal services. Good afternoon, sir You have three minutes Hi everybody surprise, right? Hey, I just want to throw a couple items out. We're not going to get a detail or discussion felony DWI domestic violence Falsifying an official police report. I got all this free time now. I get to look things up. I
 So, I want to discuss a little issue that showed up at the shelter. We had a couple of pups get picked up and taken to the shelter that Loretta was trying to get her hands on. She contacted me to make sure I could go pick them up, which, of course, I can never say no. The dogs went in on Saturday, and we got no, no, no, no, no, no. Sunday, no, no, no, no, no. Monday morning, I get authorization to go pick the dogs up. One of the dogs comes out of the shelter with a leg that's absolutely destroyed.
 Absolutely destroyed. It wasn't a question. I took the dog directly to Coronado, and the leg was amputated because it was not fixable. My problem is two things. There was a rescue trying to get this dog from the time it was put on the truck headed to animal services. She was told no. The reason why she was told no is Kyla's not there to handle the rescues.
 Now, my second problem to this is that dog sat in the back of animal services without proper vet care, which is a violation of federal, state, and local laws. I wish the chief was here. The situation happened again just before I left. So we've got an issue. In the old days, if Kyla wasn't there, we saw Esty, Val, Nancy, or Miriam. We had four people that were able to take over.
 when the rescue coordinator wasn't available. Now you gotta ask, so why don't we now? All four quit sighted toxic work environment. We need to fix it. We cannot expect to have a full house of employees if we can't keep the ones that have been there the long time. We gotta get things changed, policies and procedures in place to protect the employees at the shelter. We need to get rid of the toxic work environment
 Because we're getting ready to open up another shelter. We we're gonna need more employees now How do we do that if we can't keep the ones we have just food for thought folks? Thank you. Enjoy the rest of your day. Thank you, sir. Here that concludes call to the public Yes, sir, the next few items are the first reading of ordinances these are items 33 to 36 this is the introduction
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 33 to 36. On that motion, call for the vote. Bless you. And the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present. Item number 37 is discussion in action on the award of task order number 8K-1 for solicitation
 Horizontal Construction Improvements 2024-0397 to Keystone GC LLC for a total estimated award of $611,979.21 to develop an accessible pathway from deactivated bus stops to active bus stops. Motion approved. Second. There is a motion made by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 37. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session.
 And that motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido, non-present. Item 38 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2024-0380, Hondo Pass Citizen Collection Station to Meridor Enterprises, Inc. The contract will be used for the construction of a drop-off location for household waste, hazardous material, bulky items, and recyclables. An estimated award of $3,929,850. I'll move second.
 There is a motion made by alternate mayor, Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Rivera to award the solicitation. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And that motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present. Item 39 is discussion and action on the request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue a purchase order to Rio Biofield LLC, referencing contract 2022-0724, automotive fuel, diesel. Second.
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor, Pro Temo Linares to approve item 39. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present.
 Item number 40 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2024-0285 janitorial services to ace government services for an estimated amount of 1,256,958 dollars. The contract will provide daily janitorial services across multiple clinics and offices locations for the department of public health. There is a motion made by representative Fierro seconded by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares
 to award the solicitation on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present.
 Item number 41 is a public hearing of an ordinance authorizing the conveyance of real property owned by the city of El Paso to be TRE development LLC for the purchase price of eighteen million seven hundred and twenty thousand dollars Such real property legally described as a portion of block one block one El Paso West is filed in book 57 page five of the plat records of the El Paso County, Texas. I Think we do have public comment. Yes mayor. We do have a
 public comment we have Stuart Shiloh followed by Richard Dayou and Dr. Rick Bonner. Thank you ma'am. Good afternoon sir you have three minutes. I think there was a statement submitted in writing by Adam Frank also? That is correct Mayor Adam Frank from River Oaks Properties submitted a statement. Thank you ma'am. Good afternoon sir. Good afternoon Mr. Mayor and City Council.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak today representing River Oaks Properties. We urge you to postpone the proposed sale of 43 acres at I-10 and Paseo Del Norte to VTRE for several critical reasons. First, this intersection is already identified as a high congestion area by TxDOT and the El Paso MPO. A distribution center here would significantly increase commercial traffic. Not only delivery vehicles constantly going in, but more importantly, 18-wheel traffic,
 tractor trailer traffic that negatively impacts the surrounding retail businesses and could likely reduce tax revenues. This proposal should have been brought to you with a recent traffic study that takes into consideration the traffic on Paseo del Norte, especially for the residents north of there in the Cimarron area.
 Second, a distribution facility is not the highest and best use for this prime location. There are several more suitable parcels of land nearby that could accommodate the warehouse without worsening congestion at this crucial intersection. This project would best be put with other industrial developments that have excellent access to the freeway and are areas where warehouses are located.
 The highest and best use for this property as far as revenue to the city is as a retail development that produces sales tax revenue as well as higher property tax revenue than an industrial warehouse. We have an analysis prepared by a company called Catalyst, a firm many economic development departments in other cities use.
 that shows the fiscal impact to the city over 10 years for our project would be upwards of 33 million as opposed to a little under 5 million for the warehouse project. Plus we plan to put an additional 300,000 square feet of multi-family apartments which would add walkability to the project, a stated goal of the city in the past.
 Third, an RFP process, which we're in favor of, with strict guidelines that better align the Council's goals for quality infill development would bring the highest value to taxpayers and in the most transparent manner of handling vital city assets. Fourth, contrary to concerns about being blacklisted by other out-of-town developers, backing out of this deal would demonstrate El Paso's sophistication in economic development.
 We can tell you as developers of retail shopping centers here in El Paso that there are many retail companies, some that many El Pasoans value coming into the market, that would go into a development we would build here. Without this, there's not another large shopping center development planned anywhere in the city where these new retailers could go that would have an attractive anchor tenant.
 Finally, we appreciate the council's efforts to accommodate development and growth but urge you to reconsider this sale. Better land options exist that would allow both the distribution fulfillment center and a more suitable retail development at this location, maximizing the benefit for the community and generating the best possible returns for the city. Thank you for your time and consideration.
 Thank you. Can I ask a question, since we have the ability to do that? You gave some economic impact numbers. So you know that the user, you know how much they're going to produce every year?
 Do I know what? The warehouse that you're referring to, you know exactly what equipment they'll have in there because they'll pay tax on their equipment. And are you aware of their production month in and month out and for the year? So the company that we hired to produce the economic analysis catalyst has done this analysis for other distribution centers of this type around the country. And they know the size of it? I don't believe that they know what they're going to do. So do they know the impact of...
 the companies that are going to build around it to be able to support this area? That would be probably other industrial development. Yeah, that's what I'm saying, but I think it's unfair to say that you got, you know, yours, obviously you know yours because that's your business, and I'm sure it's pretty accurate. But to see the accuracy of a...
 a another company not knowing their production and their input and their I know that they're going to go big into electrifying and they're going to go big into the grid and all that and and what the impact that'll be to the community and everything it and again the subsidiary businesses that are going to come around and because of this it's not fair to say that that's a accurate number based on what we've been briefed in executive session
 But I thank you though, because I know you do a really good job and you know your business really well, and I thank you for that. Thank you for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Richard Dayou. I don't see Mr. Dayou in the queue. We'll move on to Dr. Rick Bollmer. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I'm here today to oppose this item as the last person did. And my reasons are two. I think that the current sales price that you've advertised is too low.
 And I think that it's unfair to the community to continue to have TURS 10 in place on this property. That's no longer any benefit to the community. As a way of the history, you'll recall that this TURS was put in place in 2018 as part of the deal for a great wolf lodge. And it was promised when that deal fell through that this...
 TERS would go away also if you'll recall mayor I spoke to you I think was about a year ago regarding this very item when we were considering removing TERS 10a and it was also discussed that 10 would go away as well and Representative Schwartzbein at the time acknowledged that too. So I see no economic or no benefit No public benefit to keeping TERS 10 in place. I think it's unfair and
 then I have a few questions maybe you can help me with it's like the original price of estimate of this land the appraisal was in this 18 million dollar range but it's been off the public tax rolls since the city acquired it in 2018 so how much property taxes have we lost in those six years additionally I've
 What's happened is there was a note that was taken out. In order to purchase property from the public service board, you're paying them interest on the original loan. So I'd like to know how much money has been spent to service that debt as well as how much money we've lost as far as taxes over the last six years.
 add that to your original $18 million in your appraisal, and then I think you'd come up with a much fairer price. So if you'll adjust that price, and if you'll remove the TERS, then I think you'll go a long way to making a fair deal for the public, because what you have now is a perfect example of the abuse of the TERS process as an excuse for economic development, because it has not produced what you were after.
 Thank you. Thank you, sir, for your time. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you, ma'am. I know we have Representative Salcido. I know she had asked a question to Mr. Allen to see if the company was online because she would like to address the company. Yes, sir. Chris McCluskey from VTRE Development is online. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon. I'm sorry. Good afternoon.
 So my questions, I know that we left off of Karina. Is she present? No. I'm also on virtually representative. But Bill and Juan and some other folks are there in person. So I'll let them take first. Perfect. I have everybody online. Great. Thank you so much. Karina, I know that we had talked and asked you a couple of questions and you mentioned you were going to have all that information for me today.
 prepared for those questions representative. I think one I actually did not receive the impact study for the traffic. I think you were going to email that to me. I did not receive it.
 So like I mentioned yesterday, sorry, Carina Brescala, Economic and International Development for the record. So like I mentioned yesterday, there would be as part of the standard development process, and I think planning and inspections can speak to this, we'd require an updated traffic impact analysis. There was a study done in 2018 that identified a need for the signal in that location. VTRE, as they did in the previous transaction,
 has agreed to take on those costs that would otherwise be borne by the city. And in fact, we had allocated funding late last year to pay for that. So now that cost is being put onto VTRE and they've agreed to pay for that, noting the infrastructure needs in this area. And that is separate and aside from anything that would be required
 from an updated traffic impact analysis during the regular development process as they work through subdivision, zoning, permitting, whatever may be needed for the final development. No, perfect. No, thank you for sharing that. But in particular, I did ask you that I wanted to see the old one just for myself to have perspective. And as I needed that actually to take a vote today, I did what's very, very clear. And I know my colleagues were an executive when I said that.
 But that's nor here nor there. I don't have the study in front of me. My second question is you had mentioned for the public's benefit where we're going to go down the timeline in regards to how it all started with VTRE and the contract until where we're at today. Would you like me to go through the development timeline? I have that ready. Yes, please. Let me just pull that up really quickly.
 So I'm not going to go all the way back to the beginning. Um, although as Dr. Bonart pointed out in his comments, this was originally a land transfer, um, from the El Paso water inventory. So that is there. We do make annual payments, um, on this property. And then, uh, there was the land transfer, right? That this came in, um,
 as part of the proposed Great Wolf Lodge development. So I'll pick this up in 2018, if that's all right with everybody, since I think the question is more about sort of following the Great Wolf Lodge agreement being terminated in October of 2018, we're talking about sort of general marketing, right? There was the land transfer was for purpose-built development
 So the site was marketed out for industry development following the termination of the Great Wolf Lodge agreement in October of 2018. It was on the market for about two years. In mid-2020, VTRE was identified as a prospect. I don't have a lot of the details because I wasn't with Economic Development at the time, so I don't want to speak to specific conversations. But generally, I'll say we probably worked with brokers, with our real estate department. Generally, we're looking at industry development. That was the direction from council at the time.
 Discussions were had with VTRE through 2020 through early 2021 and a contract of sale was signed with them in March 2021. There were a number of
 amendments made to do some certain extensions. There was an amendment in March 2022 reducing that sale area. And then in August, the contract was terminated. At that time, council was briefed both on the termination, the change in the development plan, and there was no change in the directive following the contract being terminated. So we continue to market out this property looking at a direct sale to support key industry growth areas.
 September 2022 through about March of this year. So again, not quite two years, the site was available. I wouldn't say we were, you know, marketing it, it wasn't going to be on any of your major kind of platforms, but it was available. Folks knew that it was vacant. Folks knew that the VTRE sale had been, you know, terminated, that that contract was ended. We had various
 Interests, nothing really substantial. We did have one LOI, I will pass through that correction. We did have an LOI that was later revoked, withdrawn. VTRE continued to stay in contact with Citi and show interest in the site, and we did provide updates to Council throughout that time, including in March of 2023, in the fall of 2023, when we have ordered that appraisal. So that today's price, the fair market value reflected in the contract of sale, is based on the appraisal from September 23.
 And Council has briefed on that update, and then there was again an update in December of last year on all of the outstanding priority property dispositions, which included both the Northwest site, the potential VTRE sale, other items like the Zaragoza property, the Northeast property that ended up being sold to META.
 In March 2024, City staff brought forward the proposed sale terms and development timeline to City Council in Executive Session and received direction to proceed with the sale. And then we did briefings in accordance with the posting to review the full contract terms once it was posted publicly.
 So we've been working under the same direction, which is that this is within a TERS under Chapter 272. We're permitted to do a direct sale and it's an exception to the bid requirements when it is for economic development purposes that support the goals and objectives of the Increment Reinvestment Zone Project and Financing Plan.
 Direction has been consistent from Council for going on nearly four years now that this is property we would like to see that supports our key growth areas. VTRE is a national company that has experience working with lots of Fortune 500, Fortune 150 companies. They have a substantial portfolio and we believe that they will work with a company that will their end user will support our objectives in this area and really align with our industry growth and attraction strategies.
 Thank you, Kanina. You mentioned in August they terminated the contract. For what reason? VTRA requested termination, and that was just under the terms of the contract. They were permitted to request a termination as we were still in, you know, a period of time that they were allowed to do that under the contract.
 And there had been discussions at that point, just changes in the development plan and the timing. And the city had asked them to look at that. And so we had had discussions on and off and they terminate, moved to terminate, but they were continued to be interested in the site and in the development proposal and in working with the city. Were there any damages that we received for them terminating? No, the previous contractor sale did not have damages clauses. So they moved, they requested termination. We approved and we returned to the deposit at that time.
 Perfect. Thank you. And then you mentioned from the time that how long did it sit vacant after they terminate it? I mean basically I mean this has been vacant the entire time. It's been in our inventory, right? So even back past 2018, but you're asking from the termination of the contract? Yes. Yeah, we didn't receive anything like from the time of the termination of the contract until I guess today Did we do any outreach to put the
 land for sale? Did we advertise it nationally in the United States? What was our effort to let the world know we were selling this land? Right. Again, we did not receive direction to do any active marketing, so the site was available. It's just like with any of our other real estate properties. It's out there, it's open. We have had brokerage contracts on and off, and the real estate division can kind of speak to current status there.
 things are listed, we don't typically undertake a widespread marketing effort unless directed by council. So we have a number of city properties that are available the same as with items that are in El Paso water inventory, right? There's about 5000 acres.
 in less specifically directed or there's a particular target or I know that the question has come up a bit on this property. For example, if we are doing an RFP, right, there would be a solicitation and an advertisement associated with that.
 In this case the property was available. I mean definitely locally people knew but in terms of kind of widespread effort No, there's no national listing. There was no blast sent out. It would have been just our standard It's listed as available. If you went to go inquire on the property, it would be there Yeah, you raised really good points. You're right. You didn't get a direction. You didn't get direction to do no RFP using a direction to Advertise right this property actually just kind of hearing you that putting on my real estate had I've been a realtor for 18 years and
 It's a disservice to the city of El Paso because we're supposed to be, not, I'm not talking in regards to you, Karina. I'm talking about the process and maybe there is something I need to bring to council because we need to make sure we're selling our property, letting the world know that we're selling the property. That way we can get the highest and the best use for the property, but more importantly, get the best
 you know tenant and and get offers and get courted to bring economic development tilpas So how can we ask or wish that people come we're not really letting them know what we have in our inventory I think to be clear though and Karina. I think you can add to this Even though there was nothing that was done very specifically nationally for that site one of the things that we always do is part of the economic development attraction strategy is
 is to take many opportunities to talk about competitive advantages and key growth areas of industry that we have here. So I don't want the city council to think that because something wasn't done very specifically on the site, we do quite a bit with our economic development department,
 to showcase the city, to showcase where we have advantages. And when we start getting interest from companies, then you start refining where might some of those locations be. And Karina, you can probably.
 Yes. Talk a little bit about that as well. No, that's a good point, Colonel Weston. I was thinking about it from a real estate perspective, which is we have standard places that we pair properties out that are just listed. But on the economic development side, any time we are approached, and Bill Allen handles a lot of this, but RFIs from the governor's office, interest from companies,
 often we are asked about land that's available this along with other city-owned priority sites are always listed and provided to companies when there are inquiries about things that would be appropriate so in terms of aligning with the industry growth and attraction we have marketed out in that way so this is always included in our responses on rfis on other requests that come through borderplex through airport through various community partners so anything that we're doing in the industry
 attraction space we do include our property our available properties our preferences just because we have control over the site to locate companies there if we can thank you your 10 minutes are up ma'am so i'm going to call does anyone else have any questions okay followed by representative kennedy and then i'll come back to you ma'am thank you yeah i mean i i just wanted to
 Guess I know this is not really traditional, but I think there's just been a lot of Media in the last few days on on this property, right? And I just wanted to see if there was an an opportunity to ask River Oaks Why you came in at the 11th hour and not sooner if that's okay mayor I I just wanted to ask the gentleman from River Oaks. Why why? Okay, I I because I know what I just he'd like to ask you a question, sir. I
 Yes, sir. Yeah. You know, this has been vacant for several years now. And when we met about this a few weeks ago, I thought it was an exciting idea. But then as I came back and did my research, like I always do, I realized that
 This offer came in at the 11th hour and I'm wondering why now and not why a few years ago when this was completely vacant and just kind of there. It's as the city is growing on the west side we're getting interest from retailers who want expansion opportunities and that's when we came to the city. It's really.
 I'm sorry. It was really just as the as the city's growing on the west side. That's when we as retail developers get interest from Retailers who want to expand or who want to enter into the market? And so that all has happened really in the last couple of months. So and really That's the that's the best reason. Okay, so there are a
 It would be fair to say by your assessment from what you're saying now that even last year there wasn't really Any opportunity to do something like that on the west side? I didn't come up until two months ago where it really was something that just recently over early this year that it's come up Okay, and that's why we pursued this. Okay. All right. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. That's it sir represent Kennedy followed by representative Salcido and
 Karina or somebody from the department can you walk me through the last couple of dates from when you got directions on sale terms March 20 March of 2024 we gave you direction from executive and what was the next appearance on this one
 It would have been when we posted for introduction. Typically we do more briefings than that but this was very simple because we had a previous contract of sale so we knew exactly what the terms were going to be in going in. We knew what concerns we had from the previous contract that needed to be fixed. Council provided direction to proceed and proceed with all kind of negotiated terms. So key terms remained the same and then adding in those protections in terms of clawback and liquidated damages.
 that were not addressed in the previous contract. So the next briefing would have been on July 1st, posted for introduction on July 2nd, and then yesterday we were in again doing a briefing with questions. This is a real dichotomy for me, and I have to tell you why. Because if we had an option on either of the options, I absolutely love the River Oaks concept.
 Okay, I'm just gonna say that I mean I took a look at this and that is an exciting vibrant mixed-use concept the only thing I hesitate on is Before that officially came to us. We had already agreed with Another vendor on the property. I think that if we were to back out of that at this time and
 it would send tremors forward just that while it may be that we were forward looking, I would think that anybody, if they thought if I get better deal at the last minute, the city's gonna pull out of it, that we would have an issue with economic development going forward at that time. Imagine if it was a local company that, let's say it was somebody doing a development like the one I like so much,
 and at the last minute a national company came in and said, we'll give you more money for it if you do it this way. If we were to then say, okay, don't worry about it, I don't know that we'd ever get a deal. So my concern on this one is split because there's a project I prefer, but a deal was cut on the other project first, and I'm just really grinds to be able to back up a deal that had been previously cut, and that's my split on this thing.
 Thank you and even though I have a lot of respect for the people from River Oaks and they've done a lot of things and they've done incredible things, I've never asked for incentives. I am not torn between the project that we committed on and what's the right thing to do for the community and that's to go through what we're told economic development to do. And I value our word a lot more and I also value the impact that it would be to
 turn around and do something that would be unethical in my opinion to back out a deal after we gave our word and we've gone all the way through this even though that Adam Frank Jerry Rubin and Mr Shiloh from the company have done an incredible job and invested a lot of money in our community and I have an incredible respect this is not about that this has nothing to do with that
 They had an opportunity to do an LOI just like they did. I know I've done business with them. They've done well with the property that I sold them, and I wish I had it back, but I didn't call them and ask them to give it back to me. I didn't ask them to sell it back to me. I knew that I had sold it just like they sold this property originally, and I think it's a little disingenuous to come in and tell us that what we're doing is not correct. We 
 We actually have a lot of respect for what we do and we'll continue to do that. I have a lot of respect for what you all do and every one of you all because what company you've all built and the company that's become River Oaks is incredible without ever coming to the city. And I've said that even when I spoke to when I had the state of the city that no incentives didn't come in and say, hey, I want to build this, I'm going to build a new office, I'm going to do that.
 Didn't come and ask us for anything. You all did it because of your investment in our community and so this has nothing to do with that it has to do with doing the right thing at the right time and I
 Know there's plenty of land out there. There's plenty of things to do and there's no need to really get tied up and crossed over a piece of property that You all owned originally and you sold it because you didn't see a value in it now There's a value and now we're doing the right wrong thing. I'm not sure that That that would be an accurate assumption because again, it's this the city does have a stake in this and it's
 Working with companies in the future and I know you said it's not no big deal. It is a big deal That's a huge deal for us not to have a word and I can guarantee you that If I did business with you and you treated me the way you're asking me to treat the company You'd never do business with me again And if you did that to me I promise you I would never do business with you Because and you wouldn't do that because you don't do business that way so I am I have a lot of respect for y'all but
 The train lay up left the station a long time ago and they come in a year later and said oh by the way We can do more with it. It's not proper in my book. Thank you So see them Thank You mayor. Yes, ma'am. And again, I know I was cut off at the at the time we're um, I
 Colonel Weston what had a comment and I wanted to just basically address the comment Colonel Weston said and it's I don't want to Discounter any efforts that the city staff has done nor you but your you did say something very pivotal It is our job to direct and give you direction and you're right We haven't done that and so that is something that I will definitely look at when it comes in regards to real estate You're right
 Ms. Karina Briscola mentioned that too. She was not directed to do RFP and certain things, but I think as we look at this as a whole, you all look at things and analyze and then propose as well, right? So on my end, I will do my job.
 definitely moving on forward on specific items like this to make sure that the direction is given if needed, but go ahead, I'm sorry. No, I think that just to be clear, and I know that what Ms. Prescala was talking about very specifically was direction on that specific site. You as a council have given us
 the direction we need through policy related to our economic development and what these competitive growth areas are that you want to focus on in the community whether it's advanced manufacturing or other or other areas where again we have a real great opportunity to be able to grow within this community
 And so from an attraction standpoint, I don't need to get policy direction from you all to understand what your direction is. And so just to be clear, the work that's being done by economic development to look at bringing in companies that then can refine
 their search area within the community on where they would like to be placed when they have an interest to us, that work is ongoing and we don't need any direction for that. I think she was very specifically referring to the question about that site. So I just wanted to clear that up. No, that's perfect. And like you said it, the word opportunity,
 There's many more to come, but like you mentioned, we need to really focus. And you all have already direction, right? But I think where I really want to kind of hone in, and I will make sure that we have really clear, I guess, direction when it comes to real estate, right? And how we're getting out there to let everybody know we're selling, just so that we can get the...
 most courted the best deal. We have a lot more data and pinpoints to really see what the best deal is for El Paso at the end of the day. That's El Paso's properties and we're trying to also incentivize and bring economic development and bring companies to come and partner up with us so we want to be able to
 let the world know who El Paso is. And that's what I do everywhere I go. I let them know who we are and why are they not investing in El Paso and I'll continue to do that. So, but thank you for definitely clearing that up.
 Now going back to why I had asked for the study of the traffic, even if it was old, I actually took a ride to that area and I stayed there for hours to just kind of look at the traffic. When you're looking at an area that's going to have a warehouse or whatnot, I would like to see what's abutting and what the activity is there. And of course, whoever has gone to Westtown, there's a lot of traffic. It is very congested.
 And so you have to look at ways of the highest and best use for this property, but more importantly, what impact is this going to have if that warehouse comes, right? And I have to be able to measure it.
 IN COMPARISON TO A RETAIL, WHETHER IT'S RIVER OAKS OR ANYBODY ELSE, ACTUALLY, AT THIS POINT, I WOULD HAVE ASKED TO RFP AND HAD MORE BUYERS AT THE TABLE SO THAT I CAN COMPARE WHAT'S GOING TO BE THE LEAST TRAFFIC. BECAUSE WE'RE ALL TIRED OF TRAFFIC, RIGHT? TRAFFIC MITIGATION, I WOULD HAVE LOOKED AT THE IMPACT.
 tax, what's the economic growth for El Paso? And we would've looked at just what the impact of each and then what's gonna be the best. Right now I'm missing a lot of data points. I don't have them. I know that this item has been briefed many times. I had to be excused, my mom was sick, a few of the executive sessions that I was not able to participate. But at the end of the day, we get information all the way to the day we vote.
 And staff, if we're missing something, should provide us with what we need to vote because we're voting on behalf of the city of El Paso. And I need those data. I need those things. To the very end of the day, even if you all brief me 20 million times,
 Things are fluid things change and we need information by the time I'm sitting here and right now. I don't have it Well, I think to be fair to staff That's a very different Concept of what was being looked at in 2018 with a smaller footprint to what's being done now Council I think miss Bresch Gala had talked about what that path is going forward. We can certainly have her brief that again and
 But I would I wouldn't would hate for you to think that what might have been discussed back in 2018 would be the same project that we're having now. And so what's got to come still is not only a site development plan, but then all of the not only the impact study, but then the mitigation that's going to be put in place to be able to.
 To better affect traffic flow throughout that area so I don't think staffs left anything out in terms of What they could bring you right now in terms of the main and deal points and all those things are still to come for that point But more in particularly I did I did take offense and I did think it was disrespectful because on another item which other life's note I
 Item I had asked also for information the day before and I did not receive so it's almost like a pattern And so I just wanted to share my my my did you know my concerns with you? Publicly because at the end of the day I need that information to make my decisions and so that I'm just that's more for Further, but I'm just sharing that with you today because I don't have what I need To feel comfortable making the decision here today. Thank you. Thank you. And with that we have a motion in a second. I
 Yes, Mayor, the motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares, and this is to adopt the ordinance. There's a motion and a second to adopt the ordinance on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes 7-2-1. Representative Salcido voting nay, the remainder of council voting aye. The motion carries.
 The next item is number 42 and this is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement regarding mutual cooperation between the city of El Paso and the Paso del Norte Community Foundation to provide fundraising support to the El Paso Zoo and provide a not-for-profit vehicle for gifts from private and other donors For the benefit of the zoo. Hi mayor and council Joe Manasano director of the El Paso Zoo it's a strategic goal for sub goal 4.2 and
 And so I she just read what it was about so if I take it bring up the presentation they could catch up We're not going to wait for him But so a Paso de Norte Community Foundation just a few facts on them were established in 2013 They manage over 200 funds This is an effective vehicle for donors with support for the regional nonprofit organizations and charitable causes while establishing their legacy of giving for the future
 charges they charge a maximum of point right now it's maximum of 1% for all the monies that is they manage it's a 0.85 percent for now Maximum of 1% but it's 0.85 right now. Oh, sorry. Thanks Dean. The one-time fee is taken when they when the Pacific Pasadena or take Community Foundation receives the donation. I
 Some examples of the partnerships in philanthropy, their partnership with the El Paso Museum of Art Foundation and they raised over five million in supporting the installation of the star ceiling, partnership with the city of El Paso and hosting a series of community meetings to receive input from residents on potential 14 acre green community gathering spaces. There's some numbers of the community foundation, I won't read those to you over to the right but as you can see they're established and doing really well.
 So the city council did approve, there's precedent for this, so there has been precedent set for this. The city council previously approved a very similar agreement between the foundation and the city boss program, business one stop shopping for the same purposes. The city currently has three other similar agreements with the community foundation.
 and both private and publicly owned zoos utilize relationships with community foundations to expand their donor base, allow flexibility, greater exposure, and contact both the donors and also, they work both sides of it. So really the advantage of this is they bring in donors and can find us extra donors to either complete projects or help us with larger projects.
 Some of the fundraising models, some state and federal agencies will only grant funding to independent nonprofits. The grant has to come into the Community Foundation. So the Community Foundation can assist with larger capital campaigns in the planning, marketing, and orchestration. The Community Foundation can facilitate matching or challenge grants as well in funding. The Community Foundation can also help find donors and clients as they do, again, have both ends of the spectrum, as I just mentioned.
 Advantages of using the zoo using the community foundation and donors can receive an immediate tax benefit for donating to a non-profit Community foundation some donors again will not write a check to the city and they do want to support the zoo But they just won't write a check to the city The Community Foundation will keep all funds and designated accounts They report on a quarterly on the balances unless we have access to an online portal so we could look at it anytime on the balances and see where the accounts are and
 The foundation can also help plan and orchestrate larger capital campaigns like I said. So they're also a trusted partner in charitable giving and a growing community of philanthropy. So they do work with individuals families corporations foundations and nonprofit organizations all to improve the quality of life in the binational tri-state region. I think I'm actually on this one here. Sorry about that. So the El Paso Zoo and the Pasadena North Lake Community Foundation respectfully ask for the support of the resolution between these two organizations.
 And available for any questions. Thank you. Representative Hernandez. I don't have a question for you, just a statement. While I don't agree with the City Council's heavy-handed approach to end the partnership with the Zoological Society, I think it's important that we are prepared for the next steps and ensuring that we have that fundraising arm. And so I'm supportive of that effort. And also, Basra Norte Health Foundation, they are.
 a wonderful organization and I'm happy to support them. But thank you for bringing this forward and being prepared so that we can continue those fundraising efforts, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Do we have a motion? Move to approve. There is a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representatives Rivera and Fierro to approve item 42 on that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes 6-2. Representatives Kennedy, Acevedo voting nay. Representatives Hernandez, Molinar, Salcido, Fierro, Rivera, Canales voting aye. The motion passes.
 Item number 43 is discussion and action on a resolution supporting an application by the Paso del Norte Community Foundation and the University of Texas at El Paso to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Fiscal year 2024 community change grant program requesting funds in an amount of $19,300,000 for the strategy one, energy efficient, healthy, resilient housing and buildings and strategy
 Strategy 2 outdoor air quality and community health improvement with no match required from the city Motion and a second there's a motion made by representative Fierro seconded by alternate mayor pro tem Molina to approve item 43 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously and
 the final item is 44 and this is discussion in action on a resolution supporting an application by the housing authority of the city of el paso to the u.s environmental protection agency fiscal year 2024 community change grant program requesting funds in an amount of 20 million dollars for the development and renovation of low-income housing through a third phase of construction at patriot place with no match required from the city
 Motion and two seconds. That's pretty good made by Seconded by representatives Fierro and Rivera on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes Unanimously. Thank you, sir There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed aye aye
 And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, July 16, 2024 is adjourned at 1256 p.m. Thank you, council.