This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, July 20th, 2021. It is 9 o'clock a.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding, and we begin the meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine? Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez? Hernandez? Here. Molinarz?
 Present. Salcido? Present. Rodriguez? Here. Rivera? Here. Lizara? Present. Thank you. I'm here as well. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. We now move to the invocation delivered by Police Chaplain Dennis Kaufman. You're on mute, Chaplain. Thank you. How's that? That sounds better. Thank you, sir.
 Okay. Father, thank you for this time that you have allowed these men and women to come together to conduct this business for our city. I pray that you'd give them special wisdom and understanding as they go through this meeting, that they would have your will to be done, that you would give them the guidance and wisdom that they need. Father, I thank you that you have given us a good city, a great city to live in. Father, with safety, and I just pray that you would continue to guide each of us,
 that we might know what it is that you'd want each of us to do and again i pray father for this time that you would be honored and glorified in it i thank you for the the service and the sacrifice that these men and women have given to conduct this business and to lead our city and we just pray father that you would give a a good time and a good day and all this said and done
 would be done according to what you would want us to do in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. And now to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance are Isabella Machorro, Olivia Machorro, and Mateo Grijalva at the invitation of Mayor Lisa. Hi, Mr. Mayor. Hi, City Council. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States.
 America. And to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under the sun, and with its love for liberty, justice for all. Thank you very, very much. You did a great job. I appreciate you taking the invitation and coming. And you all look great. And you did a great job. Thank you.
 That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Paul and Stephanie Albright Appreciation Day. Hi, good morning. Can everyone hear me okay? Yes, ma'am. Good morning. Good morning. The proclamation of the city of El Paso, Texas, where as Command Sergeant Major retired Paul Albright served in the United States Army for close to 30 years.
 CSM Albright served as an airborne and air defense soldier, raising to the rank of Command Sergeant Major, CSM, and retiring in 2019 with the 11th Air Defense Artillery Brigade at Fort Bliss, Texas. He oversees deployments include Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, and Operation Freedom Sentinel.
 His awards include the Distinguished Service Medal, Metoria Service Medal, and the Army Commendation Medal. Whereas retiring from the United States Army, Command Sergeant Major Retired Paul Albright made El Paso, Texas, his hometown with his wife Stephanie and his children. Paul applied for the position of the city, El Paso City Veteran Service Officer, with huge support of the veterans and the community.
 Paul was elected and started this position in 2019. And whereas in 2020, CSM Albright coordinated efforts between El Paso's veterans, the community and numerous nonprofits, which greatly helped in the collection and distribution of food, clothing, water and medical supplies during the COVID-19 pandemic. His efforts have earned him the respect of the El Paso community. And whereas in 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, CSM Albright,
 helped coordinate efforts between the Texas Army National Guard, the Alabama Army National Guard, and the El Paso Veterans and Writers Association to help collect much-needed food, water and medical supplies were successful, and rapid distribution to El Paso's rural communities. Over 80,000 pounds of much-needed supplies were distributed.
 And whereas Stephanie Albright has become an active member in support of her husband's effort and her community, she has joined various veterans and community efforts which have earned her the respect of our veterans, their spouses, and the community. Stephanie provides valuable insight and support to other spouses and helps add that special touch into operations. And now therefore be it proclaimed,
 by the mayor and council of the city of el paso that july 20 2021 shall be known as paul and stephanie albright appreciation day signed by honorable mayor oscar liser congratulations mr thank you representative nandes and paul and stephanie thank you for your service to our country and thank you both for choosing el paso as your home thank you thank you and the next proclamation is latino conservation week
 Good morning. This is Representative Molinaud. Proclamation City of El Paso, whereas Latino Conservation Week was created by the Hispanic Access Foundation to support the Latino communities getting into the outdoors and participate in activities to protect our natural resources.
 And whereas during this month, Latino community and faith-based organizations across the United States will go on hiking or camping outings in national conservation lands, national monuments and parks, and other public lands, learn about conservation efforts in their communities, and show their support for permanently protecting our land, water, and air.
 Whereas, Kasner Range comprises 7,081 acres of far west Texas beauty and has historical significance that dates back thousands of years and tells the story of how our region ended up becoming the world's largest bi-national community. And, whereas local organizations including the Frontera Land Alliance are once again seeking to designate Kasner Range as a national monument to promote equity and access to the outdoors.
 Whereas, National Monument designations celebrate communities' contributions to this country, contribute to local economies, and provide beautiful spaces for outdoor recreation.
 And whereas we support these priorities because we believe it's a moral obligation to protect our natural resources and heritage for future generations. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that July 19th through July 25th, 2021 shall be known as Latino Conservation Week. Signed, the Honorable Oscar Leaser, mayor for the city of El Paso. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Thank you, counsel. Please remember to keep your cameras on for the duration of the meeting to ensure a quorum is maintained. If you need technical assistance, please notify me. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor. And per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor, you will have up to 10 minutes. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called off for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem? Yes. I'd like to make the following revision.
 page 13 item 26 delete per planning and inspections there is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion mayor pro tem Schwartzwein all right representative an LL Hernandez Molina Salcido Rodriguez yeah Rivera yes Lisa
 The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. She's experiencing some technical difficulties. That brings us to page 6, to the first reading of ordinance. These are items 17 to 19. Is there a motion? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 17 to 19. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein? Yep. Representative Anello? Hernandez? Molinar? Yes.
 Aye. Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. DeZarga? The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. The next item is number 20. This is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2021-1200 Liz Morima Park Improvements to Horizon Construction Limited. Motion to approve. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 20. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anelo. Hernandez. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arga.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. The next item is number 21. This is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2021-1206, Wainwright and Northeast Basin Park Improvements to Martinez Brothers Contractors, LLC. Can we get a presentation on this item, please? Good morning, Mayor and Council. This is Jerry DeMuro, IT. Can you pull up the presentation, please? Thank you, IT. So this project is a quality of life project.
 The project is a quality of life project for improvements to the Northeast Basin and Wainwright Park. Next slide, please. Wainwright Park is located at 452 Lawrence Avenue. Northeast Basin Park is on Cross Street between Sun Valley. The projects are in districts two and four. The total budget is 1.1 million and it's funded with quality of life funds. Next slide, please.
 It will be a new city park with a playground, walking trail, sports court, benches and trash receptacles. Phase 2 will be the future expansion of a walking trail and additional landscaped areas. Northeast Basin Park is essentially a hike and bike trail along Cross Street between Sun Valley Drive and Deer Avenue. The trail will be supplemented by trees, benches and trash receptacles.
 Mr. DeMuro, you're on mute, sir. I'm sorry, where did I leave off? I'm sorry. The previous slide. Okay, can you back up one slide, please? Okay, so this is the location of Wainwright Park. You can see Lawrence Avenue, Deer Avenue, and Tetons Drive. Next slide, please. This is the location of the Northeast Basin improvements along Cross Street. Next slide, please. These are the existing conditions of Wainwright Park. Next slide, please. The existing conditions of Northeast Basin Park.
 Next slide, please. This is a site plan for Wainwright Park. You can see the phase one area is here. Phase two is down here. We'll see a playground and sports court here and landscaping green areas. Next slide, please. This is the rendering for the Northeast Basin, basically trail. You can see the cross section of the streets with trees, walking trail and lighting. Next slide, please.
 The procurement method, the solicitation was advertised on April 27th and May 4th. Five firms submitted bids, five local vendors. The recommendation is to award the construction contract to Martinez Brothers Contractors in the amount of $752,000. We intend to start construction this summer and be completed by the spring of 2022. That's the end of my presentation. Do you have any questions? Thank you for your presentation. We do have Representative Molinar.
 Good morning, Mayor. Thank you very much. Yes, a couple of questions. If you could go back to slide four, sir. Thank you. So this depicts the Wainwright Park. However, on the right side of the screen, on my screen, it says Deer Street. I believe that should be Dyer Street. Just a misspelling of that. That needs to be corrected for the public's information as well. Another couple of things. So.
 This is being awarded to one vendor. However, have they decided is this going to be a project being completed both at the same time, or is it going to start in District 2 first and then District 4, or how is that going to work out? Or do you know? Right now, Representative, I do not know, but I can find out that information and get back to you. Okay. Thank you very much. That's all I have. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Melanada. Mayor Potem?
 Yes, thank you again, Mr. DeMauro, for a great presentation. It looks like a wonderful project, much needed in an important part of our community. Do you, just for the public's information, is Phase 1 and Phase 2 being built at this point? And if not, when is the schedule and timeline for both phases? Phase 1 will be constructed this summer. Phase 2 will be constructed when funding is available. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. With that, we have a motion and a second. No, sir, there's no motion yet. Move to approve. Second. Thank you. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 21. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzweil. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 22. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2021-0806R, Benefit Consulting Services to Hub International Texas, Inc. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 22. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortswing. Aye. Representative Anello. No. Hernandez. No. Molina. Nay. Aye.
 Salcido Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Nay. Liz Arraga? And the motion fails with Representative Shortsvine, Anelo Hernandez, Molinar Rivera voting nay. Representative Salcido Rodriguez, Liz Arraga voting aye. The motion fails.
 Next item, please. The next item is number 23. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-0811, job order contracting and facilities construction to Alpha Building Corporation and Belize Company, LLC. Move to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 23. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye.
 Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizada? And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 24. This is discussion in action on the award of Solicitation 2021-0509, Airport Rapid Transit Systems, RTS to Mirador Enterprises, Inc. Do you have a presentation on this? Move to approve. Second. Second. Second. Second.
 If you could please bring up the presentation. Thank you. Next slide, please. The scope of work for the station located at our El Paso airport is a new enclosed station. This will be constructed in support of the Montana RTS transit system that is currently underway and in construction.
 This station will consist of a climate controlled building, as you see in the rendering to your left, pedestrian lighting, new sidewalks, landscaping, bicycle racks, and then we also have artwork for this station. Next slide. The location of this new station will be at the International Airport. This will be on Convair Road in front of the Conrack. Next slide.
 The procurement summary, it was advertised on December 8th and the 15th. Three firms submitted bids. They were all local firms. The recommendation for award is for Mirador Enterprises for an estimated amount of $1.3 million. The funding sources are, this is a federal project, as it is in support of the Montana RTS program.
 So there are federal funds, which are the FTA funds, and then we will also be utilizing 2021 COs. Next slide. If there are any questions at this time, we'll be open for questions. Mayor Pro Tem.
 Yeah. Is there a way we can bring a Google map to get a better sense of where you said this is already being currently constructed at this point? No, sir. This is in support of the Montana RTS project along Montana. So those smaller stations are already being constructed. I apologize. This one pending approval will then be constructed. Yeah. If you could bring up a...
 a google map or some sort of aerial that is a little bit more in detail i'm trying to understand exactly how far away this is from the main terminal because it looks like it's almost a quarter mile away from from baggage claim or something i'm trying to understand how far uh somebody that is that is arriving into our airport would have to walk to the to this to this area mayor brooks and samuel is uh director of the airport are you able to see my screen yes sir
 Okay, so the proposed location will be right at this corner of Convair Road and Terminal Drive. I know the exhibit showed it on Convair Road a little bit further out, but the actual location is going to be here. So this is, as you come out of the terminal, this is your baggage claim area. This is where all our taxis, shuttles, and Uber, everybody picks up. The Convair facility is here. They will be located at this location here.
 Do you have any images of the front that somebody might see when they were leaving the baggage claim or anything like that? I'm assuming it would be lit up and be fairly good. Absolutely, yeah. So as you drive out, as you walk out with your luggage, you're going to come out of these doors here, and as you come out, you're going to see the terminal right here with the Brillo, the pylon that you saw in the rendering, and the building will be located at this location.
 Do you have any other renderings of it? I don't know if you can bring back the – I think there was one rendering in this presentation. I don't know if you all have any others to share with it. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. We do have additional renderings, and I can provide that to you.
 So it is similar to the Brio's, like Mr. Robiria said, it will have a pylon. It will be lit with orange as well. It would be really well identified. And then also, as Nate mentioned, the Lyft and Uber will also be identified within that area. But I can provide additional rentals. And you mentioned that it will be an indoor facility as well?
 Yes, sir. It will be an air-conditioned facility and also climate controlled and also heating in the venture. Okay. I would just say that in terms of the design and working on it, I know that we already have closer towards the departure areas a lot of sort of benches and concrete benches installed.
 that are shaded for people to sit in. I just would hope that given everything that we've learned with COVID that there's ample outdoor seating incorporated into the final design for this facility for those that are waiting and they can choose to wait outside, especially if it's shaded seating as well in terms of the design of the facility. That way, even if the facility is closed for bus services, they'll still be able to sit.
 Yes, sir. In the additional renderings that we have, we do have ample overhang of the roof, which does provide additional shape. But I can make sure to select a rendering that does illustrate that. Okay. And there will be outdoor seating as well for that, fences or otherwise?
 I don't know. I mean, yeah, there will be that the Convert Road improvements that we just completed does have benches and CD&L throughout that corridor. In addition, as she stated, this will be the designated
 and lift pickup zones as well. So there will be ample wayfinding to get folks to this location as well as the Brio. And then there will be benches and seating. This will be the beginning obviously of our redevelopment of this area. This is the old rental car facility area that was vacated that we're working on development plans for this area as well. So all that will become a pedestrian with benches, pedestrian area with benches.
 that will be the beginning of the development as well. Okay. Yeah, because I think it's really important, especially with a facility like this, that, again, with an overhang like that and the design rendering, at least what we see, that we're able to incorporate some
 public seating and outdoor seating as well, I think would be a very good step in support of multimodal transit. The final question I had is, can you talk a little bit more about the public art component for this? Was it, you know, one of the most successful public art pieces I think we had is the river that ran through the baggage claim, and that was a really great crowdsourced
 public art piece with quotes from different El Pasoans. Are we doing something similar like that with that theme of the airport or has this already been finalized? And if so, what can you speak a little bit more about the public art component of this?
 It is complementary. It doesn't carry on the exact same river theme. It's more so large structures to really indicate that there is a station there. I believe one is like a child plane, and so they are located on either side of the station. So it's glorified wayfinding?
 Yes. No, sir. These are sculptures that are being built, and unfortunately I don't have them in front of me, but we can send you a rendering of those. They were selected through the public art program through MCAD, but there are large sculptures that depict, they're going to be interactive, that depict, I believe, a child in an airplane, but they're pretty interactive and large sculptures that we can send you a rendering of.
 Yeah, that'd be great. I think, you know, anytime we have an opportunity to really engage the public, I think that, again, that I don't know the exact term. I know Ben Pfeff would be upset that I don't know the title for the river that ran through the baggage claim department by Mitsu Overstreet. It's such a successful piece because you see people all the time looking at quotes.
 taking pictures of their quotes, posting them online on social media. I think we had a missed opportunity when we redid the sort of walking path into the short and long-term parking with some of the words that we had. And so I just think that
 We have those opportunities to crowdsource and engage the public and our public art design is always a great opportunity, especially at the airport. And so I'm hoping that moving forward with some of the thinking further about the redesign with the airport that we can think outside the box with some of those more crowdsourced opportunities for public art. Representative, if I may, Tracy Jerome, Deputy City Manager, Quality of Life.
 Just to remind the public, all of the public art is very much a publicly engaging process. We never bring these projects in in a vacuum. And so not only do we have a committee that oversees and works with the public, but there is a lot of public input that is provided. And we appreciate your continued support for the engagement of the community. Public art truly should be public, and it is. The process works.
 And I feel that we are very fortunate in this community that we have such great support from council to make sure that we continue to engage the community in the way that we do. And we'll make sure that you get more information about that specific project. And I recognize, too, this goes to the MCAD.
 which is housed by the public. It's all our recommendations of people that we appoint. It goes to the Public Art Committee. You know, what I'm, and I recognize that, and that is a very public facing part of our public art program. But what I'm specifically referring to is, again, with that piece by Mitsuo Overstreet that actually had a website and a link that people could submit their quotes about what they love about El Paso.
 about what they miss about El Paso, about what they love about their home, which was a really inspiring and a very simple yet profound sort of idea. And the execution with MITSU and with MCAD was really great. And so I think that kind of opportunity when it presents itself, whether it's a concrete stamping or, you know,
 two-foot wards that is along a walking path to our parking area down in El Paso in the airport is something we should always look at doing further. And so I know we have a great award-winning public art program, but I know that we're also a constantly evolving and improving organization, as our city manager says as well. And so I'm really excited with this Brio stop. I think it's in a great, great, very visible place that hopefully if somebody comes in and arrives,
 their second or third time they're coming in maybe they'll decide to take the bus as well because it'll be so um easy and uh to get onto so mayor that's all my questions thank you again mr roman thank you again you've read and seen thank you thank you mayor uh so i just want to make sure i understand this so let's say a person gets off a plane picks up their bags walks outside and they go to the uh
 the place there to pick up the bus, the bus will then take them to the Montana Brio once that's completed. And then how does that person choose to go east or west? Does that bus take them to the main headquarters there for the Sun Metro and then they connect it with another bus or they how does that work?
 This is the outbound and the inbound station, Representative Molinar. So folks that come in here will be able to go east to the Montana RTS Transfer Center that's located on RC Poe, or they'll be able to go west to downtown and their destination for this line is at the Five Points Transfer Center to which they'll be able to board the Dyer or go into the downtown area as part of the connection to the Dyer system.
 Okay, so going east would be RC PO and going west would be the five points? Correct. And they would have to just pick and choose whichever one when they got off the plane, when they arrived, and what's coming next? Correct. All right. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Molinar. Mary Pro Temp, I do have the rendering of the art piece, if I can share it with my screen here one minute. Can you see my screen? Yes.
 Okay, so this is the art piece that is the child taking flight. That will be located at the corner to supplement the rendering of the Brio station. You can see the seating outside that you guys spoke of. And then, of course, the...
 On the backside of this will be the backside of the building is where the Uber and Lyft will be picking up as well So we're we're getting folks into this this pickup zone so folks can wait in the condition space And the area back here as well. Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez Mayor go ahead sir. Thank you, sir so the the pickup would be on the other side of that rock wall or would be on the other side of the Brio station and
 The pickup is back here. So the cars are going to line up back here, but folks that come and use the Uber and Lyft will be through this platform, and then the vehicles will be behind them in this back area, and then there'll be wayfinding to get people to the location. But this whole pedestrian corridor here will be for Uber and Lyft on the backside. The Brio will be on the front side. All right. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome.
 and without ms pine yes mayor there is a motion and a second to approve item number 24. on that motion mayor pro tim shortsvine yes representative anello hi hernandez yes molina name salcido hi rodriguez yes rivera yes
 And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Molinar voting nay, the motion does pass. The next item is number 25 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for a 40 foot ground mounted personal wireless service facility at 5901 Upper Valley Road. Can I see a presentation on that please? Yes, good morning Mayor and Council Kevin Smith with Planning Inspections.
 Okay, before I go through the presentation, I do have a statement I'd like to read into the record. Pursuant to the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and before we discuss this item, it is important to know that no local government may deny the placement, construction, or modification of personal wireless service facilities on the basis of potential radio frequency health effects.
 So this item is a special permit request for a personal wireless service facility or PWSF item for 5901 Upper Valley Road. This is an appeal of a CPC recommendation of denial. It is located at 5901 Upper Valley about half a mile south of Artcraft. It is located in R2 zoning district and due to the fact it is in a residential zoning district requires a special permit and city council approval replacement.
 This is a half mile buffer showing the location there in the blue dot there in the middle with service facilities in the area. There are none located within half a mile. And looking a little bit further out, the closest service facilities in the city are about 1.7 miles away is the closest located near the intersection of I-10 and ArcCraft.
 This is a detailed site plan showing the existing property, the property with the proposed location of the cell tower. The area in red there is the proposed tower. This is an elevation showing the PWSF tower camouflaged as a 40-foot tall steeple for the church. Okay.
 As one of the requirements is for some simulations, these are different vantage points showing it. This is from looking south. For all these slides, the picture on the left shows the existing conditions. The picture on the right is a photo simulation showing the proposed tower concealed as part of the structure. So this is looking south. This is looking west. This is looking north. And this is looking east.
 This is a photo of the subject property, currently a church, and these are the surrounding developments for it. To the areas to the north, to the west, and to the south are single-family developments, zoned R2. To the east, across the street from Upper Valley, is zoned Ranch Farm, is undeveloped, and there is farmland activities, agriculture activities occurring right now.
 Notices have been provided to residents within 500 feet as required per code. In response to those, we have received five phone calls, a petition with 83 signatures, as well as 13 letters via email in opposition to the special permit request. We did receive one letter via email in support of this item.
 With that, staff does recommend approval of the special permit request as it meets all requirements of the PWSF special permit and detailed site plan. CBC did recommend denial of this item from a 4-1 vote. And again, this item, for your consideration, is in appeal of that recommendation. With that, that concludes the presentation. I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. We have Representative Rinello followed by Mayor Potem. Representative Rinello.
 Hi, thank you, Kevin. Thank you for the presentation. Can you clarify on what grounds the loss is that we can deny a cell tower appeal? You can or can't? I'm sorry, can you repeat that? Can. Which grounds that we can deny? So with that, typically for denial is, from my understanding, and legal, probably jump in, but it has to be in violation of the city code. Okay.
 Usually, as per staff, we would identify a specific provision of the code that it did not meet. Well, but this is a special permit, right? The code allows for 35 foot. But my understanding is that community concern is a valid reason for denial. I would defer that to legal. This is Russell Adelman, Assistant City Attorney.
 Yes, there are situations in which public comment could be, public concern could be used as a factor. Okay, thank you, Russell. I just wanted to be absolutely clear about that. I appreciate it. Thank you both. No problem. Thank you, Representative Maripotem.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you again for the presentation. I was wondering if there's any public comment at this time. Yes, sir. We have 10 people signed up for public comment. Go ahead, Ms. Pryor. Yes, sir. We'll start with Ms. Beatriz Garza, followed by Stephen Kennedy, Beb Francis, and Jimmy Bustamante. Ms. Beatriz Garza, you'll have three minutes, ma'am. Star 6 will unmute your telephone.
 Ms. Garza, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Ms. Beatriz Garza. We'll move to Mr. Stephen Kennedy. Mr. Stephen Kennedy, star six, to unmute your telephone. Thank you. Good morning. You'll have three minutes. Yes, ma'am. Kennedy. I have two slides on part of the deck that's shown for the –
 for the site being proposed. So this, I'm a representative of APC Towers, a consultant to APC Towers, a consultant to Verizon Wireless. This site has been requested or has been needed since 2016. It is now 2021 and we still don't have a site. Verizon has a significant gap in coverage and quality and capacity.
 The slides that were given would show that there's not enough coverage for in-building penetration as well as all of the mobility traffic, the mobile traffic that's moving around in the area. This site is significantly needed. There are sites within 1.7 miles to 2.5 miles surrounding this area, but there's nothing in the area. So...
 This site is definitely needed because as you all know and probably everyone on the council and the mayors have mobile phones as well as everybody that lives in the area, it's quite predominant. 80% of all 911 calls are made from a mobile device. There's not enough coverage and capacity in this area. This site is desperately needed.
 If the mayor and council were to not approve, it would materially inhibit Verizon Wireless' ability to provide service within this area. The site has been designed to blend with the surrounding area, and it is desperately needed to provide good quality coverage and service to the area. Thank you. The next speaker is Beth Francis, followed by Jimmy Bustamante and Terry Bustamante. Mr. Francis, star six, please, to unmute your telephone.
 Yes, I'm sorry, this was Deputy, so I was having a hard time unmuting. Mr. Francis? Yes, ma'am. You'll have three minutes, sir. Thank you. Before I start, we have submitted in, I'm the attorney for ABC, we submitted in a presentation. And can we bring that presentation up, please? Yes, IT, will you please bring up the presentation from the applicant? Thank you. Mr. Francis, you'll have three minutes, sir. Well, yeah, okay.
 Mayor and Representatives, I'm Bev Francis, 112 East Pecan in San Antonio. I'm the attorney for APC Towers, which is a national developer of telecommunication facilities.
 And in the short period of time I have with you, I want to discuss with you an answer to the question previously raised is the effect that the Telecom Act, the September 2018 FCC order and federal court law and determination will have on your decision to approve or deny this application.
 And as I'm sure the legal department has shared with you, a decision to deny this application must be supported by substantial evidence. And the cases have concluded that their community concern, questions about aesthetics, character and so forth, these generalized questions will not fulfill the requirement for substantial evidence.
 And once additionally, Kevin presented to you the point that in making your determination, the Telecommunication Act specifically says you cannot take into consideration radio frequency emissions, if any.
 One final point I'd like to ask before you take your vote is to please look at the photo simulations. And what you will see is that the steeple, you will not see the tower. You do not see the antennas. So all questions regarding community concern, aesthetic, relate to the steeple.
 it doesn't relate to the PWSF, which is a low disability structure, since it cannot be seen. And in fact, in reality, the church could go this afternoon to your development department, file the building application to build this exact steeple at this height without the tower, without the PWSF, and receive administrative review and approval. So the question would be,
 On what basis would this application be denied since the structure itself encompasses the tower and it is a low visibility facility? Therefore, a decision of denial would be an effective prohibition of Verizon's service.
 so in conclusion as steve kennedy has indicated as our expert there is a gap in verizon's voice and data services there are no as you will see in the presentation we presented alternative sites available and the city has not proposed or located a suitable low intensity site
 or low availability site that would be appropriate for this project. The courts have determined that in order to be an alternative site
 It has to be what they call the ables, locatable, buildable, developable, zonable. None of that has been presented, and therefore we have met the burden. In conclusion, the February— Thank you, Mr. Francis. Mr. Francis, you've reached the three-minute limit, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Jimmy Bustamante, followed by Terry Bustamante and Rita Robles. Mr. Bustamante, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Thank you.
 Jimmy Bustamante? Yes, good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Yes, good morning, Honorable Mayor and City Council Reps. To start off with, my name is Jimmy Bustamante, and my family and I do live in El Paso in the Upper Valley, not like Mr. Kennedy, who represents APC. He lives in Albuquerque, and the attorney, he lives in San Antonio. So you're talking to a resident. Yes.
 My wife and I and our family moved to the Upper Valley to have a country-style living and to get away from the hustle and bustle of the city life. We have a beautiful view of the Franklin Mountains from our home. Now the Reyes Church, located in front of us, wants Verizon to install a 40-foot cell tower, which would be higher than any home in the Upper Valley, and would block all the Upper Valley neighbors' view of the beautiful Franklin Mountains.
 This would be an eyesore to our Upper Valley neighborhood. The Reyes Church is located in our Upper Valley neighborhood, but is not part of our Upper Valley community. The members of the Reyes Church do not live in the Upper Valley, but live in other parts of El Paso and Wattis.
 The church has not been a good neighbor to the Upper Valley community. On account the church has never ministered in our neighborhood, and when some of our Upper Valley neighbors lost their jobs due to the pandemic, the church never offered to bring them food, fellowship to their families. The church itself is an eyesore as they have worn out buildings and canvases covering the roofs.
 In 2018, the same church wanted to install a cell tower that was defeated by El Paso Planning Commission and the City Council. And once again, the church, during the pandemic, wants to install the tower in 2021. Since the church has lost members due to the pandemic, the church wants Verizon to give them monthly revenue for having the cell tower on their property, which isn't even classified as a commercial zone, and the church is listed as a nonprofit organization. Verizon has many locations north of Itan where they can install their cell tower.
 The only difference is, like MIMCO, they want more revenue from Verizon, whereas the church is hard up for money, so they lowball their bid to Verizon so they can get the Sal Tower. My wife and I personally spoke with Pastor Reyes about the Sal Tower, and I asked if I could speak to his board of directors, and he said yes. Then he never returned my calls to set up an appointment. My wife talked to his son-in-law, Andy, who's behind all this Sal Tower, and he hung up on her. That's not very Christian, and that's not very being very neighborly.
 Verizon does not need to install a cell tower in an upper valley neighborhood. The neighbors have no problems with their cell phone coverage. Verizon is corporate America. They want the tower so they can lease their towers to other cell phone companies. Please Mayor and City Council reps vote no to the cell tower.
 Planning Commission has already voted against the South Tower thanks to Andrew. The Upper Valley neighbors want to thank District 1 Rep Peter for all his hard work and expertise in defeating the South Tower. Be safe my friends. Thank you for being a good steward of El Paso taxpayers money. Thank you sir. Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs. Terry Bustamante. She will be followed by Rita Robles and Chris Robles. Good morning Ms. Bustamante. You have three minutes ma'am.
 Good morning, Honorable Mayor and City Council. Thank you so much for allowing us to speak this morning. We're very passionate of how we feel about this cell tower. It has no business right in the middle of our beautiful neighborhood. I've lived in El Paso all my life, and I've lived in different parts of the city's
 And the Upper Valley is far the most beautiful area of El Paso that I have ever lived in. There's multiple reasons why we don't want this cell tower in our neighborhood. As my husband mentioned, it is an eyesore. And people do not want to purchase homes near cell towers. Okay, so our resale opportunity is at stake here as well.
 People move out here because of the beauty. And the church members are there maybe two to three times a week. We know that people come and use their soccer fields. Again, none of these people reside in our beautiful community. None of us, those people are united like we are as neighbors.
 You know, we pay high taxes here in the Upper Valley, and we do that, so...
 our family can enjoy this beautiful community. And we pray and we hope that you, you mayor and the council people preserve it for years to come for future generations, for kids, for grandkids. Please don't let corporate America take over and make decisions that do not impact their lives.
 Please, please pray and search your hearts for the right decision. And for once and for all, let's stop this. We just went through this in April, and in 2018, you guys didn't want this. So please, please.
 help these people maybe find a better suited location for the cell tower. There are lots of commercial areas where this cell tower can go. They just need to do a better job of looking for a better place to install this cell tower that is not wanted or needed in our beautiful upper Valley. In Jesus' holy name, I pray.
 that the right decision be made. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And I'll remind the public to please refrain from using personal attacks during their comments. The next speaker is Ms. Rita Robles. She will be followed by Chris Robles and Carlos Garza. Good morning, Ms. Robles. You have three minutes, ma'am.
 good morning my name is rita robles and i live within 250 feet of the proposed telephone cell phone tower i spoke out two years ago at the city council meeting in opposition to this tower gratefully you voted it down i also spoke at the planning commission meeting in april in opposition gratefully the planning commission did not approve it then either i'm here with you today to voice my very strong opposition to putting a cell tower in our residential zone
 i canvassed streets in my neighborhood in april when the cell phone tower issue came up before the planning commission in that time going door to door not one individual not one said oh goody a cell phone tower in the neighborhood i can't wait not one it is unanimous in our neighborhood that the cell tower for a large number of reasons is completely unwanted and unfitting
 Cell phone towers should not be placed in established, residentially zoned neighborhoods or public places, such as parks or libraries.
 Verizon is a multi-million dollar, billion dollar company with high-powered attorneys and is capable of affording its own space on a property already commercially zoned. There are plenty of choices in the vicinity. There are two spots at Upper Valley and Artcraft, Upper Valley and Country Club, Donovan and Country Club, Upper Valley and Artcraft, Upper Valley, excuse me, Gomez and Westside Drive, where by the way, the Planning Commission approved in April a new residential development.
 There's plenty of sprawling space on the New Mexico side of Country Club where no residential space will be affected. Verizon doesn't wish to spend more money, so it will instead reach into our neighborhood's pockets by lowering our home values. Lowered home values means less for the city coffers.
 The Planning Commission and City Council have previously spoken about smart planning for neighborhoods. Why not consider cell towers in those new designs, where the towers can be built without being intrusive to the neighborhood, and everyone buying into the neighborhood will know what they're buying into right off the bat? We are a very well-established neighborhood. The tower would be an imposition to us, not a smart plan, but an entirely forced, unwanted advance on a middle-class neighborhood.
 I'm a Verizon customer. I would rather throw my phone in the river than have a cell phone tower hovering over my neighbors and me. The church members do not live in the neighborhood. It would affect not a single one of them 24-7, only us. If the Raider Reyes Church sold, the cell tower would remain. Jesus knew the full meaning and import of the cross. Its purpose was certainly not camouflage for an unwanted cell phone tower. The entire idea is completely disgusting."
 Our neighborhood will not stop fighting this bell tower in this location. If Verizon believes this is the path of least resistance, they can insure the company. It absolutely is not. Please, as representatives of the people who live here, not as representatives of Verizon, vote this imposition down forever. Thank you for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Chris Robles. He will be followed by Carlos Garza and Susan Martinez. Good morning, Mr. Robles. You have three minutes, sir.
 Okay, I'm on? Good morning. Okay, thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Chris Robles. I reside at 716 Al Smith in the affected subdivision of the proposed cell tower at the Reyes to Reyes Church. I'm strongly opposed to the special permit requested by the church, Verizon, and Romero and Associates LLC. I was opposed three years ago when the first special permit was granted by the planning commission, and I spoke during the public portion of the city council meeting that voted down the measure. Though the cell tower design has changed, it's still an eyesore, will block our view of the mountains and only benefits the church.
 The church is the only one that benefits monetarily from this situation. They'll be making money every month for the use of their land for this tower. It's disappointing they have never reached out to us, yet are well aware that the neighborhood opposes this monstrosity. Their neighbors do not live in our neighborhood, so they don't have to see this every day.
 there are several suitable locations in this area in commercial zone properties or verizon from our associates llc would have to spend more money to place a tower in these locations it's as simple as that they'll pay the church a fraction of the cost there's a problem loss of property values most people do not want to live next to a cell phone tower we sell our homes the view of the tower at the end of the street make it much more difficult we may consider hiring attorneys and asking for lower property taxes based on this if it is approved
 The new design is just as bad as the original design. You can cover up what it is. A cell tower is a cell tower. Photos of these disguised cell towers posted on the internet are laughable. The Verizon attorney from San Antonio said we can't mention health concerns, so I won't. Mr. Leaser, I voted for you. Would you want this in your backyard? Do any council members have a cell tower 250 feet from their house? I'm sure the Verizon attorney from San Antonio doesn't have one in his backyard.
 If you look at the Internet, this problem with churches wanting to put cell phone towers on their property against neighbors' wishes is not unique. It's a shame. And yes, my cell phone works just fine. All of our phones work just fine throughout the city. This is no desperate struggle that Verizon is putting on. If this doesn't happen, oh, it's all going to fall apart. So I won't say the word I'm thinking to describe that. That's not true.
 There are many places right down the street. They just don't want to pay the money for it. And this is a path of least resistance. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Carlos Garza, followed by Susan Martinez, Nicholas Romano, and Beatriz Garza. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Garza. You have three minutes. Hear me? Yes, sir. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Yes. Just a couple of things. And I thank you for your time and appreciate your time.
 attention to this. As it came up back in March, I just kind of found it that they would go after the cell tower permit again. I kind of find that unethical because at that time we had the pandemic going full blast and people were, you know, definitely having to stay at home and not get with other folks and that made it hard for our neighborhood but we found some very good folks that
 actually including myself, went out to solicit signatures, solicit and provide information on cell tower and actually had it denied at the planning committee. And unfortunately, you know, it got appealed and now we're back at this issue.
 So I think, you know, Verizon slash APC are just looking for the path of least resistance on this. As they say, the tower would not impede any view. But if you go on Al Smith Drive, you will see as the tower goes up, it's going to block the beautiful view of the mountains. And that's one thing. The reasons we moved out is the view of the mountains, the horses, the beautiful air, everything that we have out here.
 um as has been stated before there's no members that live in this neighborhood but one thing i do have to question as a church is is uh if you're a member of a devout christian church you would go out and witness and minister to folks and and try to save their souls but uh i've yet to have any of them come to minister to me and they're just they're less than 500 feet away from me uh so that's one one issue i have uh that i have and um
 Like I said, I just ask and hope that you find it in your heart to deny this permit again. And I thank you very much for your time and your attention. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Susan Martinez. She will be followed by Nicholas Romano and Beatriz Garza. Good morning, Ms. Martinez. Good morning. Good morning. I just need to give you my feelings on cell phone towers. And I know that you guys are using the...
 federal communications law that came up in 1996. Everybody think about that. This law was written in 1996. That's telling us that we cannot use health information as defense to stop a cell phone tower from going in to a residential area. How much have you learned on anything since 1996? That law needs to be changed. Second of all,
 What do you know about the effect of residential property values with reference to cell phone towers? We need to know how residential property values are going to be affected. Because I can tell you right now, speaking for myself and people that I've asked, if they were to move into a neighborhood, and I don't care how nice the neighborhood is,
 If there is a cell phone tower anywhere close, they are not going to want to buy. So I am waiting for the Board of Realtors and also the Open Records folks at the city to send me information on impact of cell phone towers to residential property values.
 You guys need to change the law, first of all, for the safety of everybody. And a whole bunch of information has come out now since 1996. You have a responsibility to do that. You have a fabulous industry. You are making money hand over fist, and you are coming to residential property owners and offering them money, especially people who have run down lots.
 and it doesn't matter what the effect is gonna be on the rest of the neighborhood. And you have a responsibility to look into that. So I asked city council to please deny these requests until we get more information, please. We don't wanna be looking at a problem that's down the road. We're gonna find out all these crazy things affecting our health. And we're gonna find out about problems
 property values going down and everything else, and you have neighbors who are paying their taxes, keeping up their property, and they're gonna be affected by that. Something needs to be done for the residential property owner. Thank you very much. Please deny this request. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Nicholas Romano. He will be followed by Beatriz Garza. Good morning, Mr. Romano. You have three minutes, sir. Good morning. My name is Nick Romano. I am the representative of the applicant. I thought we were gonna have a chance
 earlier to present but could we queue up before my time starts the presentation the applicant's presentation On slide number nine It's bringing that up sir. Okay, sir item slide 9 is on the screen now, okay I'd like to just speak directly to what the city code requires with regard to these facilities
 In 2020, the city, this body, passed a new ordinance with regulation, which established a hierarchy of preferences, obviously promoting co-location and non-residential property. However, when that is not possible, the city did include a process for justifying a site in a residential area. That process, that code states that
 Can it be looked at within 500 feet not a half mile not More than that. So when we talk about alternate options, the city itself has defined 500 feet as the requirement for for reviewing Feasible alternatives next slide please this map shows the 500 foot radius and it also shows that
 The following slide shows that within the Upper Valley on the west side of the Rio Grande, there's only 10 commercial properties of any kind within the city. The nearest ones are more than half a mile away. The next slide is the Personal Wireless Service Facility Policy Guide, which was adopted at the same time as the new ordinance. The next slide shows three quotes from this policy guide.
 These guidelines are intended to provide the applicant and City Council with a basis for determining whether or not a proposed facility complies with the intent of the applicable code provisions. The purposes of these design guidelines are to assure a degree of predictability and consistency in the review process. The guide is to be used as a supplement to formulate recommendations and make decisions on new PWSF applications.
 If we continue to the next slide, which is slide 14, we actually have a snippet from that policy guide stating, for locations within or adjacent to residential neighborhoods, bell towers may be more appropriate to lessen the impact on nearby residents, and churches are specifically mentioned. There's a picture of a facility very similar to ours,
 and it says the facilities above blend in more naturally with the adjacent development and do not appear drastically out of place with the existing permitted uses of the underlying zoning district what i'd like to emphasize in closing is that the objection here from many of the residents is to the structure itself the structure has been designed in complete compliance with what the city put forth as a guideline in several documents adopted by this body
 as to what is appropriate for a residential area. Thank you, Mr. Romano. Mr. Romano, you've reached the three-minute limit, sir. I encourage you to look inside your packet at the existing facilities in Albuquerque and the photo simulation. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. The final speaker is Ms. Beatriz Garza. Ms. Garza, good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 Yes, hi, good morning. My name is Yatari Sarsan. Thank you for, I wasn't able to unmute the first time. This is the same issue as before. This big company that has money, as we can see, is seeking to place a cell tower in our middle class neighborhood when they really can find another place. Like we said, this neighborhood has no issues getting reception there. None of us do. If we would, we wouldn't be opposed to it. If this cell tower is approved, the people in this neighborhood would be left without a choice.
 Some of us cannot afford to move, especially in this time of COVID, with the high cost of housing on the rise.
 Some people like the city life, others like the country life, and that's fine. For us, we chose an area where you can look out at these beautiful mountains and see the horses, and there is hardly any traffic coming in and out of our neighborhood, and where cell towers don't interfere with our view or the closeness of our homes because I noticed they didn't show any of our homes there and how close it is really to our homes. And now this choice might be taken away from us.
 The neighborhood has been there first. This company can build in an area where future neighborhoods are about to come up, and they can get that information from you guys.
 where the cell towers can be there first, and then people can decide if they want to live in this neighborhood where there's a cell tower near it or in it. If we had the kind of money that this company has, then we would also be able to hire people to do research for us in our favor. This company does research only to side with them, not to represent where else they can put this tower, because they know they have an area where they can put it. If they wouldn't have this area, they would have to be forced to find another area, and they would find it.
 They have a church that needs money and is willing to get paid what they are offered, which means they don't have to look any further to save money. How sad that hardworking El Paso people who have invested money to buy a decent home in a nice, quaint neighborhood with a beautiful view is being forced by this wealthy big company to want to take their tower. They are just taking the easy way out. And yes, we have plenty of concerns, and some of the concerns we cannot voice.
 when they can afford to place this tower elsewhere, as I said. Cell towers can reach from far away in miles, and we see this when we're traveling in remote areas. It doesn't have to be put in a neighborhood where homes are close by. We don't need the cell tower, as I said before. We get good reception. But little by little, they are forcing their way into these neighborhoods and these schools and these churches,
 And they don't care about the people who live there or attend there. All of you are here for the people of El Paso, and I hope all of you take into account the people in this area. Verizon is here to do business and to make money. This company has everything to gain, and this church does too. And we have nothing to gain.
 I would ask you that you please take into consideration what we have all said, and we do have plenty of concerns. Like I said, many that we can't mention at this time. Please, hear our concerns, and we have been working hard together. Even in these times of COVID, we found ways to raise petitions, and we got creative on how people not to get close to each other. And so we're asking you to please hear us out. Thank you very much, Council.
 appreciate your time thank you that concludes public comment on this item
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Um, so I would like to read this and then I have a slide. Miss Pryor, if you'd like to bring that up after I read this. So, um, you know, very reasonable concerns that are here are relating towards the aesthetics and the rural character and value of the Upper Valley. Um, this cell phone tower wall wall, um,
 shorter than what was proposed in 2018 is still twice the size of the church that it's being proposed to be being located on as well as being much larger than any other structure within a few miles of the upper valley so i'd like to read this letter by miss claudia simpson my name is claudia simpson 2018 myself and other residents of the area attended your town meetings
 at Albertsons on Mesa to discuss our concerns of Verizon wanting to build a cell tower at the Ray Del Reyes Church on Upper Valley Road. We really appreciate your tenderness to our concerns as well as your support to deny such a proposal in 2018. And as your constituents, we're asking that you be our advocate and voice for the proposal of the tower once again to be denied this coming Tuesday, July 20th.
 Fortunately, the issue has come again to the table again, and the community and I are asking to deny the building of the Verizon cell phone tower once more this Tuesday, July 20th. As of today, you should have heard or received the petition sent by Mr. Carlos Garza indicating opposition of the tower.
 Here are those petitions right here. As you can see, there's a number of pages on here as well. These are all not the petition that was there from 2018, but this is a petition that has been brought up by Mr. Garza and his neighbors just over the last few days, if not week.
 To continue the letter. My hope is that you will deny the proposal to build the cell phone tower once again. No means no and this was expressed in motion back in 2018 and is still being voiced now. There's nothing new that Verizon and or the church are bringing this time around to consider. They're both just wanting to get their interest granted for the motion for their own self-gain. We residents of this area do not want this horrible 40-foot tower to be built while Verizon and the church have business and economic interests within our community. Our interest is not having this built. We are not interested in this. We are not interested in this.
 hideous tower built that will not serve nor improve the aesthetics of our community nor meet our needs. We are the true stakeholders here. We are the taxpayers and residents of this community. As our district representative, I encourage you to visit the area, and you will see how building such a tower aesthetically will not make an improvement. You will also see how vacant and uncapped the church keeps its property. The disconnect is obvious. No one in the community has ever seen outreach on their behalf.
 The church leaders and members not reside near the property either. There are no gains for the community here. I ask that you reject the proposal again, as it was done in 2018, this coming Tuesday, July 20th. Please honor our request. Thank you, and I'm going to answer your time respectfully. C. Simpson.
 So I think a lot of the concerns that are raised by Ms. Simpson, I think are still true. Again, it is well within our purview to have concerns based upon community input, as well as the disruption of the scenic and residential value of an area. I think in terms of our ordinance as a whole,
 the large concern that we hear from residents, not just in my district, but in others are not necessarily whether a cell phone tower looks like a cell phone tower or a giant Alpine spruce tree or a giant saguaro cactus, or even a church steeple. The issue is,
 the location of a cell phone tower in relation towards a residential area. And that is the largest concern that we hear. And so if there's something that we need to do to amend our ordinance to provide clear, clear and strict stiffer guidance relating to location near residential areas and encouraging an area closer towards a commercial area, then that is something as a council that we should be looking at as
 folks that make policy for our community. If Ms. Pryne, if you could just bring up this map before I read into the record. Motion denied. That would be great. IT's bringing that up, sir. There it is. So I believe that this is, I don't know if you can, you can zoom in a little bit. This was something that found from the
 the uh i guess san antonio based uh lawyer who brought this up here so you can see where the location is over here
 along our craft road. There is, um, there's upper Valley, which is about again a little bit over a half mile. There's a number of different commercial sites that I, you know, wonder how much they've been explored. In addition to that, just recently we did a rezoning for an area directly on our craft and West side that again would be very close if not within that half mile area. In addition to that, there is an old
 There's an old sort of country store on Gomez and Westside as well that could be looked at. Again, I think that there's other opportunities and other options for other areas in this part of our city that can be within that close to half mile range and alleviate a lot of the concerns that we're hearing from residents in this area. So that is something that I wanted to bring up there, and I think it would.
 alleviate some of those concerns that are there. To date, been part of one public meeting relating to the applicant for this. And so I'd like to make a motion to deny and that the El Paso City Council has considered the information contained in the application and presented by the applicant, the concerns of the citizens near the proposed site, the availability of nearby possible commercial sites that could potentially provide the same or similar service to the area,
 the greater opportunity for co-location on taller towers and commercial sites. We conclude the application for a permit at the proposed residential zone site is not consistent with the El Paso City Code, which prefers siting cell towers in commercial districts where possible.
 The application fails to conform to the requirements for personal wireless service facilities in Section 20.10.455 and fails to conform to the requirements for special permits in Section 20.04.320 of the code as the request fails to follow the minimum requirements necessary to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
 The Council now makes the following findings in denying this request in order to preserve the general intent of the personal wireless service facilities in Section 20.10.455 and in Section 20.04.320 special permits in order to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare. One, the property on which the facility is proposed to be installed is located at 5901 Upper Valley Road, which is in the Centre Court residential subdivision.
 A commercial subdivision is located approximately a half mile away to the north and commercial subdivision is located approximately 1.6 miles away to the south from the Pro Residential site. 2. The intent 20.10.455 of the El Paso City Code is to prefer commercially zoned locations for the placement of cell tower facilities and discourages placement in residential areas.
 3. The community has provided reasonably founded concerns requesting placement of this tower in the nearby commercially zoned locations. 4. A commercially zoned tower would allow for increased height. A higher tower in a commercial zone would provide more co-location opportunities. 5. The community has provided reasonably founded objections of the proposed tower facility used solely by Verizon Wireless, thus raising the issue of co-location.
 6. The intent of 20.10.455 of the El Paso City Council includes a preference for towers that co-locate with multiple providers.
 7. Co-location provides more opportunities for improved service through more providers on a single tower. 8. The community has questioned the need for improved service in the area, citing their current, quote, excellent reception. 9. The proposed site does not conform to the rural character of the neighborhood that is primarily composed of single and two-story structures. And 10. It is the Council's opinion that Verizon Wireless has not reasonably addressed weather commercial zoning to the north and south,
 may provide opportunities for the same or similar coverage in the general area. If there is a second. Second. Thank you. We do have Representative Rivera would like to speak. Representative Rivera, please. Thank you, Mayor. Basically, what I wanted to ask the staff is how close are these residents to the proposed cell tower? So, again, for the record, Captain Smith with Planning Inspections. Let me bring up my...
 I'm mapping it, but it is directly abutting this property. Let me bring up my map. Okay. So the property in question here is the one outlined in this dash gray or dash black line and the residences are directly abutting. Okay. And those are excellent points that Mayor Pro Tem just brought up. Is that why CPC didn't approve them either?
 They generally felt that it was not in character of the neighborhood. It was large and they did take into account the concerns of the public. Again, as staff, what we look at is we look at the approved policies and requirements of the code and that is the basis of our recommendation.
 And obviously as City Planning Commission and City Council, they you all take into account other aspects which include public public input feedback. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Representative. Um Representative Nunes. Representative Nunes. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. No, I just I just wanted to thank all the speakers for sharing your input and concern.
 Um, these concerns that they have are no different than the concerns I've had for the past two years. If you look at my voting record, I have consistently voted against any personal wireless towers and zoned residential zone properties. Um, I'm happy that the the group there are organized and can come to Council and convey their concerns. But I would ask this Council to reconsider the policy that was adopted last year.
 and bring forward a policy that's going to protect residents with their concerns it's not fair that if this if this passes what about all of the other towers that we've approved in residential areas so i ask for your consideration that keep that standard consistent across the city thank you thank you and without miss prime we have a motion and a second thank you representative nundus
 Yes, Mayor, there is a motion and a second to deny the special permit on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthwaite. I just want to, again, piggyback on what Rep. Hernandez said, and I do think that if there's a way to look at additional restrictions,
 that we can have in terms of residential areas, in terms of some of these sort of loopholes with different properties. I think we should look at that and updating the ordinance for that. The fact is, is that overwhelmingly, the issue that we're hearing is not just based on aesthetics. It's also with the location of it being so close to residential areas when commercial can be, can, should be preferred areas.
 in almost all situations relating to cell phone towers. And with that, I vote yes to deny. Thank you, Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Representative Forsyth, can you just clarify, was the motion to deny? Yes. Motion to deny. Okay, so I vote yes. Thank you. Molinar. I just also want to be clear, the motion to deny, I vote yes.
 Thank you. The motion is to deny as read into the record by Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Representative Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Mayor, I have texted you. I had a question. I don't have. Oh, there it is. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Representative Rodriguez. We'll wait until Representative Salcido will go ahead and vote, and then we'll go to Representative Rodriguez. Aye. Representative Rodriguez, and you have the floor. Thank you.
 Thank you so much, Mayor. I have a quick question for our City Attorney. I just want to make it, I was a little bit unclear, if we deny this, does this mean that, I'm sorry, the company can still go and do basically whatever they want, however they want, wherever they want? No, ma'am. They would still need to apply depending on the height of the tower.
 whether that would come back to council or not. There are some areas in the code that allow these towers by right, but those are primarily in commercial zones. Okay and can this company come back and sue City Council for denying? That's a possibility if they choose to go in that direction. Okay thank you. And actually sorry one more time what was the motion? The motion is to deny the special permit.
 No. Representative Rivera? I'd just like to say that we do have a good policy in place. It's just added protection. We need to add added protection for the residential areas that are concerned, that were brought up by some of my colleagues. But the current ordinance that we have in place is needed for El Paso so that we don't have these ugly cell towers coming about.
 And with that, I just have to say I also vote for denial. Thank you, Representative Lizada. And the motion to deny passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Rodriguez voted nay. The motion to deny does pass.
 The next item is number 27, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special privilege license to El Paso Independent School District for the maintenance, use, and repair of an existing underground tunnel encroaching with a portion of Arizona Avenue between Kansas and Stanton. Motion to approve? Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 27. There's no public comment on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anelo. Hernandez.
 Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 28. This is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the dedication for the use of the public as a right of way 10.19 acres of land between south of Liberty Expressway and west of Purple Heart Highway. Are you OK with that, District 2?
 Is there a presentation for this? Yes. I made a motion. I didn't know you guys didn't hear it. I think I was muted. I apologize. So motion to approve but I'll second. I'll second. Thank you. IT, will you bring up the presentation on item 28 please? Good morning. Armida Martinez with Planning and Inspections. Let me. So. I'm sorry.
 Item 28 on the agenda is Constitution and Burt Williams right-of-way dedication. These streets are located south of Liberty Expressway or Spur 601 and west of Purple Highway. Next, please.
 This is an aerial view of the existing streets. The applicant is requesting to dedicate a little over 10 acres of land as public right of way. Currently the area is improved and functions as right of way. It has not been formally dedicated as public right of way. So this request will formalize the dedication. Next please. This is a survey of the streets. Constitution is North South. Burt Williams East West.
 Next page. This is the continuation of Burt Williams. Next, please. And these are photographs of Constitution. They're looking north and south. Next, please. And these are views of Burt Williams. They're both looking at an easterly direction. And that concludes my presentation. There is a motion and a second to approve. There is no public comment on this item. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzweil.
 Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 29. This is discussion in action that the City Manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services to perform civil engineering services on a task-by-task basis
 with CEA Engineering Group Inc. and Dannenbaum Engineering Company. Motion to approve. And we do have public comment on this item. Mayor, may I call that speaker now? Thank you, we have Mr. Jose Reyes. Mr. Reyes, star six please to unmute your telephone. You have three minutes, sir. Mr. Reyes, you're on mute, sir. Star six, Mr. Reyes, okay. Your telephone is unmuted now. You have three minutes, sir. Mr. Reyes, Mr. Reyes, we can't hear you, sir.
 Okay, can you hear me now? Yes, sir. That's better. Okay. I'm just calling in. I just have signed up in case there's any questions for myself. I am the office manager for Danbaum Engineering here in El Paso, and I'm just here in case you have any questions from Danbaum. Thank you, sir. Okay. And in case there's any questions, I'll send them in. Thank you. You're welcome. Mayor, Mr. Reyes is only there in case there's any questions. Thank you. That concludes.
 That concludes public comment on this item. Do we have a motion and a second? Yes, sir. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 29 on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the end of the agenda.
 At this time, may we have a motion to recess until noon for call to the public? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess until noon in order to conduct call to the public. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? No. I mean, I... Thank you. And the meeting is in recess until noon at 10.36 a.m., and we do have 10 speakers for call to the public. Thank you.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity Which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda However, Council may propose at a topic Commented on be posted on a future agenda this afternoon. We have 12 members of the public that signed up to speak and
 The first person is Mr. Edgardo Moreno. Mr. Moreno's topic will be the need for more trees in El Paso to create more oxygen, shade, and a healthier environment. Buenas tardes, Sr. Moreno. Por favor, oprima el asterisco 6 para activar el sonido. Le va a ayudar el intérprete, Sr. Pérez. Le pido que por favor pause después de una frase para que pueda traducir sus comentarios. Uh-huh.
 Va a tener seis minutos, señor Moreno. Sí, ¿puedo hablar? Sí, por favor, comience. El proyecto que tengo, yo les dejé con un diseño para que tuvieran la idea de lo que yo quiero exponer. IT, will you please bring up Mr. Moreno's exhibit? Disculpe, no, no, no. Estamos poniendo su... Muy bien.
 The document that he sent us. Very good. We are already teaching it, sir. Oh, well. So, for the time being, I'm going to try to make it short. My purpose, the main purpose that I had was to make here in El Paso, Texas, a, a, a, what is it called? A forest, a forest, a forest.
 Es el primero, un bosque. ¿Para qué un bosque? Como productor, principalmente como productor de oxígeno. Sabemos que la calidad de oxígeno que estamos consumiendo ya no es el 100%. Hay mucha contaminación de monóxido y ya la calidad de oxígeno ya no es la misma. No me lo gusta.
 Señor, este es el intérprete, Jorge Pérez Viñalé. Por favor, empiece de nuevo y haga frases cortas para yo poder interpretar. Usted hable, yo traduzco. Y usted sí puede seguir después de mi traducción. Ok, muy bien. Bueno, el propósito principal es dar o hacer...
 bosque forest forest para producir oxígeno para producir oxígeno debido a que la calidad de oxígeno que está en el medio ambiente debido al hecho de que el oxígeno disponible en el medio ambiente ya no es el 100% puro ya no es el 100% puro
 Hay mucho monóxido de carbono y otros contaminantes. Entonces, la preocupación es la calidad de oxígeno que estamos consumiendo. Ese es el paso número uno, el más importante. Ese es el primer paso.
 El número dos, paso número dos. Hacer el forest en forma de un laberinto. ¿Por qué? Porque en forma de un laberinto poder atraer el turismo. El número tres. El número tres. En forma de una U.
 Pensando en el nombre de Estados Unidos de Norteamérica, todo el nombre. Pensando en el nombre de Estados Unidos de Norteamérica, USA, el nombre. Entonces, mi idea es que El Paso Texas sea pionero de esto. Mi idea.
 Entonces, para que otras ciudades puedan realizar así, de la misma manera. Las siguientes letras, por ejemplo, la N, que continúa. O la I, la T, la E, etcétera.
 Ese son los tres puntos importantes. Y como vemos en el croquis, en el diseño, está acondicionado o diseñado con bancas
 de jardín, que son los rojos, los colores rojitos, en la entrada hay una fuente de agua, hay un toiler, en una esquina, y está la entrada y esa misma la salida. Esto puede ser remodelado según las exigencias.
 Es la entrada y la salida y eso se formará dependiendo de los requisitos. Entonces, ahora bien, en los puntos verdes, los puntos verdes son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los árboles. Son los ár
 Llevarían, por ejemplo, una planta de oleander o otra arbusto. Para formar bien lo que es el laberinto, ¿verdad? Entonces, este es mi plan, ¿verdad? Tres puntos importantes. Ese es mi punto y los tres puntos importantes.
 Pero el más importante para mí es producción de oxígeno, ¿verdad? Que es la floresta. Gracias, señor Moreno. Sí, gracias, señor Moreno. Ya se terminó su tiempo. Gracias. El próximo hablante es el señor Ron Como. Su tema es el programa de servicios animales de la ciudad. Señor Ron Como, Star 6, por favor, para descargar su teléfono.
 Se seguirá Mary González y Barbara Valencia. Buenas tardes, señor. Tiene tres minutos. Quiero empezar con una pregunta. Si Haas es tan bueno, ¿por qué no tiene un plan de la Ciudad de Austin? Y ¿por qué cuando alguien recibe un número de llamada y intenta firmar una sugerencia sobre el hecho de que se le pongan los perros de vuelta, usted y su gestión dicen que ese número no existe? Y esto ha sucedido varias veces.
 Saturday, Dwayne Peters took a box of puppies he found on 54 in a box to the shelter. They refused to take them in and didn't even offer to give them parvo distemper shots. Considering parvo and distemper is huge this year, but I guess that's six less for them to account for if they die. Sunday, July 18th,
 dos soldados hablaron con Crystal el domingo 11-16 encontraron un estrellado en el mallo y intentaron surrender el perro a Crystal, ella continuó diciendo que los mantenía y que tenían que encontrar el propietario, incluso después de que los soldados le dijeron que vivían en las barreras y que no podían mantener al perro, le dio una lista de rescuos y continuó refiriendo a tomar los estrellados también dijo que era su problema, los servicios animales no estaban tomando perros
 ¿Por qué no podemos obtener los registros 311? Debería de durar 14 días y hemos estado esperando meses. No hay excusa para esto. El Servicio Animal tiene un video para obtener nuevos rescues 501C3. Me parece increíble. Tuvimos suficientes rescues en 2019 para mover a los perros de la casa. Y ahora, cuando están haciendo un tercio de lo que hicieron, necesitan más rescues. ¿Qué pasó con los rescues que tenían? ¿Son como yo?
 I have no rescues at my house. That is the first time in six years I don't have rescues. Okay. One of the things that's kind of aggravating is they're telling people at the shelter when they're trying to turn dogs in, they can't record the conversation. They say it's illegal. This isn't true. You can check with your legal department on it. They have every right in the world to record any conversations between them and a city official or a city employee.
 I still find it really amazing that we have all these complaints on El Paso Lost and Found talking about the shelter and things they're doing, including not taking the dogs. But yet every time we talk to a city official, everybody tells us that they are taking all the strays. So I don't understand where the communication problem is. Maybe that's what they want. For example, just for a problem, on the El Paso Dog Cats page, July 19th, Ashley Bell rehoming a puppy 12 weeks later.
 old or yeah 12 weeks old she's trying to rehome these 12-week-old golden labs not vaccinated not spayed or neutered and what do you think is going to happen to those six puppies how many more puppies are going to come out of this litter because it wasn't picked up and taken care of in the first place we have a huge problem with not spaying and neutering strays in the city of el paso animal services used to do a great job they were spaying and neutered dogs for rescues but uh
 paula decided that wasn't necessary and put the burden back on to the rest sir we do not thank you sir you've reached a three minute limit no problem thank you the next person in the queue is miss barbara valencia miss valencia's topic is also the city's animal services has program miss barbara valencia star 6 please to unmute your telephone good afternoon you have three minutes ma'am thank you
 I'm going to talk about El Paso Animal Services, Often Pets Alive, and the HAWS plan's eight stages to animal genocide. The first stage is classification. You distinguish between us and them. It's animal services versus the pet owners and the public, animal services versus the rescues, and animal services versus the animals themselves. The second stage is symbolization. Give names to the classifications. So they have given names to these animals such as stray dogs, lost pets,
 unwanted animals, and dumped dogs. The third one is dehumanization. Animal Services says they're just dogs, they don't have the capacity to feel pain, and they can fend for themselves. The fourth stage of animal genocide is organization. Genocide is always organized. El Paso Animal Services has organized, in conjunction with Austin Pets Alive and the Haas Plan, to commit animal genocide in our city.
 The fifth stage is polarization. Drive a wedge and drive the groups apart. Splendor the rescue groups, the public, and the pet owners. And you use that with intimidation and silencing at the center, which affects the animals and produces the goal of animal genocide. The sixth stage is preparation. The animals, which are the victims, are identified and separated out. What animal services has done is they've separated them into categories of closed intake to all healthy and stray lost dogs,
 They say kennels are only for the sick and injured animals, and also no kennels are to be used for strays, owner surrenders, or other intake of animals. The seventh stage is extermination, and that is the legal killing. And it is extermination to El Paso Animal Services, Often Pets Alive, and the HAWS plan because they do not see or believe the animals as victims. And it also is resulting in revenge, animal genocide.
 El Paso Animal Services is telling people that they will be euthanizing all the healthy stray and lost dogs brought into the shelter. And they are doing this as punishment and revenge for having to take these dogs in. And this is local government-sponsored animal genocide. The eighth and final stage of the animal genocide is denial.
 It is among the surest indicator of further episodes of animal genocide. El Paso Animal Services will cover up the evidence and intimidate witnesses. They will deny this is happening. They will blame the animals, the pet owners, and the rescues. And they will also block any investigations, and they will even destroy evidence.
 The City of Austin's mayor and city council members refused to even entertain the idea of implementing HAWS at their municipal shelter called Austin's Animal Center for this very reason. They were not going to implement, support, promote, or have any form of animal genocide being done in their city. So it's up to El Paso now. We need to step up and end HAWS now. We need to stop the animal genocide in our city. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Leti Benitez. Ms. Benitez's topic is also the City's Animal Services House Program. Ms. Benitez, star 6, please, to unmute your telephone. Leti Benitez, star 6, please, to unmute your telephone. Yes, ma'am. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Hello? Yes, ma'am. We can hear you now. Okay. This is...
 This is Letty Benitez. Yes, good afternoon, Honorable Mayor Leaser. My name is Letty Benitez and I am a concerned citizen about what is going on here at Animal Services and the HAWC program. My question is when will Animal Services open 100% and when will they start picking up all of the stray, healthy and injured dogs? Why are the 311 operators telling citizens that dogs will be euthanized
 And if they can no longer keep them in their home and for them to find the owners, they will be euthanized. This has been going on since 2020. And Paula Powell, who was then the director of animal services, did this program in conjunction when COVID started.
 And where are we supposed to, as rescuers, put all of these stray animals in our homes? When you take an animal to animal services, they refuse to take in the animal, just like Ms. Barbara Valencia just mentioned. And then they give a list to the citizen saying, here, reach out to the rescues. Where are these rescues supposed to find all these fosters to put all these stray animals, healthy and unhealthy animals?
 on the top of the roof of their home, in the garage. These are answers that we need to be, that we have questions and we need answers to our questions. I am speaking here for the voiceless, which are the dogs.
 And no pun intended, but the city of El Paso is going to the dogs. I have told some of the rescuers it would be wonderful if Mayor Leaser and the city council members would just one day put on some jeans and put on their boots and go out into the desert, go out and set a trap, go out and help a dog that is injured on the streets or the freeways.
 So this way you would get first-hand idea of what rescuers go through and what's being implemented in your city. Thousands and thousands of stray dogs in our city and animal services is padding their numbers. Me as an accountant, I would like to look at the books and to see intake and outtake.
 What did Paula Pell do with the money that she was allocated in the year 2020 where she could vaccinate, where she could spay and neuter these dogs? I have that question, and I would like some answers as a concerned citizen. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Karen Washington. Ms. Washington's topic is also the City's Animal Services House Program. Good afternoon, Ms. Washington. You have three minutes. Hello? Hello, Ms. Washington. You have three minutes, ma'am.
 Thank you so much. Mr. Mayor, I have reached out to you numerous times on behalf of my rescue, positive rescuers of El Paso, and I have yet to receive any response whatsoever. The HOSS program that isn't affecting El Paso regarding sound dogs, it's not working. Ramon at Animal Services is telling you differently. Thank you.
 But I am one of the rescuers who is on the streets in the desert areas rescuing dogs that have been turned loose, tied up, and dumped in the desert areas because of this ridiculous program. And animal control not picking up all dogs. Why are we waiting for a tragedy to occur before we take this issue seriously? This program needs to go. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Sarah.
 Ms. Sharon Miles-Bonart, her topic is opportunities for participation in city meetings. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Thank you for this opportunity. My name is Sharon Miles-Bonart. Today I'm suggesting the option of a hybrid program.
 meeting protocol for all city meetings. This hybrid protocol would include participation strategies of current meetings combined with what had been standard meeting protocols. These last few months have been incredibly challenging for all of us. Our city continually has been presented with overwhelming challenges. As each challenge has been met, new lessons have been learned.
 For the last several months, meetings for city council, districts, city boards, and city committees have been held using internet and call-in connectivity. These meetings have taught us that there is significant value in internet and call-in participation. To say nothing of the savings of time in commuting to and from meetings, extended opportunities to keep a distance for health reasons,
 and fingertip access to pertinent information accessible on the internet. When in-person meetings resume, I hope the City will use a hybrid protocol for all meetings, which would be a combination of the previously standard meeting form and the adoption of virtual internet and call-in participation in all meetings.
 A hybrid meeting protocol can provide for extended public participation and civic transparency. I hope you'll consider this as you go forward. Thank you. Thank you. And the next speaker is Mr. Rick Bonart. His topic is bicycle lanes. And IT, Mr. Bonart did submit a hard copy of his presentation which we have shared with you. If you can please bring it up on the screen. Good afternoon, Mr. Bonart. You'll have three minutes, sir.
 IT will be bringing up your presentation. And can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay, and I hope you can see the first slide. Dr. Bonart's coming up. It's not up yet. Okay. I will wait for a second. IT, can we straighten it out, please? There it is. You know what? It's up now, sir. No worries. Just go ahead and... It's up, Mr. Bonart. You can proceed. Oh, okay. I'm not seeing it. Okay, that's fine. Well, they're bringing it up now. Okay. You can see it okay, though? You can see slide one?
 Okay. So this is the second bite of the apple on this issue. And I'm coming back today because it was recommended that I go ahead and participate in the bicycle committee's activity when they were going to address this issue. And I did.
 and I was surprised that that issue was not available as an action item. So I'm bringing it forward to you in this manner. And I can tell you I've learned some additional facts about this problem, which is an unsafe bicycle lane at Red and High Ridge. So if you'll go to the next slide, number two. So this lane was moved and made into an unsafe situation because,
 based on one single constituent request. And in fact, staff relied on an old 2017 traffic study to make the change. It was approved without any public vetting and was approved without the bicycle committee participation. And I can tell you when they did participate, they did not approve of this.
 And the item was also rushed and constructed without any necessary supplies. So if you can go to the next slide. There you go. And at the bicycle committee, this was a slide that was presented, and it was their response to my complaint that they did not use NACTO guidelines when they made this change.
 And this was the example that they gave to show that, yes, NACO treatment guidance was followed for red and high-rich. This was from the city staff's presentation. And I can tell you that's not accurate because, as you see in this slide, beginning at the top you have the curb. Then you have a turn and parking lane. If you'll go back to the previous slide. Oops. I don't know what's going on.
 Okay, I'm not sure what happened to the prior slide. Maybe they can't hear me. I don't know. Okay. I believe we can hear the maker. We can hear you, Mr. Bonert. Please proceed. Okay, well, this is not the slide I'm picking up. The one that I'm seeing that you're looking at. It should be number three. Mr. Bonert, you have 10 seconds, sir, if you'd like to wrap up your presentation. We're pressed for more time. You know, that's okay. Thank you.
 Thank you Mr. Barnard. The next speaker is Mr. Sean Hamilton. His topic is repeated flooding damage to businesses and council Mr. Hamilton submitted an electronic submission of his presentation however it would require a suspension of the rules of order in order to allow it. I move to suspend the rules of order to allow for the photo to be presented. There's a motion and a second to suspend the rules of order to allow the electronic submission of a presentation. All in favor?
 Yes. Thank you. Anyone opposed? And the motion passes. IT, please bring up Mr. Hamilton's pictures. Just for the record, IT has scanned the documents to make sure that they're safe files. Mr. Hamilton, you'll have three minutes, sir. Please press star 6 to unmute your telephone. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. My name is Sean Hamilton. I'm originally from Dallas, Texas. I've lived in Irving, Tarrant, and Dallas County.
 i worked in the water department for the city of t i was working on contract here in el paso and local area when i met a senorita we got married in 2010 and she became my wife i've made el paso my home since 2010. i'm an apprentice at gino's body shop located at 5645 el paso drive which has been in business for approximately 23 years here he's called the water department many times over the years with no success as an apprentice
 I got to see firsthand how it affected him and other businesses on El Paso Drive. John from Demo, John from Race Car Builders, Mike at the small bar here, the elderly at the apartments down the street, 5611 El Paso Drive. For starters, the water department needs to come clean out all the gutters, great, on El Paso Drive so they can drain properly. There's a concrete drainage directly behind Gino's Body Shop.
 created by the city which is in between the railroad tracks and the body shop now the railroad tracks are about six foot higher than the floor of the body shop when the water comes over the canal that was man-made here it comes directly into the body shop we spent hours yesterday draining the shop and shoveling mud as well as they're still pumping out water from across the street
 There's five families just at Geno's Body Shop whose livelihoods were directly affected. We had to pump water, as I said. We have to replace some sheetrock. We have to do an electrical outlet. The neighboring businesses are also having to do the same thing. This is El Paso Drive. I mean, this is El Paso, Texas. Shouldn't there be more pride put into a street which bears the city name? Ms. Hernandez, this is your district.
 I've sent pictures of the damage in the water. Ma'am, I hope you hear us. We're blue-collar workers. We feel we don't have a voice. The cost of repair and putting in preventative measures far outweighs the devastating effects we've had because of COVID for these businesses. I thank you all, and thank you, Lisa. I voted for you. You're doing a great job, and thank you, Council, for hearing me.
 Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Mr. Colt DeMorris. Mr. DeMorris' topic is El Paso Police Department and requests for funds to test misdemeanor marijuana. Counsel. Good afternoon, Mr. DeMorris. You'll have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon, counsel, mayor, council.
 um mr molinar i just want to let you know that i sent you information that we had talked about um previously uh to your email yesterday i also cc'd uh representatives hernandez and anello on it um we need to stop uh we need to not give the police department 72 000 uh to test misdemeanor amounts of marijuana
 uh there's a reason the state doesn't have funding for this they're really not important crimes and now the police department wants to hire the crime lab they use the same crime lab they use for murders and
 really tenuous felonies to test misdemeanor amounts of marijuana. It's not good use of money. This is the same crime lab that lost accreditation some years back for some shady tactics. I don't remember what they were, but I do remember them losing accreditation. You know, this is...
 this is it's out of control uh that they're that they continue to arrest uh even with site and release um in place i think we need to make that a city ordinance to make it um enforceable and um i think we just need to stop this funding and also make a sitting ordinance so funding like this in the future doesn't go to um to frivolous uh frivolous things like they want to use it for for testing misdemeanor rounds of marijuana
 Thank you guys for listening to me. I will be in contact with all of you. The rest of you I will send the email to that I sent my representative to show you a resolution that Austin City Council had passed and now they're working on getting as a city ordinance to do the same thing to stop their police department.
 from hiring a private lab. This is just frivolous spending across the state of Texas. We're trying to save money here, not waste it. Thank you guys for listening. Have a great day. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Michael Castro. He will be followed by Mary Gonzalez, followed by Sarah Garcia. Mr. Castro's topic is we must deny the $72,000 request by the El Paso Police Department. Good afternoon, Mr. Castro. You have three minutes, sir. Mr. Castro, star six will unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, sir.
 Hello. Good afternoon, City Council. So, yeah, just to touch a little bit on what Colt was talking about, the $72,000 that's requested for the police funding to test for misdemeanor amounts of THC, it shouldn't even happen. $72,000 is a low estimate, or it's going to cost actually a lot more taxpayer money, probably over $100,000 plus.
 And again, there's no reason for this. City Council, currently right now I am at work sitting at my desk, and I have jars of cannabis in front of me. I have concentrate, I have edibles, and I have anything that you can think of when it comes to marijuana, cannabis, sitting in front of me. I work right here in Sunland Park, New Mexico, five minutes away from UTEP. There is no reason that we are still arresting people for misdemeanor amounts of cannabis. Guys, City Council, please pay attention.
 I serve cannabis to thousands of residents in El Paso who have medical cards. They have medical cards from other states, from New Mexico, from California. They reside in El Paso, Texas. I serve thousands of people in El Paso, Texas, cannabis, legally, in my job. I am a licensed marijuana employee, a cannabis employee.
 So the fact that we are still arresting people, we are still citing people for this plant. I know this is a Texas thing. I know that there's not a lot El Paso can do to decriminalize the plant themselves and legalize it. But what we are asking the city council to do is to stop funding, right? When the police department comes and asks for $72,000 because they wanna test for THC percentages, the same equipment that they are asking for to test for the THC percentage,
 is the same equipment that dispensaries, like the one I work at currently, use to test for THC percentage, to relay that information to our customers, to let them know, hey, this has 28% THC. This has 20% THC. And that's how we sell our cannabis, because that's what the consumers want. So what we're trying to do, what the police department wants to do to penalize people, right, to prosecute people, other than...
 other states and other businesses like the one I work for are using that same equipment to make millions of dollars, thousands of dollars on a daily basis. So we can continue to hurt people.
 or we can help people and i think as a city council i think as people where we're where we're where we're at in in this life today 2021 with legalization happening all around us we need to do something better for people because this is just a plan don't forget that if you are uneducated about this plant educate yourself because it is just a plant thank you guys
 Thank you. We did have Ms. Mary Gonzalez and Ms. Sarah Garcia also sign up to speak this afternoon. However, their phone numbers are not in the queue. Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Prine. And with that, that concludes the agenda. Yes, sir. Do we have a motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed?
 And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, July 20th, 2021 is adjourned at 1236 p.m. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Have a great day and a great week. Bye. Bye. Godspeed, Representative Swarovski.