Miss pine, can we get started please? Good morning mayor Yes, sir. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, July 30th 2024 mayor Leiser is president presiding in council chambers along with mayor pro Tempe because they're talking representative Acevedo alternate mayor pro Tempe Molina
 Representative Salcido and Representative Canales, it is 9.01 a.m. Representative Rivera is running a few minutes late this morning. Now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain Robert Hemphill Jr. Good morning, sir. Good morning, everyone. To the Mayor, Azcaliza. Good morning, sir.
 Also, Mayor Pro Tem Brian Kennedy and Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Joe Molina. Good morning. Give an honor to God, the mayor, and all department heads here. I'd like to give you the invocation. Talks about doing good. Do not grow weary in doing good. This is according to 2 Thessalonians 3, chapter 13, verse. I want to encourage you that doing good is right.
 and good may feel thankless and difficult, but it's always worth it. You might think that it doesn't matter, no one notices what you do. You work hard, and you try to do the best you can and live this life the way you should. Don't grow weary. Nothing that you give to God is fruitless. Nothing that you do for the community is fruitless. Nothing that you do for El Paso is fruitless. Every decision you make to do something
 It helps you develop your toolbox and do a good job in what you're doing. So I'd like to encourage you to continue to build on something good in this city and go forth in this path that God has set for you because you all have been appointed to do this work for God. May God add a blessing to the hearer of his word. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Now, sir, we have a...
 Yes, this morning to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance we have Daisy Girl Scouts Troop 64114. We have Ana Lucia Vargas, Tegan Lee, Mia Arias, Lina Cosgrove, Bree Cosgrove, Orliola Tanchu, Orlibela Tanchu, and Ariel Wyatt.
 I'm not local contract. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 Good morning, everyone. And as we sit here today, we're a day closer to the fifth anniversary of August 3rd. It's a day that changed El Paso and really our country forever. And as we remember the victims and their families, we need to continue to always keep them in our prayers. I don't think there's a day in El Paso that we don't think about it.
 how a senseless act of violence changed our community and how great citizens not only of el paso but our neighboring country lost their lives so i'd like to have a moment of silence to remember the people that lost their lives in a senseless act of violence and also their family members and we'll always keep them in our prayers and it's five years ago on saturday
 Which was a Saturday when it actually happened. So I want to have a moment of silence to Remember all the people and always remember one thing will always be El Paso strong Thank you and may God bless America and may God bless El Paso. That's fine Thank you mayor that brings us to the mayor's proclamations for those honorees receiving a proclamation this morning Your group will have up to six minutes collectively to speak at the podium the first proclamation is a
 Gastroschisis, awareness state. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas gastroschisis is a condition that affects one in every 2,000 babies from birth, characterized by a hole in the abdominal wall allowing the intestines to extend outside the body. And whereas the exact causes of gastroschisis are often unknown, likely resulting from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. And whereas
 The estimated cost for hospitalization and physician fees related to gastroschisis is approximately $120,000. And the impact on affected individuals may last throughout their lives. And whereas Gastroschisis Awareness Day is recognized globally on July 30th, and communities are urged to turn green to raise awareness about this rare birth defect.
 And whereas the city of El Paso desires to join the global community in recognizing Gastroschisis Awareness Day, bringing awareness to El Paso and all of Texas about the challenges faced by individuals born with gastroschisis and the long-term effects they often endure. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that July 30th, 2024 shall be known as Gastroschisis Awareness Day. Signed by our Honorable Mayor, Oscar Leaser. Welcome. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good morning, Lisa and City.
 My name is Layla Martinez and I'm here to tell you about my birth defense. Gastroschisis, I was born with four incisions in my stomach. I had two surgeries within one week of birth, which caused me to have a star belly button. Thank you.
 It's great that you're here Raising awareness for this condition and hopefully it can help other people Who have to go through this after you did so thank you for being here this morning Thank you for being here, I hope Everyone you're doing well and that you continue to do well because one thing I've always said and you just I say that the future of our country and our city is the youth and
 and getting to meet you, we know that our future is very bright. So thank you.
 Good morning, my name is Latasha Martinez. I'm a mom. And I just wanted to bring awareness because it's one in 2,000 babies that are born with this rare disease. And now with medical technology and advances, you're able to find out as soon as I did at 13 weeks. So at 13 weeks, I saw specialists. And knowing that the amount that it causes families, just to see the specialist, the surgery, she was in the NICU for 30 days. She had two life-threatening surgeries, day one and day six. I didn't get to hold her until day eight.
 She just basically whisked into OR and performed on. And then she also just had her gallbladder and appendix put back, or taken out last year in August. So she's doing great. My logo for my shirt, is that my lovely?
 peers are wearing that is my logo that i created um el paso is home we're a military family so we moved here right before coving and it's home and i wanted to set some footprints and make awareness because it is very rare but her surgeon actually just did a surgery on someone
 Last year, so it's very common but rare at the same time So the logo explains it not all stars belong in the sky because it's a star belly button Their intestines are out of stomach and they sew them back or put them back in and sew the stomach together and that causes it To be a belly button. So my star is not in the sky, but it's right here and she continues to amaze me every single day she's amazing and then I'm so thankful for this cohort the border by change put together and
 by the El Paso Hispanic Chamber. It's taught me so much, and I'm able to lead my daughter into success and bring awareness to El Paso and the nation. Thank you. Thank you. You guys can come to the microphone over here. Oh, thank you. Thank you. We'll do the high note. You guys shall have two and a half minutes, three minutes.
 Good morning council members and Mayor Leaser. I'm Desiree Monsonatis the public policy director with the El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. And we in coordination with Wells Fargo have developed this leadership program known as Bordered by Change. And the whole purpose behind it is to teach leadership skills but also compassion for the community. So this year when we heard Latasha's story we were very moved and we decided as a group that this would be our community project.
 So we've been working on this for about a year, and we're so proud of the progress we've made. As LaTosha said, one in 2,000 babies are born with this disorder. It's becoming more common. And surgeries for this range up to hundreds of thousands of dollars. So in this community where often insurance is a luxury, having a child with this disorder can cause financial and emotional issues. So we applaud the bravery of LaTosha and of Layla.
 And just to introduce you to Pearl and also Maria, these are our fellows from Order by Change. And we're just so happy that we're able to be here today. Thank you. Thank you. We'll stand. Back to the picture. How are you? Thank you. Good. Sarah, I'm gonna try not to tell anyone you had a birthday the other day. When's Friday? When was it? You have to move up. Sarah. Last Tuesday, huh?
 Thank you, sir. And for the record, Representative Fierro joined the meeting at 912 a.m. That brings us to the next proclamation. The next proclamation is David L. Carrasco, Job Corps Month. Good morning. We're going to read the proclamation first. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. We're asked our nation's youth.
 is one of our most valuable resources, and whereas Job Corps program is celebrating 60 years of vocational and academic training to the youth nationwide, and whereas the El Paso David L. Carrasco Job Corps Center has reached its 54th year serving the youth of El Paso and its surrounding areas, and whereas during these years, the Job Corps program has provided much needed assistance and attention to the youth by helping them become responsible
 employable and productive citizens. And whereas the city of El Paso commenced the alumni and the 2024 graduating class of the David Al Carrasco Job Corps Center as they celebrate their accomplishments at a reunion dinner and dance on August 22nd and at the commencement ceremony on August 28th.
 Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and the city council of the city of El Paso that the month of August shall be known as David L. Carrasco Job Corps Month. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Leaser and fellow council members and guests. My name is Jamie Harness. I am the business community liaison representing the David O. Carrowskill Job Corps. I'm accompanied by my colleague, Ms. Abel Marisco, and 14 outstanding young students from various trades. Ms. Salcedo pretty much took a lot of the information, but just wanted to reiterate, we are celebrating 60 years nationally for the Job Corps program.
 54 years in El Paso. We've served nearly 100,000 young adults from 16 to 24. We will be hosting our reunion dance on August the 17th at the Forum Ballroom. We do have tickets for sale and we would invite the community to come out and help celebrate. Just wanted to go ahead and get some more information. We have students representing different trades from
 office administration, HVAC facilities, automotive technician, culinary arts, welding. So we're very proud to have these young people represent, and we just want to reiterate that the youth are the future, okay? So we ask you to support. You can stop by anytime, 111-55 Gateway Boulevard East, and give us a look-see, okay? We thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Do you all want to introduce yourself real quickly? We've still got four and a half minutes. One at a time, please. Hi, good morning. My name is Kenya Hernandez, and I'm studying office administration. Good morning. My name is Yalili Lopez, and I'm studying office administration. Good morning. Hi, good morning. My name is April Franco, and I'm in office administration. Good morning. Hi, good morning. My name is Genesis, and I'm of Walden. Good morning.
 Hi, my name is Hema and I'm in the office administration. Good morning. Good morning, I'm Mariana Hernandez and I'm studying for office administration. Good morning. Hello, my name is Jacoby, I'm studying welding. Good morning. Good morning, my name is Rayana Donovan, I'm studying culinary. Good morning. My name is Kins Walters and I am on my second trade. I did culinary and I'm doing office administration. Good morning. My name is Jayden, I'm studying rehab. Good morning.
 Good morning, my name is Brandon Urbina and I'm studying facility maintenance and protective services. Good morning. Okay. Well, I think the rest of them are shy We appreciate your time and once again just never forget the David Okoroske job Corps celebrating 54 years Okay, thank you and good luck to all of you and thank you for being here. Thank you. Come on up Everyone to the center please
 And if everyone could take one big step this way for me please. We'll do a little bit more this way. Just one more on your back. Oh hello. All right I think that looks good. Big smiles ready one two three. Actually I'm so sorry council can I get you all to come in just a little bit for me please? Thank you so much. Senator Hernandez can I get you to come this way just perfect. All right ready one two three. Good yeah thank you. I just don't want you to fall.
 And the next proclamation is Giovanna Zubiade. Good morning, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. You talk about it being Youth Day, it is, and I'm so honored for this one. Proclamation from the city of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the city of El Paso takes great pride in recognizing the outstanding achievements of local students
 whose achievements have brought great honor to our community, fostering a spirit of excellence and a commitment to academic and extracurricular activities. And whereas Giovanna Zubia, an accomplished scholar and student athlete, has already persevered through many obstacles at her young age, her grandmother was battling a rare disease which caused organ dysfunction around the same timeframe that her grandfather passed away.
 Meanwhile, she still found the strength to overcome personal and family challenges and maintain a 102-point GPA that helped her earn over $1.5 million in scholarships. Whereas, Jovanna was eighth out of 545 graduating students. She was a National Hispanic Scholar, the recipient of the Eastwood Trooper Award,
 which is only awarded to five males and five females, served over 300 community service hours, and was homecoming princess, served on the student council and the National Honor Society. She was also in the Spanish and Science Honor Society. And whereas while the captain of the cross country in track and field, she also served as president of track for 2024, Giovanna also broke two records in track,
 field one being a 38 year old record and finished third fastest in the 400 meter race in the history of Eastwood High School track
 She is also honored as a top athlete, top scholarship recipient, class officer, and the top trooper, and while also representative for the El Paso Sports Hall of Fame, received two full-ride scholarships, one academic and one athletic, equaling to the aforementioned $1.5 million in scholarship. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that July 23rd,
 2024 shall be known as Giovanna Zubia Day, signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser.
 I said it's a 23rd, but it's the 30th today. So you have two days Good morning, miss Subha and congratulations on all your great accomplishments and you know being good in sports and also doing great in school is a huge accomplishment and Based on everything that representative Loretta just shared with us I can tell that you're you're gonna be able to do whatever you want but nothing will ever be too tough for you and
 So congratulations and what an honor for us to sit here in front of you and honor you with your great accomplishments. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you so much. I just want to say my deepest thanks to all of you. I really do appreciate it and I take this with great honor and I'm going to be leaving to the University of New Mexico this August and I will be running at the Division I level.
 represent El Paso well and make you all proud. Thank you. Thank you. And there's no doubt you are going to represent El Paso well. Again, congratulations on all your great accomplishments and good luck. Thank you. I'm sorry. Sure. Sure. Thank you. Oh, yeah, we need that. Put it to work.
 And the next proclamation is John Purvis Day. Oh, Mayor Pro Tem? We have some breaking news for you. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas, whereas John Purvis has been a journalist for 44 years, more than 30 of those years dedicated to the El Paso Las Cruces area,
 And whereas his mother was a newspaper editor, and one of his inspirations was to get into journalism, and whereas his first TV job was in high school, he was a cameraman at a TV station in Roswell, New Mexico, which is where he grew up. And whereas he first came to the Sun City in 1992 to be the weekend anchor at KVIA,
 Whereas John is an exceptionally passionate journalism who prides himself on work ethic and his journalistic integrity, he is fascinated by history and those are among his favorite stories to tell. And whereas John Purvis has been the trusted voice for viewers through some of the El Paso's darkest days, he covered impactful stories like 9-11, the 2006 floods, and the August 3rd tragedy, and COVID pandemic. He also prides himself on telling some of the borderlands unknown history,
 Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and City Council of the city of El Paso on July 30th 2024 be known as John Purvis day signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you very much Representative Kennedy Thank You mayor Leeser and City Council. It's an honor to receive this from you and
 I knew Giovanna was a very bright young woman when she said that she was going to be attending University of New Mexico, which is my alma mater. And I'm wearing green today in honor of gastroschisis, which I actually just learned about yesterday at County Commissioner's Court.
 And that's when I realized why I love journalism, why I love what I do. It's sharing information with people that you may not know about. It's sharing knowledge.
 One of the things I've come to learn living in El Paso for so long is how historic this place is. I mean, it's one of the most historic cities in all of North America. And because it's a crossroads of cultures and civilizations, literally, there's always something happening here. We're in the news headlines now. We were in the news headlines, unfortunately, five years ago. We were in the news headlines a century ago when General Pershing was the commander at Fort Bliss.
 because this place simply is about the history of our nation and the border and the diversity.
 of what is North America. And it's just been an honor to be able to bring the news to El Paso daily, because it's a wonderful community. I mean, you know, the people make the place. And I've always loved the people here and the culture, you know, and it's got so much to offer. And I'm grateful for that. I do want to talk about one concern I have, you know, and that's the future of local journalism.
 I'm actually, I know something about this building. And it used to be the home of the El Paso Times. And my mother, for several years, from 1976 to 1981, was the Southeastern New Mexico correspondent for the El Paso Times. They used to have regional bureaus.
 and so she would take me along on new stories and different places and and one time she came here because she was meeting her bosses at the el paso times and i remember coming into this building and back then it wasn't
 Different rooms. I just remember this massive very long office with literally it looked like hundreds of people to me sitting there and putting together the news of the day for El Paso and the borderland and I was awestruck by the size of the operations And how much it's changed
 since 1977 when I came here. I mean, the El Paso Times no longer even has an office. And that's my concern is the future. You used to have dozens of reporters covering El Paso and the various aspects of the community because it is a diverse and broad community.
 But we just don't have those resources anymore. Now, I know things will eventually work out. We figure things out as a society. And I do have hope, but I do have concern about the future of local journalism. But I've really enjoyed my career, and it's been an honor delivering the news to El Paso and the borderland. And I thank you very much. Thank you. Hey, John.
 John, I'd like to congratulate you. You know, as the Mayor Pro Tem read, you were the voice of reasoning. You have that voice. And still, I can sit here, and while you were talking, I could close my eyes and picture you behind the desk. Because you have that voice. You have that command. And people trust that. And it's really important. As you say, you're concerned with journalism. People trust that voice. People trust somebody that they can tune into and be able to know whether, if you say it's going to rain, to take an umbrella.
 You know, so it's, even though you didn't do the weather. But I get asked that all the time. How's the weather? No, but I do want to congratulate you on a great career. And, you know, you still, like I said while you were talking, I could close my eyes and picture you. And I know when I ran for office, you did some interviews. And, you know, you talk about journalism and fair journalism. I can thank you.
 back from 2013 running for office to this last time that he reported fair and truthful. And that's what's really important to us elected officials, but also our constituents that want to know and understand. So I do want to congratulate you on a great career. And I know that your peers are standing behind you because they'll miss
 Your wisdom and what you brought to the newsroom. So congratulations and thank you, sir Thank you very much. And I also do want to give credit to these people. I mean they I
 what has made my career great. It's the people I work with and I've loved working with this crew. And I know the first time I was in a TV station, once I got over the intimidation of all the equipment that was around me, I sat down and talked to the people and there was just something about them. I knew I'd found my tribe. You know, TV news is where I made my home for 44 years and I've loved it. And as I head to the next chapter of my life, I'm excited about that but
 but I know I'm going to miss this. So we'll see what's next. Thank you. Congratulations. Take a picture, please. Just take a picture of the proclamation. Fantastic. Thank you. Okay. We'll look right this way. Ready? One, two, three. A couple more.
 Ready 1 2 3. Can I get you to come over to this end instead please. Thank you. All right. Ready 1 2 3. Thank you. Thank you so much. It's right there. And the final proclamation is Professional Engineers Day. Representative Moulinard. Good morning. Thank you.
 Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas licensed professional engineers are dedicated to applying scientific knowledge, mathematics, and ingenuity to develop solutions for technical, societal, and commercial problems while holding paramount the public health, safety, and welfare. And whereas the City of El Paso licensed professional engineers have made significant contributions on a local and national scale.
 And whereas the city of El Paso's economy has grown in part because its licensed professional engineers are instrumental to our community. And whereas August 7th has been declared Professional Engineers Day by the Texas Society of Professional Engineers in conjunction with the National Society of Professional Engineers who show the highest level of dedication to their profession in all 50 states and U.S. territories.
 Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and the City of the Council of the City of El Paso that August 7th, 2024 shall be known as Professional Engineers Day. Signed, Oscar Leiser, the Mayor of the City of El Paso. Good morning. Mayor Leiser, Council Members, thank you for having us today. We appreciate it so much. My name is Daniel Carrera, President of the Texas Society of Professional Engineers, TSBE, here in El Paso.
 And with me I got some other fellow professional engineers with me. I did want to give a special thank you to Council member Molina for helping us facilitate this. PE day is about raising awareness about the professional engineering industry and recognizing licensed PEs and the awesome work that they do and that we do. This includes all disciplines, mechanical, civil, industrial, chemical, it goes on.
 It's a very rewarding career and we're all very proud of the work that we do and we take a lot of pride in the work that we do and the projects as well while upholding the highest ethical standards for ourselves and our colleagues. So just wanted to say thank you again. I think someone else wants to speak as well. I think that's it. Thank you. And congratulations and I know without the professional engineers it would be tough to
 to be able to operate our city, our airport. So it's a great profession. It's something that's so well needed within our community and of course within our city government. So thank you and congratulations. Before we go on, I do wanna wish, where's Anna? She takes our pictures every week and Anna, AKA Sarah,
 We want to wish you a happy birthday. I know you had a birthday a week ago today, so happy birthday. And Carla, that's right, Ms. Neiman on Saturday. Happy birthday. Yeah, but I do want to, you know, Ms. Neiman, I know that you've been with the city a long time and congratulations and of course Sarah. I didn't know if there was anyone that could make us look good, but thank you for that.
 So happy birthday to you and everyone else that's had a birthday just recently. And with that, Ms. Pryne, you get to sing.
 Thank you, Mayor. Council, per the rules of order, no use of personal cellular devices nor personal communication should take place on the dais while the meeting is in session. Once you obtain the floor from the Mayor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate and you may speak twice per item and only one main motion on the floor is allowed at one time. Please speak into the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the dais while the meeting is in session. For those of you joining us virtually, please mute your microphones to reduce any background
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Temp.
 Page 10, item 28, postponed for two weeks per Capital Improvement Department. Page 16, item 40, delete per Capital Improvement Department. Page 15, item 36, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Economic and International Development. I'll learn to say regular. Page 15, item 37, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Economic and International Development.
 Page 15, item 38, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per economic and international development. Page 16, item 39, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per economic and international development. Motion and a second. Mayor Avacan. Mayor Avacan. Canales. The first one that you read, Mayor Pretend, is item 28, postponement for two weeks? Yes, sir. Okay, that one wasn't mentioned during the agenda review yesterday. Can we possibly get an explanation as to why that's being...
 POSTPONED. THERE'S A LOT OF WORK THAT'S GONE INTO GETTING THAT ONE PREPARED FOR TODAY. GOOD MORNING DEON MACK DEPUTY CITY MANAGER. LAST WEEK OUR TEAM MET WITH CODE ENFORCEMENT AS WELL AS THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND THERE WERE SOME QUESTIONS THAT WERE BEING ASKED IN TERMS OF COORDINATING WITH OTHER PLANS THAT WE HAD MADE WITHIN THE COMMUNITY. WE WANTED TO TAKE THE ADDITIONAL TWO WEEKS TO MAKE SURE WE'RE ALIGNED ACROSS OUR VARIOUS DEPARTMENTS AND PARTICULARLY FOR AN ORDINANCE WHAT WE BRING FORWARD IS REALLY ACHIEVING THE GOALS AND THE EXPECTATIONS.
 Thank you, ma'am. Go ahead. I would like to remove that from the revisions. This is just an introduction. I understand if there needs to be adjustment and I believe it is two meetings away that the public hearing would happen. I would like to introduce it and I would be happy to sit down with the departments to talk about that. We will take that item separately, sir. Is that a motion or do we need a second? No, he will need a second. But we will take that one separately.
 And so we have a motion by Mayor Pro Tem. Is there a second? Ms. Redd? There was a motion seconded by Representative Salcido. There is public comment on item 24 from Ms. Turner. And I saw Ms. Turner.
 And item 24 is a request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to decrease contract 2020-224R travel demand model. This deductive change order is due to a discount provided while exercising the optional year of this contract. Good morning, Ms. Turner. You have three minutes. I was just looking for an explanation of what you're doing. I don't hear anybody. What do you need, Ms. Turner? I was asking what you were doing, an explanation.
 I didn't hear you. Okay. Item 20. Okay. So Derek Rose with the purchasing and sourcing department. So this is all this is just a cleanup. So the option to extend was already exercised last year and so they offered a discount with us exercising that option to extend of $75,000. So this is just a cleanup on our end. That's a good thing. Thank you. Ms. Prine. Yes sir there is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised.
 To clarify is that including the change to item 20? No, 28 will be taken separately sir This is just to delete item 40 and move items 36 37 38 39 to the forefront of the regular agenda Okay, thank you on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously We'd like to take item 28 first man. Yes on the motion item 28 I'd like to take the motion of represent can all this I
 second by representative rivetta so the motion to leave it on would be to introduce the item is that what you want to do Yes, we just approved the consent agenda. Yeah, but we we took that one out of the consent Okay
 So we'll keep that item as recommended. You want to go ahead and vote to introduce the item as posted? Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. Okay, there is a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Fierro, and this is to introduce the ordinance on item number 28. On that motion, call for the vote. To keep it on the agenda? And that is to introduce the ordinance on item 28. As submitted, yes, yes sir. Yes.
 Voting session is open council and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously That brings us to item number 20 Which was 3637 38 I think yes, sir item Forefront
 And this is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to execute a first amendment to that certain subrecipient agreement between the city of El Paso and the Better Business Bureau Foundation El Paso to revise the funding amount and increase it by $140,000. Go ahead, ma'am. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Clarissa Mijanez, Economic and International Development.
 Item 36 and 37 are ARPA funded agreements. So this funding was going to be utilized for the allocation of a BOSS building. However, now that we've shifted programming, the money has been reallocated to continue and expand current programs with the Better Business Bureau, Project Viva, and LIV Fund. The $14 million in ARPA funding allocated by Council to small business assistance has provided access to capital, addressing workforce needs, strengthening and supporting the entrepreneurial support ecosystem.
 So what we're requesting today is approval of two amendments. One is with the Better Business Bureau and Project Viva. And lastly, a new agreement with Live Fund as they have completely executed their initial contract. Second. Representative Saucedo. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. This is really great to see the money being allocated to these organizations. Can you tell me a little bit about the process that they had to go through to be able to qualify?
 For the ARPA funding? Yes. Yes. So they were selected based on initial, it's based off the CARES funding. So they were able to utilize the funds, and then they submitted an application, and then we go ahead and disperse. That way we continue the support with the local economy. Did you guys advertise it to, like, online? Or how were people made aware of?
 Applying. That was before me. That's okay. Karina, economic and international development. So a little bit of additional context, right? We have a running list of our entrepreneurial support organizations. These are folks, you know, you've seen that list of 22, 25.
 So like Clarissa said, we worked off of the CARES funding list because those were programs that we had seen support for in the organization. We've done the disbursement. We knew that these were organizations that were capable of meeting the auditing and disbursement standards set by the federal government. But for this specific re-round, right, opening up the funding, what we went back and we looked at was which programs were spent out and needed additional capacity, and which ones met the highest need. So if you go back, if I go back a slide,
 Everything is in a line with the approved policy set by City Council for ARPA. So when we talked about the strategy for this funding, that 14 million, it's in these buckets. There's a set of programs in each of those buckets.
 We were here a few months ago going over the ARPA completely. So each of these have subcategories about technical assistance, access to capital, specific types of micro enterprise loans. So looking at those in combination with the recently updated Hunt Institute study about small business needs in the community, that was how we identified the priorities and then we reached out to the partners that provide those programs. Does that provide a little bit of extra information?
 Yes, that's perfect. No these three organizations are great They do a lot of things a lot of support for the businesses and thank you so much for for everything they're doing for a community Reps, and none this followed by reps of canales Clarissa for your presentation Excuse me
 Very excited about these opportunities. How are we going to notify businesses, other folks who can utilize these services? There's a lot of avenues. So we do have our social media. We do have our Facebook page. We have our Instagram. We also have a newsletter. We utilize it by El Paso. We utilize EP Business Strong through their various avenues that a lot of the businesses will be notified, as well as the newsletters from the partners. Is there like a –
 website that just refers to all of the resources? Yes, so we have EP Business Strong and then we are working on the BOSS website as well as the BioPeso. Are they all gonna, is the BOSS and EP Strong going to consolidate or are there gonna be different platforms? Yeah, so the EP Business Strong will be moving over to the BOSS and that's where you'll be getting a plethora of resources for small businesses. Okay, great. And what, I'm assuming there's gonna be announcements on once that BOSS website is available? Yes.
 looking forward to it thank you thank you for the hard work thank you ma'am represent canalis thank you yeah just to ask as clearly as possible this is just funding it's adding additional funding to existing programs that we've been supporting since that first allocation of arpa correct correct okay that's all thank you
 Thank you, sir. And just like Senator can analysis said these are programs that have been really important to the community and the Continue funding them is really important. I know that We have a few people here to talk about it I know Mary Beth Stevens from the Better Business Bureau is here But it's really important that we continue to fund programs that are going to enhance the life of our citizens and and also some projects So thank you again for doing that and with that. I know we have a public comment. I
 Yes, Mayor. Was Council going to take 37 and 38 also at the same time? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Let me read it into the record. Item 37 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to execute a subrecipient agreement between the City of El Paso and LIFT Fund, providing $200,000 to LIFT Fund to administer ARPA Act funds for the continuation of the interest buy-down program.
 to small businesses affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Item 38 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to execute a first amendment to that certain subrecipient agreement between the city of El Paso and Project Vida to revise the funding amount and increase it by $200,000. We do have Miss Mary Beth Stevens signed up to speak on item 36 followed by Lisa Turner.
 Good morning, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good morning, ma'am. Good morning. Thank you. Mary Beth Stevens. I am actually the former president of the Better Business Bureau and the Better Business Bureau Foundation. I do want to just take the opportunity to my successor is Elizabeth Tarasas. She's been completely briefed on all of these programs.
 And I know you all have been briefed as well so I don't want to take obviously too much time, but I can assure you that the city has done a really excellent job of Ensuring that the resources have been analyzed and figured out how to most support our local businesses in this amendment
 key to it is that the programs all would have terminated in January and now they'll be going through August 2026 and it also includes a minimum of $200,000 that will be directly supporting local businesses through the rewards program. So
 Again, I just want to commend the staff. They've done a lot, like you mentioned, combining now EP Business Strong. It has served its purpose through the pandemic and such and moving towards the BOSS. So really pleased and selfishly very nice for me to be able to sort of see this inset going forward and not leaving any kind of too many strings for the future.
 the BBB and the city. So if you have any questions on the programs, obviously, I'm very happy to answer any questions. Thank you, ma'am. And thank you again for you've been, I mentioned 2013, the electric company did a great job and then moved on to be head of the Better Business Bureau. You've done an incredible job and I wish you a lot of success in your new venture. Unfortunately, you'll be leaving our city, but thank you for everything you did while you were here. Thank you all. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Lisa Turner, followed by Lillian Spennell, Enrique Aragon, and Sonia Olvera. On 36, we're using ARPA funds, 37-2, right? Yes, ma'am. So my question is, when all this money is spent, what's next? Are the programs killed, or do you find another way to fund them? On 37, interest buy-down program.
 for small business affected by COVID. That was nearly $1 trillion in PPP loans that went out that were forgivable. Somebody has to explain that to me because all those loans were basically free money to business, very little going to workers. So I need to understand why somebody is buying down interest on forgivable loan. Thank you. Is 38 also included in this?
 Okay, that was 39. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner. The next speaker is Lillian Spennell, Enrique Aragon. I'm sorry, Ms. Spennell, if you're in the queue, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Star six, please, ma'am. You're on mute. Ms. Spennell, you're on mute. Star six, please. Good morning. You have three minutes. Yes, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Good morning. Yes.
 good morning thank you uh mayor and council uh for letting us speak today the um and for considering this this motion uh last year the buy down program that was supported by the city funded 12 businesses and without funding those businesses were able to create over 50 jobs and retain about
 70, but we're still seeing the demand being great. Just this year, we've already received over 100 applications from city of El Paso businesses that are citing access to capital and the high cost of goods as being among their top challenges that they're facing. So this Buy It for Down program directly addresses those needs and challenges. So we thank you for your long time support and partnership.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Enrique Aragón. Mr. Aragón, start six please to unmute your telephone. Good morning. You have three minutes. I was along with Lilian, so I'm not speaking. Sorry. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Sonia Olvera. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, everybody. My name is Sonia Olvera. I'm here representing the Economic Development Department for Project VIDA. And I do want to appreciate, thank everybody here.
 for giving us this opportunity. At Project Vida, we deeply understand the vital role that small businesses play in our community. A lot of them are able to create jobs, drive innovation, and add to the unique character of our local economy. However, we recognize the significant challenges that come with running our small business. That's precisely why our technical assistance program exists.
 to support the Empower Microenterprise business owners. Our program offers personalized one-on-one assistance to approximately 300 local businesses. We help them create comprehensive business plans, financial projections, outlining clear future goals and strategies to achieve them. We provide the necessary goals and resources through workshops, trainings, networking opportunities,
 addressing common issues such as the lack of proper training among the entrepreneurs. One of our primary goals is to offer personalized bookkeeping services to every business enrolled in our program. By doing so, we will equip these entrepreneurs with the knowledge and the tools they need to build a solid foundation for success. Our support extends to various operational areas including the social media marketing, financial wellness, and effective networking.
 Additionally, we prepared the businesses for and to facilitate access to loans through our strong partnerships with microlending organizations, credit unions, and banks. We are also proud for our collaborations with our nonprofit organizations. We also want to thank the collaboration and funding to the El Paso City, City of El Paso, the County of El Paso, Horizon, and Socorro.
 Their unwavering support has been instrumental in making our process, our program a success. Since the beginning of the technical assistance program, we have witnessed remarkable success stories among our members. Entrepreneurs who once faced significant change are now thriving thanks to the dedicated support of our team.
 They improved their financial management, expanded their customer base, and built valuable networks, opening doors to new opportunities. In conclusion, the MTEP Economic Development Department at Project Vida are committed to empowering local entrepreneurs to achieve their fullest potential. We are building a stronger and more resilient community. Thank you all.
 Thank you. Mayor that concludes public comment on these items. We have a motion and a second. Yes sir the motion was made by representative Fierro seconded by representative Rivera to approve items 36 37 and 38 on that motion call for the vote and the voting session and that motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to item 39 which was also moved to the forefront and this is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to execute a first amendment of the chapter 380 economic development program agreement between the city of El Paso and tenant hospitals limited to revise a full-time definition in exchange for a reduced grant period and total aggregate grant amount.
 Good morning. Hi, good morning. Alejandra Fuentes with Economic and International Development. This is a proposal for a first amendment on the Chapter 3 agreement for tenant hospitals.
 So some background on these hospitals. Their agreement was executed on May 6th of 2014, and this was to build a 325,000 square feet building at 2000 Trans Mountain so that Tenant could expand their operations. It was an 18-year contract, and their minimum investment commitment was $120 million, which was exceeded, totaling $185 million
 as a total capital investment. Their employment metric was to create 300 full-time employees at the Trans Mountain location and 270 be paid at least 90% of the medium county wage for that year. They also had to retain a minimum of 2,991 full-time employees at the other three existing hospitals in El Paso.
 Additionally, they had to meet a requirement of 2,080 hours over a 12-month period, which is 40 hours a week, and also to pay at least 50% of the health insurance premium for all their full-time employees.
 Their incentive package was composed of three rebates, one being the impact fund grant for five years, a property tax rebate for 15 years, and a building permit fee rebate of a one-time for $100,000, totaling $12.8 million in total incentives over a 15-year period. And to date, no grant payments have been made. Thank you.
 So to preface this employee timeline, the agreement was executed in 2014. Then there was a three-year construction period. They obtained their certificate of occupancy in 2017. So finally they could request their first rebate in 2018. And that's where these numbers start, starting at 2017, since for compliance purposes we go back one year to be able to verify all the employees and metrics done.
 They were able to create about 86% of the required 300 full-time employees and 75% of the 2,191 full-time employees. Tenant had more employees than these listed, however, due to our contract definition, they must meet 2,980 in order for them to qualify as a full-time employee.
 We are requesting to amend the 2080 definition to 1820 hours per year, which is 35 hours a week. That way it can align more with hospital regulations regarding their shifts. Now most nurses and doctors will work three 12-hour shifts, so that is more at 36 hours that they can commit to during a week.
 Additionally, it meets and exceeds the Texas Workforce Commission definition since they also qualify their employees at 35 hours. And also it aligns with the Texas Enterprise Zone definitions. And not just for this contract, but moving forward, 35 hours is the best practice that is being followed at the state and federal level.
 Additionally, we are requesting that they continue to create the 300 full-time employees, and they are asking for 2,398 employees instead of the 2,991 to work at the other three hospitals. So that is an 18% reduction due to the first number including part-time employees. So now amending this would align with full-time employees only, which is what we verify through our compliance.
 And regarding the minimum wage and health insurance, they are still required to provide those starting at the minimum wage of 1731 for 2023 and adjusting that as the year increases and as well as paying 50% of that health insurance premium.
 ASK CONSIDERATION, WE'RE ASKING THAT THEY FORFEIT THE YEARS THAT THEY WERE IN DEFAULT, SO FROM 2017 TO 2022. AND ADDITIONALLY TO REDUCE THE PACKAGE BY 18% ADDITIONAL REDUCTION TO MATCH THE 18% REDUCTION IN THEIR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES. SO WE'RE LOOKING AT A TOTAL REDUCTION OF 6.4 MILLION FOR THEIR NEW INCENTIVE AMOUNT TO BE 6.3 MILLION OVER A PERIOD OF 10 YEARS.
 And approximately it is a 50% reduction of the total incentive package. Tenant Constructed, it's operated in teaching hospital. They also exceeded their minimum investment and they have done a great job at retaining quality jobs for our community. And I would also like to highlight the significant contribution made by the hospitals during our recent pandemic.
 Their dedicated efforts in providing critical care and support for our community were invaluable at that time. And in recognition of their essential role, capital investment, and high-quality jobs in the medical industry, we recommend the approval of this amendment. We have a motion and a second, but we do have Representative Kennedy followed by Representative Canales.
 I was just gonna say that I look at all amendments of 380 agreements very closely. This one, for a lot of reasons, makes a lot of sense, and I wanna thank Tenet for being a good partner over there, and I'm gonna very confidently vote for this. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Proctor. Representative Canales? I'll start off by saying that I do think that there's sufficient consideration here. They're forfeiting half of their incentive plus more.
 And I do think that in this case, that's sufficient consideration. But I also think that we've seen over the past several years, several 380 agreements come back to us for amendments like this. I don't think that we can tolerate too many more changes because I understand that there was a difficult period during COVID, but what I also don't understand is why people
 we still have these years unpaid out from 2017 through 2022. And what happened during that time that was tenant reporting to us their compliance figures between 2017 and 2022?
 They came to us in 2018 and that's when we noticed that they were out of compliance for their 2017 numbers. And then we started discussing the amendment in 2019 for about a year. And then in 2020, that's when COVID happened. So the priority shifted for a little bit. So recently we picked up on trying to bring this contract back into compliance.
 And we verified that, like you mentioned, for this not to happen in the future, to make sure that all the metrics are going to be met, and to also adjust our contracts so that they can fit Texas best practices with that 35-hour definition. See, I'm okay with our contracts being more strict than the state level of 35 hours. Like, I think a full-time employment is 40 hours a week, and if we're going to be incentivizing companies,
 for the idea of job creation. Like we want jobs that are paying at least the meeting county wage and I think offering 40 hour a week employment. So again there's huge consideration for the change and I accept that this time but I think anybody who has an incentive agreement with the city needs to be aware that there is a lot of scrutiny of 380 agreements especially right now. It does not look good.
 for a company to come in asking for a change, especially to reduce the hours that they're looking to hire employees at. You know, again, I understand they wanna align this with state incentives that they receive, but I think if our incentives are more strict, that's okay. So I can support it today, but I don't like these and I hope that we never see one again. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Acevedo.
 Thank you for the work and bringing this to us today. I just was wondering do you foresee any others that might be coming down the pipeline in the future. Regarding the amending the hours. Or no just like another. I know that we did ADP we did this one so I'm just thinking.
 Is that something that might come up again? So Carino-Brezgala economic and international development, I can't predict. We don't currently know of any major amendments that we're negotiating or looking at, but there are always chances that when people come in for compliance that there have been
 You'll know that we have shifted, and we've talked about this, to giving some administrative flexibility in our agreements for things like permit deadlines. When there are circumstances that delay construction that aren't quite a force majeure but are outside of the company's best efforts and they're working with us in good faith, we've started adding some of those in just to be responsive to what we're seeing in terms of the business need. Things like you can only really get a transformer so quickly and there's nothing that I put in a contract that's going to speed that up for folks.
 I will also say that we've been working with the city attorney's office on talking about kind of a superseding Amendment that would just apply specifically to full-time employment definitions that is shifted over time. So you'll see 40 hours on contracts You'll see 32 hours. You'll see 35 hours We don't have the specifics of that worked out when we're looking at what we're allowed to do and what makes sense and whether there Is an actual business need but that is something we've identified that this is our biggest and
 cause for amendments besides the construction timelines and so looking at ways that we can treat those holistically and make sure that council's understanding what we're asking for rather than again waiting five years to rectify an agreement thanks i think that's the appropriate work to do so i appreciate it absolutely thank you sir representative fiero followed by represent el cedo thank you mayor before you sit down so the the exception in this amendment in this is that
 We're taking into account that these are doctors and nurses, and so they're not like city reps that work 40 hours a week. Their hours are 35 hours a week. So we're not lowering it to lower the standards. We're lowering it to meet what the industry standard is. Am I correct?
 Yes in this case we worked with tenant very closely. Ms. Fuentes ran several different models with them worked very closely with them in their payroll department their administration to make sure that the hours and the employment limits would.
 really reflect what we're seeing in that industry and the changes in that hours. That said, Representative Canales' concern is noted, and I do think that there are places where it does make sense for us to not just rely on state definitions and make sure that we're really holding our local businesses, especially those receiving incentives, to a higher standard. In this case, and I think he credited this, but it is a very specific circumstance to do with the medical industry with the way that they do their scheduling. Sure. And thank you, Representative Canales. It's really my pleasure.
 Just one last comment. If we're going to, if council and mayor are going to keep lowering or holding the line on taxes, we're only going to do it through these, to bring these type of businesses to come to El Paso, grow and grow the tax rate. So thank you for working so hard on these agreements. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. And I think one of the things we need to know that's important, and when we were doing the briefing, I think we talked about it, was that.
 The medical industry has changed as we saw 10 years ago where a lot of it becomes subcontracting and hiring outside of
 the normal hiring they used to do back in 2014. So when you look at, they probably are working 40 plus hours, but being that it's a subcontract business and they're coming in from out of areas, it's kind of hard to report, and I see that. And then also the nurses work three, scheduled to work. I think they work more than that. I know that that's the nursing shortage and all, but they're scheduled for three 12-hour shifts.
 and that created that. I know when we talked to him back in 2014 and Eric was head of the area then, he talked about that...
 Tenant was looking at either expanding in El Paso or somewhere else within their network And it was really important for our community to be able to get that and do that Northwest Area to take care of a kind of a vacancy that it was there So I know they've been good partners with Texas Tech. They've been a good partner with the city and it's you know and it's been something well needed and
 And one of the things, again, when we talked about the change of the industry, the change of how it's become a subcontract when you go in there now, that it's totally different. So I know they've been good partners, they continue to be good partners, and I'm not sure they may be the second largest employer in the city of El Paso. So thank you for that. Thank you. Representative Salcido?
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, staff, for the presentation. I wanted to ask what was the initial investment from the company with this project? Their minimum investment was $125 million, but they totaled at $185 million.
 That's definitely a substantial amount of them investing in our community. I just want to thank tenant for investing in our community as Representative our Pharaoh mentioned we need really the tax base to to turn around in order to really change the tax base We need 70% Businesses sustaining us not just individuals. So we thank you for that investment and I also do agree with mayor Pro Temp on
 kennedy he mentioned that this agreement is fair and balanced i i thank you all for being balanced i would say and and fair to to this ask and so today i do feel very very comfortable supporting thank you for investing in our community and last point uh representative canales um i agree with you i think we do need to make these a little bit uh
 You know more strict. I hold them to the highest because there is an opportunity cost. It's lost when we do do these Agreements and like any business person knows right, but we do want to again stay to the topic and thank you all tenant for your your continued support in our community Thank you. And I'm gonna go a little further when represent connoisseurs talking about the 380 agreements and
 I think FOAC had given the auditor a mission to look at the 380 agreements and make sure I think that we're still a long way from looking at all the 380s and coming up to make sure that they're outperforming based on our agreement and that I'm looking forward to having some type of method and some type of timeline for each one of them that we continue to audit and look at to make sure they do perform.
 So to Representative Canales' point, we need to continue to make sure that if this is what we agreed upon, that we inspect what we expect and make sure moving forward we do that. So I know FWOC had that in mind when they asked for an audit of the 380 agreements and I'm hoping that that process will continue. Thank you. Miss Prine? Yes, Mayor, we also have Miss Turner that signed up to speak on this item. Miss Turner?
 Just roll off a few numbers here. June quarter for tenant, $5.1 billion. Net income up 110.57%. Diluted earnings per share up 129%. Net profit up 109%. Operating income up 18.5%. Net change in cash up 137.5%. And cost of revenue is down 3.21%. Now...
 THEY'RE A FOR-PROFIT COMPANY. THEY MAKE MONEY, BUT THEY GOT A 380 AGREEMENT. NOW A 380 AGREEMENT THAT, QUOTE, FIVE YEARS IN DEFAULT, THAT'S FROM YOUR AGENDA, FIVE YEARS IN DEFAULT, AND IT'S 2024, AND WE'RE FINALLY DOING SOMETHING ABOUT IT? THERE'S A PROBLEM HERE. WHEN YOUR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DOESN'T DO THE JOB, WHEN
 up that chain of command all the way to the city manager and a failure to bring this issue to council to take care of. Five years in the fault. It's unacceptable. It's mismanagement. It's incompetence. I'm sorry to be using these words, but you used the word def- in a five year period. It's unacceptable.
 Now, when we talk about full-time employees, are we just talking about the regular person who comes in, they get hired, and they clock in every day and then go home? Or does these full-time employees also include contract employees? Can somebody answer that? Well, Ms. Turner, we'll answer for you in a minute. After you get done, we'll go ahead and ask the question. Please address the council. Okay. That's it. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Thank you, Mr. Turner.
 If you could answer that for us. Go ahead. Go ahead, ma'am. Yes. So to answer the question, yes, they have to be directly employed by tenant. They can be temporary employees. Thank you. And I think the biggest thing, and I said it, I'm going to repeat it a little bit, is that the industry has changed in the way of reporting the...
 time and because you pay the subcontractor not the individual and also the the way the nurses have their schedule which is Made a big difference, but I know that it shows default and I know we're taking over half the Incentive but at the end of the day, I think that they've been a good partner and a lot of it has to do with the change of industry Thank you. Miss prime. I
 Yes, so there was a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Kennedy to approve item 39 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Thank you. We now return to page 8 to item number 25.
 Item 25 is discussion in action to authorize the expenditure of district 6 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed $3,500 to fund the attendance and participation in the 14th annual Texas Tribune Festival for the office of district 6 as it serves a municipal purpose of setting the standard for some governance and fiscal management As well as cultivating an environment conducive to strong economic development
 Development and this item was placed by representative Peter second Motion and a second to approve there's a motion made by representative Feroz seconded by representatives I'll see though to approve item 25 on that motion call for the vote and the voting session And that motion passes unanimously mayor pro Tem Kennedy not present and
 Item 26 is discussion in action to direct the city manager to take the steps necessary to opt into health care coverage of gender affirming care for the City of El Paso employees and in advance of implementation to conduct a review including benchmarking of coverage provided by peer cities and other local government entities, analysis of typical claims and development of potential coverage options to be presented to the City Council within 60 days.
 This item was placed on the agenda by representatives Canales, Acevedo, and Hernandez. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, sir. I placed this item concerning the inclusion of gender-affirming care in our employee health care plans on the agenda because I think it's both a matter of equity but also a strategic imperative for the city.
 I will explain why. By ensuring that our health care benefits are inclusive and supportive for all of our employees we are taking a significant step toward fostering an environment where every individual in our organization feels valued and respected and has access to the care they need. I will start with the moral case. Providing gender affirming care is a matter of human rights and equity. Gender affirming care is essential for the health and well-being of everyone.
 transgender and non-binary individuals and many others.
 Numerous studies have shown that access to these services significantly improves mental health outcomes, reduces rates of depression and anxiety, and greatly and sometimes absolutely vitally enhances overall quality of life. So by offering comprehensive healthcare that includes these vital services, the city of El Paso will affirm our commitment to inclusivity and demonstrate that El Paso values all of its employees equally.
 Implementing gender-affirming care also aligns us with best practices in other municipalities and states. Cities such as San Francisco and New York were early pioneers in this area, offering comprehensive gender-affirming health care benefits to their employees for many years. San Francisco, for instance, included these benefits in their package for their employees beginning in 2001.
 Other cities across the United States have since followed suit. Chicago, Austin, Denver, Portland, Seattle, Madison, Philadelphia, Salt Lake City, and Minneapolis all provide gender-affirming care as part of their health care plans.
 But of course I recognize that we're not San Francisco or New York or necessarily on the scale of all of these other cities. And it is essential to benchmark our policies against our peer cities and other local government entities more similar to us in size. So for example, the cities of Tucson.
 Louisville, Kentucky and Kansas City, much more similar in size and scale to El Paso, are also already offering these benefits for their employees. So by following their lead, we can ensure that our policies are up to date and reflective of the latest standards in healthcare across the country. Speaking of our role as an employer and what this means for our city strategically,
 Offering gender affirming care is also a really critical component of workforce retention and recruitment. So as we strive to attract and retain the top talent for all of our departments, I think we need to recognize that today's workforce values comprehensive benefits.
 Adopting this can reduce our turnover rates and improve our employee satisfaction. When employees feel that their employer genuinely cares about their well-being, they're more likely to remain in their jobs, and they're much more likely to remain committed to the long-term success of the organization. Of course, that reduces recruitment costs and training costs and ensures that we retain the valuable experience and skills of our workforce.
 So as I think I've explained, including gender-affirming care in our employee health care plans, it's not only a matter of fairness and equity, it is absolutely those things, but also a strategic decision to enhance our retention and recruitment of our workforce. This will position El Paso as a leader, and especially a regional leader, in inclusivity. This helps us attract top talent from across the region, it boosts employee morale,
 again, it aligns our city with the best practices of Municipalities across the country who have elected to to take care of their employees So I urge my colleagues on the council to support this initiative today And to take this important step to creating a more supportive workplace for all of our employees. Thank you mayor Thank you, sir. And I think you when you're talking about a
 city team members and how the city values you're correct and I appreciate you bringing that up because it is important that we treat everybody equal and fair and so I thank you for that representative Nunez followed by represent us a little
 Thank you, Representative Canales. He mentioned everything very eloquently. I have no words to say other than I'm very grateful that we are a council that stand in unity to support our folks at City Hall who work tirelessly for the citizens of El Paso and there's no better way than to recognize our employees to say thank you, you matter. We're going to provide you the health benefits.
 We care for you. We want you to be your authentic self. And we as a council are going to do our best to find this effort and this process, understanding, you know, the environment that we're in.
 I WANT TO REMIND AND THANK SOME OF OUR ADVOCATES IN THE AUDIENCE TODAY THAT LAST YEAR AN EFFORT LED BY REPRESENTATIVE ANNELLO TO IMPLEMENT A GENDER AFFIRMING SIGNAGES, GENDER NEUTRAL SIGNAGES FOR INDIVIDUAL STALLS.
 So the city has led by example. It's now time to reevaluate the services that the city has. I also thank the Women's Commission for bringing this proposal as well forward to city council. And so we're very grateful for all of the advocacy across the city.
 And then, but most importantly, if Aetna is listening or whoever the provider will be, there are specific medications and specific procedures that, you know, we need to carefully look at.
 And before you can even provide those services, there is self-reflection that we have to do internally to say, you know, what can we afford? What can we produce? We can phase in this process, but making sure we consider surgeries, making sure we're looking at medications.
 And I would I'm not brave enough to read all the medications that folks have emailed me that are important I'm going to not pronounce them well But it is whatever Medication that is needed we our medical experts consider this medication to be Life-saving measures this type of medication is equivalent to providing insulin to a person who has diabetes and
 And so we should consider this no different than a life-saving and healthcare measure that our city employees need. And when the City of El Paso leads by example, then other communities and other businesses and nonprofits will follow suit. And so it's so important that the City of El Paso takes this step. Now to the folks who have to find a way to fund this.
 I would feel more comfortable if we were to try to consider what those procedures and what medications are needed by asking our workforce. And I know that...
 concealing that information and not sharing that information is very sensitive and I don't know to what extent you can Or maybe you can we could just do a call out to any city employees to see what are the services that you're needing? So that we can better serve you because I would hate to check a box and say oh, yeah We're providing gender affirming care
 but define what that is and how, to the extent, how can that really serve the health and citizens of the city of El Paso. And so I just ask for us to do a little bit more due diligence in investigating what those needs are from our own workforce and maybe other advocates who can teach us how to be better allies because I know that's the intention of city council. Thank you, Representative Canales and Cecilia, for your leadership on this, and I look forward to approving this. Thanks. Thank you, ma'am.
 Thank you mayor a lot has been said a lot of great words from my my colleagues I I just wanted to add a little bit to this. I I think this is Something that could really make the city of El Paso as an organization be a leader In our community right and and I think that when we look at this employees will be
 um gratified by seeing something like this past right because i think a lot of people sometimes don't feel completely seen and something like this that is moving towards equity is really coming um
 behind everybody at the City of El Paso. We have thousands of employees, different needs. I think we can look at this and celebrate this. And I think we have to do it with a lot of care as well. And so I think that when we offer different options of inclusivity, people will be happier and I think we'll have better outcomes for the city overall. But I think that as these next 60 days
 There will be a lot of research done in the next 60 days. I hope we approach this with a very positive tone. No pessimism, I think we could get this done. I think this is really, really important. And I think that sometimes we get caught up in costs, but I think at the same time, those costs will give us an investment over time. And I think that there are a lot of different community members that
 Can help in shaping what this looks like and I did receive a letter for him from somebody that I want to read into the record because I think this person would be a great asset to Getting expertise on informing what this looks like and this is from dr. Tony Ramirez She is the lead clinician for gender affirming care at Project V the health center so
 It's already in her title and she probably has a lot of knowledge and it might be a good time to reach out to her but I'll read this letter into the record. July 29, 2024, esteemed council,
 It is my understanding that you're considering appropriate city employee health insurance coverage, specifically one that is inclusive of gender affirming care. I commend you for making this a priority and strongly urge you to choose an inclusive and medically appropriate health insurance plan for your employees. I am a family physician at a community health center in El Paso. I have 11 years of experience in gender affirming healthcare and consider myself an expert in the field, gender affirming healthcare.
 which is medical treatment with medications, mental health therapy, if appropriate, gender affirming surgery, is supported by all major health care institutions as medically necessary care. As you know, insurance companies can discriminate and exclude certain health coverage aspects that are not founded in the medical fact or necessity. However, as consumers of health care coverage, we do have an opportunity to choose health coverage plans that are not discriminatory.
 Ensuring that the city's chosen health insurance covers medically necessary care, such as gender affirming care, is not only equitable but life saving. Insurance companies should not be allowed to refuse to cover gender affirming care. And in fact, it is illegal for insurances to exclude such care in some states. While Texas may not have similar anti-discrimination laws that prohibit restrictive healthcare coverage, it does not mean that the city cannot choose an ethical healthcare
 coverage plan. Choosing a health insurance that does not cover gender affirming care is equivalent to choosing a health insurance that does not cover diabetes, hypertension, or cancer treatment. These medically necessary treatments are the same and excluding them is not in line with medical guidelines. I urge you, the city council, to choose health coverage that is inclusive, aligned with medical recommendations, and understands this to be an ethical decision. An intentional decision as such, consider for example, of ethical employee benefits.
 That should be universal. I would love the opportunity to discuss this in more detail if you wish. I can't be reached at the contacts below. Dr. Toni Ramirez, gender forming care lead clinician and then her contact information is here. But I think as this hopefully moves forward today, she would be a great expert to really inform how we get to the finish line on this and I hope that the city will consider her input in this as well. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor.
 I definitely failed to thank my co-sponsors, representatives Hernandez and Acevedo on this item and a few other people, Dr. Tony Ramirez among them, several months ago when I first started working on this, Dr. Ramirez was the first person who I went to. We had a long conversation about what this could and should look like and I absolutely think Dr. Ramirez will be an important
 informer of how the city should proceed on this as really a leading expert in gender-reforming care here locally and and I hear some of the concerns about about cost and especially about the difficulty of You know projecting what the claims will look like In in a relatively new area of care for for the city of El Paso I think it's important to explain for the public. The the city is self-insured and so
 We get to make the decisions about what we cover. You know, our plans are administered by Aetna, who we've hired to do so. But we are making the decisions internally about what the city will and won't cover. I want to kind of address the cost concern. I've tried to do pretty comprehensive research about what other cities are seeing.
 Many of the municipalities that I mentioned in my initial comments report really low overall cost of providing gender-affirming care. City of San Francisco, for example, found that the addition of gender-affirming care to its health benefits, and again this goes all the way back to 2001, has resulted in a really negligible increase. Gender-affirming care claims account for less than 1,000, that's .01% of their total health care expenses.
 So, again, those figures are pretty similar across municipalities throughout the United States. I just don't think that we will have a huge surge of claims that come all at once that will somehow overwhelm us, and again, there are a limited number of companies that are
 managing health care plans for cities. Aetna is the provider for lots of these cities. So they're already very experienced in implementing gender affirming care coverage and they have a really robust understanding of what that will entail and they can help us through that process and of course I think provide.
 high quality service to our employees who are seeking that care. So I just wanted to address those things. Again, I think this makes tons of sense for us today and won't have a huge impact financially but will have a huge impact on the employees who need the care. So with that, I move to approve the item as written. Ms. Prine, we have a motion and a second. I know we have some public comment. Yes, sir. Thank you. The first person signed up to speak is Andy Tiscarano.
 Andy Tiscareño. Good morning, Andy. You have three minutes. Hello. Good morning. Good morning to the council. It's nice to hear from you again.
 Yes, so with this agenda item, as a transgender woman in the city of El Paso, I believe this will greatly impact many of your employees who are transgender or gender nonconforming,
 within employment with the city that gives so much to the city and its citizens. To be able to provide something like this for those employees will not only affirm them and help them be seen as,
 employees of the city and that their employers are taking care of them, but it will also help them
 more back to their city and give more into their service because as you know a lot of times when we are um when we are looking for work when we're uh trying to uh work for ourselves we're trying to provide for ourselves we're trying to um be able to afford just our own way of living our own um
 you know, need for living. And for transgender folks and gender non-conforming folks, gender confirming care is one of the things that we're working towards and that we're trying to afford. So for city employees who are trans or gender non-conforming to be able to have access to that not only helps them
 cover what they're working towards, but it will also help them, it will also help to give better service not just to their employers, but to the citizens that they're working for as well. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Brandon Brooke Merritt, followed by Amber Perez, Lorena Edwards, and Lisa Turner. Good morning.
 Good morning. Thank you, Council Members. I actually came prepared to speak in more depth about the benefits to health care for people who are gender variant such as myself. But I'm very pleased to see that you all have done an excellent job of speaking for us. You have done your due diligence to do research, to investigate, and to understand the necessity and the importance of these services that you provide.
 So instead I'll just tell you a little bit more about me and my experience here in El Paso as a new transgender woman. My name is Brandon Brooke Merritt. I'm a college professor here and I moved here about two years ago. And at the time I was meeting people in the city who told me about some of the disparities that people experience here that don't have access to resources and services, including many people that don't have insurance coverage.
 I'm lucky enough with my position to have gender-affirming care as part of my insurance plan. And I can tell you that the peace of mind and just the benefit to my mental and my physical wellness has been outstanding. I sleep great at night knowing that I have a physician and a medical care team that is competent, that understands me, that understands the problems that I have.
 both personally and medically, and has a network here that they can refer me to for different needs that we have.
 So for me, El Paso is an important place to be right now because I think we're on the cusp of really breaking ground with being more progressive, especially in a red state such as Texas, to kind of show that we are forward thinking in this way. So just thank you all so much for your consideration of this. And again, I really appreciate the thoughtful words and the work that you've already put into considering it. Thank you. The next speaker is Amber Perez. Yes.
 Followed by Lorena Edwards and Lisa Turner. Good morning. Good morning Mayor, Council, Amber Perez with the Borderland Rainbow Center. I came here fully prepared as I think the rest of the community was to kind of go a little bit more in depth and much to my surprise I didn't have to. I see a council who has done their research and
 I see a council that is very different, I think, than a year ago in the way that we are speaking about these things. And the fact that this has come to council is so incredibly important because it shows a shift within the city itself, that it's looking at the LGBTQI plus community in a holistic way and looking at the way it's intersectional.
 And one of the most exciting things about this as well is that you all are getting to know some of the other people involved in the community, like Dr. Tony Ramirez, who is probably one of the most amazing people you will ever meet and who is incredibly knowledgeable and who I hope that you will reach out to and speak to on this subject. But, again, thank you.
 This type of care is akin to somebody getting diabetes treatment, right? Which is what representative Hernandez mentioned earlier? This is not something that is outside of the scope of these things What it is is that when? Everyone was kind of looking at insurances and this is something that we all can understand right because we all look at different insurance companies and we think oh this and oh that and then all of a sudden we realize that there's a gap and
 And so what we do is we say, hey, there's a gap. Let's go ahead and fix that gap. And that's what we're doing at this exact moment. And we're also sending a message not just to the queer community, but also to all of the allies, to all of the people who are progressive, that this
 this is a place where you can come, you can build your family, you will have comprehensive insurance, and you will have a city council and leadership who will sit there and say, hey, you know what? There's a gap. Let's fix this. So it adds into all of our economic development. It helps us with our brain drain issues, right? And it attracts...
 and keeps talent here in the city. But I would definitely like to thank Representative Canales, Representative Hernandez, and Representative Acevedo for really taking this up and saying, hey, let's just fix this. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Lorena Edwards. Lorena, star six please to unmute your telephone and you'll have three minutes. Good morning. Hi, are you able to hear me? Yes. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and members of City Council. I am the IRL Director for the Borderland Rainbow Center. Our department sees to the needs of the LGBTQ community in the Borderlands from youth to seniors and everybody in between.
 So normally when I get the chance to speak here, I do so as an advocate for trans and gender diverse youth in El Paso as a parent, a web or in my professional life. The center is pivotal in assisting to help gain access and referrals to gender affirming care for transgender and gender diverse community members here in the Portland. So as you can imagine, we get to witness firsthand with the loss of access to this kind of care and cause for these individuals.
 While we were all panicking about the devastating blow our trans youth took earlier this year when legislation attacked them, Medicaid was busy changing their coverage parameters right under our noses. We found that starting January of this year, coverage for these services was suddenly ceased for adults in our state. Eventually it became clear that this was going to remain a serious disparity for the adult members of our community, and it continues to be a significant barrier to these individuals being able to afford their care.
 All major medical institutions recognize gender affirming care as standard of care. So we'd love for El Paso to follow suit. A reminder that trans and gender diverse individuals are already working for the city of El Paso. But also noting that we would love for the city of El Paso to be featured as a premier and coveted employer that would attract additional talented and skilled employees.
 We want to attract this challenge rather than losing both existing and potential talent for those that are fleeing the state in search of safer and more inclusive environments.
 i want to thank uh representative hernandez canada so much for uh just basically putting the words out there for us as the advocates before me had mentioned i came prepared to give this big long history and find that i don't have to um it's such an endearing and safe feeling for me as a not only as an employee but also as a member of the community
 to hear you all say these words in advocacy of us. So I wanna thank you all and I wanna thank you for hearing us today and I ask that you please vote in favor of this item. Thank you so much. Thank you. And the final speaker is Ms. Turner. Good morning again, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Mayor and Council. You can say that I am a subject matter expert in this field as I've been involved in this field for decades, pushing maybe half a century at least.
 People oppose this care based upon false ideals. They say it's experimental, it's not. They start talking about puberty blockers. It's experimental. No it's not. They came out in the early 80s and are used on quote cisgendered children for puberty related issues like short stature, early onset, but somehow
 Doing it for a trans child is a no-no, but doing it for a cisgender child is okay. They've been forced to read basically every study to deal with doctors who really don't understand their field. I have to point these things out. The treatment is not expensive. You will spend more money on one individual with colon cancer than you will on 10 to 20 trans individuals, if not more. When you look at all the medical conditions,
 It's at the bottom and there's not that many of us. So that will make it even less. The cost issue is not a concern. It's whether you are going to treat all of your employees on an equal basis. That's what we did when we decided to give health insurance coverage to same-sex partners. I went through that fight. It was a knock-down, drag-out fight. They had pictures of Mayor Cook's head on a platter. It was a horrible fight.
 But our city council stood up and saw this was the right thing to do, to treat all our employees as equals. And I'm glad we're going down this way because that's what we should do. It's quite frankly, if someone is looking for a job here at the city and see that you go check out your health benefits, they'll go somewhere else. That talent will go somewhere else. And let me tell you about that talent, a lot of the people I know are doctors, they're
 They're graduates of the military academies. They're engineers. They're scientists. One recently died. Thank you, Mr. Turner. You wouldn't have a phone or a computer without Ms. Conway. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you, ma'am. We have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve item 26. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes 7-2-1. Representative Molinar voting nay. The motion does carry. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. This is for items 27 and 29. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Piero. And this is to approve the introduction of ordinances on items 27 and 29.
 28 no? 28 has been taken already. You already took that okay. Yes sir. Yeah. This is 27 and 29. I thought we took a motion just to hear it normally but that's okay. Can we go ahead? Oh sorry. Can we take 27 and 29 separately? Yes sir. And then also just a clarification.
 On 28 I thought we had moved it forward. Yeah, we, there had been a motion to delete. Excuse me. Or to move for two weeks, so we just took a motion to move it forward. So either way, it doesn't matter, it's the same thing. Yeah, so I was under pressure, and we had to vote on it again. Item 28 was introduced already. Okay, so that, it's fine, so it could move forward? It's moving forward, it was introduced. Okay. So on item 27, this is for item 27 only.
 The introduction of item 27 call for the vote. Twenty nine will be taken separately sir as requested. This is for item 27. Voting session is open. In the voting session and the motion passes 7 to 1 representative Hernandez voting nay. The motion carries. Now it's the introduction of item 29. Move to approve the introduction. There is a motion made by Representative Canales.
 Seconded by Representative Fierro and this is to approve the introduction on item 29. On that motion call for the vote. Voting session is open. In the voting session and the motion passes 5-3. Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Fierro, Rivera, Canales voting aye. Representatives Acevedo, Hernandez, Salcido voting nay. The motion does carry. That brings us to item number 30.
 And this is discussion and action on a resolution that the city manager is authorized to sign a street improvement and maintenance agreement between the city of El Paso and the Rim Area Neighborhood Association Inc. for the design, installation, maintenance, of right-of-way and landscaping improvements for traffic calming on Hague Road between Stanton Street and Rim Road. My mic. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, there's a lot of history to this item several years ago.
 There was conflict between the neighbors and the hospital. A lot happened. I won't rehash all of it, but it ended up in a settlement by which the hospital provided funds to the Rim Area Neighborhood Association specifically restricted for use for traffic calming in the area. Those funds have been sitting in escrow.
 THIS NOW IS THE TIME TO I THINK DEPLOY THOSE FUNDS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD TO MAKE SOME IMPROVEMENTS THAT WILL HELP WITH THE DESIGN OF THE STREETS TO SLOW DOWN TRAFFIC SPEEDS AND TO APPROVE THE APPROACHES TO ONE OF THE ROUNDABOUTS. I WANT TO THANK THE RIM AREA NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION WHO WORKED HARD TO GET TO THIS POINT AND ESPECIALLY TO OUR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT STAFF AND JOAQUIN AND YOUR TEAM, YOU'VE DONE
 designing something doing it in-house Enable to enable them to use these funds effectively to improve the neighborhood. So thank you Thanks, sir. And I move to approve their motion. It's a motion in a second Representative Salcido motion by representative Canales, thank you. There's a motion made by representative canales seconded by representative Salcido to approve item number 30 on that motion call for the vote. I
 In the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Representative Fierro not present. Item 31 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign contract number 2024-0412R auditing services and grants for the office of the comptroller between the city of El Paso and Forbis Mazers LLP for auditing services. Motion approved. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Salcido.
 Seconded by alternate mayor pro tem Molina to approve item 31 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session And the motion passes unanimously representative Piero not present and
 Item number 32 is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign contract number 2024-0244R, cybersecurity audits for the internal audit department between the City of El Paso and Global Solutions Group, Inc. for cybersecurity audit services. Motion to approve. Seconds. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor Potemolinar to approve item 32. On that motion, call for the vote.
 In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Fierro not present. Item 33 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2024-0124, job order contracting and facilities construction to Noble General Contractors LLC, Veliz Company LLC, DBA Veliz Construction, Amstar Inc., Jordan Foster Construction LLC, and Meridor Enterprises.
 The award of the contracts will allow to perform maintenance, repair, alteration, renovation, remediation, or minor construction for the City of El Paso facilities using the job order contract method. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor Potem Molinar to approve item 33. On that motion, call for the vote.
 In the voting session and that motion passes unanimously Representative Fierro not present item 34 is a public hearing of an ordinance granting a special privileged license to EPT Montesillo
 I-10 development LLC to permit the construction installation maintenance use and repair of a surface encroachment for two art sculptures and ancillary items over city right-of-way at the roundabout intersection located at Ben Rambla Drive and Rinroda Drive additionally this ordinance encompasses the placement of 23 wayfinding signs and nine electric meters at various locations within the Montesillo development motion approved so
 Thank you mayor. I on this item yesterday when we were discussing it during the work session I I just kind of wanted to understand if there are controls in place to Not be bringing us stuff after the fact Correct. Good morning mayor council Philip it to a plan and inspections I think yesterday miss Martinez provided some answers to your questions. So I
 THE REASON WE'RE HERE IS BECAUSE THE CITY ACCEPTED THE STREETS EARLY THIS YEAR, SO THAT'S THE REASON WE CAME BEFORE YOU FOR THE SPECIAL PRIVILEGE. HOWEVER, 2022, WE CITED THE DEVELOPER OR THE APPLICANT FOR BUILDING WITHOUT PERMIT, AND THAT WENT TO COURT. IT TOOK ABOUT A YEAR OR TWO IN COURT, AND I THINK IT'S STILL PENDING IN COURT AS WE SPEAK. SO THIS IS JUST.
 while the uh it's still in court you know to educate that case you know we have to move forward with the uh special privilege because they're already in the right away so um we said we um the um the citation went out you know uh I think uh May of 2022 and we recently you know cited them as well uh
 Just give them a notice of correction so that we can get this process completed and there will be a triple fee when they get Department so they are the consequences for building with our permits Okay, and so you don't foresee any others that might be out there that you're gonna bring after the fact. No, sir Okay, I appreciate it. And thank you for priority more information on this. Well, thank you
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. And with that we have a motion in a second. Yes, sir There's a motion made by a representative Salcido seconded by alternate mayor pro tem only not to approve item 34 There's no public comment on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representative Fierro not present and
 Item 35 is a public hearing of an ordinance authorizing the city manager to execute a quick claim Tax resale deed conveying all right title and interest to Ignacio Villanueva Macias for the parcel at tract 11 block 44 sign a new side you El Paso County, Texas second motion in a second There is a motion made by alternate mayor pro tem Molina seconded by representative Salcido to approve item 35 there's no public comment on that motion call for the vote and
 And the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Representatives Hernandez and Fierro not present. That brings us to item number 41.
 Item 41 is discussion in action on a resolution calling for the 2024 general election on November 5th 2024 to fill the expired terms of the mayor for district representative numbers two three four and seven and five municipal court judge court numbers one two three four five and the judge of the Municipal Court of Appeals and calling for a special election the city of El Paso in
 to fill a vacancy in the office of representative for District 1 and authorizing a contract with El Paso County to furnish election services and equipment. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linar, to approve item 41. On that motion, call for the vote. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present.
 Item 42 is discussion in action that the city manager or designee be authorized to effectuate the listed budget transfers for the capital improvement department and animal services department in support of El Paso animal services relocation to 5625 confetti Drive for the museum and cultural affairs division in support of project needs the socially idiot With a Mexican American Cultural Center and for the El Paso Police Department's purchase of minor capital equipment second
 There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 42. On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. Item 43 is discussion in action on the award of task order 14B-1 for solicitation 2021-0811 Animal Services Kennels and HVAC improvements to Belize Company LLC.
 There is a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares seconded by representative Fierro to approve item number 43 on that Mayor I'd requested to speak That's great, thank you mayor I'm very excited about this. I've been Promising the public who has been to the facility and the volunteers who have been working there that will make a big investment here and to see
 I've known it's coming, but I think people will be very excited to see an investment of $7.9 million in improvements at this facility. Anybody on the council who hasn't yet come to see it?
 I recommend you come soon. I'd love to take you there because it will be a last chance to see it how it was so that when we're there for the ribbon cutting one day you can understand how much of a transformation the place has undergone. So thank you to the team who has been working on this. I know it's been a cross department effort to do the temporary renovations there already to get it ready for the animals.
 This will be a huge undertaking. So thank you all for the hard work and I'm excited for Finally seeing that ready To open to the public Hopefully in a short time. Thank you. Thank you And I think you'll see that the vision was to be able to have an animal services department on the west side of El Paso Where you could take stray animals you can take them adopt animals have a a
 a dog park for the community but also a place for the animals to play and run and you'll be able to see them in just a short time and you've seen the transformation of that facility from the school to really already animal services working out of it i was there
 two Fridays in a row and just since then I've seen more changes as the floors were being sealed and it's um it's coming along and it's um you know it couldn't be fast enough because we I know that we have a great need and for for animals and the desire to be able to provide that so I thank you all for for doing that and look forward like representative uh to the you know we did a soft ribbon cutting kind of to open up
 a couple Fridays ago to let people know that we're open for adoptions. It's well signed where you know where to go and also to be able to drop animals off. So thank you for that. And with that we have motion and a second. Yes sir the motion was made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by representative Fierro to approve item 43. On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present.
 The final item is 44 and this is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign an agreement for professional services between the City of El Paso and Wright and Dobbin Architects for a project known as Architect and Engineering Services for the construction of the Donovan Citizen Collection Station. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve item 44. On that motion, call for the vote.
 And the voting session and that motion passes unanimously Representative at an on this not present mayor would you like to retire into executive session or recess until now? Let's go to our executive session. They should it be about 20 30 minutes maximum. Yes, sir. Is there a motion? There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session all in favor anyone opposed aye
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5A, the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss executive session item 1, revocation and defeasance of general obligation bonds related to the 2012 bond election for the Downtown Multipurpose Performing Arts and Entertainment Facility, HQ number 3170 under 551.071, consultation with attorney. It is 1118 a.m.
 There was a motion made, seconded to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular meeting is back in session at 12.09 p.m. Mayor, may we go to call to the public? Yes, ma'am, please.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons
 Without the use of insulting profane threatening or abusive language public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or groups character or integrity Which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning? Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda However, Council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda this afternoon. We have six and
 Four members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Elizabeth Crawford. Ms. Crawford's topic is for the love of money. Good afternoon, ma'am.
 Good afternoon. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. Recently in El Paso, as we know, there is considered and voted on the proposal of universal basic or guaranteed fixed income with no strings attached at city and county level. It may sound like a good idea on the surface until you dig deeper to the source and the context of the universal income concept.
 What are the pilot programs for and where is all this headed? CNN, quote, the one scoffed idea of guaranteed income is receiving renewed interest as AI becomes an increasing threat to American jobs.
 So AI proponents are pushing this idea experimentally now so people whose jobs in the future get replaced by AI have money to live on. There's a principle throughout the scriptures that to work is honorable, the gift from God. Psalm chapter 90, and that the beauty, the favor of the Lord our God be upon us and establish thou the work of our hands upon us. Yes, the work of our hands establish thou it.
 Sitting around while AI does our work for us won't have good results. All we need to do is look at the tragedy created by the U.S. government on native reservations across our land to see what happens when people don't have regular jobs. The World Economic Forum, which meets in Davos, Switzerland, is a big proponent of experimenting with universal basic income. The WEF is also pushing hard for the Great Reset. What is at the core?
 Quote, the fourth industrial revolution is characterized by a range of new technologies that are fusing the physical, digital, and biological worlds, impacting all disciplines, economies, and industries, and even challenging ideas about what it means to be human from the World Economic Forum website, Klaus Schwab.
 What's wrong with this? AI is a mechanism and the bridge to transhumanism. National Review, Wesley J. Smith stated, transhumanism boiled down to its bone is pure eugenics. It calls itself H+, for more or better than human, which of course is what eugenics is all about. We are warned in the Holy Scriptures of things to come on this earth, the book of Daniel and the book of Revelation. We don't know when, but ultimately things are heading toward the day described in Daniel and Revelation.
 The key strategy of the enemy of our souls is deception, to paint as good and attractive something that has irreversible consequences, eternal consequences.
 we're told in revelation 13 15-17 as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed and because of all both small and great rich and poor free and bond to receive a mark in their right hand or in their foreheads and that no man might by herself say he that had the mark or the name of the beast or the number of his name the book of daniel one of the most fascinating books in god's holy words in detail of the end times the one world governing system to be set up
 In the final chapter we read these words, quote, and many of them that sleep in the dust of the air shall awake, some to everlasting life and some to shame and everlasting contempt. The key strategy of the enemy of our souls is deception, to paint things as good and attractive that have irreversible consequences. By contrast, Jesus declared, Matthew 11, 28, come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Thank you, Ms. Crawford. Thank you so much.
 The next speaker is Steven Strumer. Mr. Strumer's topic is streetlining for West and East Nevada Avenue and North Campbell Street. This is in relation to Honorable Oscar Leaser's promise to me on June 15, 2023. Good afternoon, Mr. Strumer, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good morning, sir, or good afternoon. Mr. Strumer, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Can you hear me? Yes, sir.
 I am asking for a painting of the Nevada Avenue, all of it, for street lines. This would go to St. Patrick's Cathedral, the day school, the parents of the day school. The full area of Nevada has not had street lining in 36 years of living here.
 We have seven veterans living in my building. They need, I do not want, they have served some of them in Iraq, Afghanistan. I am asking as you promised, sir, in June 15 of last year for North Campbell Street to be restriked. The reason is the lives of the people of our community.
 They are. I have some of them that are taxpayers, particularly for the Sun Carnival. It is critical. We have had pileups here. A piece of paint is not going to be a $30,000 job. I don't believe it.
 value the life, the lives of those who are a part of us in our city? Do we value the UT, Houston School of Health Sciences professors? Some of them are from Europe, one's from Poland. Do we value the students or has life become so devalued that we say this is important?
 It's important to me we have eight veterans that lives across the street from me, sir. The Honorable Mayor, he has served seven tours. And if you have seven tours, you deserve a retirement. And so I'm asking you to show compassion on me to build this paint with the DOT if it's possible.
 It's critical. We don't have any lines at all. We don't have a stop line where I live at 319 East Nevada. I've asked. We have the El Paso Independent School District headquarters here. It has become a micro economic climate here. People parking all over the place. I need your help, sir. And I believe in you. And I believe in you with a fervor, Honorable Mayor.
 Voted for you the first time and I voted for you the second time. I will stand with you Will you stand with me Thank You mr. Strummer people's lives. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como Mr. Como topic is constitutional rights to the rescue 1983 and animal services. Good afternoon, sir Hey, so Sunday we had a zoom meeting from a
 rescues, ACOs, directors, and rescue coordinators at shelters across the country. They're all fighting to get rid of the worst sheltering plant in U.S. history. One we run. And I learned something I'm kind of curious about. One of the directors said to me, oh yeah, I applied for the position of director at El Paso Animal Services. This man has years background as a director.
 for a Texas shelter. He is one of the only Texas shelters that has remained open intake, which is what he goes around talking about to other cities. And he asked me, how come we didn't hire somebody that had a background in animal welfare? I told him that was a good question. I have to ask his friend. So, I just want to bring something else up, if it'll play.
 Okay, did you guys see the KBIA 7 newscast about the animals that got killed over in the west side and the eight dogs running loose? And they talked to a gentleman from the Texas Parks and Wildlife trained in human or animal behavior. He explained that we were in a situation where people and their children are at danger because of the strays running loose in the city of El Paso. And he said it was from all over the city of El Paso, not just the west side.
 Ladies and gentlemen, you're here to protect the community. We have been telling you for years that these situations that we have today are going to happen. They're happening. Are you going to protect the community or are you going to protect the director? We need a qualified director. We need to get stopped. We need to open intake. We had a conversation about going back to your plan. It was decided that was the right thing to do. When are we going to do it?
 Last meeting on the 15th, I heard you say intake, intake, intake. That meeting didn't show up in recordings, and they are still turning strays away. When are we going to fix the problem? Does somebody have to die before we go, oops, $7 million L.A. had to pay for that exact reason. Best friends paid it because L.A. City wouldn't pay it. They said it was their fault. Fact. I know it's something you don't get a lot. Thank you, Mr. Coleman. Thank you, sir.
 The next speaker is Maria Lopez. Maria Lopez and Ms. Turner has asked to be removed from the call to the public list. So that concludes call to the public, Mayor. Thank you, ma'am. No, we still gotta do the executive session item. Are they, well they, hm? Yeah, no. Well, let me go check real quick. Council, just a friendly reminder that there is a special city council meeting on Thursday, August 1st at 9 a.m.
 9 o'clock on Thursday we will be having a special City Council meeting this Thursday. Yes, ma'am. August 1st special City Council We will be upstairs in the main conference room. Okay, no, I was discussed out budget time And council will be taking action at that meeting on Thursday to introduce the tax rate So we would ask you all to please be here. Thank you. All right Let's take executive session item. Mm. Yes one. Yes, sir. I
 Motion made, seconded and carried that the ballot language related to item 29 on today's July 30th, 2024 agenda shall read as follows.
 to cancel the city's authority to issue the remaining 128,000, 128 million, $455,636 in general obligation bonds for the multipurpose performing arts and entertainment facility to be located in downtown El Paso, which was approved by the voters in the city's November 6, 2012 election, resulting in the revocation of the bonds.
 We have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. There was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to revise the ballot language on EX 1. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes 5-2. Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Piero, Rivera, Canales voting aye. Representatives Acevedo, Salcido voting nay. And Representative Hernandez not present. Representative Hernandez would you like to take the item over? Can we take the vote over again please? Is there a motion to reconsider? Motion to reconsider. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconsider EX1 on that motion. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Nay.
 The ayes have it. We're back on EX1. Mayor Potem. Motion made seconded and carried that the ballot language related to item 29 of today's July 30, 2024 agenda shall read as follows. To cancel the city's authority to issue the remaining $128,455,636 in general obligation bonds.
 for the multi-purpose performing arts and entertainment center facility to be located in downtown El Paso which was approved by the voters in the city's November 6, 2012 election resulting in the revocation of the bonds. Second. Do I have a motion and a second, Ms. Pryor? There is a motion made and read into the record by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Olenar to revise the ballot language.
 On EX 1 related to item 29 on today's introduction of ordinances on that motion call for the vote Representative Fierro. Thank you in the voting session and that motion passes 5 to 3 representatives Kennedy Molinar Fierro Rivera Canales voting aye representatives Acevedo Hernandez Salcido voting nay The motion does carry there's a motion in a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed?
 And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, July 30th, 2024 is adjourned at 1225.