Good morning, Mayor Yes. Good morning, everyone. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, August 2, 2022. Present and presiding in council chambers is Mayor Leiser, along with Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, Representative Anello, Representative Hernandez, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rivera, and Representative Lizárraga. It is 9-11 a.m.
 And now will everyone please silence their electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police Chaplain Joe Marotta. Good morning. Good morning, sir. If you care to pray with us this morning, I would ask that we bow our heads together in reverence and let's pray.
 Heavenly Father, we call upon you today to look down upon these proceedings and bless our elected and appointed officials with the wisdom to discern the true heart of the issues that are before them today. Give them clarity in finding meaningful and workable solutions, solutions that will do the most good for the greatest number of people. God, we ask on this difficult eve of the anniversary of a tragic day in our community,
 When many suddenly lost their lives and individual lives were changed forever, let healing and comfort flow from you into this community. Continue to touch those families and loved ones who are still grieving and those that are recovering from that day. Be with them in comfort, strength, and peace. Let there be peace in our city, in our neighborhoods, and between neighbors. Give those who are mourning today comfort to the weary rest, to the sick healing, to the hopeless that they would have hope.
 We also ask, Heavenly Father, that you bless our educators, our administrators, our school and college staff, and every student at every level of education, that you bless them as they return to the work of learning. Finally, let your hand be on all of our first responders. Bless them and their families. And in your name we pray. Amen. Amen. Dr. Bonard, will you lead us in the pledge, sir? We pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 Thank you. Thank you. And as Chaplain talked about, that tomorrow will be three years that someone drove 10 hours to the beautiful city of El Paso. We lost 23 lives, but there's a lot of people that will continue to suffer.
 So I'd like to have a moment of silence for the 23 lives, but also the people that were wounded that have to live with this, and also the families, that we will continue to be together. We remember it's three years tomorrow, but I know that we remember every day of the year how El Paso was victimized by a senseless act of violence. And we'll continue to unite and be together and remember every day of the year.
 and have prayers to remember the families and the victims and know that you will never be forgotten. Thank you. And I know there will be a lot of memorial services started today and tomorrow. The city will have numerous ones. There will be one at Ponder Park. County Judge will have the Healing Gardens. Consul General tomorrow will have it at the consulate. So let's keep everybody in our thoughts. Thank you. Ms. Pryne.
 Thank you. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is El Paso Strong Day. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas El Paso was forever changed on August 3rd, 2019 when a gunman traveled over 650 miles to our beautiful city and went on a racially motivated shooting rampage that claimed the lives of 23 men, women, and children. And whereas courageously risking their own lives
 a number of individuals attempted to usher shoppers and employees to safety and protect others in the line of fire. And, whereas, in the aftermath of that tragic day, Alpacians demonstrated the spirit of their community was far too resilient to be broken by one disgraceful act of hate. Alongside stories of heroism during the massacre were reports of everyday people lining up at the hospitals to donate blood,
 offering profound compassion, support, and comfort to the surviving families, and rallying behind the mantra, El Paso Strong. And, whereas the incident was a devastating shock to the city that is so renowned for its welcoming hospitality and close-knit sense of community, three years have passed since that terrible event made headlines across all across the world, but the passage of time has not diminished the tremendous sense of grief felt over the loss of 23 innocent lives
 nor has it lessened the resolve of the people of El Paso to stand together against the insidious forces of hatred, prejudice, and violence. And whereas the City of El Paso pays tribute to the victims of the mass shooting that took place on August 3, 2019, and offers heartfelt condolences to the families and friends who carry their memories,
 Now, therefore, be proclaimed at the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that August 3rd shall be known as El Paso Strong Day. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Representative Rivera. The next proclamation is Blood Donors Appreciation Day. Proclamation for the city of El Paso, Texas. Whereas in our community there's 175 units of blood per day.
 for the protection of patients and we have approximately 18,000 blood donors in our community who are heroes by giving of themselves to save the lives of others and whereas our region's only blood bank, Vitalant, formerly known as United Blood Services, is overwhelmed by a constant shortage of blood and whereas shortly after the August 3rd, 2019 mass shooting at Walmart our community pulled together and donated more than 1,000 units of blood within the first weekend.
 and whereas blood has a limited shelf life and the need for repeated blood donations is constant in order to keep the blood supply above critical levels, and citizens who are in good health and capable of donating blood continue to step forward and donate regularly, and whereas all civic and service organizations and businesses are urged to donate blood,
 If they have not already done so to form blood donor groups to provide blood for ourselves and for others. And whereas one of the best ways to remember the 23 lives lost on August 3rd, 2019, this week and at every opportunity is to donate blood and respond in the same volume as our community did in early August of 2019.
 and whereas we appreciate and give thanks to all the blood donors in our community who continue to provide this simple and life-saving donation. Now therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that August 2nd, 2022 shall be known as Blood Donors Appreciation Day. Thank you, Mayor Proctor. Good morning. Members, members of the community,
 My name is Tiago Silva. I work for Vitalant, formerly known as United Blood Services, your only, our only blood bank in town. First, I would like to thank you for making today Blood Donors Appreciation Day, and to thank you for welcoming us to have this blood drive today from 10 to 2 p.m. right here in your home, in your house at the Breezy Way. I would like to invite you
 And the whole community of El Paso to come and give blood with one blood donation, you're helping to save three lives right here in El Paso. It's the blood in the shelves that saves lives. And it's because of you, because of your blood donation, that this community, our community, becomes stronger. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And the final proclamation is Professional Engineers Day.
 Good morning proclamation of the city of El Paso. Whereas licensed professional engineers are dedicated to applying scientific knowledge mathematics and ingenuity to develop solutions for technical societal and commercial problems while holding paramount the public health safety and welfare and whereas in the city of El Paso licensed professional engineers have made significant contributions on a local and national scale.
 And whereas the city of El Paso's economy has grown in part because its licensed professional engineers are instrumental to our community. And whereas the Texas Society of Professional Engineers is an organization founded in 1934 that represents the interest of more than 31,000 licensed professional engineers and those on the path to licensure.
 And whereas August 3rd, 2022 has been declared Professional Engineers Day by the Texas Society of Professional Engineers in conjunction with the National Society of Professional Engineers, who show the highest level of dedication to their profession in all 50 states and U.S. territories. And now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso that August 3rd, 2022 shall be known as Professional Engineers Day, signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser.
 Would the group like to say a few words? Or are engineers shy? Who's got the short straw? Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, sir. Members, community. I'd like to thank you on behalf of the Texas Society of Professional Engineers and the Engineering Community of El Paso for the proclamation. As the proclamation states, we're 31,000 plus, and we're glad to be here in the community and help the community grow.
 Thank you. Thank you. And you know, with all the engineers, the city of El Paso has some wonderful engineers and without their capabilities and their studies and their degree and their ability
 it would be really tough to do what we do today so uh thank you for all the engineers and i know we have a couple of them standing behind you and um miss mike good morning mayor council thank you for this recognition and yeah the engineers typically are introverts standing way back there i'm like okay you could at least stand up so thank you for this recognition and we're proud to work for the city of el paso and thank you for what you all do thank you very much i'm going to do um
 Yes, sir. Then next we have the mayor's recognition and it is this morning. The honoree is miss Wally Sheck Shuck Everyone of you we make God safe America What a surprise Please I would do good effort everyone down the line I want to give this to my publisher and
 Mr. and Mrs. Fenton who offered me to call them by their first name and I say I want to earn it. And I want to earn it today. I am an official Yellow Rose of Texas made 1971 by Governor Schmidt.
 And when I had the advertisement the first time, I wanted to put down the yellow rose of Texas from El Paso, and they couldn't do it. So please. Ms. Sheck, I want to present to you the Star on the Mountain. And on the Star on the Mountain Award presented to Wally Sheck in recognition of her accomplishments as a published author,
 her dedication unwavering commitment to the city of El Paso community through her advocacy and the love for the county and the city god bless America signed Oscar Leaser and the City Council of El Paso Masque
 For the agenda. When they give you a hard time, wear it. I did not gift wrap it because I don't gift wrap a mask. Ms. Sheck, I wear it because I'm better looking when I have it on. I'm shaking like a leaf in honor of my journey. Oh, my God. I love you. I've been known now as.
 The yellow rose of Texas from El Paso. And I'm going to make you money like you never have seen before. Move to recess. Help me. I move to recess. There's a motion and a second to recess. A city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 927 a.m.
 Council if we could take Ms. Shek's photo and then follow it up with the That brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion Unless separate discussion is requested by council members prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda When the vote has been taken if an item has not been called out for separate discussion The item has been approved council may however reconsider any item at any time during the meeting and mayor Pro Tem We don't have any revisions this morning. All right, I
 Is there a motion to approve? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve the consent agenda. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to page number 6, to item number 20.
 Representative Sarga. And this is discussion and action that the City Council declares the expenditure of District 8 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed $2,500 for the Children's Camp Program at the El Paso Museum of History serves a municipal purpose of enhancing quality of life. Representative Sarga.
 thank you mayor i was very happy to sponsor this item for the history museum they were able to call in have students this summer at the beginning of the summer this event already happened
 and we had a wonderful turnout. I was able to attend the last performance. They had a performance for the parents, and it was very well received. They're excited and eager to do the same program next year, so it was my pleasure. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have a motion? Motion to approve. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second.
 There is a motion made by Representative Lizada, seconded by Representative Anello to approve item number 20. On that motion, call for the vote. You'd rather do 23? Okay, all right. In the voting session, and the motion passes with seven affirmative votes.
 Representative Hernandez not present. Ms. Ryan. Ms. Ryan, we want to do item 23 before 22, please. Yes, sir. Thank you. Item 23 is an update from the El Paso County's Planning and Development Department and Camino Real Regional Mobility Authority regarding the Pelicano Widening Project.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Yvette Hernandez with the Capital Improvement Department. I'm here to introduce Sal Alonzo. Would it be Engineer Yvette Hernandez? Yes, sir, City Engineer. I'm here to introduce Sal Alonzo. He is the Associate Director of the Planning and Development Department with the county and will be providing a brief update on the Pelicano Project. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor, City Council, Sal Lonzo, Associate Director of Planning and Development. I want to thank you for having us here this morning on this presentation. The county, as we move forward, would like to provide updates on their major transportation projects. As you know, when there's a major transportation project under construction, it does affect the public and other agencies abiding municipalities significantly.
 This project before you is the Pelicano Drive Winding Project located in the Far East Side. As we move forward, the county will be providing updates on their construction projects such as the John Hayes Extension and the Darrington in the near future. But this item before you is the Pelicano Drive Winding Project located in the Far East Side. With me today is our partners from the CRRMA, Mr. Raymond Deyes.
 our group from the GEC, Mr. Agrippino and Alberto Danes. We'll be happy to answer any questions the council may have throughout the project or if you would like to take your questions to the very end. Next slide please.
 thank you just to give you a quick overview of the project uh as mentioned the the project management is through the communal mobility uh the design for this project was a cea design group uh construction management uh atkins global and the construction contractor for this project is dark construction or i'm sorry dark concrete and the contract amount was a little under 22 million
 uh the scope of work uh is from the loop through 75 all the way to darrington road uh it's a three mile stretch at the end of the day we will be providing a six lane divided roadway with bike lanes and hiking bike trails sidewalks elimination landscaping and storm water management within this corridor
 In previous years, with any small rain event, Pelicana would be underwater, so we would have to utilize our own forces to pump water out or tax that. So once these improvements are completed, we will be able to mitigate those concerns.
 Just to give you another point, during the construction when we started this, we did run into some delays, some of those being obviously the COVID-19, the crew and materials availability, and unforeseen utility conflicts.
 for this corridor. Possible future delays may be cement availability, utility unforeseen on areas that we haven't started trenching and then the materials availability. As of today, right now, the possible future delays, there's nothing major to provide. I think right now we're in a good position as far as cement.
 and the material availability but obviously if things change that would be something that we could provide an update to the public and also to our commissioners court and city council as we move forward next likely uh
 this gives you an overall um limits of the project um the different colors are identified for different uh segments of the road uh the yellow portion is the portion that we we completed uh with the uh copy paying and it's open to the public uh the next milestone that we're working on is milestone in the in the red and we're targeting uh september 22. uh followed by the purple segment which is the westbound to eric to darrington
 and then the last segment would be the baby blue the county is pushing the contractor to be able to get um both uh segments in red and yellow completed uh this is the corridor that we have heavy traffic on a day-to-day basis so with the school the neighborhoods and the amount of traffic that is is in this area that's what we put those two as a top priorities to get those uh
 open to the public and have both lanes open on both sides of the direction.
 Again, one of the goals that the county wanted to do is provide public outreach and public notice to the municipalities and to the public. As of today, we presented our first presentation, this one before you, back in June. We just finished presenting this presentation just yesterday to Commissioner Schor on a follow-up.
 But we also have presented to the Community Real Mobility CRMA Board back in June 8th, the Transportation Policy Board at the appeal on June 17th and Horizon City on last month, July 12th.
 Today we're presenting this presentation to city council and we're looking to present this again to TPAC tomorrow afternoon. The last partners that we do wanna present this and just to give an update because they are affected by this project is the SISD of the neighboring school. That date has yet to be determined. We're still working on them to get us in in their next available board meeting. Next slide, please.
 Just to show some activities that have been completed as of today. The main segment between Joel Battle and Sunfire, currently working on the flex space installation, about 75% complete.
 We prime coat portions of that roadway from Sunfire to the Texot driveway. We have relocated some utilities that have been within the right-of-way, and we've also demoed the median right at the intersection of Pelicano and Lucrucine 5. That one is...
 is a key in this project is because right now we have bottlenecked that intersection and we're trying to get that open back up to alleviate some of that congestion at that intersection. Other items that we've worked on between Sunfire and Aircoop, and that would be setting the rebar.
 we're about 25 complete uh and then eric group uh to um at darrington uh we're finishing installing the flight space uh there were some water loops that we had to also install for a password utility and uh we're also setting rebar for concrete pavement and that's at about 50 next slide please
 Here are just some pictures identified. This is where we're looking westbound from Sunfire to Lupita 75. This is one of the segments that we just finished placing oil. And the next step after this is providing the bomb breaker or HVAC and then rebar and then concrete, V-raver concrete. Next slide, please. This...
 This picture is looking still heading west on Pelicano, and this is taken just roughly for the Alamo Draft Houses looking to Lucre 75. There's a portion where we're finishing the base. Once we get the base completed, we'll be tacking the oil and then HMAC rebar and then for the segment. Again, this is one of the critical segments that we wanna get completed. That way we'd be able to alleviate a lot of traffic in this area. Next slide, please.
 This is the median that I mentioned earlier. This is the one where we have narrowed down the intersection. This has been completed, and we're trying to get that poured and back in operation. That way we could open up the intersections to what the bottleneck that is coming in. Next slide, please.
 We're looking here eastbound on Calicano. This is the portion where we have already attacked it. We have already provided the bond breaker, HMAC, and we're now placing rebar. The next step after this would be concrete. So we're getting ready for good sections of concrete here in the near future. Next slide.
 This is just like a forecast on what we're targeting to get completed by the end of this month. And that's one of the items is against to penalize the installation of the base. Again, this is looking from Sunfire to Loop 375, install a hot mix and get the rebar installed.
 between Sunfire and Merrick Coop, we would be finalizing the rebar installation. And then from Merrick Coop to Darrington, again, it would be installation of rebar, concrete pavement, some installation of the HMAC where we install the water loops and start the excavation of one of our last ponds that is needed for this project. Next slide, please.
 That concludes this update that I had for City Council in regards to the Pelicana widening. I'll be happy to answer any questions that Council may have for me, but I do want to thank you again for allowing me to present this morning. I want to thank Mr. San Rodriguez and Hernandez for helping me place this item up before you. So I hope you haven't answered any questions yet.
 i'll just say uh i want to thank you for the update i think it's really important um that you know our partners are letting us know what they're doing um i really appreciate you taking the time to inform us i do apologize i'm not very familiar with where the county line and the city line ends and stops in this area if you could clarify that for me is 375 that dividing line right here
 Sure, so this area right at the intersection of Lucre San Flavio and Pelicano, there is a small portion that I think is just up to the curb return. I don't know if they could bring up the exhibit. I think, I guess if you could bring up the right there, that median, I think that part is the best. Oh, you're on mute. Sorry.
 Sorry, thank you. That's okay. So just looking at this picture, this is probably the best one because I don't believe I have an aerial to show the city limits. My apologies for that. But we're looking at roughly where those orange barrels are at. That's where the city limits
 It's pretty close to. And then we're abutting right away, but that's roughly where the city limits is, roughly. It might be a few hundred feet roughly where these orange barricades are. And then the remaining portion of the Delgado project
 within the funding limits. Okay, well, I'm sure you're covering a little bit of city ground and I do appreciate it. I know sometimes with funding things can be tense. So I really appreciate you taking this whole project on and coming to update us again. It doesn't happen a lot that we're speaking with our partners and so we really appreciate it when you take the time.
 You're welcome. And we do work with other agencies, especially Apostle Water Utilities. We have been...
 and tasks on every project that we have whether it's railway project to to get them involved uh early enough because the last thing we want is uh have a brand new road and then a utility come come back soon uh six months later and then start studying pavement so we've been working with el paso water utilities our partners as well on coordination if they need to extend water or sewer lines and all that but uh different to show that with you as well thank you representative
 Good morning and thank you, Mr. Azcano. Am I pronouncing that correctly? No, Alonso. Alonso, sorry. Yeah, okay. I could barely see it, it's really far away. But anyway, thank you so much for coming for this update. Actually, these streets that you're mentioning are right on the border of District 6. So like for example, this picture that you're showing on the other side of the intersection, that is the city that is District 6. So I really appreciate you coming and updating me because this street has been a headache for my constituents.
 to the north where John Drew is, that's District 6 again. I would just ask if you could please email me this presentation and then also on your July completed list, do you have a map of all those streets? Because I'm trying to visualize Sunfire to Joe Battle and I know they run parallel to each other so I'm not seeing that in my mind what that is. Sure.
 I would be happy to send this presentation to you. And if I could have somebody go into that slide, I think it's the third slide in the presentation, I'll be happy to provide a more detailed map. That way you could exactly know where these streets are at. But in this presentation, I mean, this slide in front of you, you see 375.
 Then towards, I guess, almost three-fourths of the yellow line and the red line, you see a north and south runway. That would be Mission Ridge.
 Halfway between that you see the school towards in the middle. Again, I'm talking about within the segment, within the red and the yellow and the Mission Ridge corridor. That's the school right there and that's where Sunfire is. So I apologize for not enabling all these side streets, but I'll be happy to mail you this presentation and all that, more of a detailed map showing where all these, the Sunfire street is, the air coup and so forth.
 Okay, yeah, I would appreciate just to have that for reference. If we have any questions, we're able to reference back to this. And then since I have you here, I have a question on Vista del Sol north of this. There is an intersection there. We're trying to figure out how we can get a streetlight there. We've been told it's county, county saying it's city, but there's great need for a streetlight on Vista del Sol and Paseo Grande. Okay.
 Right, by Tire Club. Okay, let me look into that because that area is one of those, it could be city, it could be county. I need to verify that. I know portions of Charrington and the intersection of Viso do Sol, that's county. But where you're referencing is Paseo Grande. I think that is...
 That is the county. It is in the county. And that's at the intersection. Okay. Now I know where we're talking about. Sorry. Okay. So that is the portion within the county, and that is at the intersection of Paso Grande and Viso del Sol. I believe we have done a traffic impact analysis to see if the traffic signal light was warranted well back.
 Let me verify what the outcome was on that one, but we'll definitely take a look into that. And on that same intersection, there's a lot of signs like construction signs, real estate signs, and those signs are also obscuring the view. And so there is actually a lot of accidents there. I don't know if a traffic light is warranted, maybe stop signs are.
 I don't know, I'm not a traffic engineer, but if you can help me with that, that's something that, again, that, you know, we need to do something in that intersection because there is a lot of safety concerns there. I am making a note about that one. No, we have received calls about the billboards and all that. Okay.
 As long as they're within right of way, we have a right to remove them. Once they place those signs within private property, and then that's where our authority ends. But we'll be happy to reach out to the property owners to see if they could assist us on either setting those billboards back or removing them completely. Okay. Let me look into that and I'll provide an update. Okay, so yeah, I'll just look forward to getting this presentation and hopefully having your contact info on there. And my office will reach out to you to further talk about that intersection.
 thank you thank you thank you no no other questions
 Mayor San Rodriguez Chief Operations Officer sorry that just want to clarify a couple things and Sal thank you for doing the presentation today. I'd like to maybe see if we can do a joint presentation in the future to discuss the north south corridors that you're all working on the extension of John Hayes and some of those critical infrastructures as as City Council has authorized us to will be
 We'll be presenting a bond ordinance that's going to include the Montwood extension. I understand you all have started to design on that project as well. So it's a really good collaboration that's happening between the city and the county. Further on this particular road, the city didn't have any right-of-way along this because you tie right into text that right-of-way on this particular project. But definitely in a future presentation, do a full collaboration on a presentation that will cover all the transportation improvements that you all are planning as well as the funding sources.
 as well that you all are using on those projects because there's a lot of coordination that's happening through the MPO as well. Thanks, Al. Sorry, Beth. Thank you, Sam. I really appreciate it. Again, this is on the border of District 6 and District 5, so any information or any collaboration that we can get, we would really appreciate it. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Are there any more questions, council? No. Ms. Prine.
 Representative Lizada would council like to recess for mass transit it's 10 o'clock yes motion to recess second there's a motion and a second to recess the city council meeting all in favor anyone opposed the meeting is in room there's a motion in a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting all in favor anyone opposed the meeting is back in session at 10 54 a.m
 Mayor, may we go to item 21? Please. And 22 is related. Would you like to take them together? You ready? Yes, ma'am.
 Thank you, Mayor. Would you like to take them together? Yes, ma'am, I say yes. Okay, let me read them into the record. Item 21 is update discussion action by city clerk and city manager on city staff progress in reviewing and certifying the climate charter petition submitted by Ground Game Texas. Item 22 is discussion and action on city readiness to consider an ordinance on August 16th, 2022 to place
 climate charter initiative on the November 8th 2022 general election ballot in the event that the petition is certified by the city clerk these two items were submitted by representative on a chanel thank you mayor I first want to take a second to acknowledge and congratulate the residents of El Paso who were able to collect almost 40,000 signatures we should be very
 They should be very proud of themselves. We should also be proud of them. Engaging your government through petition is a right by state law. It is not an easy feat. And I'm here to say that we should be following state law and doing everything that we can to make sure that this moves forward on the ballot. And to respect the voice of 40,000 constituents of the city of El Paso. And so I put these items up.
 for multiple reasons. I know there's some conversation about the timeline in regards to getting items on the agenda having read the charter over and over have it here outlined somewhere I do believe that there is enough time to do so. I do not believe that we need two meetings but even if we do we can call a first hearing at a special meeting or an emergency for the exception of the ordinance
 But really the largest intent of these agenda items is to understand what the city clerk needs from council to make sure that we get to where we are. These petitions were turned in two weeks ago, my understanding is, or last Friday, I apologize. No, two Fridays ago, correct?
 Well, I put the agenda up on Wednesday, so it was before that. So Monday was the official day. The first part of the signatures were turned in Friday, which our clerk does not work on Friday, so we will say Monday. But that's still almost a week now, over a week. We really do need to get these signatures counted. I know that resources can be an issue. And so I want to understand from the clerk themselves what they need from this council to make sure that we can get through this.
 So that is why I put on item 21 and would love an update from our city clerk and city manager who does oversee that department on what is needed from this council to move forward. Mr. Gonzalez.
 So we've had a lot of consultation with the city attorney's office as well as conversation with Ms. Prine. And the background that we have found that's helpful to this process is that even though there's 38,000 signatures that were submitted, we're trying to find a way of how we could get to counting those and the allotted time that we have. As an example, the Lost Dog took
 21 days to count 1,700 signatures. And in the process of working to select or to obtain services from a statistician in order to help through that process in learning what other cities have done,
 that number is over 9,000 that we'd have to count. And so the other question that we had of ourselves was, we're probably gonna be asked the question in terms of staffing and the amount of staff that the city clerk's office has is,
 the amount needed to do their work. Obviously they complied with the work that they had to do with regard to the last petition that I can speak to. And so in terms of having additional personnel, again, the legal department did very good work to advise us that another city had tried that to get other personnel, like that was the first thing on our mind, how can we get other people to help start the accounting process?
 And that city was sued when they did that and those those that verification process Was not validated as a result as my understanding So that's the extent of what I know and the work that we've done up to this point I'll turn over to miss prime to see Laura if you've got any additional commentary To add to that question before we do that. I think it's important. You know, there's a
 over 38,000 40,000 signatures and We were able to find a way to be able to do a sampling and the number to try to make sure you know We do the best we could to get them done. And I think that number you said was 9,000 and
 I believe so. And again, legal did a lot of that work. They did all that research and did all that benchmarking with other cities and really helped us through that process. So, yes, sir. I believe that 9,000 is approximation. It's a little bit over 9,000. But, again, we have a...
 base to compare it to in terms of how long it took with the with the other set with the other Petition in terms of taking you know that amount of time 21 days to count 1,700 or to verify 1,700 and so that that's a that's a process that city clerk's office undertakes and
 and and one in which you know is a meticulous process and one in which they they have to be able to verify so again turn it to Laura no you don't we had transferred it over to the same Andrew will it represent an honest and we'll go to you
 Thank you, Mayor. No, I just wanted to ask really quickly. I want to ask members of council, I would like to consult with their attorney on the matter, but I do recognize there's a lot of speakers, Mayor, so I don't know if you want to take speakers first, but I would like an opportunity to retire into executive to address our outside council. All right. You want to go ahead and speak, Ms. Pryor, and then we can take that question based on the way council wants it. I'd ask some questions before we go into executive. Okay. Yes, sir. Ms. Pryor?
 Yes, sir. So as Mr. Gonzales stated, he is correct. We did receive the petition July 25th. It was a week ago yesterday. We received the petition. We immediately began the verification process.
 And the petitioners suggested that we do a statistical sampling method for this petition to verify it. And we've been, in the meantime, we've been coming up with a process to use the statistical sampling method of the 25% of the signatures received. So we began that process. A lot of it is manual.
 We received over 5,000 pages. We have to time stamp number each individual page. We developed a standard for counting the signatures and then we began counting the signatures per page. We need to count the number of signatures to identify the population that will be used to obtain the 25 percent and so that's what my office has been doing. We've also, we've
 sought a statistician to help us in developing that sampling list and we were able to get someone so now we're in the process of identifying the population that will be used for the statistical sampling method and Mr. Gonzalez is right based on previous previous petitions and if IT will bring up this slide we went back and looked at how long it took us to verify the last two petitions related to the lost dog and I
 In the first petition, it took us 18 working days to verify 1,834 signatures. The second petition, we had 20 working days according to the charter to verify 1,977 signatures.
 We have not finished counting the signatures, but if we go by the number that the group says are submitted, that would be 39,000 signatures with 25% of that would equal to 97, 9,750 signatures that what we we would need to verify based on previous experience we're estimating that it'll take up to 100 working days to verify this petition.
 And again, part of the process is developing a process for statistical sampling. We haven't used that process before so it is taking us a few days to implement that
 this time around and if we were to verify every single signature, we would need to get to 18,188 signatures. So using the statistical sampling method, it would be considerably lower number of signatures that we would have to verify. Okay, thank you for that. Representative Anello followed by Mayor Potem. Mayor Potem. Thank you. So I guess there's some confusion here
 YOU KNOW, FIRST OF ALL, I WANT TO THANK EVERYBODY THAT'S TAKEN THE TIME TO GO THROUGH AND EXERCISE THEIR CIVIC RIGHT TO PETITION THEIR GOVERNMENT. IT'S A CENTRAL PART OF OUR GOVERNMENT ON A NATIONAL LEVEL AND IT'S A LARGE PART OF OUR TEXAS STATE CONSTITUTION AS WELL. SO I WANT TO THANK ALL THOSE WHO TOOK THE TIME TO PUT THEIR
 exercise their constitutional right to petition their government and to go and collect these signatures and To to give a damn about the future of this world in this community So I want to thank everybody who took the time to do that. Um, I do have some questions About what about this because there seems to be some confusion about this pre verification That's there
 FOR THE LOST DOG SIGNATURES THAT WERE THERE, WHAT WAS THE PROCESS THAT WAS UTILIZED BY THE CITY CLERK'S OFFICE TO VERIFY THOSE SIGNATURES?
 For the lost dog petition, we didn't use statistical sampling. What we did is we verified every single signature that was submitted. We needed to arrive at 1,666 signatures. So the number was considerably lower for the lost dog. For an initiative petition, it's 5% of the total of voters that voted in the last election. For a charter amendment petition, it requires 5%.
 of the total registered voters, which is a higher number. That's why it requires a larger number to be verified. I will say that the group said they submitted 39,000 signatures of those the group said that only 23,425 were valid according to their certification process. And I'm not sure how their certification process was handled.
 So an ordinance would need 5% of an election, a charter amendment would need 5% of the total population? The total number of registered voters for a charter amendment petition. So this was, okay, so that was not an ordinance, that's what Lostog proposed, this is a charter, which is a considerably higher ceiling in terms of signatures.
 I don't know if there's anybody here who led the petition initiative for this climate charter amendment, if there's anybody that's in the audience that led that. I just have some questions about this pre-verification process. I don't know if anybody. Good morning. Good morning. I'm the campaign manager. You're what? The campaign manager, Ana Fuentes. Will you state your name, please? Ana Fuentes. Thank you very much, ma'am.
 Okay, and so the the the process for pre verification that y'all had started so Help us understand kind of what what y'all did to pre verify this and why you decided to do that Okay, so we would look at the sheets first I would like to say that we did number and enter how many signatures per sheet we had in a matter of days not Not a week
 And then during that time, we would, during the verification process, we'll look at the signatures, look at the sheets, look at VAN, which is a database of registered voters, and compare whether or not that, try to find that individual on the database based on their name, address, or birthday. And once we found a match, we enter that information.
 voter registration number into a list, which is what has been provided to the clerk. Okay, is there a way that we can see that pre-verification list? Ms. Prine, I don't know if it can be brought out while we're here or whatever. Does the city clerk's office acknowledge or recognize these pre-verification signatures?
 Not the pre-certification list. That just contains a list of the voters and their voter ID. However, the signature pages do not have the voter ID number. All they were collecting was date of birth. Because we are required to, we can get either a birth date or the voter registration number. We don't have to do both.
 That is correct. She is correct. They either have to get the voter ID or the date of birth the pre-certification process Identifies the voter ID the signature pages has the date of birth So it's different and in order for your office to to verify That one of these signatures for petition is is in fact valid What again are those that data that y'all are looking for? So we we get the database from the county of El Paso and
 On that one we go by the list. Once we get our sample list, we'll identify the person's name on the sample and then we have to verify, and I'm going through the Secretary of State's procedures. For a petition signature to be valid, a petition must contain the signer's name, the signer's printed name, the signer's residence address,
 and date of birth or voter registration number. So we have to go into the database, run a query to see if we can locate that person on the database. Okay, and how many people do we currently have in the city clerk's office that's working on verifying these signatures and these petitioners? The city clerk's office has eight staff members.
 Okay, and all eight are working on it at this time? No sir, because some of us are here in the meetings. We've been in the meetings for a couple of days. We're also adhering to our other obligations. For example, we're posting the regular agendas. On Thursday we posted four agendas. We're also processing ballot applications from candidates. Some of those may also contain petitions in lieu of paying the filing fee.
 So that's what we did last week also is we processed ballot applications for those running in the November election. Do you have like a number of how many people out of those eight that are just focusing on this, on getting these verified at this point? I would say about half. Okay, so about four people. About three to four people depending. We've also had someone out six, so it hasn't been everyone here in the office every day. Okay.
 And so state law doesn't state law is very clear about the verification process Right. And so even though these might have been pre verified you saw the fall I still have to and I'm not sure that you know, I'm not sure which ones they were able out of the 39,000 They said the very they verified twenty three thousand four twenty five I'm not certain that those all of the ones that they verified are going to appear on my sample list one Once I obtain that sample list, okay, I
 And so did you were you were you all aware about the sort of pre verification process as it related toward the state verification? process in the city clerk Yes We did as a measure to make sure that all the valid signatures would be counted Okay, because I know that there I think some of the issues is just a question of time that it takes to just verify verify the numbers because I guess they the
 City Clerk, you can't take their pre-verification as, you have to double check. I have to run a query myself, sir, on the voter registration database to certify that that individual is, that I do have that individual's signature. Do you have, can you show what the pre-verification lists look like? IT, can you bring up the Elmo, please? And again, I'm not sure what database Ms. Fuentes used.
 It's the voter activation network. Okay, that'll bring up every single person that's registered. Is that in the county or in the city? We make sure that it was within the county line at El Paso. Okay, it has to be the city of El Paso. And the city as well. You know, the people that sign need to be able to vote in the city's election? We make sure that it's at El Paso. But El Paso County is different from the city of El Paso? City of El Paso.
 Misspoke we made sure it's that city of El Paso. So what what are these numbers that we're looking at here from from left to right? So this is And the line number is in reference to the system that we Generated to keep track of how many signatures we had page number the number of the sheets the line numbers our sheets had eight slots per and
 Each sheet had eight slots for eight signatures, so refer to which line that signature is. And are y'all able to, and I guess this is a question for Ms. Pryne, but based upon this list, you can't look up those page numbers and line numbers to see and then go through your verification process to see if they're,
 their lineup? It'll help once we have the sample list, but again, once we have the sample list, it'll identify what page number that signer is. I can go to this list and say, okay, yes, they're there or not, but I also have to run a query through the database just to confirm the information. Could I? I don't believe it would, once you, from my understanding,
 your own list would have a different numbering scheme. So they wouldn't line up anymore. That's why we're preparing that information. We have to number each page ourselves. We have to number each page ourselves. You're saying this would be useful to you after you do that process? Right, I mean give or take a couple of pages. I mean it'll be helpful, I'm not saying it'll certify what you said you have. So, okay. I mean it'll be helpful but it won't help us confirm 100%.
 because as you say, some pages were out of sequence. You said that we should have 5,236 pages. We were short about 200 of those pages. We don't have all those pages. When we did our numbering, there was some sequence, some out of order. Some of them, we didn't get that page number. They weren't all accounted for. So that's the manual process that we've done is we have to auto-number every single page.
 I just I guess I don't understand why we can't start verifying based on that list and Once we reach the 20 20 thousand signatures required continue looking through the rest of the list just since we are in this constrained timeline Wouldn't we want to make sure that we get those look at those 20,000 signatures as quickly as possible? Well, and if you have a list of reference to reference those why wouldn't you follow that the the
 The letter we received from Ground Game Texas was asking us to do statistical sampling. And that's the process. As one of your options available to you, yes. And that's one of the process we've been exploring because as mentioned before, if we were to verify every single list, we would need 18,188 signatures versus if we were able to use statistical sampling
 Based on the estimated signatures that the ground game says were submitted, that would almost be half of those numbers. And so it would be quicker. So I think what she's asking is we have this we have this list that could be used either to pre to either verify the nine thousand.
 for a statistical analysis or to go through the regular process. I have to submit the whole population. I can't just say I'm going to use the 23,000 as my population. As the starting off point. I have to use the entire population that was submitted to me. Every single signature that was submitted to me has to be part of the population.
 That's valid, every legible signature. You're trying to verify the first 9,000, however that's arranged, correct? No, sir, we're trying to identify our population at this point. To do that, we have to count the signatures that were submitted because that will determine our population size.
 And then from there we can determine what 25% of that is going to be. And Mayor Pro Temp, you're trying to deduce, to get to an area, to get the answer that you're looking for, but she's constrained by parameters.
 that are aligned out through just different rules and procedures that are in place that the state requires. Yeah. And I think you, again, and probably close to my 10 minutes of time at this point, I just want to be clear that it's not about trying to get an answer. It's about trying to honor the will of the voters and the citizens who have spent a lot of time putting through this board for this citizen initiative. That's why we did.
 Guys, that's why we looked at every possible option to include a statistician, which reduces the amount of signatures that have to be verified. So I think that demonstrates that we're doing the same thing in that anybody that submits something, we want to get to the end as fast as possible and provide a solution. And so by getting a statistician, we don't have to go through
 and count the 38,000 plus signatures and verify all of those. We just need to get a statistical sampling of it. I think the opposite would have demonstrated that we're not trying to get to a solution. I think that this, the fact that we did this extra step gets us down the path faster.
 And do you have an idea, this is the last question, Mayor, thank you. Ms. Pryor, to get to the 9,000, do you have an estimate based upon the current staff that's being committed to this, how many days that might be to get to the 9,000? She gave you that on that slide. Okay. I estimated up to 100 working days to verify it.
 How many? 100 working days to verify. To get to 9,000. Based on previous verification. And the lost dog was 1,600 verified signatures? 1,600 versus over. Can you put up that slide? 1,600 took 20 minutes. It's on the slide, Mayor Pro Tem. Could you put up the slide, please? Mayor Pro Tem, you are at 10 minutes already. I figured. Thanks. Okay. Yeah, this is, okay. We'll go to Representative, at the end of it, to Representative.
 So see then we'll come back to mayor Procter. Thank you Thank you mayor, thank you very much Did also want to thank the everybody that's here that has participated in this very I think long process to petition your government I know that staffing is an issue and I did want to Lend my staff if you all need any assistance with this moving forward. So just wanted to make sure I let you know that I
 Thank you. Well, as we stipulated earlier when the Mayor asked me the question, we did look into that
 Getting other staff to assist with the counting but as we found out in doing the legal research Another city did that and the whole process was null and void Because you cannot do that. You can't just add other people you got to use the city clerk's office They've trained to do this they do this and that's how the court or the how that court case was was ruled upon It was another city. I believe in the state of Texas who did that and again that that process was considered null and void and
 Okay, they well, thank you so much Tommy. I just wasn't sure I just didn't want to offer them up if that yes It's not it's not a staffing issue. It's a timing issue. Okay in terms of the process. Thank you. Thank you Nundas that you have a motion I don't have a preference whatever council can hear now or later. We'll go ahead. Absolutely. I think it's important to hear before we can deliberate I
 So I think it's important to hear from the public. So Ms. Pryor. Yes, sir. The first person that signed up is Miguel Escoto, followed by Rachel Ortega, Vanessa Hasso, Andy Tiscareño, Sebastian Heredia, Miguel Escoto. Each speaker will have three minutes. You'll be able to see the timer on the screen. Once you have 30 seconds, it'll turn yellow. Once you have five seconds left, it'll turn red. Good morning, sir.
 hi hello good morning my name is miguel escoto i'm one of the co-founders of sunrise el paso i had one of the well i had a speech prepared for you all today had some statements ready but after listening hearing from the city clerk from the city manager and seeing a slide in which
 It says that my government has given up on Trang. That's what I saw in that slide. They did a false equivalency, a false comparison between two entirely separate actions. One is a petition for an ordinance, which is lost dog. You cannot compare that with what is happening here.
 What I want to, the most important word that I want you city councilors to understand throughout this process is excuses. All that we are hearing is excuses. We...
 I want to jolt all of you out of your normal operating standards, your normal operating situation. It's every day you hear people come complain about this or that or whatever, but it's not every day. It's unprecedented for there to be four, almost 40,000 El Pasoans come to you with a very clear ask. Put this on the ballot. That's it.
 You could hate, you could absolutely hate the climate charter with all of your soul, but you have to let us vote for it. And that, going back to the word excuse, that's all I heard from our city rep, from our unelected power brokers. We, so the question is what are you going to do about it? Because these are constituents of your district.
 These are your representatives. These are your constituency. So what are you going to do to overcome this attitude of excuses? That is my question to you all when you go into executive session. If the current, if we are being told that the current rate of signature gathering is not going to cut it, then change the rate. That's it. Change the path that you are on.
 Also, I want to ask that so many many members of the public are very interested in making sure you do the right thing So a lot of community members are not able to be here on a Tuesday morning and on a weekday So they did email you their their Comments and ask for for you all to read them So if you all please look into your inbox if you see a written comments from one of your constituents Please read them out loud
 No more excuses. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Thank you. The next speaker is Rachel Ortega, followed by Vanessa Hassell and Itis Carino. Ms. Ortega, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Rachel Ortega, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good morning. You have three minutes. Hello? Good morning.
 Good morning. I'm a constituent of Representative Fauxito and I would like to say thank you at first for being one of the nearly 40,000 members of this community to have signed that charter.
 And I would like to ask for you to bring the rest of the members of council and those of the city management's office that are on the fence or in opposition to this charter to bring them on board because I will say it again, as some before me have and many after me will, that nearly 40,000 Alpacians signed this climate petition.
 This is more signatures than many of your fellow Council members have received as votes in their respective elections, and it is also more signatures than the City Manager, City Attorney, and City Clerk have ever received in votes. And for this reason, their efforts, or lack thereof, should not thwart the will of 40,000 people that have spoken in just a few short months.
 And to hear that it would take 100 working days, 100 working days to count 9000 signatures, we would have had to submit all of these signatures initially the day that we launched this campaign. That's.
 That's unimaginable and it's rewarding all of the work that we put into this, all of the people that we spoke to. More than 100,000 people we would have spoken to to get to the amount of signatures that we have gotten. So I'm asking council to provide the clerk with all of the resources. We cannot give you time. We have given you more than enough time to complete.
 what we are asking you to do we have met the threshold and we have given you more than enough time to review this and we continue to receive comments from city staff that they are unprepared and understaffed that we need two council meetings and the goalposts keep being moved for what is already stated in state law in city law that we are able to meet
 the timeline that we need to get on the November ballot. And I'll end with a reminder to say that many El Pasoans have just gotten their El Paso electric energy bills and we're paying more for energy than we ever have when we have cheap and abundant solar energy available to us. These costs are not manageable for people in the city and council is tasked with addressing those issues, not to be an earpiece for El Paso Electric and to give excuses from the city management's office. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Vanessa Hasso followed by Andy Tiscareño, Sebastian Heredia, Drew Segura. Vanessa Hasso. Good morning. Andy Tiscareño. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning. As everyone else said, as I will say, this charter was supported by over 40,000 of our citizens, your citizens.
 The comments we've been hearing this morning about whether or not these signatures can be verified within the amount of time that they would need to be in order to be on the November ballot, they just sound like excuses. They sound like they're willing to give up before they even try, and to hear that
 the ability to be able to count these signatures, the idea of being understaffed, of not having the resources, that just sounds like being irresponsible. Like this was never a plan that anything like this was going to happen, that any time frame
 for anything to come up with any amount of signatures can be counted because it sounds like it's too much but it wasn't too much for the 40,000 El Pasoans who signed this petition who signed for this charter to be created.
 And it's important to realize that, that these are your citizens, the citizens you, that all of you claim to represent, especially our city manager, our city clerk. They are responsible for getting these things done. And it is realistic for these numbers to be counted. It is.
 And we refuse to take any excuses. We want to see action. We don't want to hear excuses. We don't want to hear comments on why it can't be done. We don't want...
 to have the idea that outside forces are being influenced to say that this can't happen. It can't happen. And we wanna see that because that's what we're gonna see. That's what El Paso's gonna see. Your citizens are gonna see that in action. And we won't stand for that. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Sebastian Heredia, followed by Drew Segura, Mike Siegel, Juan Jose Martinez, Sebastian Heredia.
 Drew Segura, followed by Mike Siegel, Juan Jose Martinez, David J. Garcia, Aida Garcia. Good morning, you have three minutes. Good morning. Good afternoon, my name is Andrew, and I am a student, an activist, and a proud member of Sunrise El Paso. While I do not live in El Paso, I grew up in the city and will always love El Paso for making me who I am today. My community is affected by the policies and the lack of accountability for the utility companies in this city.
 whether it is pollution from the Rio Grande power plant or the dumping of over 1 billion gallons of sewage into the Rio Grande River by the El Paso Water Company, it seems the people that aren't able to speak up are the ones most affected by the negligence of giant corporations. Today I am here to ask for one simple thing, and that is for you guys to listen to the City of El Paso and the citizens.
 and to make sure that this campaign, and then make sure that this charter is placed on the ballot in November. During this campaign, one thing has been clear, and that is that the people of El Paso are ready for change and a way to fight back and hold these corporations accountable. Nobody here is asking for the impossible. We simply want you to do your jobs and make sure the will of the people is put over the interests of the utility companies in this city.
 During this campaign, we talked to over 100,000 people and participated in a form of direct democracy. We were forced to do this because the people we put in power have failed to hold utility companies accountable, whether through their approval of the Newman Six Plant or the sale of El Paso Electric to J.P. Morgan. The people have been ignored and been told their voices don't matter, but not anymore. We did the hard work for you. We were in the community. We were knocking doors in the neighborhoods we grew up in and being around different events all around the city.
 We worked in 100 degree heat and even worked till 3 a.m. to make sure that the signatures were verified. Do your jobs and put this on the ballot. Thank you in solidarity with my comrades. Thank you. The next speaker is Mike Siegel. Mr. Siegel, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Mike Siegel, good morning, sir. You have three minutes.
 Good morning. Hello. Good morning, sir. This is Michael Siegel. I am the general counsel for Bounty of Texas and one of the designers of this program. I'm also a civil rights lawyer and a former assistant city attorney for the city of Austin with direct experience in petition campaigns. And I wanted to address a couple points. First of all, for background, the city of Austin city clerk, Myrna Rios, who lives in touch with Clerk Prine, and I want to thank the clerk for speaking with Clerk Rios.
 has been able to process similar positions in eight to 10 working days. So the same number of signatures for a charter change, 40,000 some signatures that have been pre-verified. We know that a city clerk with not a whole lot more staff was able to verify these signatures in eight to 10 days time. And if the city clerk is able to do this in even 15 working days, there is plenty of time to put this on the ballot.
 I want to address something said by the city manager in relation to some lawsuit about who can work and help the city clerk. This is actually misinformation that was shared at the meeting by the city manager. I spoke directly with the El Paso City Attorney who explained the situation. In the City of Austin at one point in time, the auditor's office was asked to collect or to review signatures
 that was a very different situation because the auditor has a statutory role in the Austin City Charter. So yes, if there was an El Paso auditor, that staff could not help with this, but that does not stop the city clerk from hiring temporary staff or borrowing staff, for example, that was so generously offered by the city council.
 Other staff can be brought in to do this. And that is something that that misinformation needs to be really clearly addressed because that was not a statement made by the city manager. I want to be clear about what we're talking about here. If you take 25% of the signatures, let's round up to 40,000, we're saying that city staff need to review 10,000. The pre-verification list of 23,000 plus pre-verified signees
 That is a shortcut, as the other, the six councilmen made clear. That is a shortcut to help the city staff make sure that this process can go quickly. Once the sample set is agreed upon, that is a way for staff to go straight to ones that are probably good. And yes, the city clerk has to independently verify each one, but that process should take about two to three minutes per signature. We know this because we went through the same exact process for our pre-verification.
 So if you take a number like, let's just say three minutes per signature, which is the high end from our experience, 20 signatures per hour, 10,000 signatures. We are talking about 500 hours of staff time at the very most.
 That is a number of staff hours that can be found if there is the will within the city to do so. And then we go back, and the councilman noted that this is something that's rooted in the Texas Constitution. The Texas Constitution gives the people of El Paso Thank you, Mr. Siegel. You've reached the three minutes, sir. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. The next speaker is Juan Jose Martinez, and Mr. Martinez has asked that...
 Representative Salcido read his statement into the record. Good morning, I respectfully request that my city representative, Representative Salcido of District 5 read the following regarding item 21. My name is JJ Martinez and I am a constituent of Representative Salcido in District 5. Once again, El Paso comes to this council to ensure that will of the people will be respected and acted upon. Something which this council don't seem to be able to do as of late.
 The bottom line is this, 40,000 of El Pasoans signed the petition to include the climate charter on the ballot in November. The city clerk must do her job and certify the results by the deadline. And this council must ensure the clerks ability to do so. To do otherwise is anti-democratic and slap in the face to any ideals and rules of the people. City council, if you don't agree with the premise of the charter, then in November vote against it.
 But today do not ignore the will of the people. Do not disrespect the thousands of El Pasoans that are doing what they can to ensure the future of the city of the planet. Ensure this charter is in the ballot. Representative Salcido I signed the petition and I ask you now as your constituent if you truly believe in the same democratic which elected you to the seat now you hold that you do everything in your power to ensure the El Pasoans once again
 participate in the democracy. Thank you. The next speaker is David Garcia, followed by Aida Garcia, Fernanda Lugo, Ana Fuentes, Josh Simmons. Good morning, you have three minutes. Greetings, City Council. My name is Dr. David Garcia, a neighbor to the Northeast El Paso in the community of Chaparral.
 I was previously a Dina Ana Commissioner, and I have worked with Mayor Leaser. And I know a lot of you are the representatives on the bench. I wanted to make the public comment on climate chapter charter.
 I support the climate charter with the nearly 400 signatures of support in the petition as were submitted to the city clerk. What I can't phantom is 100 working days to verify that amount of signatures.
 Also as important is for this city council and mayor to vote in the affirmative to have said petition be placed on the ballot for the next election. That is very important. We may ask ourselves why. You're aware that we are behind in making a true difference in climate change.
 Climate change is winning and we're falling behind every single day that we delay in finding solutions. Climate disruptions are the embodiment of the greatest there, the unknown and the uncontrollable. This duality has become increasingly manifested in climate discourse in recent years. We see it all on the nightly news.
 You have been witness to that. Forest fires in different state in the state of New Mexico, in California. The others, the floods in Tennessee and Kentucky, killing several young children, extreme heat across our country. It is obvious to me that your constituents want your support and are ready to work together to accomplish this critical need.
 from the White House to every single state in the nation, with as many city councils across the nation to act now, not further down the line. It is time to stop playing political footsies
 For yourselves have seen the and observed the daily devastation that climate change is taking in our country and our community. The climate charter has become a keystone of hope that will limit the damage if we don't act now, a powerful part of the solution. Sooner or later, the city will realize that nature always wins.
 Let's be on the winning side for once, but you decide. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you, the next speaker is Aida Garcia, followed by Fernanda Lugo, Ana Fuentes, Josh Simmons. Good morning, you have three minutes.
 Good morning, Mayor, City Council. My name is Aida Garcia and I'm a member of the Chaparral Community Coalition for Health and Environment. My husband and I live about one and a half miles from the Newman Power Plant and I really want to add my voice for the climate charter. We know that nearly 40,000 El Pasoans signed this.
 I am not a resident of El Paso, but I live right next door in New Mexico. And our community is being affected by the pollutants that are contaminating our environment. And they're causing serious health problems such as asthma, heart attacks, and lung cancer. The climate charter is needed to protect our communities from this dirty energy. I know that we're asking that this...
 Charter be placed on the ballot and it's so important that it is and I I Ask you counsel that you are not positioned to make a difference your constituents have spoken You must vote in favor of this city ordinance to ensure the petition is placed on the November elections Please support this very important initiative. It is in your hands. Thank you. Thank you Is
 Fernanda Lugo, star six, please to unmute your telephone. Fernanda Lugo, good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Hi, good morning. I want to say that I'm very proud of the Sunrise Movement people down in El Paso. I'm very impressed with all of their work in getting 40,000 signatures today.
 I really want to help this cause as much as I can because I am a proud El Pasoan as well, despite being far away. I wish that the council can vote to put this on the ballot. It's really simple. We already have 40,000 signatures of people that really want some form of climate action. It's pretty obvious from the news that we need action now. We can't keep playing these games.
 political games of saying it's too hard. It's not too hard. 100 days is not acceptable. We need some change now. As another fellow mentioned, it would take you three minutes per signature to review that these are valid signatures and that people have spoken and they really want some climate action right now. So please just put it on the ballot. It's really simple. If you believe in democracy, you'll let us all vote for it because
 The petition is harder than going through those. So we did that work. Just let us let us continue the work. And please just do your job and put this on the ballot. Thank you. SPEAKER 2 Thank you. SPEAKER 1 Next speaker is Ana Fuentes followed by Josh Simmons. Beco Salas-Borras. Kathleen Stout. SPEAKER 2 Good morning again. SPEAKER 3 Good morning. SPEAKER 4 Good morning.
 My name is Ana Fuentes I'm the climate charter campaign manager as well as a member of Sunrise El Paso and I'm here today to urge the council to instruct Ms. Prine to use all the tools at her disposal to ensure a speedy certification process of the climate charter petition. Failing to do so would be an active rejection of the people's will to vote on this petition in the November ballot.
 My generation has witnessed increasingly more evident collapse of our climate while paradoxically having to convince older generations of the mere existence of climate change. Living with these contradictions has often made me as well as my peers hopeless and fearful of our future. These fears and frustrations are so widely present amongst my generation that the media and social scientists have now coined the term climate anxiety.
 We have internalized that not only that our environment is changing beyond recognition, but that previous generations' failure to address the climate crisis sends a clear message of disregard for my generation, as well as future generations, and our health and our well-being. The profits generated by relying on oil seem to be worth more than our futures.
 A desire to push back and to not conform to hopelessness is what led me and many others to join the Sunrise Movement. I'm sorry. We harness the fear of uncertainty and feelings of powerlessness and chose to fight. Fight for ourselves, the frontline community members who disproportionately bear the brunt of direct exposure to pollution, and most importantly, fight for those who will come after us.
 As a movement, we have painful losses. For example, some member council allowed the selling of our electric utility to the biggest financier of the climate crisis, JP Morgan.
 In 2021, despite heart-wrenching testimony from frontline community members, vividly describing the everyday violence they experienced as a result of living near a fracked gas generator, the ironically named Texas Commission on Environmental Quality allowed El Paso Electric to essentially purchase a license to pollute through pollution offsets. Though the outcomes were disappointing, these campaigns taught us the meaning of community and that we must rely on each other,
 And that's what has guided the climate charter policy, and that's also why we're here today. With the support of nearly 40,000 community members standing behind us. Failing to place initiative on the ballot would suggest a complete disregard for direct democracy and the name of bureaucracy.
 I ask that the council, and more specifically, my representative, Peter Schwarzstein, look beyond political and financial pressures and do what they are elected to do and implement the will of the people. Please support items 21 and 22 on today's agenda. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Josh Simmons, followed by Beko Salas-Porras. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning.
 Greetings City Council and distinguished city staff. My name is Josh Simmons. I'm a resident of District 5 born bred and terminal here in El Paso, Texas. I'm also a board member with Eco El Paso and also an organizer with Sunrise El Paso and I also am present in many other capacities.
 Now more than ever and without any further delay, policy from this municipality must reflect forward thinking and methodology that is applicable to the future adaptions for modifying internal practices to enable implementation of renewable energy and energy efficiency. Climate action is not a token for an election cycle or any empty promise from any candidate at any time in this democracy. This charter amendment is
 and all hands-on approach to sustainability for the conditions observed now and build with resiliency to boot for the future. This is prime and center of the El Paso Climate Charter. The El Paso Climate Charter is an amendment upon the city charter and not an ordinance. So I just wanna make sure that viewing public that may or may not be familiar with this, understand that truth. This amendment will ensure accountability and can be delivered to the public from this governing body and to point
 and to point develop policy with environmental health at the forefront. This reposition will ensure improved conditions that will directly benefit the public's health. This charter amendment reinforces the goal that this city has outlined in a strategic plan and will enable a climate action plan, which is coming soon, to fundamentally shift El Paso to be a leader in renewable energy and take aggressive action in improving environmental quality. Being the 12th
 A city in the nation with the most harmful air quality is not acceptable and it cannot continue. 40,000 residents of this city have voiced their demand and just from District 5 alone, nearly 2,900 residents support such an undertaking from what the El Paso Climate Charter has outlined. This motion from grassroots organizing is unprecedented from a post-pandemic standpoint and not the last, so be prepared.
 I urge this governing body to ensure swift processing of the El Paso Climate Charter and take this action from the public with a greater magnitude over the capitalist entities that lobby this governing body such as our profit-driven electric utility and the related energy source suppliers that continue to commit violence upon our communities. The El Paso Climate Charter must be on the 2022 November 8th elections ballot. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 The next speaker is Beko Salas-Porras, followed by Kathleen Stout, Atsiri Reyes, Jesus Reyes, and Adam Saenz. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. I'm a third generation El Pasoan, and I'm here because, like many, we're tired of the oppression that the state government's putting on not only El Paso but the whole state.
 the control, the grip that Big Oil has on our state legislature. And the only way we could do this is by bypassing them and getting this petition signed. The problem now we have is to get it verified. As we see, Austin's been able to do it in eight to ten days. Their
 Their city attorney and Mr. Siegel seems to say there's no problem on hiring other people to help the city clerk. There's a way around that, too. If you hire extra people that do the regular duties of the city clerk and have the city clerk employees verify this petition would be around that. It sounds like Mr. Siegel is more informed on the legal side.
 and how to verify this petition more rapidly. And maybe working with him will help matters speed along. The other thing is, I don't know if any of you know, but if and when this amendment passes, it'll be the first time a city charter has adopted environmental policy in the United States. El Paso will be the first city to do this, which would be a great...
 Incredible thing for El Paso. The other problem is if we can't verify these signatures, then that is going to come out saying El Paso had a chance to change things and couldn't verify the signatures in time. What kind of light is this going to shine on El Paso? It's going to say that we're following right in line with Austin. We're doing everything they want.
 and that's what we're trying to stop. I don't know about you, but I'm sick and tired of being ashamed to tell people I'm from Texas. The reason is,
 The greed and graft in Austin with lobby and big oil is affecting not only El Paso but the whole state. We should be generating over 90% in solar for our electric company, but we're hamstrung by the state regulators to generate what, 5% is all we have? This is incredible. Our electric rates could go down more than half. It's a renewable clean energy that no one wants to embrace.
 That's why we're embracing it. We're forcing the city to vote on this. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you. The next statement was submitted by Kathleen Stout. Ms. Stout has requested that Representative Lizárraga read her comment. That will be followed by Adciri Reyes, Jesús Reyes, and Adan Saenz. Thank you, Ms. Prime. Please assure that the city clerk counts signatures for the climate charter submitted on July 25th
 in time for council to place the item on the November ballot. The youth-led organization, Sunrise El Paso, collected nearly 40,000 signatures from El Pasoans, an effort involving a tremendous amount of civic engagement to strengthen Sun City action on the climate crisis of heat, fires, pollution, infrastructure, water, and costly fossil fuel energy wastage.
 My two perspectives include, first, as founder and tenured director of UTEP's Center for Civic Engagement, 1998-2008, and second, as veteran 40-year professor of political science and public administration.
 Most of my professional life has been devoted to strengthening democracy and good government, as well as enhancing civic engagement so that more inclusive voices inform governance. On civic engagement, the youth-led Sunrise El Paso organization is part of National Sunrise and probably the largest chapter in Texas.
 Many younger people, both volunteers and paid canvassers, poured their hearts and minds into talking to El Pasoans about the climate charter.
 If council and the city clerk do not act in a timely way to verify signatures, they will be sending a discouraging non-democratic message to the young leaders who took this initiative and to El Pasoans who expect to be able to vote on climate action this November, not two years from now.
 Needless to say, such foot-dragging would only strengthen cynicism among voters about our city. With decades of teaching in political science and the MPA program, I reviewed and offered suggestions for the two near-final drafts of the lengthy climate charter.
 I also bring experience in bureaucracies having served in five higher education administrative appointments and on loan from UTEP to the U.S. State Department under the Intergovernmental Personal Act.
 I understand how cross-cutting issues like the environment and climate can get stuck in bureaucracies and believe that what Sunrise offers us by way of leadership, incentives, accountability, and guidance in a climate charter can quicken the movement toward environmental sustainability.
 Please support timely action on the signatures. Other cities like Austin can count signatures quickly, so why not El Paso? Many of us would be proud if El Paso became the first city in Texas to take definite action on the climate. Kathleen Stout, Ph.D., professor emerita of political science. Thank you. The next speaker is Atsiri Reyes, followed by Jesus Reyes.
 Adan Saenz, Vanessa Medrano, Cito Negron. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Atsiri Reyes, a District 1 citizen of El Paso, Texas, represented by Mr. Peter Svarsman, and today I will be representing the citizens and residents in favor of the Climate Charter petition and demanding it be placed on the ballot this November. Thank you.
 On May 25th, 2022, I began working as a field organizer for the climate charter petition. By the end of the campaign, I was able to collect over 2,000 signatures. This experience has allowed me to talk to around 100 El Pasoans every single workday for the past two months. With this experience, I can tell you with confidence that the citizens of El Paso want a climate department.
 I've spoken to parents concerned about the well-being of their children as ozone levels rise and our city expands. Passionate and informed young adults and teenagers who believe that the time to act in favor of climate justice is now. I've talked to influential citizens who plant trees and try the best they can to decrease El Paso's carbon footprint.
 Climate activists who have advocated for years and either signed the petition with confidence or with a fading glimpse of hope because they've tried far too long. But I speak not only about the registered voters who signed the petition. I speak, too, about those who couldn't. Our passionate El Pasoans who were eager to sign but weren't able to because they were either not registered, out of district, or residents. They, too, are El Pasoans, and they, too, deserve recognition.
 to have their opinions heard. And so let this be the evidence that there are more of us, more than 39,156 passionate, enraged, and hopeful El Pasoans who want to see the climate charter on the ballot this November. This means a decision by August 9th, an ordinance by August 16th, and once again, the climate charter on the ballot this November.
 The people of El Paso have spoken and I have witnessed their demands. Let us respect their will and become exemplary leaders of hope and climate relief through the Climate Charter. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Jesus Reyes, followed by Adan Saenz. Jesus Reyes, followed by Adan Saenz, Vanessa Medrano, Cito Negron, Sharon Wilson, Rick Bonard, Carmen Rodriguez, Wesley Lawrence. Good morning. You have three minutes. Okay.
 Hello council. I'm here today with Sunrise El Paso because the issues that the climate charter has stated and what this movement has been trying to push for the past few months speaks to me as a concerned citizen and as a biologist. I have traveled a fair amount across the United States and across the globe and unfortunately I'm seeing the same troubling patterns that I see here in my hometown.
 When I was in East Texas, I was there during the cold snap of 2020 when the electrical grid that is powered mainly by gas and oil failed the citizens of Texas. And people were out of power for many weeks and lots of people had to suffer because of how unreliable and how devolved the infrastructure, the electrical infrastructure was.
 I see how mismanaged our water sources are, especially when I've heard recently about El Paso water just dumping sewage into our river, right here at the border. I'm also concerned about the lack of investments in our infrastructure, especially considering how
 how anthropogenic climate change is here now and we need to make smart investments now to weatherize and to strengthen our infrastructure which will bring jobs to this community that we desperately need as a community. Now I'm not the only citizen who has these concerns. All the hardworking people here today have worked to get those 40, over close to 40,000 signatures to get the climate charter on November ballot.
 I don't know what your personal opinions are on the climate charter. I can imagine that some of you might not have pleasant opinions about it, but it is your duty as a representative of these people here to have the climate charter on the November ballot. Let us as citizens vote on this climate charter and determine our destiny as a people.
 Please let us decide whether El Paso can be the shining city on the hill for green energy, for unionized high paying jobs, for building up our infrastructure. Let us decide, let us lead the rest of Texas and how we get shit done here in the 9105. Thank you. The next speaker is Adan Saenz, followed by Vanessa Medrano, Cito Negron. Adan Saenz, good morning, you have three minutes.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Adon Saenz. I'm a resident of District 7. And honestly I just want to say wow. Wow. We came in here with a lot of expectations but 100 working days. That takes a particular kind of mat skill you know. And I really wonder did our city manager and our city clerk have the time to sit down and come out with that mat themselves or did they hire a statistician to do it for them. Because if that's the case then why can't we hire enough employees to come in and count all these signatures
 Everyone here so far has been told us that petitions are essential to our democracy. But what is the purpose of a democracy if there is no infrastructure to support it? We came here with a lot of expectations, but one of the biggest expectations was no excuses. There are no more excuses. Climate change is coming for us, for everyone on this planet. A town in North Texas, Gunter, Texas, has already run out of water supplies and are declaring an emergency.
 This is a crisis that affects us here in Texas. The drought is continuing. We are in a desert. We draw our water from groundwater. The Rio Grande is drying up. There are already people in New Mexico who have had to cut off their infrastructure or their water supplies for their agriculture. The Rio Grande is drying up. We're running out of water and we're still sitting here with excuses like 100 working days to keep this off the ballot of November 2022.
 We want it this year, not next year, not in 2024, this year. And that is the expectation that we came here to get. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Vanessa Medrano, followed by Cito Negron, Sharon Wilson, Rick Boner, Carmen Rodriguez. Good morning. You have three minutes.
 Good morning. Good afternoon. Oh, yeah. Good afternoon. I was born and raised in El Paso, Texas. I am also a volunteer with a good number of organizations here, and I'm very proud to be a volunteer with Sunrise El Paso. Me and my brothers have all been diagnosed as asthmatics as children, and it has been well established that El Paso children have higher rates of childhood asthma.
 A 2014 study found that 17% of children here were diagnosed in their lifetime, and an additional 7% are expected to be undiagnosed. It has been also well established that the air quality of our county has violated pollution standards as set by the EPA. Our city government needs to address this, as they would be expected to with any other health issue. City-led and corporate-led efforts
 To address it have consistently fallen short and even increased pollutants in this region I'm from the east side very proud of that But I have to close my vents whenever I go to the cielo vista mall or even when I pass it a lot of mornings I can't even see the mountains because of the haze of pollution brought to us by El Paso electric and Marathon oil the city chart the climate charter is
 represents the hope that change is possible. It represents the possibility of breathing air that is healthy instead of breathing air that is gross and causes health issues like asthma and allergies. The climate charter is bold, ambitious, and proactive. Why? Because we must transform the status quo boldly, ambitiously, and proactively. This is a huge opportunity for citywide change proposed and signed by your voters.
 If 40,000 El Pasoans speak in favor of this ballot initiative, our city government must act on it. I've been reading in the news excuse after excuse presented by the city clerk and the city attorney. I'm done with these vague excuses. We need results from the city government to certify the signatures in time for November of 2022.
 I was one of the over 2,000 people who signed the petition for this charter amendment in Mr. Henry Rivera's District 7. Just as your representatives have taken the time to meet with and listen to El Paso Electric behind closed doors, we are demanding that you please listen to the public and we demand that you listen to us.
 Please do the right thing and do everything in your power to get this petition on the ballot this November. Thank you. Thank you. The next statement was submitted by Cito Negron, and he's asking Representative Lizada to read his comments. Thank you, Ms. Pryne.
 Honorable Mayor and members of City Council, the City of El Paso has a process for citizen initiatives to be brought for a vote. You have before you an effort to do just that. Climate change is no longer a matter of debate. As other Southwest cities, we are affected by heat and drought. We have a community-driven opportunity to take significant actions to prepare for this reality.
 Advocates collected more than 40,000 signatures. The public knows we need strong action. The City Clerk now has the responsibility of verifying these signatures and the City Council of placing the question on the ballot.
 I am concerned about my children's future in this city. El Paso was a leading southwest city 100 years ago and can be a 21st century leader in the global transition to a more sustainable future.
 There should be and there will be vigorous debate regarding this proposal. Your leadership and commitment to honoring the process will ensure that the City Clerk has the clear direction and the necessary resources to review these 40,000 plus signatures quickly
 and that this item is placed on the November ballot. Therefore, I join with those present to respectfully urge you to ensure validation of the signatures and to place this question to a vote of the public. Thank you, Cito Negron. Thank you. The next speaker is Sharon Wilson. Sharon Wilson, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, you have three minutes. Hello, this is Sharon Wilson, Dallas, Texas.
 I have prepared comments, but I hardly know what to say now that I've heard all the excuses that would essentially thwart democracy. I read a headline this morning where scientists are warning that humans should prepare for extinction. In the face of that news, I cannot fathom these excuses.
 If it is true that only the clerks can verify the signatures, and I do not believe that is true, but in that case, put all eight clerks on the verification process and have other staff, our temporary staff, pick up the slack on their other duties.
 I do not live in El Paso, but I am frequently there for my work. I am senior field advocate and optical gas imaging thermographer for Earthworks. That means I use technology that makes normally invisible oil and gas pollution visible. Earthworks has constituents in El Paso, and I work with many people there on ways to improve air quality. Every day, I receive a notice from TCEQ on air quality in Texas City.
 Every day for weeks and for months on end, El Paso has had an air alert. This morning, I was notified that El Paso air is again an orange alert, meaning it is hazardous for sensitive groups.
 I have monitored air pollution from several oil and gas facilities in El Paso. Those include the Marathon Refinery, the Newman Methane Gas Fired Power Plant, and the Montana VISTA Methane Gas Fired Power Plant.
 All these facilities create intense impact to the air El Pasoans breathe. And all the oil and gas that goes through these facilities is some of the dirtiest on the planet. The gas used in El Paso was rejected by France as too dirty for their citizens. What an exciting demonstration of democracy from El Paso young people.
 These same young people may have no future. Can you hear the emotion in their voices? The city should do whatever it takes to verify the signatures and be a proud beacon of democracy. Otherwise, it seems like El Paso doesn't actually provide a viable way for citizens to petition their government.
 My documentation of your poor air quality and the accepted climate science prove that it is essential that the city do everything in its power to place the climate charter on the November ballot. Thank you. The next speaker is Rick Bonnard, followed by Carmen Rodriguez, Wesley Lawrence, Kristen Boudry.
 Good morning, Council, or afternoon. As you know, there's more than one way to add a charter amendment to a ballot, and you can count and verify all these signatures as per state law, or you can simply add it by council action today under item number 24 as another thing that could be considered. And then you could amend the final language on August the 16th.
 Yeah. And so, you know, I think that in my gut, and I think that you can see this as well, that these numbers are probably more than adequate. And I, it's, it would be a shame to not allow this to move forward.
 by simply delaying it past the date, then that means it could not be reconsidered for another two years, which seems like a real travesty. So again, if you look at item number 24, you're already thinking about adding various things to allow voters to vote on the items, and I understand there's some question as to how well the ballot language is crafted in their presentation, but it could also be amended on the 16th.
 So there's a very simple way to get this done. You can skip all the drama of having to go through all the counting.
 and just allow this to move forward by your very action. If you believe that your constituents, 40,000 in numbers, have asked you to do something, and I think they have, then I think it seems only fair to allow the total population to vote on it. Whether or not it's successful is ultimately up to the voters, and that's all you're trying to do here, is trying to be fair and reasonable. So thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is
 Carmen Rodriguez and she submitted a statement to be read by representative Lisa Good day mayor and City Council. My name is Carmen Rodriguez I'm a lawyer a longtime community activist and member of community first coalition I offer this statement of support for the prompt and effective processing of the climate change petition
 so that the voters can voice their preference in the November election. While most of us are wringing our hands and stressing about neighborhoods on fire and others underwater, dying wildfire and damaged ecosystems, here in our city, our young people made a bold decision and took affirmative action to begin to address climate change.
 They have spent many, many hours laboring to inform the public and advocating for the issues that will prepare this city to meet the challenges that confront us.
 The members and supporters of Sunrise El Paso and Ground Game Texas now expect that elected officials and leaders will also do their part and ensure that this democratic and constitutionally protected exercise in petitioning our government will be met with the respect it deserves.
 Our city is fortunate to have such caring, concerned, and action-oriented citizens to show us the way to confront the single most dangerous event in Earth's history. Now that the issue is being addressed at the national level, our community will be in the best position to take advantage of the resources that will be made available if the measure is passed.
 The climate change petition that has been submitted to the City Clerk deserves to be treated seriously, professionally, and expeditiously. There is no reason to try to suppress, delay, or thwart this noble and most compelling cause.
 Please support the process and let El Paso voters decide whether they want to launch progressive initiatives to help address climate change or whether they want to do nothing and continue wringing their hands and worrying about the future while our Earth crumbles. Thank you for your attention to our pleas, Carmen Rodriguez. Thank you. The next speaker is Wesley Lawrence.
 Followed by Christian Baudry, Charlene Hill, Chris Soti-Huesby, Cusseyby. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, Chair. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. My name is Wesley Lawrence and I'm the President of the El Paso Young Democrats, your Democratic Committee man for SD 29. But most importantly, I'm a proud member of the Northeast who supported and endorsed the climate charter.
 I want to start by thanking Sunrise El Paso, Ground Game Texas, and every single El Pasoan who worked tirelessly to collect the 39,156 signatures needed for this very important and crucial El Paso Climate Charter Amendment. On July 25th, Sunrise El Paso and Ground Game Texas turned in their required signatures.
 And I want to let you all know that this is exactly what direct democracy looks like. It is an example of the youth of our community grabbing the fossil fuel industry by the horns and demanding real and honest change. I'm asking council today to ensure that the people's voices are heard. It's important. I'm begging you to ensure that El Pasoans have access to clean air and clean water as it is a basic and fundamental human right.
 And I want you to be brave, clear, and forthcoming in admitting that climate change is a real threat to our community and its people by declaring a climate state of emergency here in the city of El Paso. This is potentially the coldest summer that El Pasoans are going to ever receive. And we need to be honest about that.
 I want you to restore trust in our government. Right now it is at an all-time low. We need to show young El Pasoans that we are fighting for a better El Paso and that we are listening to them. They are our future, and we need them to understand that. We owe it to future generations to fight for climate justice, to protect our people from future health problems that are caused by dirty energy, and we need to ensure that the status quo in this city will not continue. We need progressive policies, and we need them now.
 Lastly, I ask that the signatures be counted by no later than August 12th in order to ensure this vital amendment can be put on the November ballot.
 I know that there are lots of El Pasoans who did plan to come out today, but due to this meeting being early in the morning on a Tuesday, a lot of them could not make it. I ask you to have community meetings while these signatures are being counted, to listen to every El Pasoan throughout the city of El Paso so we can have a clear consensus. Climate change is real, it is happening, it is a threat to our community, and once again thank you Sunrise El Paso, Ground Game Texas, and every single El Pasoan who signed this important climate charter.
 I do want to be clear that the worst is yet to come. If this does not get put on the ballot, we're still going to experience climate change. We're still going to experience people dying from un-inverse health issues caused by dirty energy. So let's get to work. Let's show these young people that are here today that we actually care. Thank you, and let's do this, guys. Thank you. The next statement was submitted by Kristen Baudry.
 And it reads, our city government has a duty to respect the will of nearly 40,000 El Pasoans who signed on to the climate charter and must direct the city clerk to ensure the petition gets on the ballot. This petition included 2,996 constituents in my district, District 8. El Paso is the 10th sunniest city in the world, yet our privatized monopoly electric grid
 only uses 5% renewable energy. Additionally, El Paso is the 12th worst polluted city in the United States when it comes to ozone, a pollutant which harms respiratory health and worsens asthma. This is why the climate charter is so important and why El Paso must transition away from fossil fuels. Thank you for your support of items 21 and 22. Sincerely, Christian Audrey. The next speaker is Charlene Hill.
 Followed by Creosote Hussaby, Erica Latinas, A.B. Perea. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I used to read a lot of fiction books as a kid, a lot of books like Jane Patterson's Maxim Ride series that were about dystopian futures, futures where the world was a wasteland and democracy was dead. Thank you.
 Some of those horrible futures I read about were directly caused by climate change. I'm now an adult and no longer asking my mom about the likelihood of the world ending, although now maybe I should be.
 I know that climate change is a serious issue not to be ignored. I know that our city trying to do something about climate change is important. I know that taking a chance on this charter might be scary. I know that the idea of unintended side effects harming people is scary. But I also know the fear of the road to hell being paved with good intentions is also real and scary. But I also know that the people of El Paso should be allowed to make a choice.
 They should be allowed to take a risk. They should be allowed to vote for what they want. The people of El Paso have a say, having a say in how their city is run matters. It's important to me and should be important to you too. This is your city and your people who you represent. They are saying that putting the climate charter on the ballot is important. We live in a democracy where the voice of the people, the voice of the voters matters.
 So please, I beg you, listen to what the people are saying. Listen to what they're saying and do what you must to put the climate charter on the ballot. Thank you for your time. Thank you. The next statement was submitted by Chris Hussaby to be read by Representative Lizada. Thank you, Ms. Prime.
 I apologize that I was unable to take time off of work to attend this meeting in person. I feel very strongly about this issue. Nearly 3,000 people in my district alone signed onto the El Paso Climate Charter petition. Cici Lee Sarga's constituents overwhelmingly support this initiative, and we are counting on our representative to ensure that the petition is placed on the ballot this November.
 I work as a nursery and farm propagator and grower. I am sharing this because I would like to emphasize that the people in your community that are responsible for growing your food believe the climate crisis to be an immediate emergency. We are already experiencing workplace hazards and difficulty growing several staple crops.
 due to severe weather events caused by climate change, including essential equipment being damaged by a severe ice storm in late April this year, as well as the heat waves throughout the summer. The idea of delaying this election makes me scared for the future of my community. I rely on our land's ability to produce our food, and that has grown noticeably more difficult just within the past few years.
 I care deeply about the health of my family and neighbors and the health of our ecosystem. The city has been given plenty of time to certify the signatures on this campaign, and there is absolutely no legitimate reason to push this charter amendment to a future election.
 Any effort to do so is tacit support for the severe environmental degradation that will result. El Paso shouldn't be playing catch-up with renewable resources.
 As one of the sunniest cities in the world, we should be leaders in green energy. We have a chance to be trailblazers with a policy that will help not only our community, but the rest of the world as well. We just have to ensure that corruption won't rob us of the opportunity. Thank you for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Erica Latinas, followed by A.B. Perea, Crystal Moran,
 Carla Palacios, Sapphire Ortega, Michael Gutierrez, Veronica Carvajal. Good afternoon, you have three minutes. Good afternoon. Hello, my name is Erica Witha Kaye. My pronouns are she, her, ella. I am a proud queer Latina citizen of El Paso and a constituent of Representative Salcido. In regards to item 21 and 22 on the agenda, I have this to share.
 Climate change, we call it. And yet, I invite you to ask yourselves, is it really climate change or is it really climate disruption?
 Climate change, others, the issue at hand. Climate disruption requires accountability by our own hand. It is we, the humans inhabiting the Earth responsible for the fires ravaging, the bees dying, and extinction of animals, disappearing water, fossil fuel follies, greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide multiplying, melting glaciers, floods, people dying.
 We can't be denying this is by our own hand. It is up to us, you, to take a stand. Action now before it's too far gone. Don't sit and follow the steps of those before you gone. Careless, irresponsible, letting greed and profit rule. Look at what it has gotten us, depleted.
 I invite you to please listen to your constituents, the people, we have spoken. Direct the city clerk to verify the ink of signatures collected by August 9th to ensure y'all can vote on it, 8-16, to order an election on the climate charter, November ballot, yes. About a climate director, climate jobs, reducing the city's contribution to climate disruption, investing in a sustainable future that makes us stewards of nature caretakers, no longer defiling the climate.
 bringing about climate justice. Our borderland is sacred. Our people desert warriors. Our survival depends on our environment. Let us restore the balance. Let us change the narrative. The children are watching. They are rising.
 This generation is not crying. They are fierce advocates. They are trying to undo the mistakes made, all the lying. They will hold us, you, accountable. What will you say when they ask, how did you toe the line? To the council people supporting, thank you. To the council people hesitating, breathe. Feel that? That's air in your lungs.
 sponsored by nature that could soon be gone. Please protect it, because it feels good to breathe all day long. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is A.B. Perea. A.B. Perea, followed by Crystal Moran, Carla Palacios.
 SPEAKER 2 Good afternoon. You have three minutes. SPEAKER 3 Good afternoon. Hello. My name is A.B. Perea. I am 24 years old. I am a local artist. I am a teacher and a proud member of Sunrise El Paso. Thank you for giving me the chance to speak and to highlight the incredible accomplishment that this community has pulled off to celebrate the organizers who were throughout all the city collecting signatures sometimes in extremely hot weather asking El Pasoans to sign the petition. The organizers who helped pre-verify signatures
 Organized volunteers shared information put the charter together and also just as important that thousands of people 40,000 to be exact who we had conversations with who listened who asked questions folks who recognize how we forgotten our oneness with the water that we drink the air we breathe.
 and the land we live on by polluting and exploiting it. And now there's an opportunity in this region to follow the calling of our ancestors to make living here better in ways that heal our relationship with the earth and with each other. And we can help promote that healing process tremendously with the robust and sophisticated policy that is the climate charter. And having achieved the ambitious goal of collecting 40,000 signatures all you have to do as council
 is to make the call to prioritize the verification process and direct the resources that are necessary for the city clerk to finish. It is possible, as Mike Siegel said, the city of Austin has been able to do it in eight to 10 business days with other initiatives. We start now, we'll be good to have it on the ballot for this November and it has to be this November, not after a couple of years of missed opportunities for action and a world even more on fire. And with that, I want to ask you to take this feedback that I'm about to give you
 in heart with an end of willingness to actively listen which all it is really is a reminder that you all as a council have previously already made decisions that have put our communities in very vulnerable positions and with 40,000 people listening now people who are saying hey look city council we've spoken we need this now please ensure this happens.
 I think it would be in your best interest to make sure that it absolutely does, because the act of democracy practiced by this campaign over the past several months was loud and clear. And I'm sure it can be loud and clear again if the fair process of this climate charter is not ensured, because again, thousands are watching and listening now, wanting to make sure that this happens. So do not sabotage yourselves.
 But more importantly, do not sabotage us because that's what this council is about. Right. Your people, not business decisions in the name of economic development that continue to marginalize people. I mean, I, I think it would be epic if we left today's meeting with the full council support of ensuring this process. Like, think how wonderful that would be for thousands of people to see this council be like, yep, we got you, though, of course, with all due respect.
 would be the bare minimum. So please vote in favor of items 21 and 22, and let's ensure the vote for this November. Thank you so much. Thank you. The next speaker is Crystal Moran, followed by Carla Palacios, Sapphire Ortega. Crystal Moran, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, you have three minutes.
 Thank you so much. I just wanted to mention that I noticed and wondering why the city manager and city attorney are not in the room right now during these public comments. It feels important that they should be there. But anyhow, I wanted to mention that 40,000 city voters have
 spoken. 40,000 city voters who supported the climate charter want to see this charter on the ballot in November. Our city government is supposed to be a democratic one, not an oligarchy. And in the democratic process, the people are listened to. That is literally the job of the city council and our city government, to listen to the people. The city government should be acting as a neutral facilitator in this democratic process.
 Their job is to provide the resources to any barriers that may be presented from doing your job on time. We as Sunrise members have followed the state and local laws to meet the deadlines and have gone over and beyond in order for our petition to be placed on the ballot in November. This petition is the first of its kind in the state, so why wouldn't you want to be a model city in this case for the people, for the environment?
 The Texas Constitution gives the people of El Paso the right to self-government. This is what our charter is. State law lets us amend the charter by initiative. This is our constitutional right.
 What the city staff is saying, what the city staff said earlier is that we don't care about the Texas Constitution. We don't care about what the voice of the people have to say. This is a travesty. This is an injustice, and the city council should not allow this to stand. Thank you very much. The next speaker is Carla Palacios, followed by Sapphire Ortega, Michael Gutierrez, Veronica Carvajal, Angel Olloa.
 good afternoon you have three minutes good afternoon good afternoon my name is carla palacios and i am a constituent of district 7. i urge you all to vote in support of item 21 and 22 to ensure that the climate charter is placed on the ballot for election day in november
 I have seen firsthand the tireless efforts of my colleagues and peers that they have made to get these 40,000 signatures together. They canvassed every single day, no matter if it was raining or if they were in the blistering heat. They never failed to physically show up and speak to everyone in the community, communicating the urgency of this issue in both English and Spanish out there on campuses, at farmers markets, at parks, stores, classrooms. They were meeting the people where they were at.
 and informing them of the importance of the climate charter. And 40,000 people agreed that this is important, and they want it on their ballots.
 I cannot express or underline enough the urgency behind this matter, and it would be a disgrace if the climate charter is not on this ballot, because this is what our El Paso communities want, and they already did the work for you. Representative Rivera, as your constituent, this is what I want. This is what my family wants, and this is what my neighbors want as constituents of your district.
 Do not underestimate the power behind community. Do not underestimate the power behind this generation that organized and mobilized accordingly. We are 40,000 strong holding you all accountable today to represent your community, not corporate interests. These are your neighbors, your community, and your people. No excuses. We want this charter on the ballot. And I don't know what y'all gotta do to get this counted on time, but I'm hearing a lot of excuses.
 Y'all better figure it out because it needs to get done. And y'all better provide the resources and uphold the democratic right we have to petition. So I demand you to vote accordingly. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Sapphire. Sapphire Ortega, followed by Michael Gutierrez, Veronica Carvajal, Angel Ulloa, Dan Burkhart. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 good afternoon I am here today to request that my city representative sissy Lizarra take action to make sure the climate charter will be on the November ballot more than 39,000 El Pasoans have signed this petition and agree that we need to take action to diminish the impacts of climate change more than 39,000 people need to be heard climate change affects those who are at an economic disadvantage and this will lead to climate injustice
 It is the City's Council duty to listen to the people, and the people have spoken. I am here today to ask that our City Clerk of El Paso, Laura Pryne, count the signatures and get the climate charter on the ballot in November. The reason I care about this is because I have a family that are at an economic disadvantage and are already facing the effects of climate change. The air pollution in El Paso has been making it hard to breathe.
 Back in 2016, in my biology course, I looked into the levels of El Paso air pollution, and the numbers were not as high as they are today. This is extremely concerning because air pollution leads to asthma, and some days I wake up and I struggle to breathe. We need to do something about climate change now while we still have a chance. We can still take care of our community, and that is a choice that should be respected regardless of not agreeing with this.
 I have only voted one time in my life and I am now 25. 25 years of feeling helpless over being economically disadvantaged. Even when I was able to vote, I did not see hope, so I did not vote. Here I am today as a young adult speaking about how this is my future. I am worried about my future and what will happen if we do not take environmental action now.
 Our temperatures are rising, and when it gets hot, it becomes extremely difficult to think. I'm fortunate to have air conditioner, but what about those who cannot afford air conditioner? What happens to them? So please, listen to the people, and let's take the first step to climate justice. Let's get the climate charter on the ballot. It's 2022. It's time to listen to the people. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next statement was submitted by Michael Gutierrez. Mr. Gutierrez would like Representative Anello to read the statement. Thank you, Ms. Prine. Is this on? Yes, ma'am. Hello, Council. My name is Michael A. Gutierrez, a constituent of District 2. Unfortunately, I was unable to attend in person with my colleagues, but I still want to express my solidarity to the El Paso citizens who have signed the climate charter.
 Nearly 40,000 residents of El Paso signed the climate charter and our city government is obligated to recognize their voices. The city must do every effort to guarantee that this petition appears on the ballot for the November election. The city clerk must process the signatures and issue a certificate decision by August 9th, 2022 for city council to decide on August 16th, 2022 to call for a vote on the climate charter.
 Is the clerk's deadline of August 9th feasible for the signature count? Yes. Similar quantities of signatures have been evaluated in 8 to 10 business days by the city officials and other places, such as the City of Austin. There are at least 15 business days for El Paso City Clerk to complete this.
 You, as our elected officials, must take action to make sure that the city clerk, Laura Pryne, completes this task. If the clerk requires extra personnel or resources to guarantee they meet the deadline, you must do so. You swore an oath to execute their responsibility, therefore carry it out.
 excusing the voice of almost 40,000 El Paso citizens is disrespectful and demonstrates the lack of respect for our community. There shouldn't be any excuses, and there are none for not putting this immensely popular petition up for a vote. The climate charter compiled with the guidelines and processes established in El Paso residents should make the final decision on this matter. You must vote in favor of the city's ordinances to ensure the petition is placed in the November elections. If not.
 What use does democracy serve if those are meant to safeguard it are ignored? Thank you. The next statement was submitted by Veronica Carbajal, and it reads, Dear Mayor, Representative Anello, and City Clerk.
 My name is Veronica Carvajal. Please ensure that the City Clerk has enough resources to validate the signatures in support of the climate charter that have been submitted by Sunrise El Paso and Ground Game Texas. It is my understanding that 20,000 valid signatures were required and Sunrise El Paso has submitted over 39,500 signatures, nearly twice the required amount.
 Sunrise El Paso went a step further and provided voter unique identifiers, or VIUDs, for over 23,000 signatures, which should make it easier for the city clerk to validate the requisite signatures or to take a representative sample and extrapolate as is done routinely in such matters. How often do we criticize young people for not getting involved in local politics? How often do we blame them for our low voter turnout? Please do not tell them that their conviction and hard work has been for naught.
 Please provide the resources necessary for the city clerk to validate the signatures in time to place the item on the city council meeting schedule for August 16th and ultimately place the item on the November 2022 ballot. I graduated from Brown University with honors in environmental studies in 1998. Let me do the math for you. This was 22 years ago and we knew then that the earth was warming and yet our earth is in peril because our elected leaders have done so little to actually heed the warnings.
 With every missed opportunity, young people have lost trust in our electoral system. The truth is they shouldn't have to try to put the climate charter on the ballot. They are only doing so because our elected leaders have failed to protect their planet and their health. Please help restore their faith in our system and honor the commitment to making this world better. Thank you, Veronica Carvajal. Thank you. The next speaker is Angel Ulloa, followed by Dan Burkhart.
 Alyssa Garza Kim Schulte Richard Genera Daisy Marquez. Good afternoon you have three minutes. SPEAKER 2 Hello. Good afternoon. SPEAKER 3 Good afternoon. SPEAKER 2 Hi I'm Angel Ulloa. I live in District 1 representative by Mr. Schwarzbein and I am asking you today council to support the climate charter ballot initiative. The city required we submit 20,000 valid signatures and we gave them almost double that.
 Last Monday we submitted about 39,156 signatures to the City Clerk's Office. Yesterday we completed final validation of these signatures on our end and concluded that of those 39,156, 21,065 are indeed valid. That's 1,065 over the required number to get us on the ballot.
 So my question here today is why are we, yet again, being faced with resistance when what we're asking for is for you to stand with the people in an increasingly hostile state that does not listen to or represent its constituents? Mr. Gonzalez, this is what your contract was extended for.
 I want to once again thank Representative Anello for putting this item on the agenda today, but personally I am tired of standing up here and fighting for my life to get one basic human right out of this council.
 To ignore the almost 40,000 in support of a climate charter would be baffling. We are calling on you once again, council, to listen to the people, not the oligarchs. Had there not been limitations on who can sign the petition, being as they had to be registered voters within El Paso city lines, or over the age of 18, we damn well could have surpassed that required 20,000 four times over.
 We do not get paid to do this. We voluntarily spent our time drafting up a charter, ensuring it's within the legal realms of our city, secured funding, and went out to gather these signatures and to hear that the city does not have staff capacity to get this on this year's ballot, a job you get paid to do is infuriating.
 A little before submitting our petitions, a group of about five or so of us each verified about 240 signatures in only two days. That's about 1,200 signatures and maybe more in two days, Council. It is not impossible to do so. We've shown you that. All you have to lose from not supporting our initiative is a portion of El Paso Electric's profits, which absolutely boggles my mind that you would choose that over the purity of your city's air being as you also live here.
 Nonetheless, like always, we will take note of who votes against the people today, but keep in mind you are voting against almost 40,000. For the last three years that I have been with Sunrise, we have never had counsel on the people's side. We're hoping today is different, but if not, that's okay. The resistance you give us makes us want to fight harder. We'll come back stronger next time because we always do. The next speaker is Dan Burkhardt.
 Followed by Alyssa Garza, Kim Schulte, Richard Genera, Daisy Marquez, Dan Burkhart. Alyssa Garza submitted a statement to be read by Representative Rivera. Thank you. We can no longer wait to take action on this climate crisis. In Texas cities like Denton and Red River have committed themselves 100% clean energy. El Paso is the 10th sunniest city in the world, yet our privatized monopoly electric grid only uses 5% renewable energy.
 El Paso can be the leading city in Texas and the country to demonstrate the power of community and what action looks like on the local level to combat climate crisis. City Council must respect the will of nearly 40,000 El Pasoans and direct the city clerk to ensure the petition gets on the ballot. District 7 has 2,164 residents who support the climate charter.
 While I collected signatures in my district, many residents voiced their concern about El Paso's pollution, lack of infrastructure and the area of the preventing flood. The dominant presence of aliqui and how some of their children have asthma. City council, as our elected officials, must direct the city clerk to ensure the petition reaches the ballot this November. Climate charter officials have already provided a list of over 20,000 verified signatures.
 It is clear what the residents of El Paso want. I, along with hundreds of others, will not accept any excuses. If the city prevents us from being on the ballot, it demonstrates a social injustice, creates barriers and harms of community members, no excuses.
 It is time we transition away from our fossil fuels. It is time we listen to indigenous communities, front line communities, grassroots organizations and scientists who say the time is now to transition away from the fossil fuels. I am asking you to place the climate charter on ballot. If anyone prevents this from happening, they will have robbed the community from something great. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker, Kim Schulte.
 submitted a statement to be read into the record and it says
 As a citizen of El Paso, I want to know that our local government is listening to the people of El Paso and representing our interests. The climate change petition circulated by Sunrise El Paso was met with overwhelming support all over this city. The volume of signatures collected clearly sends a message that El Pasoans want to take this important step to protect our environment. Please direct the city clerk to ensure the petition reaches the ballot this November. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next statement was submitted by Richard Hennetta to be read into the record and it reads honorable mayor and city council climate change is an existential threat to our planet it concerns me that the idea that we would have a
 dedicated to ensuring El Paso is doing its part in curbing our contribution to the issue and developing our solutions. What seems so radical to the body as to require 40,000 of your constituents to band together and demand it of you. But here we are.
 A youth led organization that collects tens of thousands of signatures has earned these constituents the right to have this item voted on and to see if the elected officials who represent their interests are indeed doing that. I stand with the 2,900 constituents of District 5 in full support of this amendment. I stand with the 40,000 constituents who demanded their voice be heard.
 If the force of will and dedication to collect 40,000 signatures in such a short amount of time isn't impressive enough, I encourage you to imagine just how dedicated that force will be when directed towards your political prospects, should you deny them. I support the Charter Amendment and any action that will ensure that this is properly brought to a vote, as Sunrise El Paso desires, and implore each of you to do the same. Respectfully, Richard Gennetta.
 The next statement was submitted by Daisy Marcus to be read by Representative Lizardaga. Thank you, Ms. Prine. My name is Daisy Marcus and I am a constituent of District 8. I request that my city representative, Cecily Lizardaga, read the following into the public record of August 2nd City Council meeting for comments on items 21 and 22.
 It is feasible and it is necessary for the city clerk to process the signatures and provide a certification decision by August 9, 2022, to allow the city council to vote on August 16, 2022, to order an election on the climate charter. Is it realistic for the clerk to count the signatures by August 9th?
 Yes. Other cities, such as the City of Austin, city staff have reviewed similar numbers of signatures in 8 to 10 business days. The El Paso City Clerk has at least 15 days to get this done.
 There are no excuses for a failure to place this overwhelmingly popular petition on the ballot to be voted on. If the city clerk, Laura Prime, needs more resources or staff to ensure that they make the deadline, you, as my elected official, must take action to ensure the clerk completes this task. You must vote in favor of city ordinances to ensure the petition is placed on the November elections.
 Here is why it is important to me that you take action. My sister, father, and I grew up with terrible asthma and allergies. My asthma prevented me from partaking in athletic sports throughout my entire childhood, and even standard PE time. Whenever I would get a small cold, my asthma would take over, and it would be a bigger issue because of my already overworked lungs.
 Not only that, I'm disgusted seeing the sky in an ugly smog due to how unregulated our air is. I always wondered what could be done to prevent for further smog to be created, and this is one of the ways. This is just one of the million reasons why I am in support of this climate charter.
 I want to be able to breathe comfortably in my hometown. I want to have an ounce of hope that my home will be breathable for my niece and nephew. This climate crisis has me thinking if it's even moral to bring in a child into this world where I am unsure if we'll have drinkable water or clean air to breathe.
 You see, this is an opportunity for the many that are reconsidering having a child.
 Wouldn't it be wonderful if you were to be part of a group of people that want to take care of the earth they live on and ensure their beautiful city of El Paso, Texas is a healthy and happy place to thrive in? I expect you to do the right thing and listen to the voices of almost 40,000 El Pasoans. Thank you.
 The next statement was submitted by Graciela Blanding to be read by Representative Schwartzbein. Thanks. I want to also thank my constituent for saying my last name correctly, Schwartzbein. So thank you for that. I know it's a hard one.
 DEAR REPRESENTATIVE SCHWARZBEIN, PLEASE READ OUT THE FOLLOWING COMMENTS IN SUPPORT OF ITEMS 21 AND 22 ON TODAY'S AGENDA. AS A CONSTITUENT OF YOUR DISTRICT, I'M WRITING IN SUPPORT OF ITEMS 21 AND 22 ON TODAY'S AGENDA. ON BEHALF OF THE 4,000, I THINK SHE MEANT 40,000 CONSTITUENTS WHO SIGNED THE CLIMATE CHARTER BALLOT MEASURES SUBMITTED LAST MONTH,
 By Sunrise El Paso and Ground Game Texas, I expect you to do everything in your power to ensure the City Clerk validate the signatures by August 9th, a very feasible deadline according to state precedents. This petition has more than enough signatures to get on the ballot, and Sunrise El Paso has already provided VIUDs for over 23,000 of them. Any attempt to block the signatures from validation will be considered not only an indirect act of climate devastation, but a direct infringement on democracy and state law.
 Your constituency will not accept excuses for obstructing their will. I hope the gravity of your vote is clear. I trust that we and the additional near 40,000 signatories of this petition can count on your advocacy on our behalf, much like you advocated for the preservation and lost dog in D1. Please redeem city council and do what you know to be the right thing. I also kindly request the response from your office on your vote's rationale. I look forward to hearing back. Respectfully, Graciela Blandon.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Luis Miranda, followed by Hilda Villegas, Guillermo Glenn, Sabrina Bustillos. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Luis Miranda Good afternoon. Luis Miranda Good afternoon. My name is Luis Enrique Miranda.
 I am a constituent from District 8. I am a member of San Luis El Paso and I was the previous campaign manager for this ballot initiative. And I want to say 100 days really. That is a third of a year like that is not a reasonable timeline for them to put forward. It is not at all under any circumstance. As someone who's worked and managed all with these petitions and has had multiple occasions and having to
 number of these petitions and such and such it does not take that long it really does not it it just you know looking at everything people have been saying looking at the constituents looking at the numbers of people who have showed up and who have spoken you guys really have a public mandate to see this through to ensure that this is passed to ensure that this goes on the ballot and
 I again you know like there have been previous instances in other council meetings where the city staff has placed bogus political arguments or bogus legal arguments at best or misinformed at best and it really calls into question you know other people have given their own their own legal opinion on what's possible here and it's just the bureaucratic process you know this is more of a.
 a process right just ensuring what people have already said ensuring that people's voices are heard and ensuring that the city can actually do its job when it's presented to it this this uh initiative you know it's not
 It is uncommon but it is the city's position and it is the city's job to ensure that every single thing that's possible under our laws can be done in a reasonable manner. And that is what we're asking. That is what we're telling you to do your job in a reasonable manner to do your job in a reasonable process to listen to the constituents
 and to put it forward the resources that are needed to get this done. Because those resources exist. We know that those resources exist. We know that the processes exist. We they might try to obfuscate what the system what the process is and what the what the issue is for them. But we know that that that's not really true that that they don't have the time. They do have the time. They do have the time to do this. And please you know.
 Listen to the constituents listen to people. There's a reason why El Pasoans are so cynical and have been tuned out by city council is because of the history because every time that people try to put forth and be engaged in their civic duties you know this things like this show up and they try to obfuscate what's possible and so you know
 Consider that consider the consequences of not getting this on the ballot consider the consequences of the message of telling people that when they engage in democracy that the city will deny it due to technicalities. Thank you. The next speaker is Hilda Villegas. Hilda Villegas. I don't see Ms. Villegas coming forward and I don't see her phone number in the queue. We'll move to Guillermo Glen followed by Sabrina Bustillos. I don't see Mr. Glen in the queue either.
 sabrina lucille yes hi um good afternoon my name is sabrina bustios and i'm here to urge council to take immediate action to ensure that the el paso climate charter can be on the ballot this november in a matter of months sunrise and ground game mobilized to a historic degree the amount of signatures needed nearly doubles the amount required in response the city seems to say that that's too much work for them to verify
 For many on the council, the amount of constituents that signed this petition in their district nearly triples the amount that voted for them in their primary. The plain truth is members of this council benefit from a lack of civic engagement in El Paso. Now that we've shown you what we can do to mobilize, we are met with excuses that are meant to keep it that way. Let's be honest because if this was at the interest of developers in the city, you would have these signatures verified in a week.
 I really took time out of my work day to come listen to my local government tell me that this would be too much work for them to do, when in reality this is verifying work that other community members already did for you. For that, all I can say is I really hope and wish that you all can figure this out, do your job, and listen to the nearly 40,000 people who want this. Because if not, we've shown what our mobilization can do, and those are the same people who are going to unseat you if you don't. Thank you for your time today.
 The next speaker is Carmen Rodriguez. Carmen Rodriguez, I don't see her phone number in the queue. Ms. Bryan, is there a statement from Senator Rodriguez? I see that on the list. Yes, ma'am. The next statement was submitted by Senator Jose Rodriguez.
 And it reads, Dear Mayor Leaser and City Council representatives, today you are presented with the opportunity to support an unparalleled initiative that will sustain life in the El Paso region, state, nation, and indeed the earth we live in. I urge you to take a bold step and do your part to become the first municipality in the country to adopt a climate change charter.
 We know El Paso has led the way in changing harmful policies and practices that hurt people and diminished society as a whole We were the first city in Texas due to desegregate our public schools and public housing to protect voting rights and to ban smoking in public establishments and
 We now can be the first to adopt a climate change charter. The urgency in doing so is obvious. Daily we witness a destruction to life and property caused by extreme temperatures, raging fires, flooding, more powerful and frequent hurricanes, and other natural disasters that science tells us are largely caused by climate change.
 These changes in the Earth's climate pose an existential threat that we can no longer ignore. The time to act is now. The Climate Change Charter Petition represents citizens' participation in direct democracy. The commitment of the young people and organizations that spearheaded the petition and the thousands of citizens who signed it deserve a quick, expeditious process to ensure that the measure is placed on the ballot for November's election.
 The people have done their part. Now it is time to do yours respectfully Jose Rodriguez former state senator Thank you. The next speaker is Yvonne Diaz and she submitted a statement to be read by representatives. I'll see them. Thank you Laura. My name is Yvonne Diaz Unfortunately, I was unable to attend in person due to having kovat 19 but I still want to express my solidarity to the El Paso citizen citizens who have signed the climate charter and
 It is imperative that the city clerk proceeds to the signatures and issues a certification of decision by August the 9th, 2022. For the city council to decide on August 16, 2022 to call for the vote on the climate charter, we understand clerk's deadline of August 9th in the feasible for the signatures count as similar quantities of signatures have been evaluated in eight to 10 business days.
 by the city officials in other places, such as city of Austin. There are at least 15 business days for El Paso City Clerk to complete this. You as our elected official must take action to make sure that the city clerk, Laura Prine, completes this task. If the city clerk requires extra personnel or resources to guarantee they meet the deadline, you must do so. You swore an oath to execute this responsibility, therefore it must be carried out.
 As I write this from my bed struggling to breathe, I think about the importance of having clean air in El Paso, which is ranked the 12th worst polluted city in the US. Asthma, allergies, and respiratory problems in the city are not a coincidence. It is up to you to ensure better air quality, not only for constituents like me, but for the future generations.
 Please show us that you care about your children, your grandchildren's future, and listen to the voice of almost 40,000 El Paso citizens that stand behind the needs of clean air. The climate charter compiled with the guidelines and procedures establishes an El Paso residents should make the final decision on this matter. You must vote in favor of city ordinances to ensure the petition is placed on November's elections. In solidarity, Ivonne Diaz.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Marlo Olguin. Marlo Olguin, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon. Mario Olguin, star six, please. Mario Olguin, star six, to unmute your telephone.
 Well, Mr. Olguin is coming forward. I'll read a statement from Kenneth Bell that reads, my name is Kenneth Bell and I'm a resident of District 3. The climate charter is the will of the people. This is not a matter of opinion, personal feelings, or political ideology. This is a matter of fact.
 The city clerk has an obligation to certify the signatures in a timely manner so that the citizens can vote on the charter amendment in the November election. A petition to place charter amendment on the ballot requires 20,000 signatures from registered voters. Over 39,000 El Pasoans signed the climate charter because they know our city has failed to prepare itself for the adverse effects of climate change in any significant way.
 In District 3, where I live, 2,421 of my neighbors have signed the petition. City Council representatives, the people are not asking. This is a direct order from the citizens you serve to place this on the ballot to be voted on. Vote in favor of placing the ordinance on the ballot. Thank you. Yes. Mario Holguin, Star 6. I don't see...
 Him unmuting the telephone. We'll go with Christian Marquez, which submitted a statement to be read by Representative Liz Arraga. Thank you, Ms. Pryne. City Council and members of the public, thank you for the opportunity to share these written words expressing steadfast support for the El Paso Climate Charter.
 It is my understanding that there are individuals within city government who are opposed to verifying the signatures for this petition, though it was submitted in a timely manner to the city clerk's office. My ask of you is this. Consider what these 40,000 signatures mean for the City of El Paso. In many instances, this number is higher than the voter turnout we see in local elections.
 This is a people-led grassroots campaign. These are the voices of your constituents, those who can vote and those who can't. Out of 40,000 signatures, at least half have been verified to come from registered voters. The other half are 20,000 people who support this change in our community and either can't vote or aren't registered yet.
 And despite this, each signature should count to each of you personally as the city representatives. 40,000 Alpasoans envision a sustainable present and future for the City of El Paso. The El Paso Climate Charter is a critical piece of policy that advocates for anti-racist environmental action.
 It advocates for the preservation and cleanliness of our water, the quality of our air, the quality of our health, the lives of our labor workers and their families. I ask you to give the other 20,000 people a chance to vote on the Climate Charter by supporting it and moving it towards the ballot.
 I ask you to give the city of El Paso the opportunity to vote on it, to hold a truly democratic process in this decision-making. We have the opportunity as a city, as a community, to model what democracy in action should and could look like.
 Listen to the 40,000. Each signature should count, and though not every signature will, these are still your constituents. These are the people of El Paso. This is our community's voice in action. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, I've called everyone that signed up to speak, and if I may clarify some statements. Thank you very much. I want to, first of all, thank everyone that showed up to –
 to speak and also I want to congratulate you all on the, you know, almost 40,000 signatures and the hard work you did to bring it forward. So I want to thank you all for being here and giving us your time. We do really do appreciate that. So thank you all. Mayor, may I clarify some statements? Pardon me? That we've heard. May I clarify some statements that were made? Representative Sandello, do you want to go first or?
 Okay, go ahead, ma'am. Thank you, sir. So I wanted to say we are working as fast as we can to verify the petition. I said it could take us up to 100 days. I didn't say it would take us 100 days. I said up to based on previous experience with validating petitions. I did reach out as soon as I heard that the petition was coming. I did reach out to my counterpart in Austin, Texas, Ms. Rios, and she told me that the average days...
 to verify a petition in her office is 30 working days. She said 30 working days. When I read the articles in the local articles that said that
 city of austin takes 12 to 15 days i reached out to her again and this was her reply and i quote hello the magic word is typically as i mentioned in our conversation it all depends on the condition of the petition when submitted to our office what other time sensitive projects we have going on i.e ballot applications budget meetings regular city council meetings one very important detail is that we have over 20 full-time employees and a lot of experience with validating petitions
 I will say, end quote, I will say that they also have developed their own petition verification software system in-house and knowing that I reached out to our IT folks
 to see if they could talk to the City of Austin's software developers to see if they could come up with something similar that would also help us verify the petition in a quicker manner. And so they are working on it, Mayor. So I just wanted to say we are working as fast as we can. We do wanna certify the petition in a timely manner. We only have 20, we only have 10 working days from the date the petition was filed to put it on the agenda.
 thank you ms prine and honestly to believe that um you're about the most honest person i've ever met the hardest working person i've ever met and if there's a way of doing it you're going to figure out a way to do it and i think this is a perfect example of trying to look for a way of trying to get it done and miss um anella thank you mayor um
 I also I do want to still mention that this agenda item was asking what was needed and we still have not received an answer on that. And so one of the people I would like to ask Mike Siegel a question if he's still on the line. Is Mr. Siegel there? Mr. Siegel, if you're in the Q star six, please to unmute your telephone.
 hello this is michael siegel hi mr siegel hey could you clarify a few things you made some comments in your public comment so first um you mentioned that you are a former city attorney out of austin yes ma'am i worked as an assistant city attorney for the city of austin okay so you have municipal experience and everything all of the opinions that you're giving today are based on that experience
 Yes, that's right. And also, I serve as the general counsel for Ground Game Texas, and we are currently running ballot measure campaigns in 10 cities. So I'm very familiar with city charters as well as state election code and state constitutional law that regulates these campaigns. Okay, thank you. And so something you mentioned, and there seems to be a little bit of a...
 or we're hearing two different statements, one by our city manager and then you countered that a little bit and so it's a conversation I would like to have a little bit more in regards to hiring outside individuals to do the count and or bringing in the auditor or other individuals from the city to do that count. And so could you speak a little bit more about how that is a valid process or a valid option that we have?
 Yes, ma'am. On Monday after Sunrise Movement El Paso in Grand Canyon, Texas submitted the physical petition to the city clerk, I later that day met with the city attorney for the city of El Paso, and she mentioned to me that this problem had occurred when the city of Austin asked the auditor to directly help count the signatures.
 And that was a legal problem because the auditor has a different statutory role in the City of Austin government.
 But I think the inference that the manager made is completely incorrect, that you can't get help. I think the takeaway from the situation in Austin with the auditor's office is that the staff needs to be under the control of the city clerk herself. And so that doesn't prevent the city clerk from hiring temporary staff or from receiving transfers from other city departments. Mayor, if I may.
 Yes ma'am. I have a question. Well, I have a comment to make. While I appreciate that Mr. Siegel is a lawyer for Ground Game Texas, I would remind council that Mr. Siegel is not your lawyer. The city appoints me, and we have other lawyers that are available to answer these questions. Thank you, Ms. Ponder. However, I still have the floor. However...
 He is not a city attorney's lawyer. I would strongly urge you to allow us to come into executive session and provide you with legal advice in regards to this issue. We have heard from the public, and I would just remind council that Mr. Siegel is not your lawyer. He doesn't have an ethical obligation to this body, and he's not here to represent the city of El Paso. He is here to represent Ground Game Texas. Thank you. Excuse me. We need to maintain decorum in the council chambers, please.
 We allowed you all to speak, and we didn't interrupt you, and we'll continue to have the same type of courtesy, and I do appreciate it. And again, I do thank you all for being here and giving us your opinion and your voice, and we will take that into very serious consideration. Okay, thank you, Mayor. And I have one more question for Ms. Prine, if that's okay. Ms. Prine, you said the signatures needed to be verified by August 9th.
 Was that what you said? Did I mishear? The deadline to place the item on the August 16th agenda is August 10th. Okay. So if you had the signatures verified by August 10th, they could go forward for one hearing for the August 16th meeting.
 Yes, if I could place it on the agenda by the August 10th deadline, it would be on the August 16th. I appreciate that clarification because there's been a lot of back and forth about what that date was, and I just wanted to understand from your perspective what that was. I mean, I had a follow-up question, but it has completely slipped my mind. I have absolutely no idea what I was going to ask you. Yeah, okay. If I think of it, I'll let you know upstairs, but I apologize. Thank you for that clarification. Yes, ma'am.
 Mr. Siegel, thank you for being on the line and for answering some questions. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much, sir. And I do have a question. Dr. Bonnard, didn't mean to startle you there, sir. Can you kind of explain what you were trying to, because I know there was some questions being asked of what you were trying to explain? Sure.
 Well, I think that, you know, obviously you can take this route with this proposition and go through all the pain of tallying the signatures, et cetera. But I think also a member of council today could just as easily make a motion to allow this to be on the ballot along with the other propositions that you're considering. I don't think that you have to do that.
 And that would solve the whole problem. I think the other thing that it appears that it's really in my gut, and I think you all have the same feeling, they actually have the number that's required. And it would be a shame to just have this not happen because of this technicality and complexity.
 It just doesn't make any sense then what all today you could add it to the other items that you're considering in the form that it is today and
 And that gives you the two weeks in between to go ahead and tweak the language for the 16th. Because that's what's being proposed for these other items as well. This is the introduction today. And the ad hoc committee had made several other additions that they wanted to consider. And staff and legal has constantly said that, okay, on the 16th, you'll still be allowed to tweak those. So if the concern is some of the language that's in the proposition, you have that time.
 but i i think that you can just make a motion to get this done thank you today thank you i would encourage one person to do it thank you with that um representative i'm in um i'm sorry thank you mayor um and and thank you to all of the folks who are organizing on this effort today um i do agree with you uh mary lisa that our city clerk has the ability and is working hard to address this issue
 But I do have several questions that I'd like to ask. And so I would ask council to bear with me since, you know, we're already, we're already in full swing of discussion. And then if, if council wants to, to go into executive later I'm open to that. But Mrs. Prine, do you, I have heard and seen from the public there, there may be other petitions to be considered. Have you received any intent for any other petitions for an initiative?
 Yes, ma'am. I was notified on Friday evening that another group has Has an intent to file a petition in my office on Thursday Okay, it's an initiative petition for for a charter amendment or for an ordinance ordinance. Okay, so you have an ordinance What is the what is your duty per the city charter on the initiative process for an ordinance for an ordinance? I would have 30 days to authenticate the petition
 signatures and to place it on the city council agenda so i would have less than 30 days to verify because it would need to be placed on the city council agenda within 30 working days okay that's that's concerning so my assumption here is that takes precedence over this other initiative that's correct ma'am because on that one i'm on a strict timeline to complete it
 Okay, so that's assuming it's submitted But I have heard from the public that there was another petition coming coming So I just wanted to be clear to the public that we're up against a city charter requirement which is 30 days for a city clerk to certify that petition
 NOW, I JUST ALSO WANT TO SHARE WITH COUNCIL, AT NO POINT AM I ADVOCATING TO NOT PLACE US ON THE BALLOT. I THINK THAT THE VOTERS SHOULD DECIDE. WE'VE GONE THROUGH THESE PROCESSES BEFORE WITH SAME-SEX MARRIAGE BENEFITS FOR THOSE FOLKS. WE'VE GONE THROUGH THE PROCESS AS WELL WITH THE LOST DOG TRAIL. AND SO IT'S VITALLY IMPORTANT THAT WE RESPECT THE PROCESS.
 And that we allow for the voters to educate themselves on how they want their government to function city charter amendments have gone through rigorous vetting in the public before and I'm concerned about the amount of time that we are providing for the public to Understand what and how your government can change which is why we in the past have called for city charter advisory committee so that we can fully vet the process and
 but I also respect the intent of the petition and no way am I trying to become an obstacle or barrier for the process. So with having said that and understanding the time constraints that you have, City Clerk Prine, is there an idea of how many signatures for that petition you may have to certify? Did they disclose that? For that initiative petition, it would be 5% of those who voted in the last...
 General election, so we're looking at about close to 12,000 signatures.
 Okay, so you have another 12,000 signatures and if you if you use the sampling method it'd be a quarter of that, correct? Okay, so you have at least several thousand signatures that you and eight staff on top of your other Obligations have to certify. That's correct. I recognize that you're not A robot. I recognize that you have limitations but I also want the public to understand that and
 WE AT NO POINT SHOULD ENCOURAGE VIOLATING STATE LAW. WE WANT TO BE ON YOUR SIDE. WE WANT TO RESPECT THE PROCESS AND WE WANT TO CALL FOR THE ELECTION. SO I'M GOING TO SHIFT OVER TO YOU, MRS. NIEMANN, CITY ATTORNEY NIEMANN. I KNOW HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT EXECUTIVE SESSION BUT I WOULD ASK IF YOU COULD SHARE JUST MATERIAL FACTS ON THE ISSUE.
 This this November there's a city charter election. Can you just explain to council? What is our Ministerial duty once we receive an initiative petition What steps we have to take as soon as that petition is submitted to the clerk, right? So the initiative petition to amend the Charter Council has a ministerial duty to call the election once once the
 the signatures are verified. So once Ms. Pine is finished verifying all the signatures and they get to the required number of signatures, she will notify council, and then council has what we call a ministerial function, which means you all have no discretion, but you have to call the election at the next uniform election date. Okay, and if we don't call the election, are you prepared to disclose what could be the potential risk? So...
 So the only way you don't call the election is if they don't reach the required number of signatures. So if Ms. Prine returns and says the petition did not have the required number of signatures, then council is under no obligation to put the item on the ballot in November. OK. I understand the content of the petition, whether it's this upcoming petition that Ms. Prine just talked about or the one that was submitted.
 What would be the city's obligation to vet The petition language is that our obligation? Right so the council does have an obligation under state law to ensure that any language on about it is proper and legal So that is something that is placed on the government entity Let's say the elections called an items passed but there are concerns about state law violations or that it preempts state law What would be recourse for?
 members of the public or city council? So council would have to wait until after the election to decide whether we were going to file suit or a member of the public could potentially bring in action saying that the language on the petition was not valid or appropriate. So if the election's called, the item is passed, hey, maybe it's in violation of the state law, there is recourse for the public to either sue the city or the city can take a position and go into litigation. Correct. There's recourse either way to fix...
 Those issues. Okay, that answers my question now the the pending timeline for this November I've heard the August 22nd deadline. I'm concerned that our City clerk will not have the Required time to properly certify and authenticate the signatures per the state law on item 24 This is a city charter election. I
 If this election is called without this petition When would be the earliest date that a next city charter election can be called? No more often than every two years, so if you call the election for this November November 8th the next uniform election date that is available to the council to call for a charter amendment would be me of I
 2025. Okay, so it's either this November or May 2025 if there's an election called this November. Correct. Now, what
 Could we I know there's an introduction today item 24 to call for a charter a charter election for an amendment of the Charter This November can this election be postponed to a next future date? And if so, what date would that be? So we can take this election that we're already planning on having and
 give some time to Mrs. Prine to validate both of the petitions and then call an election of May of 2023. That's an option on the floor today. Correct. Members of Council, I think here is the solution. You've given the opportunity to our Clerk to follow state law. You've given the opportunity for your advocates and organizers here to have an opportunity to have an election.
 But then you've also given the opportunity for the city to educate along with any other stakeholders and collaborators so that we can properly educate matters of a functioning government. City charter elections should be taken seriously. It reforms your government, and that should be respected as well for the over 600,000 residents in the city of El Paso.
 So I don't want to delete the item. I don't want to add the item today. I think that what's most appropriate would be to direct your city attorney and city manager to prepare to postpone this upcoming election in November and delay it to May of 2023. What kind of action would you need to make that happen? So based on the conversation that the council has had today,
 Ms. Pryne is obligated under state law to continuing to count the petition and the signature. She doesn't need direction from council. It's her obligation under state law, so she will continue to do that. You have the ordinance posted on the agenda to introduce the amendment for the charter in November of this year. You could introduce that and leave it in place. Ms. Pryne could come back.
 on the 15th or the 16th and brief counsel on where she is on the signatures. And then at that point, you are scheduled to have the public hearing on item number 24 and then counsel can make the decision if she's already reached the magic number for the number of signatures or not to then vote on item 24 or move to delete the item so that we could complete the signature and then we can come back and draft the appropriate ordinance.
 with this language that's already introduced and then the potential language of the proposed petition that Sunrise El Paso has circulated. So if I'm understanding correctly, city council can take action today to vote on approving the ordinance because it's the first step of the process because there's two votes that have to take place on the ordinance.
 And in the event that Mrs. Prine can certify and authenticate the signatures by August 16th, then council can make a decision to add it this November.
 in the event that she's unable to certify the signatures by the next council meeting, then we can make a decision at that point to postpone the election to May of 2023. Right, I just wanna be clear that the only ordinance that is posted for introduction today is the proposed charter amendments that were vetted through the commission. So there is currently no ordinance introducing the language for the charter amendments on the climate initiative.
 Okay, so we can't call it in November without correct without doing the two-prong process You need to still introduce the language as proposed by the petitioners, which is the Charter amendments We'd still need to introduce that and then call the public hearing. I
 So there could be potentially an opportunity to post in November so long as there's a special council meeting held This November, excuse me The and maybe before August 22nd So we would recommend against you all calling a special meeting of council under the Charter ordinances can be introduced At any council meeting but they can only be approved at a public meeting. It's a regular scheduled meeting so
 I mean, but that's under the assumption that Mrs. Pryan can certify, which I don't feel comfortable- Correct. Putting her in that corner when she needs to adequately vet the signatures with this other petition coming forward. But also to give her the appropriate tools and resources so that you can do that. I think it's unfair to ask her that, and I would also ask the organizers today,
 Is there a reason why we waited three weeks before the election to submit? Is it because you didn't have the signatures or was this on purpose to wait until the last minute? Because you're welcome to answer Mrs. Fuentes, but I'm just curious. Will you please come up to the microphone? Will you please come up to the microphone, please? I mean, it depends on every community. I think your question was how long does it take- Point of order.
 We're past the ten minute rule right now. So, okay I'm sorry. I've gone over my Obsession I'll go ahead and ask the question Because I think it's important to go ahead and give you the up but you are you're out of time But I'll ask the question. It takes a lot of effort Lots of boots on the ground lots of organizing lots of moving parts together 39,000 signatures So that's
 I feel a little offended. I feel like you're suggesting that we did it on purpose. No, that's why I'm asking the question. I'm not implying here. I'm being very respectful. What you all have accomplished is unprecedented. I'm trying to find a solution here within the confines of our state law. And so I apologize if I offended you. My question is, is there a reason why we waited three weeks before the last date to call the election? We just wanted to ensure that we had
 Although our numbers overall were really high, they're in the 30,000s, due to the demographics of our city, as someone mentioned earlier, there's lots of residents, there's lots of people here who are not registered to vote. So our verification rate was lower than we had anticipated because again, the specific demographics of the city. So we needed to take the time to make sure that we did meet those 20,000 required ballot signatures
 which is why we needed to gather so many more. Okay, so it's a time constraint issue, right? And that's no different than the time constraint issue she has as well. We're going to go point. I will forego my ability. Thank you. Our limit is $100.
 no go ahead no go ahead i'll i'll ask the question you can answer me mayor i'd like to make a motion to suspend the rules because a number of us have already have already spoken twice and so this is an important item and i think we should be able to have this dialogue we'll continue we'll continue in that way go we'll go to you next right now representative um we have a motion second to suspend the rules let's go ahead just go ahead and speak sir
 Can go ahead and allow you to go ahead and sit here as a presiding officer and he can allow I'd like to hear represent Fernandez continue with the questions. So I'd like to see the floor to represent Hernandez at this time The question
 I think you've answered my question. I was just curious as to like well your your you had time constraints And and I just wanted to convey that the city also Time constraint was 180 days. We are well below that
 So we did more than our part. Oh, you mean 180 days from the time that you've notified the first signature So the time we could turn in so there's the rule that you have to allow for 180 days and allow for Yeah, the notice to the city clerk and so you're well below the timeline. Is that what you just said? I can Can you also when can you um, can you repeat your name also, please? Oh
 I'm sorry? For the public, can you repeat your name? My name's Ana Fuentes. Thank you. Thank you, Ana. I don't know where you stand on the 180 days, but you have the 180 days. Yeah, we have the data. Right, so for a charter change, there's no timeline, but for an ordinance adoption, there's a 30-day timeline. So that's kind of the concern here.
 We're not this is not an ordinance change. This is a Charter. No, I recognize that I'm talking about two different issues here because we are expecting another ordinance petition to come forward Okay, so I thank you for that mayor. I want to respect you as a presiding officer. I've gone over my ten minutes I'm happy to come back around. Thank you. Thank you very much Go ahead. Sure. Come on up. I just also want to add to one point that representative and on this brought up. I
 This, oh, Miguel Escoto with Sunrise. Thank you. So the way that the petition was written was done with the eyes and the expertise of legal experts, of policy, of experienced policy makers. It wasn't just these kids. It wasn't just us youth, right?
 In the event that as Mr. Bonhart suggested, the petition be directly added into the agenda for you all, it is of utmost importance to the 40,000 people that signed on to this, that it not be messed with, it not be meddled with. Why? Because the 40,000 people that signed on to this signed on to what they read.
 They signed on to what they saw. And did they read the petition? Was the charter attached to the petition? Yes. Okay, just so you're aware, that's not what I experienced at my community meetings. It was a little card passed out. The petition wasn't there. So I want to bring that concern to your attention. The cards have the petition. The entire language of the petition? Yes, every single card, every single person that signed. I have not seen that.
 It does. Oh, it's a QR code? Yes, yes. Is that what you're referring to? That as well as other. Does that meet the requirements? Right, so when they signed, they signed onto what we wrote with experts, with policy makers, with lawyers, with PhDs. It's not just us kids doing this, right? No, I recognize it, yeah. Right, so here's the, and again, I want to reiterate this point that
 It would be amazing as Mr. Bonner mentioned just to go directly to To put this on the ballot directly you all have that power and you can take that power No, I and it and I understand that So yeah, but thank you for your comment. I just to go back to my original point I I do not feel comfortable doing that. We need to follow the process and allow mrs. Prine to certify and again, thank you for coming up and addressing the council. We appreciate your all's time and and I
 And now Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks. So first I have a couple questions. Thanks Mayor again. And first of all, you know, you all talk about us kids. Us kids have changed the world before. So don't think that your energy and your spirit is one that needs to be distinguished as you get older.
 You know, we all start off idealistic and we continue with that. And so the work that you all are doing here, again, is unprecedented. So whether or not what age you are, when you become active and become engaged in your community, each and every one of us has an opportunity to make this world a little bit better no matter how we can, whether that's through serving, whether that's through petitions, whether that's through volunteering at our church or synagogue. So the work that you all are doing is important work.
 I had a couple questions relating to trying to understand Why is it that I'm just kind of curious you you mentioned that you were working with other sort of folks that are engaged in? Municipal law and that sort of thing why the why the Chartermen as opposed to say introducing an ordinance similar to lost dog Who's the question for sir? Yes
 Go ahead and repeat your name, too, when you should. Miguel Escoto with Sunrise. Well, we know that the scale of the solution needs to match the scale of the problem, so that is why...
 This program was designed to go at the very source of what guides this city government, which is our charter more than an ordinance. So that that because this problem is so fundamental and transcends very different, a lot of various departments. That's why it's important that it's a charter. And that's what gave so many people hope to sign on to it in the first place.
 So many people have this disillusion in this city government and in this body and in the city hall. And our proposal to them was, yes, but we can change that. It's possible to change that. And that's what a lot of signatories signed on to, this idea that it can be a deep transformational change.
 Thank you, sir. So I think thank you. Mr. Escoto, you know, I think that represent Hernandez you know brings up a point that if we were not to postpone the current sort of
 I THINK THAT IF WE HAD THE CHARTER AMENDMENTS THAT WE'RE CHARTER AMENDMENTS THAT WE'RE DISCUSSING RIGHT NOW, WE HAVE DISCUSSING RIGHT NOW, WE HAVE THE AD HOC CHARTER COMMITTEE, IT AD HOC CHARTER COMMITTEE, IT WOULD FORCE THIS WHENEVER THE WOULD FORCE THIS WHENEVER THE SIGNATURES ARE VERIFIED AND SIGNATURES ARE VERIFIED AND COMPLETED AS PER STATE LAW UNDER COMPLETED AS PER STATE LAW UNDER THE GUIDANCE OF OUR CITY CLERK THE GUIDANCE OF OUR CITY CLERK WHO I BELIEVE IS TRYING TO DO WHO I BELIEVE IS TRYING TO DO HER BEST. HER BEST. SO I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE MAY NOT BE
 With that being said, so if I'm to understand our city attorney, if we were to postpone the charter amendments that we're currently been discussing and we had the ad hoc charter, we could look at verifying these signatures and send them all together for a May election? Yes, that's correct. Okay. Is that something that this council can take action for whenever these are verified to say that we're going to send it up for a May election?
 And this that will happen regardless of future councils. Correct. So so under the process under state law after the city clerk is done certifying the number of signatures she notifies council and then council has to call the election on a uniform election date.
 So you don't have to take action to call the election today for a future date. You simply allow the process to continue which is for the clerk to certify the number of signatures required. And so when these would be verified say in X amount of days we would then have this as well as the charter the charter amendments that the ad hoc committee had discussed and say we want to put all of these together for the most recent election of May 23 election. Correct.
 Okay, I mean I think that that's I mean I think that that's that's something to consider and look at because again it follows state law and it also gives the ability to To make sure that this gets to the voters, which I think is the most important thing
 I am kind of curious to hear from our city attorney and executive about some of these discussions as well, because I would want to understand if there's any other options that we have in terms of getting this to the ballot or bringing this kind of legislation there. But I want to be respectful. We do have a number of people that do want to speak on this council. So I want to thank everybody again for coming and speaking today.
 I'm going to go to Representative Nello, then I'll come back to you. Yeah, I was just going to say, if there's others that want to speak, I can hold off. Yeah, Representative Nello, then Representative Nundis. Thank you, Mayor. And I'm going to reiterate some questions that have already been answered, but I want to be very clear. Mrs. Neiman, when and if the signatures are verified, this council, the staff, have no authority to stop this process. Once signatures are verified, it goes on to the ballot.
 Your question was whether staff has the authority to staff or counsel Well are by state law under a Charter amendment. The only thing we can do is verify the signatures, correct? So under state law the clerk has to verify specific number of signatures and then once the specific number of signatures is reached then
 then council calls the election. Okay. But I just want to, because I think there's some concern out there that if we wait until May, that gives the council the opportunity to change the language. But I just want to be clear for the public that once those signatures are verified by state law, that election is called and we are not touching that. We cannot touch that language. Correct. So under state law, we would not be permitted to change the language of the petition in circulated.
 Okay, and so I would like to ask Sunrise what their opinion about the May election is. I imagine you maybe need a minute to think about it because you've done a lot of work and you came here with a lot of passion, and now this is a very different –
 conversation that's being had so I would actually I'm gonna pause that question mayor until we get back from executives so they have a chance to kind of put their heads together and give us an opinion because I imagine it's a lot for them I think that you guys see that we're really trying and we're respecting your process and that's really important and I think that you know the Miss prime
 City Council here city attorney has come up with some options to respect what you all have done and make sure that your time You know, you don't feel you wasted your time and your voice and the voice of the public is hurt So I hope you all see that because it's really important that That the process is heard and done properly and and we want to make sure that you guys are
 Do understand and see that this council and the city staff is really trying work a solution to make sure that your voice is heard. Go ahead, sir. Yeah, like like Representative Anelo mentioned, this is a huge decision, which we should talk amongst ourselves as a group. So if we can have like a delay on this.
 to get back to you but know that it's very appreciative that you all are working
 ways to get around this, right? This is exactly what is needed, is expected from you all is to get to our solutions and listen to these 40,000. So if we could. We'll go into executive and have our own conversation. I just, I wanted you to know, I was gonna ask that question, but I could tell by your face that like you, I need some time. So when we come back from executive, I'd love to have an opinion from the group. Yeah, and I think that we're not trying to get around it. We're trying to figure out a way to get it done. And I think that's really important to see.
 So and we thank you all for working with us. So do you want to make a motion to go in executive? Thank you very much mayor I Would like to give a heartfelt. Thank you to mr. Escote miss Fuentes Thank you very much for leading the pact doing what you're doing and I know you mentioned that
 Youth and young people and that's always great. Okay. I do believe that there is climate change Those polar caps are melting. There's drought There's wildflowers and wildfires excuse me, and I am a proponent of climate change I will tell you that right now, but I'm also a proponent of the process Okay
 And I took a note to do the right things, the legal things, okay, that were state law, our city charter, ordinances, and things like that, okay? And I respect everybody that's here. I respect everybody that came here, everybody that called in, everybody that signed your petitions. I do respect that, okay? I want you to know that. I'm on your side, okay? But there's things that happen here. As you can see, this body here, we have different questions that need to be answered.
 Mr. Bonar did propose a possible solution, but I think that's other things that we need to consider before we make that change. The fact that you filed a petition already, and now you want to possibly have a timeout and say, hey, we need to talk about that, I salute you on that.
 But I'm not sure that's a legal process that we can do because we are a governmental body. Okay? And I will say this for Ms. Prine. Thank you very much for all your hard work, your dedication. I have told you this many times before, your staff, and you do a tremendous job. But here's the other thing, too, is that we still have a motion, I believe, for suspending the rules or not.
 But I'd like to take a vote on that as well, but I'd also like to call to go to executive session. I personally have a lot of questions that need to be addressed, and Ms. Neiman was absolutely correct. The gentleman, Mr. Siegel, you know, I don't know him. I'm sure he's a competent city attorney, municipal experience, but he's not our city attorney. So I would like to get direction from our city attorney. So I would call for a, to go to executive session.
 Add a motion? Second. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? The motion carries. Again, thank you all for your hard work and we'll continue to work with you.
 Thank you. And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss any of the following. Agenda Item 21, Update Discussion Action by City Clerk and City Manager on City Staff Progress in Reviewing and Certifying the Climate Charter Petition submitted by Ground Game Texas.
 Item 22, discussion and action on city readiness to consider an ordinance on August 16th, 2022 to place a climate charter initiative on the November 8th, 2022 general election ballot in the event that the petition is certified by the city clerk.
 And Executive Session Item 1, Consultation with Attorney Regarding a Petition for Charter Amendments, Matter Number 22-1065-153, under 551.071. All these matters are taken into Executive Session under 551.071. Consultation with Attorney. It is 1.48 p.m. There's a motion and a second to come out of Executive Session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 4 o'clock p.m.
 We're on items 21 and 22. Yes, Representative Nenillo. Thank you, Mayor. I first want to say I think this is the longest time we've spent on one item since I've been on council. We started this item at 11 a.m. And so I want to thank, again, my colleagues and everyone involved.
 Who came and spoke today and who's been a part of this petition process. I think the council has been comfortable with the conversation we had, moving this and the rest of our charter amendments to a May election. So the only motion that I am going to make for items 21 and 22 is to direct the city manager to designate a staff member that he sees fit to communicate with the Sunrise Group.
 monthly on a status update. I also want to be very clear, we are moving our charter election at this moment in the next item.
 until until May that is under the idea that if all of the signatures are verified for this petition it will be placed on the mail action that still needs to happen before we can guarantee this item on an election in May so I just wanted to be that make very clear so going back to my motion I motion to direct the city manager to designate an appropriate staff member to communicate with the Sunrise Group monthly on the
 status and progress of their petition verification second now that's been in council six years that's the most seconds I've ever had to so so no thank you represent Rinello Thank You council mayor Potem
 Thank you, Mayor. First of all, I want to again thank everybody who took the time, the 40,000 people that signed these petitions, members of council, Mayor again for, I think, coming up with the appropriate response, as well as our city staff, as well as particularly our city manager, our city attorney, and most important, our city clerk as well, who has been doing a human's job in working to get this there. Her entire office deserves a round of applause for the hard work that they are doing here.
 Make no mistake that this item is going to be going on the ballot if and when the signatures are verified. So I think it's really important that when these signatures are verified, right, that is going through a process driven by state law, this item is going onto the ballot for voters to vote on. So that is important for people to understand.
 We will be looking at other items as well to make sure that we can do that to make sure that it's there But this this goal here and the actions as this council are taken Are there to guarantee and ensure that this goes up to the ballot for the voters to decide in May of? 2023
 Thank you. And so I again want to thank everybody for the hard work they're doing and where we are today in dealing with this global climate emergency. Thank you. And I think it's important that, you know, we were there for two hours and the guidance of the city attorney, city manager.
 you know in the apartments to try to make this happen it it was really important and and we understood the signatures we understood your voice and we understood what was going on but also the council really was very vocal and verbal on wanting to make sure that your voice was heard so it's important that that we thank miss prine i know that you had a lot to do with it while we're all in an executive session and i wish you all could have been in there because it was really a very
 inclusive of everybody in here working together and like I said, Mr. Neiman, Mr. Gonzalez, every member of city council really had a lot of input in it to make sure that, you know, the signatures are there, that we can move forward and to really take a deep breath and slow the process down to be able to do it right. And I know that you guys are shaking your head yes because you agree on that because it's important that if you rush something, we're not going to do it right. So.
 Mr. Gonzalez, your team, Ms. Neiman, City Council, I want to congratulate every one of you all for an incredible, great job to really get the process right and to take a deep breath and allow the voice of the voters to be heard. So thank you again, you guys, for being here, and I appreciate the efforts that the council, the city, and, of course, most of all, you all. So thank you. And with that, I have Ms. Hernandez.
 Thank you, Mayor. I do want to reiterate again, as mentioned earlier, that this council has deliberated on the issue and on the matter, specifically as it relates to the process. My position today is not an endorsement of any of the language or is not in opposition of any of the language of the petition.
 Clearly we have an obligation and a duty to call the election as per the state code. We're not trying to get in the way of that. But I do want to recognize our city attorney and city manager and this body for working together. We have demonstrated today, this is a government that works for the public.
 regardless of where we're at on the issue and so I'm very proud of council's ability to to deliberate on the matter be respectful and to ensure that the public has an opportunity to get educated on the matter any stakeholders can bring forward any concerns and then the public will need to do some fact-finding on what this means for the way their government is going to operate
 and so i wanted to be clear that my position today isn't an endorsement of any of the language there's got to be a lot more vetting to do but we do have an obligation to call the election and then folks will make their own decision so so thank you all for for agreeing to that um
 recommendation to push forward to May. I think this is the best solution for everybody, and it gives everyone opportunity to understand what the vote and what the matter is in the May election.
 And then Mrs. Prine, I did want to ask on the introduction for the election for November, I'll be making a motion on the next item if we can hear that next, if you can prepare the date 12 weeks from today so that I can incorporate that into the motion. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. And so I just want to reiterate what everybody else is saying. You know, I took an oath to protect our to uphold our Constitution. This is proof that democracy is still working. This is proof that, you know, when when people get together, they're able to make change happen automatically.
 This for me is also not an endorsement of the language of this petition. This for me is just simply saying that I absolutely will not stand in the way of democracy working. This is democracy, and voters can make their own decision on how they feel about this. That is it. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Salcido, followed by Representative Molinar, then Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Just want to say thank you again for all the public's...
 Speakers that came today and also very proud of you all and all the signatures you all collected But I also wanted to commend the staff and this council to really discuss everything and just really look at things Not with emotion and just for what the process was and I really kind of saw that as I was all working together so I definitely think that we're looking for the best solution and
 And I think that's the best way we could always get great solutions. So we're looking forward for this to proceed for this process and for us to continue to work together. Thank you. Thank you very much. Representative Molinar followed by Representative Rivera. Thank you very much, Mayor. I do also just like to thank everyone that signed that petition. All of you that from Sunrise that worked hard, whether it was in the heat.
 early morning, whatever, rain, doesn't really matter. You went out there knocking on doors, whatever event you may have been collecting signatures at, a mall, at a school, whatever. You did your job. You did your work. You're seeing the dividends today, okay? But a couple of things that I would like to just provide advice to you. And so I'm going to talk to Dr. Bonart and Dr. Bonart here. So if you recall, way back...
 When we first met for the very first meeting for Lost Dog, we met at the podium. There was people there that I did not know. Those people did not know me. First time really meeting the Bonarts and everyone was enthusiastic and they were all fired up and everything was going great. However, when it came to my turn, my two cents was this. How many people here are registered voters? Probably less than five at that meeting, that very first meeting for Lost Dog.
 myself and the Bonards and maybe two or three others, we're the only registered voters, maybe out of 30, 35 people. That is sad, absolutely sad. OK, we live in America. We have a democracy. You are starting the petition. You are doing the work. OK, when you're not registered to vote, what good is it?
 And even if you are registered to vote and you don't vote, that's different. So as a result of Dr. Bonar and Dr. Bonar and a core group of other people, they led the way in making things happen for Lost Dog. They were a catalyst that could not be stopped.
 and they proved that the power of the people is there. Okay? So I would offer you some advice. I'm glad you got the signatures. They're registered voters, that's fantastic. But now some of the more work is that you have to encourage these people to vote. And that's probably gonna be a little bit harder to do, but you're smart, you're intelligent. I'm sure you can handle that very well. And once again, to the city manager's office, Mr. Gonzalez,
 to our city attorney mr neiman and everyone that's on your staff to miss laura prine and everyone at the city clerk's office i thank you very much to my colleagues on this body of city council thank you very much and we appreciate everything that you do and yes this is democracy in action i'm very proud of that and uh i look forward to to may of 2022 or correction may of 2023 thank you
 Thank you. And, you know, and I think you've heard everyone talk about democracy and how democracy works and stuff. And I'll be real honest with you. I know what you guys wanted was to go in the November election. If we would have tried to push for that because you all were very adamant about doing that, the odds.
 And we talked about this in the meeting. The odds of that happening was zero to none. So instead of us not, you know, doing that and not making it happen, we found a way to make it happen for you. Because what you wanted wouldn't have worked.
 and we didn't want that we wanted to respect your work and your hard work and everything you did and the 40 000 people that that signed that petition so like i said what you wanted would have been zero to none but this is very doable now so again thank you representing rivetta thank you mayor again i want to thank you all for coming out here your hard work and you know definitely it's not over beating each other for updates or whatever it is um you guys have really shown
 your determination your tenacity and so uh i'm proud to the to say the fact that you had uh also covered it city-wide you had numbers for the districts that was great i'm proud to hear that two those you had over 2 000 in my district alone and you had more than that so everybody should be proud of what they did uh those boots were pretty worn out trying to get some new ones for like representative molinar said go out and vote now is that now that's the biggest task
 i thank you i thank you again for being here having the numbers uh your voices were heard and city's not making excuses we're going to work with you and thanks staff city manager gonzalez miss neiman miss prime all the staff that we have here they work hard just as hard as you do and getting those signatures so i thank everybody and i thank my colleagues for working as well uh to to resolve this issue thank you thank you
 Thank you, Representative Reda. Representative Lizaria. We almost went in order. One, two, three, four. Thank you, Mayor Lizar. I just want to really commend you all. You know, you are the youth. You are the future of our city. And I want to thank you for caring about our community because we do live in a place
 wonderful, vibrant community, and I am very proud to call El Paso my home, and I wanna thank you for your hard work and your efforts, and we, as Representative Rivera said, we did listen, and now you're gonna be able to see the fruits of your labor, and I also wanna echo all the sentiments of all my colleagues,
 and thank especially all our city staff, Ms. Prime for your professionalism always on this dais. I thank you for that. Mayor, thank you for your leadership
 And to all my colleagues and especially to Carla Neiman our city attorney who works so tirelessly For us and our city manager and all of your staff. I want to thank you for being Such a good leader and a good example and a good role model for our community as well So thank you everyone and I wish you a great evening. Thank you. Thank you Thank you for your work. Thank you. Hello. Oh
 yeah i just wanted to say that again it's so important to have this here coming in that we are looking at having to go and change some of the the ad hoc charter sort of votes that we were looking at to have in november because making sure that we are following state law and bringing this to the ballot is of the utmost importance so again want to thank everybody for being here want to thank again all my colleagues be able to to come up with the resolution
 THAT IS A COMPROMISE AND THAT AGAIN ENCOURAGES AND HELPS TO STRENGTHEN OUR DEMOCRACY HERE IN EL PASO, THE CAPITAL OF THE BORDER. THANK YOU. ONE LAST QUESTION. I KNOW THAT ON THE MOTION
 anillo made is that we need somebody that you all would designate so we do continue to communicate and the city manager's office will communicate with you all so after all this is uh approved if you all could designate somebody it would be very important for us thank you for that ms prine we have a motion in a second yes mayor and just to be clear this is for items 21 and 22 together
 Thank you. So the motion was made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Rivera. And this is to direct the city manager to designate an appropriate staff member to communicate with a representative from the Sunrise Group on a monthly basis to provide an update on the climate charter petition, to provide a status update on the climate charter petition. Yes? Okay, thank you. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Or please. Item 24 is a first reading of an ordinance. This is for item 24 for the introduction. Mayor, this is Representative Hernandez for the record. The next available, in 12 weeks, the next council meeting would be? October 25th. 25th, so it would be the council meeting after this November election.
 And so I move to postpone the introduction of ordinances to call for a city charter election to November 25th of 2022. October. I'm sorry, you said October. Excuse me. Can it be before an election? So should it be after an election? No. Mrs. Neiman, do we have to postpone until after the November election, the ordinance? Do we have enough time or do we have to do it before? No, you don't have to postpone it until after the election. I mean...
 The deadline to call the election is August 16th so this is already passed. It's just a matter of notifying the public when it will be coming up again. Understood. So I move to postpone to October 25th. Second. Thank you. There is a motion. Yes sir go ahead. Thank you. So I just have one question in terms of the language of the ad hoc charter committee items that's currently being proposed is there still an ability to amend the language that's going to be sent to the voters?
 MS. NEVIN. ON WHICH ITEM ARE YOU REFERRING TO? ITEM 4 THAT YOU'RE POSTONING? YES. YES. BECAUSE IT'S NOT BEING INTRODUCED. OKAY. WE COULD MAKE AMENDMENTS TO THAT ORDINANCE. OKAY. AND THEN BRING IT BACK ON OCTOBER 24TH. WELL, WE WOULDN'T AMEND IT UNTIL AFTER YOU INSTRUCTED US TO AMEND IT ON OCTOBER 24TH. GOT IT. YEAH, BECAUSE I KNOW THAT SOME OF THE LANGUAGERS, SOME ITEMS ARE PARTICULARLY CONTENTIOUS, AND
 working with councillors probably an ability to look at some sort of compromise with some of that language. So the ordinance is introduced today and appear the same way in October. However we can. Not until after you direct us will we amend it. OK.
 But we still have the ability to amend it on October 25th? Yes, you will be able to amend it afterwards. And so, again, by our actions here today, if we go to postpone this until October 25th, this would set these ad hoc charter amendments to be voted on in May of 2023? That's correct. If council chooses to call that election, yes. Okay, great.
 thank you ms prime we have a motion in a second yes may there is a motion made by representative hernandez seconded by mayor pro tem shortsvine to postpone item 24 for 12 weeks until the october 25th 2022 city council meeting on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously thank you and with that ms prime i think it's noon can we go to call to the public
 Yes, Mayor. Not sure who's still here, but I will call each person that signed up to speak.
 So the El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic brought forward be posted on a future agenda. Thank you.
 This morning we had 20 people sign up for a call to the public. I'll check to see who's still in chambers. The first person is Ms. Wally Sheck, Fernando Garcia. They're all gone. Ronnie Banks, Enrique Chavarria Cantu. And who's here? Enrique Chavarria Cantu. Thank you. Thank you for your patience, sir. Good afternoon. You'll have three minutes. Thank you again for being here, sir. Good afternoon.
 My name is Enrique Chavira Cantu and this morning we were here with the border network for human rights and we distributed to your staffers a legislative package for the municipal ID. Like I said my name is Enrique Chavira Cantu and I'm the supervising paralegal of the El Paso office at Kids in Need of Defense. We submitted in our statement.
 that KIND respectfully requests that the city of El Paso establish and implement a community ID card that is accessible by all El Paso residents, which will greatly benefit our community. Since 2008, KIND has been dedicated to providing free legal and social services for unaccompanied immigrant children who arrive to the United States alone.
 And many of the children's children that I've worked with have reported being robbed of all their possessions or losing them Including official documents that they're unable to replace Many of those children face barriers and obtaining government issues issued IDs because they may not have easily accessible accepted forms of other documentations such as a birth certificate or consular card and
 Kind clients have struggled to access services that they are eligible for due to not having an accepted form of identification. They have been turned away from low income housing and food assistance programs. Our clients have been denied access to medical exams, background checks, and entry into certain government buildings for legal appointments that are essential for successful outcomes in their immigration cases.
 That these challenges exist for kind clients who are represented by attorneys and have access to social service advocacy is extremely problematic given the fact that most unaccompanied children in the United States are not represented by attorneys and don't have advocates. Unaccompanied children have often experienced high levels of trauma due to exposure to violence, including gender-based violence and trafficking.
 Although many are eligible for various services and benefits, they're often denied these vital resources because they lack a valid form of identification other than their Federal Office of Refugee and Resettlement Verification of Release Form, which is often not accepted.
 No child should ever have to go hungry, be unable to attend school, or suffer in pain from lack of medical treatment, or be without housing simply because they do not have an official ID, especially when they or their caregivers are legally eligible for all these services. Kine knows from experience and working in many other localities that have similar community ID initiatives that these programs are successful and help everyone in the community. Thank you for allowing El Paso to be a leader in supporting the health, safety, and success of all of its residents and children. Thank you.
 thank you the next speaker is betty camargo irma cruz alicia martinez rosa avila betty tercero rosio esteban beatrice lozano susana herrera dulce carlos carmen rodriguez she submitted a statement to be read into the record by representative lisarraga thank you miss prime
 Good day, Mayor and City Council. My name is Carmen Rodriguez. I am a lawyer and longtime community activist and member of Community First Coalition. I offer this statement of support for the proposal to establish a city issued ID card put forth by the Border Network for Human Rights. The most vulnerable populations in our city suffer from many challenges that cannot be easily addressed.
 However, there is one challenge that this body can and should address because it is not only vital to this population and their families, it also contributes to the general welfare of all the city's residents.
 The Border Network for Human Rights has been petitioning this body for some time to establish a procedure by which residents who don't otherwise have access to a personal government-issued identification card can apply to the city for such documentation. Other cities have devised various ways in which they have addressed their residents' lack of identification documentation.
 El Paso, always known for its humanitarian nature, needs to develop such a system sooner rather than later. Let us be at the forefront of solving the challenges that so many face by implementing a policy to provide city-issued identification.
 City government is and should be closer to the people than the state and federal branches of government. It should be the entity that steps forward to provide a simple document that can make life easier for so many when the state and the federal governments are not in a position to do so.
 These are the kind of initiatives that we would like the city to undertake to alleviate the strife and everyday struggles of many members of our community. Thank you for your kind attention to this request. Carmen Rodriguez. CARMEN RODRIGUEZ. CARMEN RODRIGUEZ. Thank you. The next speaker that signed up was Hilda Villegas, Guillermo Glenn, Efrain Salcedo,
 Mr. Como's topic is animal services. Good afternoon, sir. Thank you for your patience. You have three minutes Good afternoon. How are you sir? I'm always here always Okay, let's start out with adoptions and rescues adoption polls and rescue polls as you can see by the calendar broke down by years if we keep Going at the same rate that we're ever going will be a
 adopting and rescuing out 17,000 less strays out the front door of El Paso Animal Services. We have a problem. We need to get the community back, and we're not going to get the community back as long as we keep following the HOSS program, as long as we keep leaving 1,000 strays a month on our streets. We're not going to be able to adopt our way out of it if we're adopting 500 or 600 a month, and we're leaving 1,000 on the streets to make more. I want to bring your attention to...
 The audit that was done in 2015 by the city of El Paso. They had an independent audit done. They were told in 2015 that the shelter was too small and needed to grow with the same rate as the city's population was growing.
 From what I can find online, it's looking like we increased the population by 278,000 people since the shelter was built and we're not ready. We're not prepared. We've fallen behind. We have not paid attention to the issues. Are you aware that Bissell Corporation is no longer dealing with El Paso Animal Services? Are you aware why?
 We got an email when we asked and they said and I quote El Paso Animal Services is in violation of Texas state law It's in violation of city codes chapter title 7 They're in Michigan and they said the same thing about their codes in Michigan there. We are in violation We're in violation with the state or a violation of our own city ordinances, and we're not doing anything. I
 Do you know that Best Friends has requested to do three inspections or three different times they've requested to inspect our facility? All three times they were denied access to our shelter to do an inspection. Are we that afraid of having somebody come in and look at the disaster that we're in? The other thing Bissell said was the barn was inhumane, the way they were stacking up the pets and strays.
 They said it was unsafe for employees. We actually have employees out right now because kennels fell on their feet. Guys, please, I've given you an answer. We have empty buildings. We need to do temporary housing like we did in 2019. Why can't we do that again? We need to convert a school. I explained to you what I was told about converting it as far as the waste. It's an easy process, but we've got to get off our butts and do it.
 It's time, folks. Come on. We're burying ourselves in strays because nobody's listening. Thank you, Mr. Coleman. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Julia Cramping. She's not here. Oh, thank you, sir. Karen Washington. Thank you, sir. Mayor, that concludes call to the public for today. Thank you, Ms. Pratt, and thank you for your patience.
 With that, we'll go to item 25. Yes, sir. Item 25 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2022-0271, Isleta Middle School Rapid Transit System, RTS to Allen Concrete, LLC. Motion to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session.
 The motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. The next item is number 26. 26 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas water and sewer revenue bonds in one or more series in an aggregate amount not to exceed $441 million for system improvements and to refund certain obligations issued for system improvements. We do have public comment when council is ready. Thank you.
 Unless you good afternoon mayor council Marcella Navarrete with El Paso water for the record We have a presentation if it could get pulled up, please Okay, so as discussed with all of you in previous meetings We are coming to you with a parameters resolution for 441 million dollars of water and sewer bonds that are paid through the water bills and
 They are not tax backed. They are paid through the revenues through the system that we collect through your water bills. If you could go to the next slide, please. So we are asking for a nine-month parameter resolution, which is longer than we usually ask for. And the reason being we are accelerating our capital improvement program to address aging infrastructure and rehabilitation that is needed through the system.
 So we are going through our commercial paper, $80 million authorization quicker. We're drawing those notes down quicker. So we do anticipate having to do three bond issues to take out commercial paper notes over the next nine months. We also, if you could go to the next slide, please.
 We are also asking for a component of new money, what we call new money, for capital improvement projects that were approved in this year's budget. We are looking at 105 million of water projects. Next slide please.
 and about 87 million of wastewater projects, with the largest being the expansion of the Bustamante plant that serves the Lower Valley and Eastside, which we all know has grown very quick, fast over the years, and it is time for us to expand that project. That project alone is going to cost us over $300 million. So the new money portion that we still have outstanding to issue for bonds this year is $193 million.
 Next slide please. So breaking it down by category, you can see here rehabilitation 83 million, reliability 65 million, replacement 10 million, and growth of 33 million.
 Again, I want to emphasize these are already been approved in the budget that was effective March 1 They are the the money to pay for this debt is already Incorporated in the rates and the water bills that were effective March 1 So it is incorporated this debt is incorporated into our budget And with that I'm going to turn it over to Maria or Bina to go over a few numbers. Thank you. I
 Good afternoon, Council Members, Mayor, Mr. Gonzalez. My name is Maria Urbina with Hilltop Securities, financial advisor to the utility. So I'm with you this afternoon to talk a little bit about the financial impact of issuing the $441 million to the utility. So if, let me see if I can do this myself. Here we go. Okay, so what I have in front of you is a slide that obviously has a lot of numbers, but it's an important slide because it gives you a snapshot.
 of what the existing debt is for the utility, plus the impact of issuing $441 million. So what we have done in this particular slide is presented to you the proposed issuance of the $441 million. And as you will see under columns B through D, this is where we have the proposed debt
 in the issuance of about three bond issues. So that's one of the things that Miss Navarrete was mentioning, that the proposal is to actually issue these bonds in a series versus one time basis. So you will see under column B, the first bond issue that is being proposed is a refunding of commercial paper notes, and that is in about an amount issue of $80 million.
 and that would be funded and issued sometime at the end of August. So that is the first bond issue that's being looked at for funding. The second bond issue would be another refunding of commercial paper notes
 in around $80 million at the end of the calendar year of 2022. And again, that is the anticipated time. As for the third bond issue, this would be the new money component that Ms. Navarrete mentioned, which would be about $193 million.
 plus another round of commercial paper notes. So again, we're anticipating issuing these over the next nine months. What I wanted to show you is that we are projecting all of these bond issues to go out 25 years. We did illustrate different interest rates. So I'll tell you that for the first bond issue,
 which we're trying to price here in the next month or so, we're anticipating an interest rate of about, and illustrated at 485. Now I will tell you that right now, if we had priced the bonds at today's market, those bonds would be pricing at around 4%. So 485 is definitely very conservative.
 As for the two other bond issues that we are showing you on the slide, we're projecting those to be closer to 6 percent, and the reason being because the interest rate environment that we're in right now is definitely trending higher. Everybody's been aware if you've been reading the papers, inflation, interest rate hikes, all of that has gotten us to the point where we need to be very conservative for over the next nine months in our illustration for you.
 With that, I'm gonna go ahead and move on to the next slide which is basically the utilities requesting that the city authorize the issuance of these bonds through a parameters authorization. And I know you're very familiar with this and so what the parameter authorization basically does, it allows for flexibility to issue these bonds
 over the next nine months. And so the utility has basically provided the pricing officer authorities to the individuals listed on this slide. And as for the actual parameters for these transactions as a whole, what we're recommending is not to exceed maximum true interest cost of 6.5%. So remember, I showed you numbers
 going up to 6%. We don't anticipate going up to 6.5%, that is just a maximum amount, but we're wanting to be very conservative in our request to the city. As for the aggregate not to exceed principal amount of all of these bond issues, it's not to exceed $441 million, which would allow the issuance of the new money bonds in the amount of 193 million,
 plus three refundings of the commercial paper notes, which is roughly about 240 million, plus any cost of issuance associated with that. So that amount basically allows for all of that to happen. As for the final maturity date, we're recommending not to go beyond December 31st of 2049, which is 25 years from now, and the expiration of this delegated authority to go up to nine months.
 Now, typically the utility requests anywhere from three to six months for their authorizations. Because of where we are in the market, what we're wanting to do is to propose a nine-month authorization. That would allow the utility and the financing team to execute on one or two or three of these bonds until the end of their fiscal year. Of course, if we can't meet these parameters, these bonds will not be sold.
 And let me go ahead and just, in terms of purposes of issuance, in terms of bond issuing, we need to hire underwriters. Underwriters are crucial to help us find those bond investors. And so in front of you is a list of the underwriters that have worked with the city and the utility and have both either been underwriters in the past or have been soliciting the city and the utility over the years.
 So what will happen is at the time of issuance of each one of those bonds, the utility will pick a team that will rotate to make sure that they are well represented on each one of those bond transactions.
 In terms of final schedule of event kind of things that we're working on here, what we're doing is obviously requesting the authorization to move forward with the issuance of these bonds through the parameters that we just went over. Again, the first bond issue to be considered for pricing would be sometime at the end of August, and that would be the $80 million roughly for the commercial paper refunding.
 and closing in September of this year. As for the remainder issuances of all the other bonds, that is yet to be determined by the utility as they see fit until the expiration of this authority. So with that, I'm gonna conclude this presentation and open it up for any questions that, oh, and there is one slide, I'm sorry, I apologize, and I'm gonna go ahead and ask Marcella to come to talk about it, and then we'll open it up for some questions.
 So in conclusion, again, we need this money for our aging infrastructure. As you all know, infrastructure ages. This city really was built mostly after the 1950s, so a lot of our plants, our pipes are coming to the end of their useful life, so we need to be able to replace them and to rehabilitate them.
 And even as the needs are great, you can still see by this slide that our rates are still very competitive throughout this state. Only Dallas and Laredo have slightly lower average bill than El Paso, even though we're in a desert environment where water supply is,
 is a very important thing to us that we're always having to spend a lot of money to ensure that we can supply the water to this community. And again, as I stated before, there's no tax revenues involved in these bond issues. These revenues were, this debt was adopted in the budget March 1 and it is in the current rates, so there is no effect beyond the rates that were increased on March 1.
 So with that, I'll open it up for any questions. Thank you very much for the presentation. So a lot of this money that we're talking about, $240 million, has already been moved forward into rehabbing the system, refinance a commercial paper?
 The 80 million that we want to proceed with in August has been spent. We are close to our max of the 80 million that we have. The rest of the two other 160 million is committed throughout the budgets. And it's our now, so we're talking about 240 million, but the whole amount that's already into the current rate that's being paid is
 by the rate payer today? Correct. Okay. And Ms. Wadbina, what is the current rate today? If I was able to finance this money today, which I know I can't, but if I was able to do that, what would that be today?
 So last week, as you know, the FOMC raised their interest rates 75 basis points. So I did receive a new scale from our underwriters. And if we priced the $80 million deal, the 25-year debt, it would be at around 4%. So that's where we are right now. And if we don't do it today and we went to 5%,
 or higher, which is the new, you know, I don't think the three quarters has impacted into it today, or maybe. What would be the difference in dollars and cents on the $80 million? That's a great question. So I'm going to show you real quick. So about 100 basis points would be $40.
 about $400,000. I'm going to show you real quick. I know it may be hard to see. Hopefully you can see this better on your computer. You'll see that I have in the column B right there, I ran these numbers up 485. The ones on column C, you can see that it's about $200,000
 200 basis I mean two hundred thousand dollars for 50 basis points So that's that's what the difference would be over 25 years, right? Right? That's right. Okay. Thank you Nundas followed by mayor Pro Tem. So there's two actions on this. Are we hearing both items right now? No No, I haven't presented the drainage utility yet. Okay so
 So the total amount is $400 million. So I have finance questions, and then I have operations questions. The $80 million is a refund, but the other ones are issuance of debt, correct? Correct.
 So the $80 million is the refunding on the commercial paper notes. So let me back up. So the $441 million, $193 is for new money projects for their capital improvement program, and the $240 million of those are for refunding of their commercial paper program. So these are projects you've already completed. You're paying yourself back. Okay. Okay.
 Just the commercial paper program. Okay. Can you explain why the utility or PSB is not considering issuing all the new money debt altogether at once? Because I'm concerned about and I'll tell you where I'm going with this, the administrative cost and the cost of issuance as relates to multiple issuances. Those costs are significant and is there any way to save money by doing one issuance?
 We issued the new money debt last time we were here, back a few months ago, based on the engineer's cash flow estimates. So we just felt like we didn't want to –
 Over issue at the beginning as as Maria pointed out we're looking at issuing the new money portion towards the end of the year December January Timeframe so we didn't feel that we needed to issue the hundred and ninety three million extra dollars Back when we came a few months ago I understand but is there a cost savings to the ratepayer by doing what debt issuance versus multiple? I
 Strictly from the cost of issuance? Correct, the administrative costs. I'll let Maria answer. And I'm going to say yes because I've seen it before. Generally, yes. Obviously, if you issue one time, there are going to be some cost savings to that. But issuing two to three times is not a material in terms of the expense. So I wouldn't necessarily see that as a big problem.
 issue right now. I think also to your point, and I'll answer to your question in terms of whether or why not issue it all at once kind of thing, we have been having a lot of these conversations even since the last time that utility issued these bonds. There's certain things that we need to contend to prior to issuing bonds. So the market is definitely one of them because we are in a rising interest rate environment. The conversations can be, well, should we issue more at this point?
 and there's a lot of reasons why maybe that would be great to do, but then there's other things that we need to contend to, which have to do with credit implications. We want to make sure you issue enough, but not too much. Then there's other tax implication things.
 It's kind of complicated to just say, let's go ahead and issue everything at once. What we're trying to do at this point right now is look at the most cost effective way to go out and issue bonds when the utility needs it. And so I think for right now the plan,
 That but that's being proposed today is to go ahead and have the parameter to go out there and issue the money as needed And so I hope that answers your question No, it does but it raises some concerns about the the utilities ability to save money number one number two if there is an excess of debt issuance does the utility have the option to capitalize on interest
 If you were to invest those dollars while you wait for your construction and your operations side of the house. That's what we do. Mr. Gonzalez, can you explain when we have an overage of debt issuances, instead of it just sitting in the bank, are we capitalizing on interest? Can the utility do that as well? Yes, we invest our monies. The 350 million that we issued recently is invested.
 So we invest any monies that we have that aren't needed immediately. Okay, and that's great to hear. I'm just trying to understand then why wouldn't you just issue it under the environment we understand now and the feds have already signaled that they're going to increase by more basis points to try to slow down spending. I'm not going to pretend I understand the market, but I am concerned about the parameters of 6.5% and going all the way to 6.5%.
 I'm very concerned about that and I'm having a lot of heartache supporting this. Understood. And I think those are the discussions that we're having right now in terms of getting the parameters authorization to have the ability to issue the debt at the right time, whether it is a month from now or four or five months from now. I think that's the discussion to be had. As I mentioned, and I think it's a little more complicated to describe some of the credit issues that are involved. Hot mic.
 I'm sorry. Can you please mute yourself if you're in teams? Sorry about that. I'm sorry, Ms. Urbina. No, it's okay. There's credit implications. So we're definitely making sure that we don't go out and issue too much debt that it will have some implications. And I get that, but this ordinance is giving broad authority to El Paso Water with the intent to issue that debt. So there's already credit implications on making this request.
 Again, not understanding the market and your credit. I guess sustainability I am very concerned that there's going to be added cost administrative cost cost of issuance and then on top of that Increased basis points increased interest rates at six point five percent I'm sharing that with you because I think the utility should not have brought authority at six point five percent and that it should be tell me what you want to issue and then go ahead and issue it within the parameters within a timeline and
 I'm very concerned in giving that open-ended authority, and then on top of that, my concerns about operations. And so you've answered my questions, and I'll just share my opinion on that, and I'll move on. Is there anybody here today prepared to talk about what the rollout of the capital will be?
 what the oversight of capital will be and then in addition with the outreach on these type of capital projects and the reason why and Some of your staff can can talk about this I'm very concerned with stormwater projects in my district the cost the delays The the projects that have been had not not to have you know be controversial about it I've gone to PSP to complain and to beg for support and
 project in my district on Sam Snead didn't take once to complete didn't take twice to complete took three times to complete and So I'm having real concerns about a four hundred dollar four hundred million dollar project ballooning into if failed if the construction is failed and the design is failed and there's no appropriate oversight That this these projects can be done two or three times that is my concern about
 the oversight of how this capital projects are going to be issued out. I do understand that there's a need. There's stormwater needs. There's infrastructure needs. I'm all for that. You look at my history of that, supporting that. I'm concerned about the...
 the parameters abroad parameters and then I'm concerned about the lack of oversight that has been demonstrated to this body and and I know that several projects throughout the city but I'm concerned about that Mr. Blues in here I don't know if there's an engineer here today to to address my concerns about what is the messaging what is the outreach what is the oversight of stormwater infrastructure
 So I can speak to that so as far as the oversight Based on mrs. Marshall. I'm sorry. I I So respectfully I'm gonna say this I really would love to hear from one of your engineers or from mr Baloo who's who oversees operations? Okay. Okay, and then so if you if there's no one here prepared to talk about that Thank you. I appreciate that. So here are my other concerns of folks or I don't know if whoever's listening and
 My concern about differential rates where Mr. Ballou has stood here and committed that differential rates would be implemented by this time frame. I understand there's been hiccups with your customer service rollout. I still haven't had a response on how we're going to save rate payers about differential rates on new development areas, far east, far west, northeast. Where are the differential rates that are going to save rate payer dollars today? And this is in lieu of impact fees. And then finally, like,
 with our capital projects, before we do capital projects, there's like three step processes. We vote on the project that's gonna be issued, our capital team is activated, our outreach team is activated, public meetings are activated, project managers are activated, oversight inspections are activated. I don't see any process from the utility and it's giving me concern about issuing so much debt with no process in place for oversight and outreach to the public. This has been the fundamental concern
 for me and my constituents were multiple years of my vacations I could not enjoy because I have constituents calling my cell phone because raw sewage is in the street, raw sewage is in their house. I am very concerned about that. And I wanted to share that with you because I do wanna be...
 IN THE SPIRIT OF UNITY, WE ALL NEED TO WORK TOGETHER, BUT IT NEED TO WORK TOGETHER, BUT IT NEED TO WORK TOGETHER, BUT IT GIVES ME A LOT OF CONCERN TO GIVES ME A LOT OF CONCERN TO GIVES ME A LOT OF CONCERN TO APPROVE THIS UNDER THESE APPROVE THIS UNDER THESE APPROVE THIS UNDER THESE PARAMETERS UNDER THIS HOSTILE PARAMETERS UNDER THIS HOSTILE PARAMETERS UNDER THIS HOSTILE ENVIRONMENT AND THE MARKET BEING ENVIRONMENT AND THE MARKET BEING ENVIRONMENT AND THE MARKET BEING SO VOLATILE ON TOP OF MY SO VOLATILE ON TOP OF MY SO VOLATILE
 So I'm just going to share all that right now, and that is why initially I said I'm not in support of this, because the utility has not demonstrated to me what their plans are to issue all this new debt and how they're going to protect the ratepayer from any future increased costs. Those are my opinions, and I don't expect for you to have a response, but thank you, Marcella. Do you have a response? Pardon me? If you have a response, please. Okay.
 I know that since the Sam Snead project, there has been extra effort on doubling up our oversight of those projects. And that is a commitment that Mr. Ballou has made
 So I think that also with the expanded CIP program that we are undertaking this year, we have augmented our staff. We have hired an engineering consulting firm to program manage the large CIP that we have.
 So, that is not something we've ever done before. So, we are bringing outside resources to help our project managers manage the CIP. And so far, it's worked very well. Arcadis is the firm that we've hired to help us program manage this large CIP.
 As far as the differential rates, again, we've come to this council asking for impact fees to be raised, that has not happened since the inception of impact fees. So in lieu of that, we are looking at differential rates. And yes, we have...
 held back on implementing that until we could stabilize our CIS system that we went live with March 1. So we do anticipate coming to our board very soon with that discussion and that item to have the discussion with the board. And I would say within the next few months. And we can certainly let you know when that discussion is going to be had with the board so that you can attend that meeting if you'd like. Thank you.
 And let me ask you a question. So if this debt is not issued, what ends up happening? Well, the $80 million for the commercial paper, we are up to our capacity on that $80 million. So we would not be able to issue any more commercial paper notes. And so those projects that are intended to be funded with the commercial paper would be
 stalled. They would be halted. And the $160 million that's committed for improving projects? Yeah. We would not be able to do those either. We would not be able to move forward with those projects. And honestly, there's projects that are, the way the commercial paper program works is that you have that $80 million capacity, $80 million capacity, but you've already obligated projects using commercial paper as a funding source, so if you're in the middle of that
 and we've hit the $80 million, and you still have $5 million left on that project, and we cannot roll the $80 million and take it long, then either we have to come up with $80 million cash to pay off those notes to free up the $80 million again, or we have to go against our line of credit that backs the commercial paper program, and we would be paying interest to draw on that line that backs the commercial paper. So you're saying it would stop the...
 Yeah, it would definitely slow it down. Okay, thank you. Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks. I think Representative Hernandez kind of spoke a lot about sort of the sort of frustrations that we're hearing, quite frankly. What I'm trying to wrap my head around is this is over 400 million that y'all are looking, are asking permission for today. Why so much right now? Because we've seen,
 millions of gallons of raw sewage in our river being poured for months because of catastrophic, multiple catastrophic failures on infrastructure. And so it's really hard to go and be in a position to approve this $400 million where we've seen
 environmental degradation. I mean, straight up environmental catastrophe with what seems to be no accountability from the water utility. We don't control it. We don't, you know, that's not our department. But it seems that what has happened from it is a great PR campaign removing some of the dirt that is costing rate payers money to do so.
 and the hope of a less amount of a fine from either the state, from both states of New Mexico and Texas. So it's really hard to look at this and say that this is needed now when where was the oversight,
 5 10 15 20 years ago that would have that would have avoided these kind of catastrophic failures we're seeing throughout our stormwater. Why weren't those investments done then and why should we believe that this 400 million dollars is needed now. The Frontera Force main breaks were being repaired at the time
 when that catastrophe happened. And so we were aware and we were working on fixing that system. The fact that you have a dual which means two force mains right next to each other break at the same time is really a catastrophic event that in all honesty we wouldn't anticipate. That's why exactly why you put in a dual force main system. So I can't speak to what's happened 10 20 30 years ago.
 What we do know is what the needs are today. And in order to prevent something like that happening again we need to move forward with these capital projects. As I as I said before Bustamante plant expansion is one of the biggest projects that we have.
 We have indirect potable reuse that we need to also engage in in order to have continue to have water supply during drought years. Those types of projects are very very important for this community. We can't serve the growth in the east side and the lower valley if we don't expand the Bustamante. We will be in violation of our regulations. And then what will we do.
 So we're asking for this money to continue to do the things that we need to do to expand the system to rehabilitate to rehabilitate the system and replace the aging infrastructure. And I just think to echo what Representative Hernandez says I mean I understand.
 the need for this. We've seen the kind of catastrophic failures that we've seen. But there's also larger issues too in terms of what we're hearing from our residents and our residents our constituents are your rate payers. It's all the same population.
 And I love Renee. I absolutely love her. She looks impeccable today, as always. But I shouldn't have to message Renee directly, because I hear that from some of my neighbors, from some of my constituents. My neighbors no longer live... They're no longer my constituents anymore. But...
 I shouldn't have to hear from my constituents that yeah, two months ago we had this issue going on with the grate was full or this was messed up or there's all kinds of debris on the fence, on a grate, on a canal. And I shouldn't have to call Renee to get that fixed.
 THERE SHOULD BE SOME SORT OF ACCOUNTABILITY WITH 311 OR WHATEVER SYSTEM YOU ARE USING FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE. WE HEAR FROM IT, OTHER PEOPLE CAN TALK ABOUT IT AS WELL. WE HEAR THEY CALL THE NUMBER, NOTHING HAPPENS. E-MAIL, NO RESPONSE. AGAIN, THIS IS EVEN ON TOP OF THE FACT THAT THERE WAS $14 MILLION PLUS EXPENDED ON CUSTOMER SERVICE.
 on land that is a dual that has a dual purpose use that never should have been never should have been purchased for 14 million dollars with the Martin Luther King land so again you know it's it's very very frustrating to to sort of be sort of held hostage in this position where there's all these needs now and we can talk about what wasn't being done back then and we're trying to focus on now but
 you know, had we not had this sort of catastrophic failures last year to the monsoon season, I don't know what it would have taken to, to get to this point.
 And, you know, I really wish that Mr. Ballou was here because there's still a lot of unanswered questions. We asked Mr. Ballou to present to the Open Space Advisory Board. Hasn't happened. You know, we have this incredible amount of requests for funds with this $400 million today and we're still seeing the same issues of customer service.
 We're still seeing issues of these kind of failures of projects without sort of what feels like any accountability. And as you know, at the end of the day,
 Most constituents most residents don't care if it's the state that's fixing something if it's the the city That's fixing something if it's a county that's fixing something if it's the water utility at the end of the day They're like this is our government in one way or another and we want to see it working well And it's it's it's hard to go and say that that we're not seeing these problems time and time again Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem representative Manolo Sorry
 I mean, you know, I'm not going to get into the specifics of it, but I think that I definitely feel the frustrations of my colleagues. I also hearing them, I wonder how Rene is one person in that job because I know we call him all day every day too. So yeah, he might be the counterpart or a very large raise.
 But that is an overarching problem. I know the central area is the east side. This city was not planned well. We know that that's a fact, and you all are dealing with the repercussions of that. We all are. But there has not been a moment in the last couple years that I've felt comfortable with
 Is it going to rain today in my entire district in a flood? Is there going to be some sewage leak? And I think there are some amazing projects that we're doing. I think the MCA project is incredible. I'm really excited about that. But also I've been pushing for something like that in the Northeast forever and just been kind of told we don't have the money for it. It's not going to happen. Thank you.
 And so I think Representative Hernandez bringing up the way we also go about bonds is a really important thing. And I think we had this conversation very briefly when we met on what is the process for the water utility to issue bonds, because we're seeing the public responding very negatively to bonds from organizations, from governmental agencies. And so we need to be cognizant of that.
 entirely new way that we're looking at approaching these kind of things because it cannot just fall on us a hundred percent of the time right to have like a short briefing be able to explain this there is one more thing that I will say I'm still equally as upset of you as you are with the why can't I think of what they're called right now the impact fees that never came to this council for a vote it should have we some of us have been asking for it for three years I've
 I don't know what needs to happen. I don't know if the city manager here is here to hear us. Like that needs to happen. I don't know if the water utility needs to bring that back up, but that's a conversation we need to be having again because it is becoming extremely detrimental to my district and to this community. If you need help getting that on the agenda, let us know. Right, that is, you should be upset about that. I'm upset about it. It was very unfair what happened.
 to the water utility and to our constituents in regards to the impact fees. But that doesn't necessarily change any of the other concerns that I have. And so I think moving forward, we need to be in a lot more communication. There has been a very uncomfortable air, I think, between the City Council and the water utility. I'm not happy about it. I really enjoy working with you all. I really have a lot of respect for everybody at the water utility. But there does need to be some kind of collaboration, right?
 Talking about the open space advisory and the concerns that we had about that land. I still have not come to any resolution I don't understand what's happening and I'm sorry that this is coming at you. I appreciate you listening because I know it is not your Your deal, but I just want to kind of echo those sentiments that You all work really hard Renee is doing an amazing job. I don't know how much more I can praise him for taking a
 eight city council members, phone calls, all hours of the day. But I think that there are some executives and there is some relationship building and communication and collaboration that needs to be worked on on the city water utility level. So thank you all. Mayor, if I could just say one thing that I neglected to say earlier. You know,
 Utilities are very capital intensive, so very different from city governments. So any utility that you go to at any part of the country, they're going to have large capital programs and they're going to have a lot of debt.
 Debt is very much a part of the way utilities fund their infrastructure. So it is different than a city government or a county government because we do have such large capital programs there.
 And debt has always been a part of our funding portfolio and it will it will continue to be there's just no way that we could ever generate enough cash through rates to fund the kind of large projects that we have. So I did because you mentioned something after I spoke the
 The entity that you all hired, like a vendor? Arcadis. What are they called? Arcadis. Oh, like Arcadis Engineering. So they're responsible to do what?
 They're helping us to program manage the capital improvement program. Okay. So they're, you could think of them as they're helping our program managers, adding their program managers to our project managers to help us manage projects, help us manage the process of design, bidding, awarding, then doing construction.
 and going through all those phases. So they're helping us. They're pretty much augmenting our staff. Okay. I think that's absolutely critical. I think that is what's going to help alleviate a lot of our concerns.
 Will the, can the utility commit today that ensuring that every single project there will be oversight in our process for public outreach? Yes. Can the utility commit that they're going to do their best within the parameters of this issuance that if, I personally don't want to see 6.5%. Is there any ability to bring that down to 6%?
 I think what we can do is and we have been discussing it. You know the timing of the new money portion. It doesn't have to be at the end of the year like we've projected when we would need the money. We could accelerate that and we could do it sooner. In fact if you adopt this if you approve this item we could do it with the 80 million that's going to be sold in August. And that will all I do is to make it data driven. I mean.
 decision based on what's going to save the tax or the rate payer excuse me i get confused at all the taxing entities The rate payer the most because if you can demonstrate that there is a savings from doing one balloon issuance then Then do that and and I get why you're looking for that greater parameters. It just it gives me so much
 concern to do that and then be responsible for that. Like I'm just saying, hey, you go do it. And then my decision is my decision is that it's going to be ultimately as the regulators of the utility, we're going to have to respond for your decisions. And so my biggest critical concern is the oversight and the process. So if you can demonstrate that.
 future meetings when you do your briefings to council and then have a clear process in place then I am going to endorse this I will support this today because I am concerned about the volatility of the market I don't want to be responsible for increase rates if you can try to secure that faster but please send a clear message to mr. Ballou there has to be more
 support in the engineering department because I have seen firsthand the lack of oversight and I'm very concerned about that I also understand that there is a crisis in our community and we need this infrastructure soon so I don't want to be a bit of a barrier to that so with a lot of hesitation I'm going to support this today
 And I do think Mr. Ballou is coming within about a month to present quarterly like he has been quarterly to the council so we'll certainly take that back to him so he can have that in his presentation to you about the program and the oversight.
 Thank you. And Ms. Rubino, you said that if I got a rate of 5% instead of 4%, it'd be $400,000. I don't think that's anywhere near accurate. A year. A year, sir. Okay, now that's what I said over 25 years, so I'm a little, because I calculated about $10 million, so I'm about right. But yes, it's $400,000 a year. I didn't hear a year. That's what worried me, because it's about a $10 million difference if we hesitate that it would cost so much.
 Use my iPhone to figure that out. So I want to make sure we knew that. Okay. Thank you And with that do we have a motion? No motion in a second mayor. We do have public comment on this item. We have Sharon Bonnard followed by Rick Bonnard and
 I don't like to correct you, Ms. Prine, because you and I have had this conversation, but it's Dr. Bonnard. Dr. Sharon Miles Bonnard. Her and I had that conversation this morning. You're too kind. For the record, I'm Sharon Miles Bonnard, a native El Pasoan and a member of the Open Space Advisory Board. I'm not here to speak for the board, but to speak for myself and others who love our city and appreciate the work city departments and units do on a daily basis.
 THANK YOU TO STAFF FOR THEIR VERY THOROUGH PRESENTATIONS OF THE FINANCIAL NEEDS OF OUR CITY'S WATER UTILITIES. THE BEST INDICATOR OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE IS PAST PERFORMANCE. THE WATER UTILITIES ARE GOVERNMENT UNITS. THEY HAVE SHOWN THAT THERE IS SIGNIFICANT NEED FOR MORE MONEY FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS, MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES AND SERVICES WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN EFFECTIVELY ADDRESSED IN PRIOR AND CURRENT BUDGETS.
 IT WOULD APPEAR THAT THE CITY UTILITY IS LOOKING FOR FUNDS TO COVER THESE PROJECTS. IN VIEWING THE WATER UTILITIES ASKS, THERE ARE AGGRESSIVE FINANCIAL ACTIONS IN THE NEGOTIATIONS OF THE NORTHEAST PROPERTY. THERE IS CONCERN THAT WATER UTILITIES ARE IN A STATE OF FINANCIAL INSECURITY.
 SUPPORTIVE OF CONCERN FOR THE FINANCIAL WELL-BEING OF THE WATER UTILITIES ARE THEIR ACTIONS IN THE NORTHEAST NEGOTIATIONS AND THE FACT THAT THE WATER UTILITIES ARE SEEKING ADDITIONAL BOND APPROVAL. AS TO MANAGING FUNDS, THEY ARE PROVIDED.
 They have proceeded with Northeast Land Sales negotiation with the city. They've been using methodologies contrary to those previously used in agreements with the NAP land and the police and fire departments academies when it comes to purchasing open space.
 Oh, the water utilities have been withholding the current appraisal report of that land from the city council when the city council had asked for it. The effective date on that appraisal is January 4, 2022.
 They have unilaterally placed weak restrictions to development on the land when a stronger restriction had been requested by city council. They've dredged up a defunct action to potentially name a third party in negotiations. These bizarre maneuvers contributed to the taking of $14 million from the stormwater 10%
 dual purpose funds for an unnecessary movement of property from one city unit ledger to another city water unit ledger. The issues of current and pending financial problems may be coincidental for the water utilities or there may be a common causality of financial peril for the water utilities of El Paso. May I have one second? One second, that's not very long.
 Whatever is the reason for asking for more money through using bonds, bizarre sales practices, and inflating the unit-to-unit sale price, the water utilities of El Paso have historically provided efficient and honorable service to the ratepayers. Thank you, counsel. Thank you. That was four seconds, by the way.
 The next speaker is Dr. Rick Bonert. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Yes. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. I felt a little bit weird bringing this up. I would like to echo a lot of Representative Hernandez's concerns. And as to one thing that you mentioned is like are they investing the money before using it? Yes, but the arbitrage is so horrible it's almost negligible.
 And another concern, why so much money all at once? You know, we're facing this ever-rising interest increases. Your own CFO mentioned it should peak at 6.5%. That's his estimate. But there's no guarantee of that. It's a very volatile market, as everybody's brought forward. And I'm against borrowing until you actually need it.
 there's no way this number of projects will be done in this time period. So you're actually borrowing ahead in anticipation that interest rates will continue to rise, which may or may not happen.
 So I think that it's also, if you look at slide 10, it's a little bit disingenuous to show and say that the rates are already baked in. That's for a one year budget. That's not for year five, 10, or 15 as they increasingly borrow this money. So I think that that's not fair to the rate payers.
 But basically, I'm conflating issues. It's a dissatisfaction on my part that I'm even up here talking about this because eventually this does need to get done. And how economically you can do it is what's ultimately important. But there's some bigger issues as to how the utility is behaving towards its customers and specifically the rate payers into the stormwater utility. To waste $25 million of rate payer money
 on needless land transfers when that money needs to go to genuine stormwater projects is egregious.
 And your job, the reason you're here today, the reason they're here today is they're not totally autonomous. They rely on you for permission to sell these bonds. That's your duty. That's your oversight. So as part of your oversight, my ask is that you instruct them to do the right thing, and that's to refund that 10% stormwater money so it can be used for legitimate dual-purpose projects. Thank you.
 Thank you. And Dr. Bonar, the rate is figured in for the next 25 years if no additional debt is issued. So, I mean, I understand what you're saying, but the debt is figured in for these 25 years for this program. If additional programs, additional things are done to the system, just like all utilities, then they come back. But other than that.
 Because I've seen it. It is figured in for the next 25 years. We just hope there's no additional debt moving forward. But I mean, I'm not. You understand the utility will come periodically. I get that. But that's what it is, though. And this will drive that. Right. No, I get that.
 I want to make sure and you know in mr. Mina I don't want to see six and a half percent because that's a 25 to 30 million dollar increase to what you're bringing to us today So to representative Adonis's point I think we really need to look into not waiting to see if it goes to six and a half percent Where your limit is because that would cost us roughly thirty million dollars Maripotem. Yeah. Thank you you know the
 What Dr. Bonartz brought up is again something that's particularly concerning. I still haven't really had a satisfactory answer into understanding how it is that the water utility paid themselves $14 million at market value for land that did not have a third party and was for clear municipal use.
 And I'm curious if you can respond about refunding the $14 million that was used for this. Or is that above y'all's pay grade? I didn't mean that. I'm not prepared to respond to that, and I don't think it's really relevant to the item that's on the agenda. No, I hear what you're saying. It may or may not be relevant. I mean, I think it's a larger issue about I think the concerns that we've heard from the council have been about
 things are being managed and funds are being utilized at the water utility at this time so while not directly related it there is questions from the public about that thank you sir with that Miss Prine we have motion in a second yes mayor the motion was made by representative Lisa Raga seconded by representative Molina to approve item number 26 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes with
 Five affirmative votes. Representative Schwartzwein, Salcido, Valdine, Representative Rodriguez not present. The next item is number 27, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas, municipal drainage utility system revenue refunding bonds series 2023 in an amount not to exceed $25,330,000. If I could have the presentation. Thank you.
 So we are also asking for a nine month parameters resolution for drainage utility issuance of about 25 million. Next slide please. Very similar to the commercial paper program that we have in the water sewer utility, we also have a revolving note program that we utilize for interim financing for the drainage utility. That program has a limit of 25 million
 versus the 80 million for the commercial paper program. Again, we have accelerated the capital improvement program for the drainage utility to try to get more projects done in a shorter timeframe. So we are exhausting that 25 million a little quicker than usual.
 We're not ready to pull a trigger on a $25 million takeout at this point in time, but we do see it happening in the next few months. So again, we just want the authorization to be able to refund those notes when it's needed. I'll turn it over to Maria for going through the numbers.
 Well, she's coming up, and you don't need to come up, but I'd like to see Mr. Ballou address the issue. It seems to come up every time we have anything with the water with Lost Dog and the $14 million, and I'd like to see a presentation in front of this board while he's up here because I think it's important because we keep having the same conversation and we have no answers. So I'd like to have some answers and I'd like to have a resolution on this matter. Thank you.
 If we can please do that, I really would appreciate it. Thank you.
 Mayor, Council Members for the record, Maria Urbina with Hilltop Securities, financial advisor to the utility. And I will be going over a very short presentation in terms of the issuance of revolving note refunding bonds. As Ms. Navarrete was mentioning, the utility does have a short-term funding program very similar to their commercial paper program, which has a capacity of $25 million.
 So what I'm going to be showing you right now is the impact of issuing $25 million to their existing debt. Currently, the drainage utility has roughly about $12 million of debt per year that they pay.
 currently in so with the issuance of another 25 million dollars would add roughly about two million dollars more to their outstanding debt obligations for a total of about 14.5 million the numbers that we are presenting to you very similar to the presentation that we just gave you these numbers are assuming a six percent interest rate which I believe is more than conservative
 As we move forward, however, we are wanting to make sure that we give you a conservative picture as to where we could be, because these bonds, as different as the other ones, the utility is not ready to issue these bonds until probably later this year. However, we did run these numbers at 20 years versus 25.
 So the utility So the utility will be requesting a parameters authorization as well to issue these bonds with the delegated pricing officers as Provided in the slide as for the recommended requirement
 parameters very similar to the last presentation our maximum true interest cost not to exceed six and a half percent that is very conservative we don't expect to be that at the time of pricing the principal amount of this issue not to exceed twenty five million three hundred and thirty thousand which would allow for the
 the refunding of $25 million of revolving notes plus about $330,000 for cost of issuance. For the final maturity not to exceed December 31st of 2043, which is like I mentioned 20 years out, and the expiration of the authority not to exceed nine months. And so if we can't meet these parameters, we will not execute on these bonds.
 As for the underwriters, we've got the same list that we showed on our last presentation. So at the time that the utility decides to move forward with the issuance of these bonds, they will refer to this particular slide and look for the appropriate list of underwriters to help them solve the debt.
 last but not least if approved today the utility will have this authorization and will utilize it when needed and we're looking at potentially issuing these bonds sometime either at the end of this calendar year or at the beginning of 2023 and so with that I will open it up for any questions that you may have for for us at this point no questions is there a motion
 And we also have public comment on this item here. We have Dr. Sharon Miles Bonert no Dr. Rick Bonert.
 Think that the concern remains the same and that you addressed it. It would be nice to have mr. Ballou come and explain Thank you for putting that in I guess the only thing with with the stormwater utility That's more critical is the annual debt service, you know and how you begin to approach that limit because with stormwater It's so volatile one accident could really stress the system out. So I I hope that you're not borrowing to the max Thank you
 Right, and I think you're right, and it's hard to gauge based on, you know, what's happening today. So with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir, the motion was made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Lizada. To approve item number 27 on that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes with four affirmative votes. Representatives Schwartzbein, Salcido, Rivera voting nay. The remainder of council voting aye. And Representative Rodriguez not present. That brings us to item number 28 on the agenda. And this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from R5C residential conditions to C2C.
 Commercial conditions and from our 5sp residential special permit to see to commercial and imposing conditions This is at the property Generally north of Trans Mountain Road and east of interstate 10 There is a motion made by representative Lisa Seconded by representative only not to approve item number 28 on that motion call for the vote mayor pro tem This is item 28. Thank you, sir. I
 the voting session the motion passes unanimously Representative Rodriguez not present the next item is number 29 item 29 is
 A public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning of a portion of the east 300 feet of north, 100 feet of south, 165 feet of track 9D from R4 residential to AO apartment office in imposing conditions. And this is north of Woodrow Bean Trans Mountain Drive and east of Beaumont Street. There is a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve on that motion. Call for the vote.
 In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. The next item is number 30. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special privilege license to 1031 Firestone LLC at the property at 1025 Texas. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Anello to approve on that motion. Call for the vote.
 In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. The next item is number 31, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12, vehicles and traffic, speed limits of Pershing Drive and Dyer Street. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Anello to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session.
 the motion passes unanimously representative rodriguez not present the next item is number 32 and this is discussion in action on the approval of a resolution to authorize a director of aviation to sign and submit a grant application and related documentation to the federal aviation administration faa in connection with the application process for the airport improvement pro
 Project number three dash four eight dash zero zero seven seven dash zero four seven dash twenty twenty two Second there's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Molina to approve item number 32 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session the motion passes unanimously representative Rodriguez not present that brings us to the end of the regular agenda mayor
 I just wanted to ask and I'm not sure if you're prepared to answer if there are any pressing issues in executive or could there be a request to postpone these issues to the next council meeting. Give me a few minutes just to check real quick. We can't hear you. He said he's going to check. Representative representative Hernandez this is Carly Dieman I'm upstairs. We're just checking on one item whether we have to get a decision from council. If you can just give us like five minutes.
 You willing to wait five minutes to see if we can. Let's just wait for a second. Representative Hernandez we have one item that we're on a deadline for for August 15th. So if council wants to we can just take that one item and we can postpone the rest of them. Which item is that executive session with. So let's read that one item into the and then postpone the other.
 So we can postpone the utility items Laura. It is Art Rubio versus the city of El Paso. Can you read that one Ms. Poynter to the record and that's the one we'll take. I second his motion. Thank you Representative Hernandez. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session all in favor. Yes. Anyone opposed.
 The City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551 Subchapter D to discuss Executive Session Item 2, Rubio Arturo v. City of El Paso, Clause Number 2021, DCV 2074, Matter Number 21-1036-3478 under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney. It is 538 p.m.
 Second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 5.53 p.m. Mayor Pro Temp, EX1. EX1, no action. Thank you, sir. EX2. EX2, motion August 2, 2022. Motion made, seconded, and carried that the City Attorney's Office, in consultation with the City Manager, be authorized certain authority to negotiate a settlement of Arturo Rubio v. City of El Paso, pending in the County Court at Law 7. Second.
 under case number 2021DCV074 in matter number 21-1036-3478 and to take all steps necessary, including the execution of any required documents in order to effectuate this authority approved this 22nd day of August 2022. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine and read into the record. Seconded by Representative Rivera on EX2.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anello? Aye. Thank you. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Second. EX 3? Oh, EX 3, no action. EX 4? No action. Thank you. EX 5? No action. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn?
 Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Godspeed, Representative Rivera. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, August 2nd, 2022 is adjourned at 5.55 a.m. Godspeed, you handsome man. Godspeed, Representative Rivera. Godspeed. Thank you.