City Council for Tuesday, August 16, 2022. It is now 9.02 a.m. Present and presiding is Mayor Leaser. And also present in Council Chambers, we have Representative Zanello Molinar. She's walking in Hernandez, Rodriguez, Rivera, and Lizárraga. Representative Schwartzbein has requested to be excused.
 And now, will everyone please silence their electronic devices so it's not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Chaplain and Sun Valley Baptist Pastor Dennis Kaufman. Mr. Kaufman. Thank you. Good morning, sir. It's a pleasure for me to be here. And if you would bow with me, we'll have a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this opportunity to pray for this city council.
 And I pray that you would be with each member here to give them wisdom and guidance as they direct our city, that we might continue to do what would be pleasing to you, that you would protect us and guide us and lead us in your will. And again, I pray that you would be with these members, that you would give them the special wisdom and understanding that they need. I pray that you would protect each one to watch over them and their families.
 Thank you that you are in control of all things. And I pray again that you bless this meeting in a special way to watch over them and guide them. And thank you for your love and your grace and your mercy in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Mr. Center, will you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, sir? Pledge of Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir.
 And I want to welcome everyone here. I know we have a lot of students and, you know, we're going to talk about the great football game, the 9-1-5. So, you know, today I want to kind of talk a little bit about the youth of our city and our country. We've always talked about this and that the future always depends on the youth. And every time we have a proclamation or
 anything that has to do with youth. We look and we see how bright the future is of El Paso and we look at the UTEP football team and the UTEP sporting events that come that is brought to our community. We get to see the youth again and we get to see the youth that will someday be the future not only of El Paso but also the youth of our country. So today I want to
 Really have a moment of silence to think about the youth think about how in great hands Our city in our country is and I want to wish all
 Of course, UTEP, a lot of success and that no one gets hurt during the coming season. And also, you know, the teams that are here today represented for our school, Eastwood Isleta. I want to thank you all for being here, but also to continue to represent and know how proud that El Paso is and will continue to be proud of you. And so the football season for high school, youth,
 In college, we continue to have a great season and everybody stays healthy and no one gets hurt. Thank you. Diana. The first proclamation is UTEP 915. Representative Sarga. Good morning. Good morning, thank you, Mayor. This is my honor to read this proclamation. I am a proud graduate of UTEP.
 Whereas the city of El Paso recognizes that the University of Texas at El Paso Minors have entertained fans in this community for over a century. And whereas this year is the 75th anniversary of the introduction of the 915 area code that identifies El Paso,
 And whereas the University of Texas at El Paso Athletic Department has launched a 915 campaign to embrace and engage the El Paso community while generating interest and excitement for the Sun City's longest running and most iconic team, the Miners,
 And whereas the University of Texas at El Paso football team is opening its season against the University of North Texas in the Sun Bowl on this day. It's blank, which is next Saturday, I believe? August 27th. August 27th. At 7 p.m. at Sun Bowl Stadium.
 Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that August 27 2022 shall be known as UTEP 915 day I'm center. Yeah, you want to say a few words? I know first thing you're gonna say is go Miners you stole my thunder. I know Thank you to each of you he does it all the time I
 Let me just say first of all, thank you to each of you for your service and in your leadership I know you have really difficult jobs We're very very appreciative of what you do and in realize there's a lot of sacrifice in serving But thank you to each one of you and we're very very proud to have this August 27th date
 named in the 915 day in the proclamation very excited and I was just thinking as mayor Lisa opened up and talked about youth in in the future we serve all constituents but predominantly colleges are full of young people just like elementary junior high middle schools and high schools are
 And we have a tremendous opportunity to help forge young people's lives through athletics. Whether, it doesn't matter at what level, right? Whether you're talking about the littlest kids or the oldest kids that are in college, we have a profound impact. And I know this, if we had more kids that were playing sports and engaged in competitive athletics across America, we'd have fewer problems because we know what athletics
 competition and healthy lifetime sports do for young people and you can carry it throughout your life so I just want to say thank you very much we're very very excited about the 9-1-5 campaign it embraces encompasses all of our sports at UTEP and it's really a celebration of all sports in all the student athletes across all levels in the 9-1-5 area code so thank you very much go Miners there you go
 Thank you, and I know that our city employees and a lot of the team members here are very excited to support the miners and go for first sellout since 2008. How's that going? So we're going to be a sellout. Well, we'll have, so far we'll have, what, 6,600 city team members that will be attending the game. So we're excited to be there to support and cheer the miners. And with that, Diana? Yeah.
 No, it was you know, I've done a lot of things in in my life that I've been able to support and donate to and You know giving back to the city employees was probably one of the most Heartwarming things that I've had the opportunity to do they when they came in and got the tickets the cards and the thank-yous that we've gotten Weren't needed but I can tell you that they were very excited to be part of something big and support and being together on August 27th. So thank you
 And with that, I- The next proclamation is Adaptive Cyclers Plus Day. And then I just want to add that Representative Salcido joined us at 9.04 a.m. Adaptive Cyclers Plus Day.
 Thank you. Proclamation of the City of El Paso, Texas. RAS, founded by Mike Osborne, a disabled veteran, after visiting an out-of-town adaptive sports camp, Adaptive Cyclers Plus, ACP, began as an informal group of adaptive cyclists of all ages and all disabilities in 2017.
 And whereas the group continued to meet together regularly for rides at various locations around El Paso, Texas and in 2019 ACP became a 501c3 nonprofit organization serving people with disabilities throughout adaptive sports and whereas ACP provides information training and hosts competitive and recreational adaptive sports events and adaptive cycling and other adaptive sports such as Bochia Peak pickleball and horseshoes and
 And whereas ACP realized adaptive cycles were not covered under any applicable ordinance codes, the organization worked with the state legislatures and the El Paso City government in changing the bicycle definition to recognize adaptive cycles under the applicable codes.
 And RAS, the City of El Paso, congratulates Mike Osborne and Adaptive Cyclers Plus for enriching the quality of life of people with disabilities through competitive and recreational adaptive sports in El Paso and in the border region. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the City Council that August 16, 2022 shall be known as Adaptive Cyclers Plus Day signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Mr. Osborne.
 Thank you, Mayor and City Council. Good morning. Good morning, sir. Again, Mayor and City Council, thank you for recognizing Adaptive Cycles Plus. You always have an open invitation to come ride Adaptive Cycles. We've got an event going on right now, too. So I'm never slowing down. Thank you very much. Thank you. Your name, sir? Mike Osborne. And next proclamation is El Ferro Grande Day. Proclamation.
 Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas El Perro Grande, E.P. Grande, is an award-winning local spirits company that represents and embodies our region. The unique bottle design pays homage to the El Paso and Juarez region, and whereas the story of El Perro Grande begins with a special spirited dog that at times can be a little rebellious and viewed by many as an underdog.
 A big hearted, courageous dog that followed a bright star on the south side of the Franklin Mountains and found home in the welcoming and beautiful city of El Paso, Texas.
 Whereas, this August 2022, El Paso Grande will launch in El Paso and will work to become one of the nation's largest spirits brands headquartered in the El Paso region. And whereas, the City of El Paso plays a vital and critical role in supporting the success of all local businesses in our community. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso that August 16, 2022 shall be known as El Perro Grande Day. Signed, the Honorable Oscar Leaser, Mayor, City of El Paso.
 Mr. Johnson, you know, it's always nice to recognize and see a company that's a startup company that is in El Paso and from El Paso and from El Pasoans. And, you know, I know that we talk about that El Paso is 80 percent small business and that we need to continue to support our small businesses. And this is the perfect example of somebody with a vision that's been here.
 wants to start up a company and really, and I had the honor in the presentation, you've shown me your product and it's an incredible product and I'm looking forward to watching it grow and be a huge part of El Paso. Well thank you and good morning everyone and thank you Mayor and City Council for the El Perro Grande resolution that you gave us today. We really appreciate it. Three years ago we started off with a dream to start a tequila company here in El Paso
 and we have finally got it launched and last week we've been very busy. We've been already giving back to our community. We supported the El Paso Humane Society event that was last Saturday. We recently supported a golf tournament up at Coronado called Canyon Capers. So we have been very actively involved in supporting our community with this brand.
 It's taken a lot of hard work to get to where we're at and I would love to show you what our bottle looks like and why we, it's an award winning tequila. It has already won two awards and it's not even out in El Paso yet. It's worn silver from the San Francisco Spirit Awards, which is a testament to how good the tequila actually is. We've gotten a ton of interest, not only from our El Paso community, which is where it will only be launched first.
 but we've received a lot of interest from as far as Miami and South Beach to California. So we think we have something that's going to make El Paso very proud, and we're excited to share that with you. I'll show you. This is one of our bottles, and on the bottle, as you can see, it's small but mighty. Will you show our friends that are out there? I think they'd love to see that bottle.
 Sure so it's small but mighty and on one of the arms we have of course the 915 on the back of the bottle We have the star that's on our mountain our Franklin Mountains El Chico and Texas forever on this arm It says bienvenidos with our sister city of Juarez. So we think that this bottle is
 and the detail that we put into this really represents El Paso and I look forward to when you guys could be at a bar outside of El Paso and see it on the shelf and say hey let me tell you about El Perro Grande. But we thank you guys and it's going to take a village to move this company forward and I consider El Paso the community my village. So thank you guys very much for this resolution and we're going to make you proud. Thank you. Thank you. Your name for the record sir. Renard Johnson. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, we're gonna move on to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested. Ma'am, can we take photographs? We're gonna do, we have, Dinah, I wanna move up before we do that. We have three proclamations that, so we can break on one time. So I'm gonna go ahead and take the proclamations first.
 We were gonna take the vote for the consent and then they're the first three items on the regular agenda that way we wouldn't that's fine That's fine. Right after that. We'll break and we'll take the three proclamations. Yes Yeah, go ahead She thinks she's in charge for this. We're okay. I
 That's okay, I'm so sorry. It will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item will be approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Can I get a, we do have some revisions. Alternate, Mayor Pro Temp.
 Good morning. Thank you. I move to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 4, item 9, postpone four weeks per capital improvement department. And we also will be request adding to item number 2 the excusal of Representative Shortspine. Do I have a second? Second. Go ahead. I believe Representative Rivera you have some revisions.
 Yes, just for the record, items 19 and 20 to move up after the consent. They are. They're the first items on the regular agenda. Motion made by Alternate Mayor Pro Temble-Sarraga, seconded by Representative Rivera. And the vote is open. Representative Rivera? Thank you. And the consent agenda has been approved unanimously. Now the first item on page seven,
 is the discussion in action on a resolution that the city of El Paso recognizes Eastwood High School senior Alexis Montes for finishing second at the USMC USAW Junior and Cadet National Championships in Fargo, North Dakota, and wishes her a successful last wrestling season as a trooper. This is item 19. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm proud to be in here, as you said earlier, to honor the youth of El Paso who have proven themselves time and time again. And this is just one more example of it. And I hope UTEP's looking strongly at this. Let me read the resolution as it was written. Whereas in February 2021, Eastwood High School wrestler Alexis Montes, one of El Paso's top female wrestlers, lost her father, Maroney Montes, to COVID-19 complications.
 and now uses her late father as an extra motivation to continue to do great things and whereas on april 10 2021 as a sophomore alexis montes led the eastwood troopers to a district 168 championship and whereas alexis who is now a senior at eastwood high school mr junior season as she recovered from surgery on both knees and was cleared to wrestle in may 2022
 And whereas Alexis finished second at the USMC USAW Junior and Cadet National Championships held from July 15, 2022, July 15 through the 22nd, 2022 in Fargo, North Dakota. And whereas Alexis went five and one at the tournament, which included a semifinal win against Isabella Marie Gonzalez of California.
 And whereas Montes was part of a Texas team which finished fifth overall. Whereas taking a loss to Juliana Diaz of Florida in the championship match, Alexis says she is using the experience to continue moving forward and finish her high school career on a strong note. And whereas the national tournament in Fargo, North Dakota, Alexis received three college offers to wrestle.
 Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso recognizes Eastwood High School senior Alexis Montes for finishing second at USMC USAW Junior and Cadet National Championships in Fargo, North Dakota, and wishes her a successful last wrestling season as a trooper.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. Could you state your name? Yes. I'm Troy Douglas, girls coach at Eastwood. Thank you, Representative Rivera, for the invite. On behalf of myself and the Eastwood coaching staff, Alexis' mother is here. Alexis, congratulations. I always tell her it's just the beginning of great things to come. I don't think we've ever had anyone from El Paso be a Fargo finalist before.
 And so it's she's making history left and right and we thank you all and just the beginning for her. Thank you My hard work and dedication is finally paying off and this is only the beginning I've been out
 Battling surgeries grief and to come back and finish Second not what I wanted, but I will become a national champion in college. So multiple time, hopefully so Thank you for recognizing Where are you going to college? I want I'm wanting to go to Iowa State, but I also have Jim centers right behind you by the way
 So I told him to listen. No pressure. Listen. And it would be great to give my college education and experience more, would be great. Thank you and as it's been said before, if you dream and you dream big, dreams can always come true and I think it's a perfect example, congratulations. Congratulations. Thank you. Ms. Montes, you wanna say something?
 Yes, just thank you for recognizing her. She's been working hard. She's been battling a lot of things mentally, emotionally, physically, and I'm glad she's pulled through. I'm very proud of her. I know she came back with a second, but I was proud of her seeing her on the screen. It was amazing to see her. And there's so many more things to come. Hold on. Hold on, coach. You're going to see more of her. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. And Mayor, just say it.
 Mayor, just to conclude, we'll present Alexis with a little something from the City Council. The City of El Paso recognizes Alexis Montes in finishing second at the USMC USAW Junior and Cadet National Championships in Fargo, North Dakota. Congratulations and best of luck on your final season of wrestling in these. Congratulations.
 Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, we do need a motion to approve. Well, Diana? Motion to approve. Thank you. Thank you. I was in order. Motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve the resolution. Voting is open. The motion has been approved unanimously. Thank you. Thank you, Council.
 We'll take item 20 now Yes, sir. Next item is discussion item 20 Discussion and action on the resolution that the city of El Paso celebrates the month of August as the slatter high school 95th Anniversary month in honor and commemoration of his letter high schools 95th year serving El Paso's Mission Valley Thank you mayor, this is a second honor for district 7 to present to you to school that has been around for
 95 years and this year is a big year right so let me read the resolution as it stated whereas East Leda high school was established in 1927 as East Leda Independent School District's first high school and whereas this year marks the 95th year that East Leda high school has been serving El Paso's Mission Valley and where tens of thousands of students have walked through the doors of the Indian country
 and whereas several local public figures and elected officials have graduated from East Letter High School including former County Judge Alicia Archacon, former State Senator Tati Santisteban, El Paso County District Clerk Norma Favela-Barcelu, philanthropist Woody Santisteban, El Paso County District Clerk I'm sorry philanthropist Woody Hunt I'm sorry artist Bobby Fuller,
 Fox jukebox anchor Mike Guerrero, news anchor Erica Castillo, TV personality Flor Guerrero, County Commissioner Carlos Leon, former NBA basketball player Rafael Palomeras, former City Council Eddie Olguin, radio personality Armando Medina, former Green Bay Packers player Jesse Whitten,
 Fallen El Paso Police Officer, Department Officer David Ortiz, former Isleta Independence Trustee Marty Reyes, former El Paso County Commissioner Diana Chosette, County Court at Law Number Seven Judge Ruben Morales, former Isleta del Sur Governor Alberto Alvarez and Carlos Hiza, former City Councilman and Private Investigator JJ Arms,
 and many others who have contributed to the El Paso community and whereas Isleta High School was named at a Texas Education Agency, TEA, exemplary school in 2017 and 2019 and whereas in 2017 on their 90th anniversary Isleta High School opened the Isleta High School Early College Academy and whereas Isleta High School
 Isleta High School's 95th school year commenced on August 1st, 2022, and we're asked the 95th anniversary of Isleta High School serves as a reminder to all students that alumni, that once an Indian, always an Indian. Now therefore it be resolved by the city council of the city of El Paso, that the city of El Paso celebrates the month of August as Isleta High School 95th anniversary month in honor to commemorate
 of Isleta's 95th year serving El Paso Mission Valley. Thank you. I move to approve before I forget. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera to approve and seconded by Representative Rodriguez. The voting has started and the resolution has been approved unanimously. Thank you, council. Thank you.
 Esteemed council we'd like to thank you. I am Judith Calderon. I'm the principal in chief of East letter high school We're very proud of our 95 years of history and that we are the pride of the lower valley I represent a lot of passionate educators and children who have matriculated through our campuses through our campus We are very proud to represent hashtag 95 in the 9-1-5 this year. So once an Indian always an Indian and
 Diana. And also just something from the council as well if you want to wait a second. The city council of city of El Paso recognizes the Salida high school's 95th anniversary month in honor of the commemoration of the Salida high school's 95th year serving the El Paso mission value.
 Next item is item 21, and this is discussion and action to recognize the Santos family and the Fox Plaza food city market staff, customers, and customers for the impact they have made since 1972 on past and future generations of El Paso citizens. Representative Manila. Thank you, Mayor. I know the family's here. I don't know if they want to come up.
 But I just wanted to say I know I'm new to the area and it's an honor to be able to recognize y'all. I know the Food King has been a staple in this community. I know you've worked with Representative Hernandez for a long time. And you have done so much for the community. We've heard from a lot of constituents and we want to just take a moment to recognize y'all and the work that you do and the impact that you did make on the South Side since 1964. So with that, I will read the resolution.
 So whereas in 1964, Jose Santos began his legacy in the grocery business by founding his first store at L'Aranjo Mart on South Stanton Street and soon extended his service throughout the El Paso community through the opening of Food City Supermarket across the city. And whereas the Fox Plaza Food City Supermarket became a landmark in the South Central neighborhood, providing quality merchandise and homemade food, while ownership imparted on its customers a sense of home and comfort.
 And whereas three generations of family businesses and the employees created an environment that welcomed all who walked through the doors of the store, spreading an El Paso warmth with the kind gestures they shared and their attentiveness to people. And whereas the Santos family and their grocery store poured their never ending generosity
 out into the community giving to local churches public schools and city organizations on numerous occasions exhibiting their love for el paso's people in their effort to continually help others and whereas in august 2022 the fox plaza food city supermarket plans on closing its doors after serving el paso for 50 years leaving its influence in the hearts of those it gave to
 Now therefore be it resolved that the City Council of El Paso 1 recognizes the Santos family and the Fox Plaza Food City supermarket for the impact they have made since 1972 on past and future generations of El Paso citizens. And 2 recognizes the staff of the business for their hard work throughout the years and devotion to establish a store that strove to continuously be of benefit for those it served. Thank you.
 Three, recognizes the customers for their support of the South Central location and prolonging the difference it made in the community, cementing the store's legacy in El Paso. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed this approved resolution on the 16th day of August 2022. Congratulations. I'll make a motion to approve. You know, congratulations. And, you know, I had the...
 down there meeting you all when i was running profits back in 2013 and sitting there in your office and not only just talking to multiple generations and that's what really family businesses are about and you know the talk about you know the service you provide for the area but also for the community and giving back to the community it's uh it's really amazing and and i i really uh enjoyed the opportunity to meet you but really meet the family
 and what family's about. So we talked a little bit about starting a business in El Paso and our small business and continue to grow. You all are really the dream of what El Paso business people,
 want to be and become. And it's incredible. And like I said, you know, seeing the brothers, sisters, cousins, parents, grandparents, and also the kids, and the involvement also within the community was really what
 really familia and families about and you all are you know if I could look it up the definition of family or familia in the Dictionary, I know I'd see your family there. So thank you and congratulations Thank you mayor. My name is Stanley Santos. I'm the president of food city and I
 We're so honored to be here with all of you and thank you to all of the representatives here present. Thank you for your service to our community. Thank you, Representative Vanello. And I'd also like to thank Ana Dominguez, who's also from the community in Fox Plaza.
 First of all, I'd like to thank our parents for taking having the courage and taking a chance in 1964 and opening a little store on South Stanton Street 5,000 square feet and My father had a wonderful legacy of service not only to to this community but to our state and and to the nation he
 was an advisor to three governors, several mayors, two presidents, and he really gave us a foundation of and a legacy of giving. And we're so thankful to all the outpouring and the heartwarming messages we've received from people all over the city that we never knew shopped with us. So many memories.
 That they've shared growing up obviously leaving the community and going to other parts of the city But it's been very sad, but it's also been very heartwarming to see so many people reach out to us and that's been very uplifting for us and The gentleman that was here Renard I believe is his name. Yes, sir with the tequila Keep fighting don't ever give up and
 and much success to you and to all the family businesses in El Paso. El Paso needs family businesses. We'll still have two other stores, but our health and our age caught up with us and we really need it to downsize. So we're going to put all our energy into our other two locations, do some remodeling, and still serve this community. We love El Paso. We love what we do. And we're also grateful to the thousands of employees that have
 uh worked in in that store the fox plaza store over the last 50 years and thank you for this wonderful opportunity to be recognized and i also would like to thank anna dominguez i know she would probably like to say a few words so uh thank you thank you city council members thank you good morning city council members good morning and mayor our message
 In regards to the Valverde community, Fox Plaza community, is I am a long time resident of Valverde community, which is the Clardy Fox area. And this is a message that I'd like to convey to the family now that they're here present. Words are not enough to describe our sadness regarding your departure from our neighborhood community.
 You will be sorely missed as you have been a wonderful landmark for our neighborhood. Your store has been characterized by the excellent customer service and personal touch from the top management to your cashiers, etc.
 Your generosity and cooperation in numerous community projects has impacted past and future generations of those of us who are proud of residing in this caring barrio. We wish you and the Food City Fox Plaza family continued success.
 Present are some of the entities that have been the lucky recipients of the generosity of the family. Luz Herrera, the president of the AO Alumni Association,
 is present. Word also went out to the Father Guillermo sisters, the servants of the Sacred Heart and of the Poor who have also been recipients. And so many other numerous, numerous individuals and organizations that have benefited from the generosity of this family. Thank you to the City Council and in particular to the Office of City Representative Anelo
 for such a wonderful proclamation honoring this Jose Santos family and the Food City Fox Plaza location, their employees, and us, their customers. Thank you so much. Thank you. And I just wanna ask you one question, ma'am. Are you gonna miss the long lines for the menudo on Saturdays? Well, that's a double-edged sword, Mayor.
 I will tell you that besides the excellent product, you know their food, their vegetables, and their meat department and so forth, we will miss the family because they were always on hands and they were always accessible and responsive to the community. That's what we're gonna miss the most.
 But we hope that we will continue to partner with them in our dreams, as one of the city council said, to continue to dream. We are very grateful. I am very grateful. I have had personal experience where they have helped me in very large projects that have benefited the city youth and the community.
 over 5,000 children through the nursing home and assisted living Christmas stocking project, which was a program that was for eight years. They provided the toys and so forth. So we're gonna miss them. But thank you so much for acknowledging the family because they are too modest. They are too modest, but it is a well-deserved recognition. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you again. Representative Molinar followed by Representative Nandez.
 Good morning to the Santos family. Don't leave yet. Just want to let you know my name is Joe Molinata. I represent the District 4 Northeast El Paso. And I want to say it very loud and clear that I'm very proud to be one of your customers. I drove from the Northeast to your store, okay, to the deli. I'd buy vegetables, just like what the young lady said, different products. But the most best part was those costillas de borrego.
 You can't get them anywhere else in El Paso. Thank you very much for our heartfelt thank you from the Molinari family to your family, thank you. Thank you so much. Representative Nunes. And also thank you, I also wanna recognize Carlos Lari who sits on the city board. You all have been such a great partner in all of our events but I do have some very important business. Mayor, if I can ask the question.
 Y'all are not getting rid of the tortillas, right? Okay, where is the torteria going to be now? Because I'm telling you, Ranch Line is my store.
 We're hoping it's there's in stock all the time there. We're actually making or we've just got it a space next to our store and We're fixing to get that our kitchen and our turkey operation is going to move into that space and We're gonna open up the wall so that you can actually see the people making the tortillas and cooking the carnitas and and the
 Borrego and all that good stuff so Yeah, no, they're not going away. That's exciting. My mom literally makes me chase I wish I was lying, but this is what I do. I chase your tortillas if I can't find my ranch land I'm going to Fox Plaza They are really important to our menu in our household. So thank you all for what you do a staple in this community We're gonna miss you in the Fox Plaza area, but we look forward to seeing the growth and the other two stories. Congratulations
 thank you thank you and mr. something I was one of the last comment that I know when I was running for office in 2013 I went out and wanted to get your support and and
 You called me in your office and before you would even endorse me support me or give me any money I had to meet every one of your family members and they had to agree that I would be the best candidate and It was a family decision and that's what's important again And we talked about family and so I had the opportunity to meet everybody. I
 from your father to the son, nephews, and everyone else. And it was a decision that wasn't just for one person, it was something that was best for the family. And so I'll never forget that, that it's always been about family and our community. So thank you. Thank you, Mayor. And I just wanna take the opportunity, because now you mentioned that, for us to have survived nearly 60 years, 50 there, and also since 1964,
 To survive as a family business, you really have to die to self and work together. We're in our third generation, and you can't do it autocratically. People have to buy in. The family has to buy in. And you have to agree. Thank you.
 That doesn't mean that every decision is made by committee, but you have to make the important decisions together. And so we're very, very grateful that we've been able to do that for nearly 60 years. So thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. God bless you and your family. God bless you all. Thank you. Take care. Representative Rivera, I'm sorry. Thank you, Mayor.
 Don't leave yet because I want to thank you also having grown up in the neighborhood having attended you said, uh, I mean and sorry Having attended Henderson and as there I know when you first opened up having walked in with my mother and smelling that fresh bread and everything else was really delicious and Just made you hungrier. But listen, let me tell you what I believe what you said about about the family being modest and
 is I know and I I live to see it your store beat out two major chains and I don't know what the third one is right now but I remember it was a safe a piggly-wiggly to begin with and then it's Safeway and you beat him out I believe there's been seven previous well I operators in the building
 competitor next right to us that's I said after Safeway and and and there was another one right there Safeway first right versions of first big gates and I just looking and you could you could just stand at the corner and look at both sides of the street and there was food city I was standing thank you thank you so much for everything thank you very much thank you all of you again yes
 I wanted to thank you today. My name is Luz Herrera and I'm the president of the AOI Alumni Association and I wanted to let you all know that every Thanksgiving Mr. Lowry gave us
 Our project for Thanksgiving is providing 30 food baskets, including the turkey, the pumpkin pie, vegetables, everything that is needed for a family to sit down and be grateful. And Food City was there for us.
 And so now we're going to miss you and we're going to have to find somebody else. No, you don't. We're going to find a way. You just call us. Okay, that's excellent. I'm glad I came and I said something. Because I was going to start and see where I could find somebody else. But his generosity has gone beyond because he's touched children.
 Children are our future and I just wanted to thank you for that. Thank you, Mrs Edda and nice to see you Thank you, mama. We have a motion for recess motion to approve by represent Anelo seconded by representative Hernandez and the voting is open and it has been approved unanimously Listen to recess now we can get a motion all those in favor. Aye so am
 That's our next item is motion to reconvene the regular City Council meeting of August 16th made by representative Rivera seconded by Representative Molina at 1106 all those in favor all those opposed and the meeting is back in session the next item on the agenda is item 22 and
 And that is the presentation, discussion, and action. I recommend we take item 38. It's a companion item to the public hearing on the Sun Metro. You wanna what? I'm sorry. Take item 38 on the regular agenda. It's the public hearing on the regular city budget. It's a companion item to what we just heard.
 Can we get a motion? Yes, ma'am. Go ahead and take it. So moved. She can go ahead and take it. Go ahead. Motion made by Representative Manello and seconded by Representative Rivera to move item 38. I can go ahead and move it up though. Diana, I can move the item up if I want. Thank you, sir. So go ahead.
 This is the public hearing on the proposed budget as amended for the city of El Paso Filed by the city manager with the city clerk on July 14 2022 which begins on September 1st 2022nd and ends on August 31st 2023rd the public hearing is open at 11 o 8 a.m And we don't have anyone signed up to speak but I will ask is there anybody? Who would like to comment on the?
 Budget starts 6 to unmute yourself or please come up to the podium. I don't see anybody. Alternate Mayor Pro Tem if you can make a motion. Yes, thank you. I motion to close the public hearing at 1108 a.m. and postpone the final vote on the budget until August 23rd, 2022. Second.
 We have a motion by alternate mayor pro tem Lisa raga seconded by Representative Rivera the motion is open voting is open Representative succeed. Oh Thank you ma'am, and the item has been approved unanimously. Thank you Is thank you, mr. Cortina's
 Item 22 on page 8 presentation discussion in action on the city of El Paso's legislative agenda for the 88th Regular session of the Texas State Legislature Good morning again, Miss Adams. Good morning We have snapper and Lupe also on the line Lindsay Adams legislative liaison for the record Yes, there's Lupe snapper is currently at the Capitol. So he might be a couple minutes late, but he's been trying to get here and
 So before I begin, good to see you all. Good morning. Today we're bringing an update. As you all know we came to you in May. This is just an update as we promised. If you haven't noticed we've made a lot of process improvements as to how we keep you all updated. So hopefully you guys feel informed and if there's anything you ever need always feel free to reach out. If IT can please bring up the presentation that would be great.
 I'll go ahead and get started while they do that. So today we are of course updating you on where we are in the process with our legislative priorities and the legislative agenda. As much as I wish I knew investment policy that is not the correct presentation. So we're here to provide an update and also get some action on from you all on a section of the agenda. Of course in October we'll come back with the final agenda.
 But today we're just going to talk about the priority legislative initiatives that you all have seen and we met with you all on and Then also the support and oppose items that you all provided to us in our individual briefings that we held with you all Don't want to go too far without the presentation You could go to the second slide, please
 Great. Thank you so much. So just a quick reminder before we get started. We do have three sections in our agenda. So the first one is our priority legislative initiatives which is what we'll go over today. And then we also have our apport oppose and support section which we're only going to cover the items that council brought forward to us during our meetings with you all. We'll go over the rest of them in October. We wanted to break it up just so we weren't throwing a lot of stuff at you at once. Next slide please.
 So in terms of the timeline as you all know we started this process in March identifying priority legislative initiatives we've worked with city departments city leadership and then we brought an update to you all in May.
 After that we met with each of you individually and got your feedback on those initiatives and of course any ideas Input that you had on those so that's what we'll show you those those today and then also in July We met with the entire delegation We were fortunate enough to get them all in one room a virtual room But all in one room at the same time we presented our agenda to them and they were very much in support of all of our items, so that's very good as we move into Getting closer to the session
 Another thing we're doing now that we're in August we're meeting with all of our stakeholders so we have met with UTEP the chamber the borderplex alliance El Paso water El Paso electric. I'm sure I missed a few but we've been meeting with all of our stakeholders and by the end of this week we will have completed that. Our last meeting is with the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. And one thing that we've been targeting in all of these meetings of course is our initiatives transportation's been a big thing that we've been discussing with them as well as like the Weiler aerial tramway and stuff like that.
 So today, of course in August, we're wanting to get your all support on the priority legislative initiatives that we have so far. And then we'll come back to you all in October for the final adoption of the agenda. Bills can begin to be filed in November and then January is basically here. So we're moving through this process rather quickly but it's been smooth sailing so far and I want to thank Lupe and Snapper for their help and we've been a great team so far so I'm very excited about that. Next slide please.
 So I'm not going to go through all of them because you have seen them, you saw them in May. I'm just going to let you all know of the changes, what's different from what you saw in May. So next slide please. So under economic development, the first three are remaining the same as you saw them in May. And as we discussed in your briefings, the fourth item on this slide is being moved to the support section. And we're doing this because we don't really have a specific project in mind that encompasses renewable energy initiatives.
 So if we move this to support, we'll have a lot more opportunity should an item come forward during the session to support any type of renewable energy, solar, etc. So moving into the support section is just a better deal for us. We'll be able to, you know, move forward with anything that comes up during the session. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 So on the budget slide there are two changes. The first one there both changes are related to the first item on this slide. So at first we had the impact of inflation as a priority initiative but we're moving that to the support section because we're sure it's going to be a topic of conversation during the session. So anything that supports the idea of the impact of inflation the city is moving to support that. But we're wanting to also oppose any legislation that would restrict our ability to generate property tax revenue. So those are the two changes on this slide.
 Next slide please. Under transportation there's no changes from what you saw in May so those will all remain the same. I do want to mention on the Weiler Aerial Tramway we had very good discussions with the delegation about it. They're all very much in support of that so we're very hopeful that this year with the surplus we may be able to get the full funding for that. So we're going to try as best we can for that. Next slide.
 Under the border section nothing has changed. This is exactly as you saw in May. So still looking out for complementing our ITS technology at our bridges. Next slide.
 So one thing that you did not see in May but that you did see in June when you all passed the resolution in support of Uvalde was the gun legislation. So these two are pulled directly from that resolution. If you can go to the next slide as well, please. This is also pulled directly from that resolution. So this is language that you all have already adopted. We are adding this as our priority initiative since you guys have already taken action on that. If you can go to the next slide.
 One thing that we are adding, when we spoke to the delegation, they mentioned that they were very happy with the resolution that you all passed, but they would like to see if we could add something related to straw purchases. That's the purchase of a firearm by somebody who, for somebody who would legally not be able to purchase it themselves. So the delegation did recommend that we add that to what you guys have already approved in terms of gun legislation. Next slide please.
 So with that those are all of our priority legislative initiatives that we will be going after with your all's approval. This next slide covers the recommendations we received from you all during your briefings about support and oppose items that you would like to see.
 So this language is what we drafted based on the meetings we held with you so if this doesn't reflect what you meant in that meeting please let us know so we can get that corrected to exactly what you guys are asking for. But the first one is to find support anything that repurposes electric vehicle batteries. We had a conversation about what's going to happen when we have all of these electric vehicle batteries that are now in a landfill and it's not really it's kind of defeating the purpose so supporting anything that would provide new ways to repurpose that.
 The second item is continued funding for the Hazelwood Act. So there was actually a higher education hearing yesterday. They spoke about the Hazelwood Act. One of the things they mentioned is that there has been a decrease in number of veterans, which means there's been a decrease in number of people using the program, but that doesn't mean it's going to zero. It's very much stabilizing at this point, which is good.
 The next item is to support the expansion of Chapter 615. Chapter 615 refers to if an officer police officer law enforcement officer is killed in the line of duty their family would be entitled to benefits and this would be to support anything that expands that to educators or anybody that works in a school setting.
 And then finally the last item from the members of council was support efforts to protect women's reproductive rights and then oppose any efforts that would ban abortion in Texas. So with these I do want to mention I know Mayor Pro Tem isn't here today but I had a feeling he was going to ask about the film incentive program. So that's an item that we'll bring to you all in October. These are just new ones that we have from the meetings that we held with you. So next slide please.
 So today the requested action, we're asking you to approve the priority initiatives that I just went over. All of them are listed on your screen. I know they're kind of small, but I wanted to get them all in one snapshot. The only difference here, of course, is that last one adding the straw purchase prohibition to the gun legislation. So that's half of the requested action. And the second half is on the next slide, please.
 just to get approval of the support and oppose section of those new initiatives that you brought forward, which are the four I just went over. Move to approve. Next slide. Sorry. So with that, here's our recommended motion, just motion to approve those priority legislative initiatives and the support and oppose section of the legislative agenda that was just presented. And then next slide please.
 Finally we continue to work to craft the agenda. We still have a lot of support and oppose items that we'll bring forward to you all in October. We're still working with our stakeholders like I mentioned and then of course we'll be back in October for final adoption as we move into the session starting in January. So with that I will take any questions. I'll make a motion to approve. Second.
 Mayor, thank you very much. Ladies, thank you very much for your presentation. A couple of things. So you mentioned early on that you have already met with the Reed delegation here, and they were very supportive of it.
 Yes, sir. We covered all of our priority legislative initiatives, so not the support in a post section per se, but all of our initiatives they are in support of. And we've also gotten some feedback that they're willing to file some of those bills for us. Okay. And do you know how they're going to disseminate filing the bills as far as, you know, what's going on?
 what representative is going to follow up for the state senator blanco's gonna follow them on behalf or you know anything like that so I don't know for all of them but I do know for example the gun legislation one senator blanco's file in the past and he's mentioned that he will file again for some of the transportation items representative Ortega has said that she will file most of those transportation as she has in the past okay and as far as the Hazelwood program I believe it's also covered or made so it
 THE DEPENDENTS ARE ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE BENEFITS FOR EDUCATION SERVICES. SO YOU MENTIONED THERE'S A DECREASE IN VETERANS, WHICH IS PROBABLY SO. I DON'T KNOW THAT FOR A FACT. BUT THE FACT THAT THE SPOUSES AND DEPENDENTS CAN APPLY AS WELL. SO WE NEED TO COVER THAT AS WELL. YES, ABSOLUTELY. IT'S WRITTEN TO SUPPORT ANY EXPANSION OF THE HAZELWOOD PROGRAM. OKAY.
 Lindsay, I'm sorry on that particular one. And I'm coming at you live from the Capitol today. So there are committee hearings that were in attendance. So I apologize being here on the Capitol extension, but representative, there was actually, as Lindsay mentioned a hearing yesterday in the higher education committee that covered this. And currently, as you stated,
 uh children and dependents and spouses are eligible to utilize that benefit that's a current uh status the individuals that oversee that through the university system have indicated that the funding has stabilized for it they expect it to be funded again they do have lower numbers
 and they said that was attributable to just a lower number of overall veteran population. New and in addition, one other thing about the Hazelwood program, it's important to point out is it is a supplement to the GI Bill. So those individuals that are eligible for the GI Bill first utilized that and then the state of Texas through the Hazelwood Act program would have these additional benefits once those initial had been extinguished. But it
 The good news is that it appears that it is on a much more stable path than it was four years ago, and that some of the over-utilization issues that they felt might have been threatening its longevity have been addressed. And so the main thing that we will be doing is supporting, as I suspect, that it will be fully funded in the state budget this next time around.
 All right. Thank you very much. Can you please state your name for the record? Oh, I'm sorry. The Snapper Carr. I'm a partner in general counsel with Focused Advocacy.
 one other just snapper we did recognize your voice there's no mistake in it but for the record we needed your name absolutely absolutely thank you um the one other item uh representative you asked about kind of how the members will divide up that's also something that you don't do very early although lindsay pointed out we're now inside of three months from when bills can officially be filed with numbers on them where they can become law november 14th is that day
 however the delegation as is custom with most delegations will likely look at what their committee assignments are kind of what they plan on working on what they've worked on over the interim as we said we got a good idea of some because they have history with some of those issues but we'll work with them to kind of identify who the best ones are to carry and they also may be aware of bills that some of their colleagues
 may be filing that they plan to co-author that might give us even a better chance of kind of having more than just us supporting because some of these issues do have overlap statewide.
 I just wanted to let you know that as well. Thank you. Thank you for that. Yeah, and mr. Carr Thank you very much for that bright acumen on how things work at the state legislature I'd like to continue on slide 12. You don't have to go to where you talk about chapter 6 1 5 and so I
 I'm sure everyone here, the city of El Paso, even though this incident happened in Uvalde, Texas, we don't need another Uvalde, Texas. We don't need school children to be shot and killed. And so
 The fact that you have educators there doing a public service. They are public servants of the state of Texas They need to be recognized for that for their service for their dedication their long hours And so we just hope and pray that doesn't happen again but in the fact that it does we'll be the ready for some measure to and
 provide some type of meaningful Benefits for their families. So thank you very much for that Lindsay and I see your address for the 9-1-5, you know It's so important that you know, you say we pray and hope and it never happens again We need to be proactive and not reactive Reactive is a really bad idea So thank you for that representative at none this followed by representative little diggers Thank You Lindsay and and all on the call and
 Quick question when are the committee assignments
 That would be a question for Snapper. When does that happen? That will happen, the committee assignments themselves will happen after the session is started. The Speaker of the House assigns the committees after they're elected on the first day, second day actually, of session, first and second day. And then they have, it's at their discretion. Generally that will happen in February.
 or late January even if they're really fast.
 And then the Lieutenant Governor gets to make those assignments. The Senate tends to kind of update committee membership as they go along during the interim has been Lieutenant Governor Patrick's practice. But yet there will be with new members that will be because of retirements and election changes, there will be a shuffling if you will in the Senate too.
 And so that just gives a better idea of where we are. For example, just to say, the El Paso community has been fortunate to have someone on say the appropriations and the finance committees in past sessions. And so those individuals have a little bit more ability, although it takes the whole delegation, but they have a little more ability to help carry forward some of our appropriations requests, for example.
 And so that's why it's important. And again, some of them we know ahead of time and they can anticipate, but that is why. Representative Moody made a good point when we met with them, which is every session, you know, the delegation as a whole is looking for opportunities to help advance the items that we have in our agenda. It's not just on the filing of these proactives, but ways in the past where we have identified
 Hitch to ride if you will or been added to other items that have allowed us to accomplish these things Even though they might not have been accomplished in the standalone bill that they they filed To help us achieve that ends. Thank you, and this will be the first session where we have less members of our delegation Do you all anticipate any?
 repercussions or anything of that nature in this upcoming session will we be adequately represented with just having a smaller delegation and our priorities that's my concern will our priorities really have a shot at the legislation with just a finite number of delegates. We always enjoy having the extra votes just I mean it's obviously the legislative process that it's it's
 is a counting game of 181 members that get to vote. But at the end of the day, I think one to your question of, I do not think that you'll see significant differences. Your delegation,
 has a lot of senior members, have a lot of members that have a great deal of experience in the process and have shown that they understand how to work across the aisle and to achieve things. And both in your House members and in the Senate, Senator Blanco, but also on the committees that they serve on, they are very –
 important members that do a lot of work and on the subject matter, which is where we're asking them to be involved. Now to be successful on some of your, again, some of the items that y'all have approved as priorities are things that have statewide attention and importance and y'all are going to be a part of that larger debate.
 And so part of this is to identify coalitions, not just other governmental cities and entities, but other out supporters, whether that's public, private, advocacy groups, coalitions around the state that will support or be active in those items that you have. That's gonna increase our chances exponentially to be successful. And from the,
 the larger cities around the state that coordinate to the work that we do with TML, to then the outreach, as Lindsey mentioned, with these other community partners, whether that's UTEP, the county, the chambers, you name it, on down to individual businesses and industries that are in your community, will play a vital role in us supporting your delegation to get some of these, to give them a chance to be successful.
 And I'm cautiously optimistic. We obviously have a massive budget surplus this time around, and it is always better to be having these discussions at the Capitol when they have money in the coffers to deal with their agencies and programs than it is when they're looking for funds. Thank you. And just a final question. Are you hearing anything at the Capitol related to short-term rentals?
 Yes, I suspect that there will be bills filed that would preempt further cities' abilities in that regard, and they'll primarily be pushed by Airbnb and HomeAway. And we'll see bills that say— Can you explain what that means, like restricting municipalities to be able to regulate short-term rentals or for cities not to be able to regulate? Okay.
 Think of it similar to the legislation that Uber brought in relationship to local ordinances for ride-sharing. They started coming to the Capitol about that time. And so primarily, and this is something that Airbnb has done across the country, HomeAway is national headquarters is here in Austin. And so, and were formed here. And so HomeAway VRBO, the other largest provider. And they...
 They have gotten legislation that we have imposed, that we've imposed on behalf of El Paso and certainly other cities that we have as clients as well, that would have preempted local ordinances and set forth a state standard that often was much less than what some existing ordinances were there with regards to short-term vacation rentals.
 and the types of properties that could be put into that. And so I suspect that we will have that debate now. I will say this, from when we started, it was primarily cities during those sessions. Now there is a very wide statewide groups of neighborhood and homeowners that show up at the Capitol to tell their story and to express their concerns with things that might take away local decision-making and oversight in that regard. And it's, I will say, a much more...
 balanced discussions going on here and candidly i think that the uh the providers know that it's not just cities that will show up when those legislation is followed that those homeowners and impacted neighborhoods uh we do as well and they primarily on our side
 Well, we currently don't have an ordinance. I know that's something in the pipeline that council will have an opportunity to take a vote on. So my question is, will this priority list still have an opportunity to amend in the future in the event council wants to add that as a support or oppose in that category for legislative agenda?
 So if I can just jump in real quick. Under the state legislative agenda that's adopted by council, you have a general principle where you give us the authority to oppose any legislation that seeks to reduce your municipal authority, your rulemaking authority, your ordinance making authority. So that would fall within that broad category.
 So you have already given us the authority to oppose any legislation that deals with trying to curtail the city's ability to regulate STRs.
 Okay, that's the acronym now STR is okay. Oh just I wanted to bring that to your attention because I know that's something that's becoming More visible in our community a lot more complaints And so that's something that the city needs to take a careful look at again. It's in the pipeline, but Thank you for for reassuring me that that's under there Maybe if there's something that's brewing later in the legislature, we can have that discussion at a later time But thank you all for your hard work
 Good luck in the upcoming session. Thank you Representative Rodriguez. Thank you Mayor. Hi Lindsay good morning. How many items are we taking action on today. So it will be for the priority legislative initiatives initiatives it'll be a total of 12. Of 12 and then the oppose and the support or oppose? For today the support and oppose is only four. OK and are they independent or are they we're grouping them together.
 That's a decision that you all can make. If you prefer that they were all together, but if you would like to separate them, that is completely up to you. Okay, I'd like to make a motion to take them each separately, please. For the initiatives or just the support and oppose? Support and oppose. Okay. We initially had a motion by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve together. As submitted.
 Correct yeah as recommended by staff. Yeah, right so if that motion doesn't pass them We'll take them separately if there's a motion a second on that and one thing I was gonna ask Lindsay I know that we had talked when when we did a little briefing and talked with snapper and Lupe about talking about a a
 kind of unison type of safety as schools start, you know, they start building additional schools and some type of support by the state and talking about that, where's that at at this point? So in terms of working with the schools and safety, I know,
 We have we're working. There's a MOU that's come I think it always approved today for the SRO officers in terms of everything that was outlined in that resolution in June. That was also covered there for school safety. So it is moving forward our delegation is very much in support of all of those things that were in our resolution so so it is moving forward.
 Yeah but building this as we build the schools and you know because we're gonna have to retro a lot of them I think as we're talking about safety but as they build the schools some type of standard that's required by the state to have these schools build in a certain safety manner and I know we talked about and I know snapper we kind of talked about that that we were going to look into that where is that at today? So it's included in the digital
 Go ahead. I'm sorry. I was, I'm sorry, Lindsay, I was on mute. I just wanted to add real quick to the mayor's question with regards to, I know we have items that are in the, that are important for us in our resolution now in the overall adopted agenda. But as it relates specifically to school hardening or building and designs post the Santa Fe school shooting.
 that legislature passed what was known as Senate Bill 11, which created the Texas School Safety Center. And it had many of these questions and concerns that were outlined. Unfortunately, I think the...
 Aftermath of Uvalde has shown that they might not have had the necessary resources at that center. It's housed out in one of our universities. It's a state-funded. That's where the safety plans for the schools are filed. They do the audits for TEA. And they also set forth best practices for building standards for safe school campuses of the various sizes, whether it's elementary, middle school, or the high schools.
 And what has, there's been multiple, as you can guess, hearings here at the Capitol, there's select committees. They talked about that very topic. And in addition, the governor has issued some executive orders to PEA about best practices that were supposed to be being implemented prior to the start of the school year as it relates to that.
 And so I think what you're going to see, Mayor, one, there already is a requirement for that to be taken into account by school districts. There's actual plans that are supposed to be filed. I think what you're going to see now maybe is additional infusion of money to that center to maybe get additional staffing to do on-site. It was kind of self-reported is the way that the system worked previously. And so there's not a need to...
 necessarily ask for that item to be there because that that requirement that you're talking about is there. There already are TEA in the school center best practices for safety implementations on entrances, guard staffing, and all of those items. However, there hasn't been kind of that direct interaction now with school districts through the school safety center and it's my understanding based on these interim hearings that that's where the legislature's looking
 empowering them more and also getting them more personnel and funding to work with districts. And in addition, what's being talked about, which will be determined during session, is putting state funding potentially towards that. So, and by that, the either retrofitting of existing campuses where it's needed, or for these new school campuses to have safety upgrades that could be covered by some sort of state grant program.
 That's great. Thank you for that. I appreciate the update on that Representative Rivera mayor point of clarification. How was it finished? Okay, go ahead Um, so miss Neiman the motion that I just made what was a motion to amend the original motion Doesn't that one supersede the the motion on the floor? Yes, ma'am. Your motion is to It's not to amend. It's a separate motion. I
 Her motion mayor as I understood it is that she wanted to take a separate vote for each of the letters priorities as opposed to Correct. The reason for that mayor is because there's items on there that I support 100% and there's items on there No, no, I understand that and So the miss Neiman just to make sure we do this, right? The motion that's made right now is to take the items as read into unto the record her motion is to take him separately which I
 Would we take the first motion first? So you would take. Or would you want to take this one first? You would take Representative Rodriguez's motion first because it's amending the first, the main motion on the floor. We'll do that. Thank you. Thank you for that. And with that we have Representative Rivera followed by Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor. Oh, Ms. Lindsay, good to see you again. Thank you for the presentation. Also, I just have one question. Everything's been asked with what I wanted to know. Can you hear me? I can barely hear you. I'm so sorry. Okay, I'm sorry.
 I just wanted to ask you something mostly everything that I had in mind also has been asked but on that bill that Senator Blanco filed is there in a Clause that also I don't say punish but also in
 Looks at the person that does purchase a weapon for somebody under the age as the current existing Right, I'm not sure with my head, but I can definitely find out Because right now I understand there's one where you leave it Unsecure order recklessly a child finds it fires it the parents can be charged with that. Yes So can we can we do that please? Can we come back and find out if that has it to make that much stronger? and
 I'm sorry, Snapper might know the answer to that. Representative, yes, the core of that bill was that Texas is one of the few states that actually doesn't have a state criminal offense for straw purchases, similar to what we have in our federal firearm laws. And a large number of – so the state – it's harder for state to prosecute those, and that is what the –
 the bill would have done is create a harsher penalty for both the receiver of the firearm and of course the straw man purchaser would be then committing a state felony that could be prosecuted. Are you saying that that is in there or not? I'm sorry. That is what the bill would do. Okay. Okay.
 I just want to be sure because I think we discussed this you and I did and so I believe this is a Even with miss Lindsay about this, you know, because there should there should be some kind of repercussion towards the person who does So thank you very much. Appreciate you. Thank you, man. Thank you Thank you one more time also
 Slight well where it talks about ways to repurpose electric car batteries once they reach the end of their useful life I'm not sure if Lindsay if you could answer this or snapper or Lupe, but have what there's been any discussion about the I'm not going to say repurposing but the proper disposal of solar panels Solar panels now probably been around for quite some time. I'm sure the first technology of those are is
 way past and so you know new homes are being built other homes are I've already had probably 10 years 12 years or more of solar panel usage and so what are we exactly doing with those solar panels once they do and
 in their life or they need to be replaced. I know we talk about climate change, I know we talk about preservation of our landfills and Mother Earth and everything else like that, but Snapper, do you have anything on that that's on the agenda for the 88th legislature that you know of?
 Representative, I'll be honest. I haven't heard of a lot of discussion of that topic, but it one makes sense. There has been ongoing discussions, just a battery technology, not just large scale batteries, but all batteries because of their effect on landfills. But I haven't heard of whether or not there's programs to refurbish.
 or to make proper disposal of our solar panels. What I can do is I'll check with our state office of energy conservation, which is at the PUC, and I'll visit with them. They would be the folks that would hear about that sort of effort or discussion, but I'm unaware of any so far.
 Okay, I would appreciate that information coming back to all of us as City Council May perhaps we can change something that in October Possibly look into that. Thank you Thank you with that. We have a motion and a second to take the items all separately Representative the saga I
 Rodríguez, seconded by alternate mayor Pro Temblizarraga. Are you changing it? The motion is open. The voting is open. And this would be to take the action separately for the priority legislative initiatives and the support of post items. There's two nays, Representative Anello and Representative Rivera.
 Mayor, would you like me to take each item now? Yes, ma'am, please. The first item is the priority legislative initiative to seek legislation that would streamline and expand the Skills Development Fund Program. Move to approve. And that's Representative Anello, and I missed the second. No, I was the second. Thank you, ma'am. Motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Anello. Oh, I pressed it.
 Representative Rodriguez and Rivera, the voting is open. Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. The next one is to seek legislation that would extend the Texas Economic Development Act. Second. Motion made by Representative Anelo, seconded by Representative Hernandez. Voting is open. Representative Rivera.
 The item has been approved unanimously next is to seek legislation that would clearly allow municipalities to convey city-owned property as part of the chapter 380 motion made by alternate mayor pro tem Lee Sarraga seconded by representative Rodriguez voting so quick The item has been approved there is two nays that would be representative anello and representative Molineux voting a and
 The next item is appropriate money for the defense economic adjustment assistance grant. Second. Motion made by Representative Anelo, seconded by Representative Salcido. Voting is open, and the item has been approved unanimously. Next item is to seek legislation that will appropriate funding to municipalities for the acquisition of police body cameras. Move to approve. Wait.
 So Mayor The support and oppose items I thought we were just voting on there was only four items correct 12 items Yes, there's 12 priority legislative initiatives and then for support and oppose what I thought we were only voting on the support and oppose item I
 She didn't clarify her motion that way. She just said to individually she didn't clarify the support. You did clarify. That's why I'm asking. But not in the motion. You clarified when she asked you, but you didn't adjust the motion. It's just a lot of individual votes. I'm just trying to see if we can just focus on the ones. I have a question, Mayor. So for this...
 So body cameras and storage. It says to increase funding for cross-border infrastructures and TxDOT border transportation master plan. Is that incorrect? Am I looking at the wrong? I'm looking at the wrong thing. I've answered my own question. Never mind. Thank you. Thank you.
 So are we still voting on? So I also, I still have another question. So we brought this up, I think, when this first came. There is currently state funding that is available to municipalities for body cameras and storage. I brought this up last time. I still think that this language is problematic because that does exist in the city of El Paso. In the last five years that I've been on those committees has never applied for it, despite bringing that up at city council.
 often and so I think it's I just think it's counterintuitive to ask for funding that exists if we want to expand that funding so it's like more useful for the city it's it's a larger sum of dollars I can support that but I I just don't know why we would be asking for legislation of something that already exists and not the expansion of that so I don't know if I would need to make a motion to change that I thought we did it last time but I can do it again
 Or if you all just have that direction, Snapper, I don't know if that was enough for you. But I think we should be supporting the expansion as well as additional funding because that funding does currently exist. We can make the change in the language to just say to expand it if that's Council's wish. Okay. Thank you.
 So just to clarify the motion was made by Representative Rodriguez and seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Lizárraga to take every legislative priority and the support and oppose items separately? It was a support and oppose items separately. Mayor do you wish me to continue taking each one of them or even the legislative priorities?
 So continuing with that it is the seek legislation that would that will approve funding to municipalities For the acquisition of police body cameras move to approve. So we're gonna change it to expand expand You made that motion Okay, so as revised and it is this is representative anello made the motion seconded by representative Rivera
 TO APPROVE AS REVISED. THE VOTING IS OPEN. REPRESENTATIVE ANNELLO. THANK YOU. THE ITEM HAS BEEN APPROVED UNANIMOUSLY. NEXT MOTION IS TO SEEK LEGISLATION THAT WILL ADD TRANSPARENCY ON HOW THE TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION ALLOCATES CATEGORY 12 FUNDING. IS THERE A MOTION? SECOND. WHO MOVED? MOTION MADE BY REPRESENTATIVE MOLINAR SECONDED BY REPRESENTATIVE HERNANDEZ TO APPROVE.
 Voting's open. Como quiera. Representative Rivera, thank you. The item has been approved. The next, the next, did you vote? Rep. Anello, what was your vote? Aye. I got it. Thank you. The next motion, the next item is seek legislation that allows the county to submit to the voters an increase in vehicle registration fees. Move to approve. Second. Motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative O'Neill.
 And Bepso has a question. Yes, so as far as the, since it is the county the one that's seeking the increase on the vehicle registration fees, does this mean that the increased revenue would go towards the county? Correct. So part of this item is to make a more equitable distribution so that the city can see more of those dollars. The city. The city. Not the county. So it's a county fee, but with this language it would allow for the distribution to be more equitable within the city.
 So who's getting the county is collecting it and how is it being divided? Yeah can we interject Lindsay with some detail? Yes please.
 And Lupe, feel free to jump in too, I heard you as well. This is a previous bill that has been filed and the city worked with her, with the representative last session to get language in the bill that would put any additional funding that's generated through a vote of the citizens that approved it.
 through the MPO process so that there would be the normal distribution of money the same way that we would otherwise get if there was additional funding for projects, but it would go through the MPO. So yes, the city, the county wouldn't just get all of the increase, it would go through the normal transportation funding process, priority process that y'all have in place. So which would ensure that the city would receive a share of that money as well.
 And she indicated to us that that would be included in any version that she filed. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay. And is there right now is there an estimate of what that revenue would be to the city.
 I can't answer that no because I think it would depend on what the size of the fee would be as well. So it really is just the process to ensure that we don't have to have a debate over it. It would go through the normal funding process that you'll have in place for prioritizing your projects. DIRECTOR MACKAY And currently more or less you know what the fee is that the sixty nine eighty one dollars just depending on the vehicle.
 I can't answer that yet. I believe this specific fee is $10 currently. $10? Okay. Because it's only a portion of that registration. Okay, so that portion of the registration fee would increase and it would go through the county but the city would receive funding for it? Correct, that's what we're asking for. Okay, thank you. Well, we wouldn't necessarily receive funding. It would go through a process like she pointed out through the MPO process because the argument has been that the fee that's collected
 It's within the county because the city of El Paso is in the county and that those dollars should be spent also in the city, not just in the outer rings of the city. So this would give us the ability for it to go through an NPO process to have a better opportunity to possibly get some projects funded with that funding. Thank you.
 So I have a motion made by Representative Molinar and seconded by Representative Rodriguez. Sorry, I have a clarifying question. I'm now a little confused by that answer. The county is asking for or is increasing or asking for an increase in this fee. So if I could jump in real quick. So what the county is asking for is the ability to submit it to the voters whether or not they can increase the vehicle fee by ten dollars.
 So really it's going to be up to the voters whether or not they want to increase the fee by $10. So it just gives the county the possibility of going to the voters to increase the fee. So the voters have to weigh in on it. If they vote not to increase it by $10, then it won't get increased. And then going back to what Snapper is saying, the way this benefits us if the voters do approve it is that
 It it provides for equity in that The the project selected that will be you that will be able to use that additional funding will have to go through the MPO process So this is just a support item. We're not coming in and asking that it has to stay in the city limits They were just supporting the county's request So we're seeking legislation because that doesn't currently exist to allow the county to go to the voters to ask for sure But which is their item so we're just we're helping them on that. I
 If you want to move it to the support section, we absolutely can. No, no, I just want to clarify because what the city manager said about it saying in the city limits, I was just confused if our item was different than what the county is asking and we're asking for legislation that those have to stay within the city limits. I just wanted to clarify. You were just giving your opinion, correct? I was not giving my opinion. I was giving a fact.
 Okay, but in regards to what we are voting on are we are voting on separate legislation? That would say these have to stay in the city limits or are we voting on what the county is asking? No, the county's asking for an additional $10 Initially a $10 fee right now asking for another $10 and then this process if voted on by the public is
 with the legislation being the way it's written, it would give us the ability or it would give the legislation and the passage of it, it would have to go through the MPO process. So it's not guaranteed that it would go anywhere inside or outside. It would go through the MPO process. Okay. Well, thank you. You're sticking on topic to what the item was. Another conversation I got confused. Is it a $20 fee right now? Not a $10. It's $10 right now. I think it's $20 right now. I think it's $20 right now.
 is it 20. yeah i'm pretty sure it's 20 right now we thought it was 10 and then this would be an additional 10 i'd make it 20 right now it's currently well we'll double check that just just uh also a bit of a point of clarification this item has been in the city's agenda in the past uh over many years um when there was uh some different members
 in the idea of having in the counties statewide have always been the entity that imposes this that's the statewide methodology for this however the
 These bills as being bracketed have not had a very favorable reception in the legislature over the course of the last six to eight years and the last handful of sessions. There are counties that have special bracketed authority that got this before they kind of became discouraged.
 However, the ones that have passed tend to not assign the money to a county or to a particular city, but they create this kind of normal process that you would go through for any revenue that is additional. So an MPO or an RMA, however you're set up in your region.
 that gives them the best chance of success, which is I think why the representative chose to style it this way. Yeah, no, and I appreciate that. And that's where I was getting confused because I know that it's not really, I don't think it's like the appropriate time or place to step in and say it should go one place or the other. We don't even have the approval or the money yet. So that's what I just wanted to clarify. So thank you, SNAPR, I appreciate that. Those are all my questions. Mayor. Mayor, you're right, it is 20. It is 20 right now, this would take it to 30.
 I didn't read the bottom part. Pardon me, I didn't hear you. That's correct, it's 20. Thank you, sir. And this would take it to 30. Representative Mullinaar?
 Thank you very much. Mr. City manager was on this. So yes, it is $20 and I hear it from many times from my Constituents is that if the county of El Paso? Wishes to increase it another $10 that would be $30 per vehicle per year that we would be paying You can call it a tax. You can talk to the fee, but it's still ten more dollars. That's fine. I
 absolutely better thank you I've just got a problem with the language here because it says allows that doesn't mean that they will it says allows it doesn't mean that it will I would prefer shall there instead of allows because it could change your mind and not really spend anything I'll pass over the MPO yes so
 Who is it? Go ahead Lindsay. Okay. So that's just allowing them to submit it to the voters. It's not necessarily in reference to the equitable distribution portion. So this one. But they're going to vote on that and they're going to say allows. I want some sort of guarantee for the city.
 to make sure that they spend it in here. And I think Representative Manolo had a great point. We're not sure they're going to spend it here. We can't, right? The legislation filed referenced the MPO. So, I mean, it's the bill itself that was filed last session that we worked on does exactly what y'all discussed. It once submitted to the voters, if approved, that additional funding would flow through your MPO.
 Yeah, in point of clarification, my issue is that we don't have the authority to do that. And so that's why I was concerned that that language would have been in there. But it does, it clarifies that it would go through the MPO. And as you know, we have the most voting members on the MPO. So you still have a chance that those dollars would go to the city. But I just want to clarify that my issue is that I don't believe that we have the authority to ask for that. Okay, and mine was just with the laws. But if that's the case, okay. Thank you, Mayor.
 Reps. Rodriguez. Thank you. Thank you. My my final question on this item Lindsay or whomever could answer is this is an increase on vehicle registration on all vehicles to include commercial vehicles and
 Yes, so any time a vehicle would be registered and they pay a fee, it would go towards them. Okay, but as far as commercial vehicles go, it's a different rate, it's not the $20, so it would increase by $10 also? So the fee in this case is the same across the board regardless of what type of vehicle it is. The actual registration fee is what changes based on what type of vehicle it is. But it's not based off of a percentage, it's a $10 set fee? As this is written, yes, to increase it by $10. Okay, thank you.
 and with that we have a motion and a second we sure do we have a motion made by representative molinar and seconded by representative rodriguez did you second that motion there you go she seconded me voting's open and the item has been approved there is one a representative rivera
 The next item is to appropriate funding for the Weiler Aerial Trainway. Move to approve. Second. Motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Visarraga. No? No. It was Representative Nelo or Rodriguez, I mean Hernandez that came out at the same time. Okay, we have a Nelo, second, because there was a couple of them. Voting is open. Representative Rivera?
 The item has been approved unanimously. Next one is appropriate funding to install and upgrade ITS technology and traffic control improvements. Move to approve. Motion made by alternate mayor Pro Tem Lee Zaraga, seconded by Representative Molinar. Hernandez. Hernandez and Molinar, there you go. Voting is open. Item has been approved unanimously. Next one is
 that seek legislation that will enhance and complement the use of ITS. Move to approve, Hernandez. Second. Second, a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Molinar. Voting is open. The item has been approved unanimously. Next priority list is seek legislation that will increase funding for cross-border infrastructure. Move to approve, Hernandez.
 Thank you. Representative, motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera. Voting is open. Representative Rivera. Thank you, sir. Motion has been approved unanimously. Next is add to the gun legislation initiative adopted by council. Second, Hernandez. And just really quick, we will add what Representative Rivera said about ensuring that there's, you know,
 Yes. Why was that amended? To make sure that there's punishment included for anybody that purchases the weapon. To approve as amended, voting is open. The item has been approved with Representative Rodriguez voting nay. Next item is to support legislation that provides for new ways to repurpose electric car batteries. Move to approve, Hernandez. Representative Hernandez, may. Can we amend this one to include the,
 The solar panels or I'd like to make a motion to amend to include the solar panels. Second. I move to approve as amended. Thank you for changing your motion. Motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve as amended. Voting is open. Representative Molinar, thank you. The item has been approved unanimously. The next item is.
 Support continued full funding for the Hazelwood Act. Move to approve. And we'll second. Thank you. Motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Hernandez. Motion is, voting is open. The item has been approved unanimously.
 Next is to support expansion of the benefits paid under chapter 615 moved approved Motion made by representative Molina seconded by representative Fernandez to approve voting is open Representative Salcido Representative Rivera. Thank you. The item has been approved unanimously support all efforts to protect women's rights second
 Motion made by Representative Hernandez. Anello seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve. Voting is open. The item has been approved with three nays. Representative Molinar, Rodriguez, and Lizarraga voting nay. There's the two other additional items that you're gonna move or? No, those will come back in October.
 So we're not going to consider it. No, we'll take those in October. Thank you. So we'll come back in October with the rest of the members. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Lupe. Thank you for your presentation. And with that, we'd like— Mary, would you like to recess? No, I would like to take call to the public, then we'll recess. We have, I think, six or seven members. Yes, sir. Ms. Wally Check, followed by Sylvia Carrion, Ron Como, Karen Washington, Louis Ballin, Jude Burgess. Jude Burgess. Yes.
 and call to the public members of, one minute, Ms. Check, you have three minutes. Go ahead, ma'am. God bless every one of you and may God bless our wounded, divided America. I'm here today to tell you America be blessed again because we have more good people
 than the rotten ones. And may I say, in May 1945, when the war was over, I was getting a beating from my Nazis for losing the war. American soldier the next day rescued me at age 16.
 and told me, little girl, do not be afraid. You are under our USA protection. And because of those soldiers, here I am today, 70 years later, the Yellow Rose of Texas,
 from El Paso, and I will keep this title till we have a Liberty Press right here in this building. This is not a dream, this is gonna be reality because I have for every one of you who represents El Paso a book published.
 think global wise do not think El Paso wise okay this is an income
 Long after I am six foot under and now you all have the opportunity to make a pass of shame Like no other city in the whole world and I depend on you and this is my proof That I'm in the right direction and God bless America and pray for Unity
 Amen. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. Ms. Carrion, you have three minutes, ma'am. Hello, Ms. Carrion. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Sylvia Carrion, President of the Mission Valley Civic Association. My topic today is integrity. Integrity is an act of behaving honorably even when no one is watching. People with integrity follow moral and ethical principles in all aspects of life.
 Integrity also extends to professional areas of work, such as decision-making, interacting with colleagues, and serving customers or clients. When employers have integrity, their members can trust their team is working diligently. Characteristics of integrity, graciousness. They express gratitude and recognize the achievement of others. Two, respectful.
 They value other people by showing them respect at work, by being on time, meet project deadlines, and keeps others' feelings in mind. Three, honest. Those with integrity strive to be truthful, own up to their mistakes, and learn from them. Trustworthy. People that follow through with commitment and avoid over-promising tasks. If unable to complete a task or meet the deadline, let the others know.
 Hardworking, these people strive to produce high quality of work regardless of the task. They recognize that everything they can do impact the organization, their colleagues and business outcome. Responsible, those that deliver their work and take accountability. Helpful, those with integrity are always helpful to others in need. Patient, a person with integrity is able to tolerate
 challenges, delays, and unexpected obstacles while maintaining a calm and even demeanor. Random's house, a definition of integrity is adherence to moral and ethical principles. And you know that I'm bringing this subject matter of integrity because of my inopportunity to win my NIP, even with all the mistakes that I was brought forward to this council.
 And so not anybody's direct fault, but still we'll come back in two weeks and talk on another subject. Thank you. Thank you for your time, Ms. Carreon. Next speaker is Mr. Ron Como, followed by Karen Washington, and their topic is animal services. Mr. Como, you have three minutes. Hi. Good afternoon. I know you guys are as tired of me being here as I am of being here. I'd like to play a video that came across my Facebook page last night.
 I'm from the south too. For some reason, there's a stigma here about getting your animals fixed. I don't know where it comes from or what it's based on, but it's here. The majority of dogs out here are also free roaming. So when you have free roaming, unaltered dogs, you get litters of puppies popping up everywhere. If people would stay near their dogs, then we wouldn't have adults running around in the streets. We wouldn't have puppies being born underneath buildings. And we wouldn't be growing our feral dog population.
 Many people believe that just because they have fur that they can survive in the wild. We have domesticated and bred these dogs to the point where the majority of breeds can't. Many people also believe that because they have fur that they don't have feelings. And if something doesn't have feelings, why care if it's suffering? I've taught some of my friends to have compassion for these animals because they just didn't understand. I hope my videos reach out to the right people and they can begin to understand that they deserve love too.
 Okay on to the good parts KBIA made a news broadcast that stated our shelter is over full because of owner surrenders I'd like you to look at facts. These are city reports owner surrenders are down by over half from 2019 We have five thousand plus less dogs went out the front door animal services in 2022
 It's time we fix the problem. The shelter is pissing off the community. They're not going to cooperate. They're not going to help until things change. We have discussed what needs to be changed. I mean, what does it take? What does it take? Oscar, one of our conversations was that they needed raises. Augustino said if he gave one, he'd have to give it to 7,000 others. Well, we all know someone got a raise in the city
 So are we going to do what he said? Are we going to give the raises? Are we going to pay our fair share? Are we going to pay a vet what they're worth to actually come here? Are we going to get a facility to take care of the thousands of dogs that you all put on the streets by allowing this process to continue? Every day we put this off, we put more strays on the streets.
 Folks, how many times do I have to say enough is enough? We need to fix the problem. You want to fix it? Let's do it. Let's get together. Let's come up with solutions. We need to take care of this issue. We are a laughingstock in the United States right now. People are looking at El Paso instead of it being in a great place like it was in 2019 to be in a very low place in 2022. Enough. We need to fix the issues now. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 NEXT SPEAKER. THANK YOU, SIR. KAREN WASHINGTON. YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES, MA'AM. GOOD AFTERNOON. THIS IS REALLY MY SECOND TIME BEING IN FRONT OF YOU ALL SO YOU'RE NOT TIRED OF ME YET. BUT I'M SURE WE'LL GET TO THAT POINT. MY NAME IS KAREN WASHINGTON. I AM A CERTIFIED 501C3 NONPROFIT. I RESCUED DOGS HERE IN EL PASO FOR ABOUT 18 YEARS NOW. I'M ACTUALLY ONE OF YOUR BOOTS ON THE GROUND. I GO OUT. I SET TRAPS IN THE DESERT.
 I pick up strays of dogs that are abandoned. This dog was this morning over at a taco cabana on Treywood. She was hit and killed by a car. She's got a harness on. She has an owner, but she has no microchip. There's still another dog that's running loose out there. Last week I took in a dog that had been hit by a car. That bill ran me about $1,000 from donations.
 Humane Society picked up two dogs last week that had both been hit by cars. Both dogs suffered broken legs, and one dog is having his leg amputated today. There are just too many stray dogs on the streets. Even the owner's dogs are getting out. But Mr. Mayor, on Thursday, July 21st, you met with Loretta Hyde, Ron Camo, and I believe Monica Riel from the Sunland Park area.
 And it's my understanding that you told Loretta that city council's tired of hearing us. They don't want to see our dog pictures any longer. Well, you know, we're tired too. We're tired. I can't pick up dogs any longer. How do you pick and choose which dog to save in El Paso? There are so many. And until you actually get out there and see them, I don't know what to do. But as Ron said, El Pasoans are talking. Although no one wants to bring it up, I'll bring it up.
 Animal services and animal control ultimately fall under our city manager and Mr. D'Agostino, and people are appalled, myself included, that nothing's being done to better our city-run, taxpayer-funded shelter. What is it going to take? It seems our shelter is almost El Paso's dirty little secret. We want to bring people here, come see beautiful El Paso. If anybody flew in here and saw our shelter, they'd be on the next flight out. I can guarantee you that.
 And the idea that a city this size cannot do better is ludicrous to me. Two years ago, Paula Powell showed me blueprint plans for a new shelter to be built. Where are those plans? Where is that shelter? When is it coming? Is it coming? Let's see, what else? We just need to clean up animal services. I don't know where to start or how to do it, but the distemper and parvo that's running through there
 It's not not it's not nice. I had to put a dog down yesterday. She had been dragged four miles initially She's a cruelty case and eventually she just passed away yesterday from distemper So we've got to get on board in in better better. Let's beautify the shelter instead of beautifying El Paso Let's start with the shelter y'all
 Thank you. Thank you. And this is not for discussion, but I just want to make sure that I never told anyone we're tired of seeing anyone or I wouldn't be working with you all and making sure that we have private meetings because it's important to work together. So that would not be an accurate statement. The accurate statement is that I'm working with you all and I'm meeting with you in my office and we'll continue to do that to make sure we come to some type of resolution. And I know we had some things where both sides.
 currently working on to try to fix the problem that it's not a problem that will be fixed overnight but we're working on it and we'll continue to meet so that saving was inaccurate the accurate statement is we'll continue to work together and it'll meet as many times as we need thank you we will lose the quorum representative Hernandez we need you she's right there so we're
 There she's up there. She's fine. Next person is Louis Louis Bailey and her Topic is not feeding wildlife. Good afternoon. Good afternoon everybody My name is Lois Ballen. I'm the urban wildlife biologist for El Paso for 22 years now and
 And I'd just like to talk to the Council about being proactive in considering creating an ordinance or two for prohibiting the feeding of wildlife. I'm going to read this message to you so I can do it in the allotted time. There's been a growth in the number of people who, in addition to feeding birds, are feeding deer and other wildlife around their homes. Feeding wildlife in urban areas puts them in a collision course with humans.
 So this is the realities of feeding wildlife. Supplemental feeding encourages wildlife to become dependent on handouts that create welfare wildlife. Human foods are usually nutritionally lacking and may lead to wildlife health problems. Fed wildlife congregate in unnaturally high numbers at artificial food sources. This causes disease that spread to other animals. Some disease like chronic wasting to deer,
 Chronic wasting disease in deer are extremely contagious and also fatal. Others like rabies and distemper are dependent on high animal populations. Fed wildlife lose their fear of humans. They become bold, aggressive nuisance wildlife and create potential human safety risks. Feeding deer and other wildlife in urban areas attract predators such as fox, coyotes, bobcats, and mountain lions.
 Feeding deer is acutely problematic. I'm getting a large increase in the number of calls about nuisance deer. The urban deer population in El Paso is increasing. This poses a hazard to motorists. There's been an increase in road kills. It causes a reduction in native plants or other wildlife, damage to residential and commercial landscapes, and may be dangerous to humans during the breeding season or the deer rut.
 In Texas, numerous cities such as Austin, Fair Oaks, and Hollywood Park have passed ordinances prohibiting the feeding of deer with a Class C misdemeanor violation and fines up to $150 per violation. Another serious issue is feeding and dumping wildlife, excuse me, dumping waterfowl, which includes ducks and geese. Feeding waterfowl human foods like bread, popcorn, or chips is harmful to the birds and the environment.
 The concentration of birds causes an increase in fecal matter containing harmful bacteria, reduces the water quality, creates potential health hazards. Human food also causes to form wings in ducks, and dumping unwanted domestic ducks contributes to the bacteria competition with wild ducks and hybridization.
 So ordinances prohibiting the feeding of waterfowl already exist in Dallas Fort Worth and other cities Some have penalties of fines up to five hundred dollars three minutes are up ma'am Thank you for your time though, we appreciate it your time here Thank you, ma'am next speaker is Judd Burgess and the topic is a basic lesson in math and legal contracts
 Afternoon afternoon, sir. Okay. I am an American citizen afforded the rights of free speech according to our Constitution I would ask that you not violate my First Amendment rights by interrupting me lecturing me or muting my mic because you personally find what? I have to say uncomfortable that said I pose this question to every one of you including the city manager and the city attorney. I
 Why are we still beating this dead horse? It's been 10 years and three point three million dollars of El Paso taxpayer money down the drain so that you can continue to litigate this fuster clucker arena on behalf of the tiny minority of special interests whose personal agendas oppose the wishes of the majority of El Pasoans. You've beaten this horse to mushy pulp. It's got no pulse.
 You've convinced yourself that our passions are willing to sacrifice an obscene amount of additional tax dollars to erect this monument to fiscal stupidity and leadership malpractice. Hundreds of millions of dollars that were not part of the original 180 million dollar price tag which now stands at 150 million. So here's a lesson in basic math for every one of you. A sports arena like the one that you propose.
 will realistically cost closer to a half billion in taxpayer dollars when compared to recently built arenas of similar scope in other much wealthier cities. 500 minus 150 is 350. That's 350 million dollars in additional taxpayer expense that was never agreed to which leads to a lesson in basic legal contracts.
 The 2012 quality of life bond is at its core a simple contract. You present several major projects attach price tags to each one and ask the public if we are willing to pay those amounts for the projects through a public vote. If it passes then the legal aspects of the contract come into play. Our pass-ons will allow you to withdraw those exact amount of dollars to complete the projects according to the costs agreed upon.
 It's not the public's fault that the city sat on the project since 2012. It's not our fault that you become embroiled in the current wasteful litigation which has put the arena into cardiac arrest.
 That is where the $350 million shortfall for the sports arena becomes a major legal issue. You can't fiscally abuse us by issuing $350 million in taxpayer-funded CEO debt so that you can bypass our permission, participation, and vote. You can't force us to cover that shortfall by finding another source to tax dollars
 in a Peter-Robs-Paul scenario, which again bypasses the public and leaves a shortfall somewhere else. Each one of you knows the precarious financial position of our city and our citizens. If you truly care about the El Pasoans that you're supposed to serve, then I think now is a good time for you to have your come-to-Jesus moment and give that dead horse a proper burial and move on to more pressing concerns that our overtaxed citizens need. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 That's all the public comment, sir. Thank you. If I will move on to the first reading of ordinances. Would you like to take a lunch break or continue? It's up to you all. Move to recess. Move to recess. Yeah, recess until 1. We have a motion made by Representative Anello in second. Did you all want to do a shorter version or? I think we all want to do a shorter version. I think we all want to do a shorter version. I think we all want to do a shorter version. I think we all want to do a shorter version. Okay.
 What are 30 minutes 30 minutes 30 minutes? We'll be back at 1 and seconded by representative by alternate mayor ProTemble-Saragat to recess the meeting and we'll be back at 1 p.m. All those in favor. Yes Thank you We have a motion made by representative Molina Alternate mayor ProTemble-Saragat to reconvene them August 16 regular City Council meeting at
 103 p.m. Okay, and the next items are the first reading of ordinances and that would be items 23 through 31 motion to approve it Take them individually First reading
 We'll take him in the room. Okay. Okay. We are. And again, that would be items 23 through 31. Motion made by Representative Rivera and seconded by Representative Salcido. The voting is open. Okay. I still have Representative Hernandez. Yes. Who am I missing? Who am I missing? And the item has been approved unanimously. Okay.
 Next item is item 32, and this is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services by and between the city of El Paso and Garver LLC. And this is for a project known as Runway 8R26L Rehabilitation Construction and Management Inspection Services. Move to approve. Second. Motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve.
 Voting is open. We're on item 32, ma'am. Representative Hernandez? Yes, I'm going to have to log out and log back in. Okay, I'll mark you. There you go. Item has been approved, and Representative Rodriguez is not present.
 for the vote next item is item 33 and this is discussion and action on the request of the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue a purchase order to duncan parking technologies incorporated the sole source provider for the 2020-06-43 single parking meters and we do have public comment mayor who to approve mr eddie chavez i saw him earlier
 Mr. Chavez you have three minutes afternoon, sir Okay Yeah Well falling asleep last night when when the news came on about the bridge I thought it was saying that it was gonna expand the bridge said oh my goodness you know 600 million dollars wasted when they can make it somewhere else, but I got informed when I got down here Which what I was looking for information. There's gonna be for the parking lot and they're gonna tear down understand the that housing authority that I
 Building um, I might not be informed correctly, but I just I was here. So I just thought I'd come and get more information on it Yeah, that's a different item sir. Yeah, that's that's not on here today. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you That was something that was a presentation yesterday which had none to do with counsel, right? Yes, sir. Thank you, sir And so we have a motion made by representative at Nanda's seconded by representative. So I'd see though to approve Voting is open
 Representative Salcido, thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously with Representative Rodriguez not present. Next item is item 34, and this is a discussion in action that the City Council ratify the award of contract 2022-0476, Records Management Software to Central Square Technologies LLC, the sole distributor for the records management software. Second. Second.
 Motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve. Voting session is open. I'm sorry, I have a question on this item. I don't know if the appropriate person is on the line. So I guess this is for El Paso Police Department, correct? Fire. Fire, okay. I was just gonna ask about body camera storage, but that doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you, Representative Molinar. Sorry, Mayor. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Representative Anello, can we get you to cast your vote?
 Representative Rodriguez, would you like to vote on this? It's item 34. Yes. And item has been approved unanimously. Next item is an ordinance, item 35, and it's an ordinance calling a bond election to be held in the city of El Paso, Texas on November 8, 2022, making provisions for the conduct of the election and resolving other matters incident and related to such election. Move to approve.
 And I believe there is a floor amendment is there legal on the line or no legals right here I think mr. No, I think we have mr. Sam Rodriguez on the line. Yes, mayor. Sam Rodriguez chief operations officer. Yeah, the the the amendment that is for proposition
 related to the climate change is will be to include on the fourth line uh it should read with designing constructing improving renovating expanding enhancing and equipping and the amendment will be adding the word existing to the ordinance that's the recommended amendment to this to this item there's a presentation if council would like to hear it yes please certainly if i can bring that up please
 In this presentation is for calling for the bond election in November of this year. It's 2022 Community Progress Bond. This presentation will cover and summarize the presentations that have been presented to council over the last several council meetings related to the final recommendations that were approved or directive that were approved by City Council to two weekends to two council meetings ago or July 5th I'm sorry. Next slide please.
 To summarize the public input, we've been meeting with the public since early spring to really focus on, or you have a community chime in as to what were the priorities for the community. And you see the various breakdowns with the overwhelming support of
 supporting safe, high-quality, complete streets as a primary. And ultimately, the discussions and the directives that we received from Council was to focus the program, the bond program, mainly on the street side with the directive, also to begin the discussions and the background work for a quality of life bond two years from this upcoming November. Next slide.
 There will be three propositions that will show up in November, the November election. Proposition A, which focuses on streets, that's $246 million, $480,000. We have Proposition B, which will be $20.8 million related to parks facilities. And this will also include the neighborhood improvement program, the next round. And then Proposition C will be $5.2 million.
 Now to clarify, the City Council did direct staff to combine Propositions A and C at the last council meeting. And in discussions with legal counsel, the recommendation that we're making today is that we leave it at three propositions because the subjects are very much different from a legal standpoint, and being able to push these three is the recommendation that we're making to council today. Next slide. The total bond program will be $272 million. Next slide, please.
 With 90% of it going to streets, 8% to park and rec to include the NIP program, and then 2% for the climate action plan and sample projects. Next slide. This is the breakdown of the various projects, and I'm going to go into detail as the presentation goes on. Next slide. Within the street infrastructure, the breakdown is $135 million for the top 50 arterial programs, roadways and corridors.
 And I'll show you a breakdown of that. It includes reconstruction. Some quarters will be reconstructed. But mainly it will be the resurfacing that will be accomplished with this $135 million. We're also recommending or including $35 million for residential resurfacing, $52 million for connectivity, and $15 million that would address traffic signals as well as intersection safety improvement program. Next slide.
 For the $135 million for top 50 arterial program, we're looking at $90 million for resurfacing and $45 million for reconstruction of various corridors that have very low PCI, payment condition index levels. The criteria that was used, again, we presented to City Council the payment condition index results and that's ultimately what led to the recommendations that we're making and including in this bond proposition.
 Again, focusing on the very low PCIs, understanding that this is a 10-year rollout, and some of the roads that may be a little bit not in horrible condition today, anticipating that five, six, seven, eight years from now, we anticipate deterioration to continue and being able to have those funds available for those corridors is what's being recommended and included. Just to clarify, the improvements will not be end-to-end on all these corridors. There's specific segments that are detailed in this presentation.
 This is the table that was presented to City Council with the various payment condition index to include the low, the high, and the averages through the corridors. And with this program, we're basically touching 46 of the 50 corridors. There's four corridors that we're not going to touch, and those have very high PCI levels, as well as are concrete paved, such as the case on Airway and Country Club. Next slide.
 The next couple of slides will show you the top 50 arterial segments. They're ragged by the traffic volume, not necessarily in the priority that they're going to be done. We're going to work very closely
 Again, with the utilities to ensure that we're resurfacing, that they're getting the work out of the way or as part of our contract, as part of these projects. So the actual rollout of these roads and how they're going to be executed over the next 10 years will be presented if the bond passes as part of a rollout presentation. Again, using the criteria that we always use, PCI information, utility clearances,
 as well as if there are any other improvements that we want to maximize and ensure that we're getting the most benefit out of these public investment that we're doing into our roadway.
 Within these tables, you will also see the segments that are being proposed for reconstruction. In this case, you see Pebble Hills from Zaragoza to Ridge Beam has a pavement condition index of 11.4, very much in need of reconstruction. The threshold, if you will, typically any road that's under a 20 PCI, we're looking at that as a complete reconstruction, and that's some of the recommendations that are included. Next slide. All right.
 Stable has 16 to 27, again with four other corridors that are looking to be reconstructed to include Airport Road, George Dieter, Avista del Sol, I'm sorry, as well as Rojas. Next slide. This has 28 through 42. It includes a reconstruction segment in Carolina from Franklin to North Loop. And you see the balance of these segments will be resurfaced. Next slide. And then this is 42 through 50 that will include the reconstruction of Hondo Pass from Dyer to Diana. Next slide.
 This map will show you all the different segments that will be touched through our community. You can pretty much see that we're going all across the city limits, touching the main corridors within our city with various segments. Next slide.
 With a $35 million resurfacing for residential program, we're looking at, again, a 10-year, $3.5 million per year. This will be accumulated and be part of or included in the $7 million residential program to have a $10.5 million dedicated for residential streets. The criteria and what we've been using to present to Council on these two-year programs that we've been taking for approval has been PCI data, of course, as well as utility clearances and then geographic locations as well.
 A lot of the complaints that we typically get as well, if we do a road and we don't do the road right next to it, that has very similar pavement condition index, the neighborhood comes or the neighbors do come out and question why that road was down and not theirs. And that's where the geographic location criteria also comes into play. Next slide.
 and it will be based on criteria we will be developing the recommendations and bringing those to council every two years in conjunction with the pay go we'll be looking at a total of 10.5 million dollars and just to to clarify the seven million dollar pay go money that has already been in place
 The previous programs that have been presented to council have the allocation of funding from fiscal years 22, 23, and then just under 2 million is in 24. So the next batch for 7 million, the next batch of streets will include fiscal years 24 and 25, as well as potentially the 3.5 million if this bond passes for those three years. Next slide.
 The connectivity that's included in the bond program, we'll look to address extensions of corridors to alleviate congestions and provide access in three parts of the city. One is in the Northwest, the Rustler Connection. There's a lot of development that's happened in the north of Trans Mountain and east of I-10.
 with mainly one point of connection that comes out of this neighborhood. So one of the issues that we're addressing here is connectivity as well as safety access for emergency services.
 Another area that we're including here is the Monwood extension. This is in partnership with the county. The county's actually developing the design documents as we speak. And so if this bond passes, the city will be constructed. And we've also been in discussions with the property owners to develop a plan for annexation as this segment is not currently within the city limits.
 But the connectivity is very important for city residents as we, as the city limits basically encircle this square here. And this connection is very critical to alleviate a lot of the congestion that happens in the east side, the Upper East Side of the city. And then in the central part of the city as well, providing additional connectivity to the Mission Valley by the extension of airway, looking at potentially extension to industrial as well as down to Delta. Next slide.
 With the $50 million allocated for signalization and traffic safety improvements, we're looking at a $1.5 million annual allocation that we look to address primarily the warranted intersections, signalized intersections. So in this case, we have a backlog of five intersections that currently need a traffic signal that currently there's no funding allocated for. So this will provide the annual funding. We typically can do about three.
 signalized intersections for 1.5 million. So the first couple of years we'll be addressing these intersections and then moving forward, an additional two or three typically become warranted every year and any remaining funds will be used for the intersection safety improvement program that the city council has seen and approved funding for an annual basis as well. So that will go to augment that particular program as well. Next slide.
 This is the intersection safety improvement presentation was given to Council by April 26 to show you some of the improvements that will be included with this funding will include geometric improvements at intersections to better align and with a sole purpose to reduce the amount of accidents that happened at these intersections, potentially modifying signals as well at additional signal heads, signage lighting and striping as well as
 and ground markings are part of the proposed improvements depending on the typical intersection and the cause that have been identified for those accidents. Next slide. Within the parks focus, we have $20 million that's been allocated. We're looking at $10 million for an all abilities playground, shade structures for 5 million and then the neighborhood improvement program for 5 million as well. Next slide.
 The all abilities program playground. This will be part of the program that's currently ongoing. There's currently three other sites under construction at Shalva Park, Joey Barasa, as well as the East side sports space too, we'll have all abilities playground. This $10 million what's been included here in this bond program will be
 a very significant and large facility that will be a regional attraction for all the residents within the city. We'll be selecting the site here if this bond passes and working with the community, but also looking to see if we can maximize the effect of this funding with a bigger development as well that could really magnify the impact of the public investment. With the understanding that access from a regional standpoint will be the key primary
 criteria as to where to locate this facility five million dollars to implement additional shade structures and we'll be looking at adding struck shade structures to playgrounds picnic areas benches and bleachers at various parks we're looking at doing a minimum eight sites per district
 And when we say additional eight structures per district, if there are certain parks, for example, that have two playground structures, picnic tables and whatnot, we want to take the opportunity to go through that and do a selection based on the criteria that you have here before you, which is equity usage, permit area,
 permit data, service gaps, as well as higher populated areas. We want to make sure that we get into the park and we address all these facilities that are in place. So if there's two again, two playground structures that were able to cover both of them, picnic tables, bleachers and whatnot so that we can complete the sites in a way that allows for the community to see and really the groundwork for the for the much bigger bond program that would address additional sites in two years from now. Next slide.
 Just as an example of what the thought is behind the All Builders Playground, it could be a very significant one that would be themed. This particular one that's here is actually constructed in Utah. We'll be designing our own for our community with our own theming. But it's this level of facility that we'll be looking to provide for our community. Very exciting project. Next slide.
 And then within the climate action focus, we're looking at $5 million for the climate action and urban energy plans, as well as sample projects to implementation projects to present to the community.
 Within the climate action plan, there are multiple things that get addressed and that will be included as far as goals and policy recommendations to City Council for both public improvements as well as private developments. And they look to address things like transportation and public health, pervious areas, and providing that public space for our community to get outdoors, obviously trails, bike lanes.
 All in keeping in mind with the public health as well, given that recreational opportunity. We're looking at from a climate action standpoint, looking at food source as well, food security for the community, and obviously energy savings and the heat island effect will be addressed as part of those goals as well. Next slide.
 This is intended to be a 10-year rollout. That's what's been modeled into the debt model that Robert will cover here in a minute, totaling $217.48 million. And this does include the bond cost as well as the 2% for the arts. Next slide. Robert, I'm going to turn it over to you for the next couple of slides. Thanks, Sam.
 Okay, so members of council, you've seen these slides several times presented not only by Sam, but by myself as well. And so this is just breaking down the remaining amount of bonds to be sold over the next several years, totally in that far right hand column, just over 407 million, primarily related to the public safety bond projects and as well as the MPC project, the last remaining project within the 2012 quite a life bond package. On the next slide, please. And so as we develop our debt model, there's a lot of assumptions built into the model.
 And so this is again, is intended to provide an estimate of what the potential impact can be. And I want to be very clear that this is the potential impact. This is not a guarantee or a commitment that this is what the impact will be for sure. Again, it's based on a lot of different assumptions. And as Sam mentioned, this is over a 10-year time period of which these bonds would be sold. And so incorporated into those assumptions is obviously the cash flow, the amount that we have expected for each of the years, interest rates, future property value growth,
 debt refinance savings that we'd be able to take advantage of. And then as we retire old debt, that is factored into the model as well. On the next slide, please. A couple of points though, again, about how we manage overall debt related to the bonds and doing everything we can to keep the capital project costs down. We have refinanced just within the last year alone, we did a couple of refinancings, saved about $21 million overall since 2015, just over $67 million refinancing.
 Again, taking advantage of those low interest rates on refinancing those old bonds. And then at the same time, taking advantage of last year as well, issuing new money for the projects and really taking advantage of almost historic or unprecedented interest rates at just over 2.5%. We've also seen strong property value growth in the current year. And so that's factored into the future years as well. The 2012 Street CIP, again, allowed us to put that $15 million back into savings on the overall debt management program.
 And then as I mentioned, we continue to monitor cash because we only want to issue the debt when we need it to ensure we're being very, very cognizant in everything we can do potentially to keep that debt rate down over the next several years. And then on my next slide, it's important to point out as well, since we did go through a $413 million public safety bond back in 2019, we did the same thing then that we're doing now, presenting what the program looks like, what the rollout looks like.
 and then also talking about what the potential impact could be. Back in 2019, at that time, we were projecting the debt model to hit close to 40 cents. And so we had expected overall with the issuance of all of those public safety bonds back then to get us close to 40 cents. Well, based on all of the savings we've been able to generate, based on the property value growth, based on the interest rates that I just talked about, the overall impact now is about over eight cents less than what we had originally expected, including the current debt, which includes the public safety bond projects.
 And so right now I'm going to show you a slide just a minute of what the overall impact is going to look like. But incorporating the November 2022 bond cost of what Sam just presented, the $272 million would add approximately 2.7 cents. It would take us to a total of $34.3 maximum on the debt rate, which is well below almost six cents below the current amount allowed for the debt management policy. And the next slide, please.
 And so this line, two lines here, the bottom yellow line is the current debt. So that's the $407 million that I talked about a couple of slides ago, primarily related to the future issuance of public safety bonds as well as the MPC project. And you can see that under the current amount, we hit a maximum of about $0.316 on the debt rate in the year 2027, incorporating what the impact is, again, about $0.270 from a November 2022 bond election of just over $272 million today.
 would put us at a maximum rate of 34.3 cents in the year 2029. And so you can see at the top there that 40 cent, that is the current maximum amount allowed for our debt management policy. And so incorporating these potential November 2022 bond costs into the program still keeps us well below the overall 40 cents. The potential impact, and again I say potential because again there's a lot of assumptions built into the model,
 A potential impact is estimated right now at approximately $63 a year. And again, that's potential based on the assumptions we have built into the model. And so with that, I'll now turn it over to Laura Cruz Acosta. Thank you, Robert.
 So on the next slide we'll go over some of the public outreach plan in terms of what we're going to be doing Once this item goes to the ballot. We'll be reaching out of course through our traditional media outlets working on press releases and story pitches along with Developing reaching out to our partners and excellence. I'll be hosting events with the neighborhood associations hosting community meetings and civic organizations
 We'll also be working to develop a microsite on the city's website and additionally we'll be providing to you all in terms of social media posts and information in general along with geographic ads depending on the location of the community meetings that we'll be hosting and of course through our Your City in Five City TV the Fact Friday's efforts and city council newsletters accordingly. The proposed meetings that we provided for you early or late last week
 We've reached out to your all's offices and are working on finalizing the final plan for the community meetings with each of your districts. We have two tentative located here that are gonna be reprogrammed, and so the first meeting will actually take place in September with Representative Molinar in your district area.
 Of course, this is just the beginning in terms of the community meeting. We'll be having a host, a large host of community media outreach between now and when early voting begins in late October. And that concludes the presentation. For the record, that was Laura Acosta Cruz. Yes, Laura Cruz Acosta. And we do have a motion. We do have a couple council members. Now, these items will be.
 On the, for the voters individually or as one item? Three items. It will be. Okay. It will be three different propositions, Mayor. Okay, A, B, C, and D. The streets, parks, and climate action plan. Thank you for that. Yes, sir. Representative Hernandez followed by Representative Rodriguez. Thank you all for the information. I have questions for Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Cortina. Mr. Rodriguez.
 based on your estimates not including the pay go funds the existing funds for streets as it relates only for residential streets do you have a rollout plan on how many streets will get done per year and then be do you have an estimate of how many streets can be completed within 35 million.
 And Harold and Richard, I'm not sure if you're on the line, but just based on what was approved for fiscal year 22, we were able to allocate $20 million this fiscal year as part of the operating budget. And we included 100 streets to give you an idea of just on an average.
 The challenge, as you know, with residential streets, we want to focus on centerline miles and really start promoting that aspect of it because there are certain segments of streets that are really long and other ones that are pretty short depending on the area that we're working in. But just to give you an idea, about 20 miles, 20 million on average, allowed us to do about 100 streets this fiscal year. So with $35 million...
 Can't do the math real quick in my head, but we're probably looking at 175 streets is what we'll be able to do with this $35 million for 35 million. And I think that's a more accurate way to communicate that because when you start to say, well, we only got 100 streets for $20 million, really, the
 The best outcome here, the best benchmark here is to determine the center line miles. You're right, there are residential streets that are significantly longer and there's others that maybe encompasses two to four houses, right? Okay, so with that said, is there a, what I want to do is hold the administration to a timeline on when these streets will be rolled out, residential streets. Are you looking at a model of five years or ten years?
 the the model as we've been developing and taking to council has been two-year programs um and so we would anticipate doing the same thing with this 3.5 and really combining that with the seven million dollar pay go that's currently allocated annually to come up with two-year two-year programs
 that would basically total $21 million. Could be 10.5 million annually. So we'll be taking $20 million every two years worth of streets to the council for recommendation on as far as being able to approve the program on every two year basis. Again, I think,
 Providing that much further ahead on the residential side, I think limits our ability to coordinate with utilities and ensuring that we're covering our bases from the data standpoint. But that's the recommendation that we're making. It's something that's worked over the last four years. That's as we started the $7 million program and something that we recommend that we continue to do will be to do a two year programs as part of this.
 This bond to include the seven minute on the table funds. Okay So to translate that as relates to the rollout if the bond passes you're gonna have one allocation That's already here the funding which equates to about ten point five million. That's the annual allocation We have and then in addition to that if the bond passes then you want to allocate additional ten million dollars a year So then you would have a total of about twenty million dollars a year just for streets every twenty eight
 Let me explain that much simpler way. So every year with this, if this bond passes for residential, we'll have $10.5 million available for residential only. And the program that the streets that get included, the program will be developed for a two year cycle. So it will be taking a council action to approve.
 As an example, if we dispass this for fiscal years 24 and 25, we will take a two-year program to council for approval that will be basically for $21 million, two years worth of funding, but the program will include, will be for two years. And that allows us to really work the community in different areas and have a much bigger impact that way. Okay, no, I understand now. So you're bringing a two-year package
 for residential streets, one year would be 10 million, two years would be 21 million. So we can expect to have two year allocations of 21 million, council would look at the streets based on the pavement and then we would approve in the future if the bond passes. Correct. Okay, but only a portion of that would be bond dollars.
 Correct. 3.5 million annually will be bond, 7 million pay go will be part of the program, but that's part of the operating budget. Okay. So then I guess in the future, let's talk about what the rollout will be because the 2012 COs, I was just concerned it would take too long. I mean, here we are and we
 2022 just kind of closing up that budget and so if it's going to be 10 years then then that means that we need to be more aggressive with with pushing out the streets which is which is certainly a good indicator for our community because that's what they want so there more streets will be done in a time period of 10 years I have to do the math on that a little bit more to understand what the annual
 What would it be just a quick some quick history. The reason why that took so long is because in the beginning there was a lot of back and forth with the council at the time on the list of streets. And so the PCI really has helped to clear that up and that's what this council has worked with is this pavement condition index.
 So the timing of it is a lot faster because I know that when you and several others came on the council, you are very aggressive. Let's get these streets done. And so in the last five years, there's been a slew of streets done. We've done over 400 streets the last seven or so years. So it's been quite incredible what the Capital Improvement Department has been able to do over the last three to five years as opposed to the three years before that. Yeah, no, I don't disagree. And my hope is that...
 depending on how many streets can get done, in the next 10 years, I'm hoping anywhere from 700 to 1,000 streets, residential streets, based on my calculations on previous assumptions on the seven million. The seven million could equate to about 55 to 60 streets, and just based on the PAYGO and then the bond funding, I think we can achieve that. That'll be a goal that we can strive for.
 Again, it's just dependent on like the amount that they do on the street because some are longer Yes, ma'am, it's easier to communicate them right right I just want to make sure we're being clear with y'all, but I understand what you're saying
 And we'll make sure that we we when we go out to the community that we develop this section a little bit more so that it's very clear for the public how this is going to roll out for the three point thirty five million dollar residential representative. DIRECTOR HARRIS And then one thing I just wanted to highlight is I'm starting to get more and more requests regarding the type of materials that we're using on pavement as it relates to climate action. And so my hope is that if the bond
 allocation for climate action implementation is approved, then in tandem with the street bond, we can look at what materials we can use not only to scale the number of streets, but to also help reduce the
 that we're generating from our pavement. And so I just wanna plant the seed now, I know that's longer future conversations, but it is something that's becoming more popular, something, but like we need to be real if it's gonna be an exorbitant amount of funds, then we need to understand what kind of impact that would be to the overall budget and plan. But I wanted to share that with you. So I don't have any other questions for you, Mr. Rodriguez, thank you for the information.
 Mr. Cortinez, I wanted to ask you about the model that you shared today. There is also a formula, I recall, from the debt management plan that looks at all revenues, excluding enterprise fund revenues, and then looking at the debt issuance. So I know our debt management policy sets a cap at $0.40, but how does that translate to that
 other formula that we're required to adhere by by the debt management policy and the percentage of debt we're issuing. Yeah. So it's a percentage of the overall property valuation. So we're we're well below that. And again, that's a city policy. We're also well below the state charter of 10% of our overall net taxable property values. And so we're well below that. I believe I did in the last fiscal year. We were around 2%. So we're well below that.
 All of those limitations. So there's a 10% of all revenues be below the 10% of all revenues? No, the state law is 10% of your property taxable values. Property taxable values, okay. So we're well below that amount right now. Okay. No, that's helpful. Thank you. I just wanted to clear that up. Now, related to your model that you've demonstrated here today, and I'm happy that you brought that forward because I am getting questions about that.
 Is that an annual expectant of the fee, excuse me, the increase if the bond passes? Or is this at the highest point of the debt service model in 2029? It's an average. I took an average of the lowest to the highest, essentially. So it starts off relatively minimal as far as the overall impact. And so if you look at what Sam presented on slide number 25, it shows the 10-year rollout. So in the first year, we're projecting $29 million and then continuing to ramp up.
 So the overall impact on homeowners in the first couple of years, it's minimal. So it's in the first year in 2022 at zero. In the following year, it's $2 and then it goes up to nine and then 21, 35, 51. At the peak, the maximum will be approximately $100, but that's not until 2033.
 And so what I did just to give an idea on overall on the life of these bonds on average, it's going to equate to an impact of about $63. Okay. Now that helps me communicate that better. So you're looking at the low to high. But in the first, from what I understand, the first four or five years, the first year there will be no impact. The next fiscal year there will be an impact, 2023 at $3 a year. $2 and then $9 and then $21. And so it's really not until you get into years seven and eight and nine where you start seeing.
 You start hitting that average of $63 a year. Okay. Now, does your debt model look at the current conditions of interest rates, or are you looking at potential refinancing options in the future with more stabilized interest rates? So it does build in as far as interest rates. It starts at 6%, goes up to 7% in the outer years. Again, these are all potential impacts. These are all, again, assumptions that we're building into the model.
 We don't want to present worst case, but we don't want to also present overly optimistic and rosier projections than what they could be. So we do have 7% interest rates built in into the model. We have a very conservative property valuation growth built into the model. The model, what I showed, does not incorporate. It does not, again, incorporate any future refinancings. So the reason for that is those refinancings are all dependent upon market conditions. It's all dependent upon interest rates at that time.
 And so we never want to be overly aggressive as far as trying to portray potential savings when it may not be there. And so the model, again, that I showed, and again, I'll be very, very clear that it's a potential. So I wouldn't say it's worst case, but this is, I mean, once we look, and I talked about what we saw with the public safety bond impact, has ended up being much, much less than what we originally presented and what we projected back three and a half years ago.
 and so i i would forecast that i would project predict that the impact would end up probably being much less than what presenting but obviously we want to make sure that we're being again conservative than what we're presenting not into the council but to the community as well and the potential impact no that's helpful um because i do believe you're being overly conservative but i've seen worse conditions that we were never expecting so i appreciate that disclosure but it is my hope that even though there would be an average impact of 63 that could be significantly less
 granted that the market conditions are favorable to the city and lower interest rates so i'm optimistic that that could be achieved in the next rollout of the funds when we're issuing the debt those are all my questions thank you mr cortinas i hope council will approve this and allow the voters to decide thank you representative nundus and i know mr cortinas your model you know can only show based on
 forecasted dead moving forward and obviously anything could change at any at any time based on dead and things that will move forward in the next ten years and with that we have representatives thank you mayor so I have a couple of questions Robert or Laura I don't know this presentation that you all are having at our in our districts for community meetings is this the presentation that you all will be presenting
 No, ma'am. We are working on a public presentation which will include much of the information that we provided today but it'll also include additional information for example some of the questions that Representative Hernandez brought forward in terms of including and making sure that the community understands what it is that we're bringing forward and
 And then of course, anytime the community also provides any additional questions, if we see trends in terms of questions, we always amend the questions. Okay. The reason I'm asking this, because I feel like this is very thorough as far as like what the proposition is. It does a really good job at explaining it. And then the most important part, what is it going to cost us? It explains all of that. And so with that, will it be who's going to be doing the community meetings? Yes.
 Can you say that last part again? Who's going to be doing the community meetings? Who's gonna, the team? It's a different, it's a variety of different folks that we're calling upon. It'll be Sam, Robert, Yvette Hernandez, Alex Hoffman, various folks who have been involved in the development of this process. Okay, thank you. And so Sam, my question for you is, when can we expect to see the extensions to start when approved or if approved?
 The uh you're talking about the Monwood extension and Ressler? Yes. It's um so the as I mentioned in the presentation the the Monwood extension is is already under design with the county and so we would anticipate that to kind of take the lead if you will on the reconstruction side because the design documents um pretty close um
 complete in the beginning of 2024. We're currently working with the property owners as well to develop a study that will hopefully inform an annexation plan for those properties in conjunction with the development of the project. So that'll start pretty much right away on the Mountwood extension. And then Ressler and Airway will begin a design and property acquisition process if the bond passes, because those will be funded 100% by the city.
 Okay so from the three the Mottwood extension is the first that we should see or we've already begun to see the rollout of it? Yes because the design has already started and again it's being funded by the county. Okay and then as far as the the PCI um study that we did when are we going to see those results? Those results were actually presented on July 5th um we certainly um
 Take those out to the community. You know, sit down as a separate meeting with you and show you more information and more detail. But if you go to the July 5th presentation, I'll be happy to send you send it to you so you can see the results of that. That was presented. And ultimately, that was the basis of the recommendation that you have before you on the top 50 arterial program. Hey, Sam, if you don't mind, resend that to the entire council, please. Absolutely. What do you say?
 And then when will you start making the new recommendations for the ones that we are already paying for annually for like 2023? Yes, correct. So as I mentioned, there's been a list that's already been approved and we presented that in detail on street.
 street presentations. The funds for fiscal year 23 of the $7 million has already been allocated. So there's a list out there that we're working on for right now. And then that list will actually spill a little bit over into 24, but next year, we will be taking a new two year cycle and we'll include this bond money 3.5 million annually if it passes in November. So that you'll see that list in the beginning of 23.
 So in January we should see that presentation? Correct. Okay. Correct. Okay, that is all for me. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much Mayor. Mr. Rodriguez, thank you very much for your presentation. I know on slide 10 there's different top 50 arterial segments and railroad is listed one in district four and that pretty much covers street called Farah to Angora Loop.
 And I understand it needs work, it really does, but on railroad itself, another portion of that would be like from Loop 375 to Deer. I'm not sure the exact mileage of that, but I believe it's very similar. I don't know if you're going to be able to move that or concentrate more, like I said, from Loop 375 to Deer. Get a lot of calls on that.
 particular portion of railroad and I've not really received any calls reference fair to Angora loop so just for your consideration
 Representative Molinar, and again, I'll send you the full detailed street presentations that we regularly give two, three, four times a year to council. That segment that you referenced on railroad is already funded for reconstruction with federal dollars. And I won't speak off the top of my head to tell you the timeline, but I'll send that to you as a follow-up. That's already programmed in and funded through federal dollars. All right. Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome. Thank you. And with that, we have a motion and a second.
 I have that representative Fernandez moved and seconded by Representative Salcido. Is that right. Yes. And if we can make sure that we include the revision as well that was written to the record. Thank you. Correct. And did you open the motion. And that would be the revision to Proposition C to add the word existing to in front of city facilities. I move to approve as amended. As amended. Thank you.
 Can we vote on the amendment first? Yes, ma'am. My motion is just to approve as amended. Is that okay? Can I have a second? Oh. Yeah. Representative Salcido, do you accept the second? The voting session is open. Representative Molinar, thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. Thank you.
 Item 36 is an ordinance granting special permit to allow for infill development and this is for the property located at 7764 and 7768 Hockney Street Do we have a motion to approve motion made and there's no public comment motion made by alternate mayor pro tem Lisa Raga seconded by representative Salcido to approve voting session is open I
 Representative Rodriguez, can you cast your vote please? Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. Item 37 is an ordinance changing the zoning for 541 Schwab Street from R3 residential to RF Ranch and Farm to RF residential. Representative Modernar.
 Mayor, recently we received information that perhaps all of the residents in the area were not properly notified even though there was opposition to it. So I would like to move to postpone it for a two-week period. Can we hear from staff first because I believe they had or there's a special staff on? Mr. Garcia? Yes, sir. Mr. Garcia, Planning and Inspections. So this item was brought back to City Planning Commission a second time.
 specifically to address that confusion regarding notice. It was properly notified again through that second presentation to city plan commission, which did happen, I believe last month. Okay, so you haven't notified them then? It has been notified. Everybody within 300 feet was notified. In fact, three residents did show up to the meeting to voice their comments in person. And I know this is the information you had given me before, so I find that
 What you were told was different, is different, Mr. Representative Monellon? You want to ask him? Say that again, please. I said I know that you had heard something different, but this is exactly what we did before that. That's why it came back up. Well, like I said, either way, I did receive notice that certain people were not notified. Can you give us the parameters for notification and what was done to follow those parameters, please?
 Yes, sir. Just like in any other rezoning case, all property owners within 300 feet of the subject property are notified directly by mail, a minimum of 10 days prior to the City Plan Commission. Additionally, there's a second notice that goes out upon approval of the introduction of the item, also to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject property.
 And in this particular case, within those 300 feet, there were a total of 34 notices, 34 property owners that did go out and were notified directly by mail. And then that's when you got the four letters of opposition, correct? Correct, yes, sir. We did get one phone call as well as three people again showing up in person to the meeting after being notified of the city plan commission meeting.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you. With that, we do have public comment. Go ahead. And then we do have public comment after. Hi Raul, thanks. No public comment? We have no public, nobody signed up to speak. Yeah, I think he's been waiting to speak on it. He might have not signed up, but we'll take Representative Nello first. Yeah, so Raul, just looking at the backup,
 So the item is to rezone from r3 in ranch farm But the backup says that there's a certain that part of it is actually g3 I'm so I'm wanting to know what exactly we're rezoning here So it says from r3 and rf2 r5 But the backup says differently the backup says it's r3 and g3 because it doesn't look like To me so it's gonna be really clear
 So the current property is currently split zoned between Ranch Farm and R3 Residential. There are two zoning districts on the property. The request is to go from R3 that R3 and that RF Ranch Farm to R5 Residential. The G3 is designates the Future Land Use Map designation G3 Postwar in terms of the comprehensive plan
 The plan has designated this particular area G3 post-war. And again, the proposed RF, proposed zoning does fall in line with that overall G3 post-war classification based on our comprehensive plan.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- Okay. And the conceptual plan is really hard to understand. I don't know if you're aware with our new software it's really hard to zoom in and understand and there's not a lot of actual information on the backup. It's just a lot of images. So I'm just trying to understand what the conceptual plan is. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Yes ma'am. So again it is purely conceptual. Again this is just the rezoning. The property does have to be platted so a plat will be forthcoming. I believe it's already been submitted.
 and is in process to be presented to City Plan Commission. But again today on the table this is a rezoning in terms of the conceptual plan it does show three lots. Three lots with three single family homes. It is important to note that based on depending on the size of those lots.
 R5 does allow duplexes, so the option will be there once it's rezoned for either single family and or duplex development.
 Okay, yeah, I guess that's what I was trying to understand because um Yarborough is a thoroughfare and we've talked a lot about You know increasing density and multi-use would definitely be great on this thoroughfare And so I wasn't sure if we knew that they were trying to do single-family or duplex because I think you know
 More at the more units the better I was gonna ask what the three letters of opposition are But I know that we have a member of the public for well There's one phone call in three letters or I'm turning getting that backwards But I we have a member of the public so I'm sure that I will find out in a second So those are all my questions for right now. Thank you Raul. Thank you, ma'am please State your name for the record and you have three minutes. Good afternoon. I'm John Hogan. I live on Schwab Street and
 I spoke to a couple of my other neighbors and they had told me that they had not received a notice that that lot was being rezoned. I think more of our concern is what is it being rezoned to? I heard Ms. Anello say that it was going to be a duplex or two.
 It could be. So that's what we're looking for is a little more clarity on what someone plans to build there what is their intentions because if we just let someone go put R5 they might stand here and say I'm going to do a duplex but if R5 allows them to put up two story 15 unit apartments in a residential neighborhood we're going to have a problem.
 And the neighbors have opposed that in the past, at least two or three times that I know of because I've been here, to where someone is trying to build apartments in the residential neighborhood. And that's what we're trying to keep from happening is we want to keep that farm neighborhood area looking like a farm neighborhood area and not open it up to,
 multi units to where there's 10 15 16 unit apartments in there. It's a residential neighborhood. So I'm asking for a postponement of any decision today so I can gather up some more neighbors and we can make a good decision on hey we're cool with a duplex or maybe a quadruplex or if we know that someone's planning on putting in like big multi unit apartments there then you know people are going to come down and voice their.
 opinions against building something like that. Do we have one on what is being proposed? Yes, sir. Yes, so again, the rezoning is to R5. R5 is a request. R5 does not permit apartments. The most you can do in an R5 is duplexes.
 either a single family and or a duplex. So again based on the size of the property, based on the plat that I believe has been submitted. And again very similar to the conceptual plan proposal is for three lots. So maximum density at this time would be six units which would be a duplex on each of those one three lots. Again apartments are not permitted.
 There's no way they could do apartments in an R5. It's just not permitted by code. Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Hogan. Mayor. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. I wanted to stay up there. Mr. Hogan, I guarantee you this is what was brought before me, and I, too, am really a stickler for not having apartments during, you know, in residential areas like this. But I was told it was going to be duplexes, and that's why I support the issue. And he's telling you.
 So, Raul, just to satisfy you a little bit, hopefully satisfy you a little further, Mr. Garcia, I would like to see a detailed site plan before permits are issued, please, and for duplexes that the applicant told us who he was gonna do. Yes, sir, that amendment can definitely be made on the ordinance prior to signing, yes, sir. Okay. Can they provide that to you before you guys make a solid decision?
 We can, we'll let Senator Beck go. You know what, we can postpone it for two weeks. It'll be sufficient, Mr. Garcia. Second. So we have a motion over here and a second? Yes, sir. Either way, two motions. Great. Thank you. So, thank you, Mr. Hogan. Okay, Mr. Garcia, we can, and then we can have it show Mr. Hogan and the group. Did you attend the meeting that they had, sir?
 No, I did not. Okay, and maybe some did and I didn't know about it. But no problem. We'll get together. My staff was here right now. We'll get you together with you and have you You know see the detailed site plans tonight. Okay. I'll be in touch. Thank you. Hello, this is Sal Masud, the representative for the owner. May I have a couple of words please?
 Sure, Mr. Massoud. You have three minutes, please. Can you state your name? State your name, please. Sal Massoud. My name is Sal Massoud with Del Rio Engineering. I represent the owners on this rezoning. And I just understood or heard that you have postponed it for two weeks. However, I am not available in two weeks. I'm going to be out of the country. If you must postpone it, can we postpone it for four weeks?
 Four weeks would be absolutely sure, no problem. That's one request. And the second thing is I just want to assure
 and anybody else in the room that the client, my client has no intention even on building duplexes. He wants to do single family homes. It's a family thing is for him and his brother and another family member. They just wanna build houses on it. That's the intention. And we've already submitted the plat to the city of El Paso to confirm that. So we're running the plat
 you know, in sync with the reason to affirm and confirm that this is the intention that the client wants to do. Okay. So would you like to amend your motion, sir? Sure, we can postpone it for four weeks, please.
 We initially had a motion made by there was no second on it. There's no second on it Okay, so he's amending his motion for four weeks or second Four weeks. Okay, so man motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Salcido We need the second amended motion and do we have a second on it? Thank you. It's one for four weeks. Do you want to vote on the amendment first or just approve? No, we need to amend it
 No, no, we're moving. We're gonna move to I mean to postpone as amended. Yeah, that's how we're gonna vote on. Yeah, okay For four weeks. Yes, ma'am. And the voting is open Representative Sarsido would you like to vote on this item? And the item has been approved has been postponed for two weeks with representative Four weeks four weeks and with representative Rodriguez not present for the vote. Oh
 Thank you. Thank you everyone. Thank you Mr. Garcia. We'll be in contact Mr. Hogan. Thank you. Thank you sir. The next item is item 39 and that's discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to submit an application to the office of the governor Texas Military Preparedness Commission for the defense economic adjustment assistance grant. Move to approve. Second. Motion made by Representative Molinar seconded by Representative Anello to approve. Voting session is open.
 And the item has been approved unanimously with representative Rodriguez not present for the vote next item is item 40 and this is discussion in action on the resolution to approve the creation of court 5t a Temporary court that will be presided over by associate judges is assigned by the presiding judge move to approve Will we be appointing a temporary judge like we have in other times miss Neiman?
 I will defer to staff at municipal court to determine whether they need that mayor the language implies different I would think we would be We will be assigning associate judges they will be scheduled on a weekly basis, okay That's where we have motion in a second
 Was it Salcido, Representative Salcido or Lizárraga who seconded? It was either or. Motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Lizárraga to approve. Voting session is open. Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. Next is item 41, discussion and action on an appeal by the property owner of 1121 Terrace
 Sunset Heights historic district regarding a decision rendered by the historic Landmark Commission to deny certificate of appropriateness for the reference property move to approve motion made by representative an ello seconded by alternate mayor for Tim Bizarra
 I'm sorry, Mayor. I have an email, I completely forgot, an email from a constituent who asked me to read into the public record. I don't know if that's okay. Where did you ask? I'm sorry, can't hear you. Sorry, I received an email from a constituent who asked that I read it into the record for public comment, if that's okay.
 it's very long um you got three minutes good perfect yeah so can we start the three minutes so dear representative anello the el paso county historical society that has been preserving el paso's history since 1954 is headquartered in the 1912 texas historic register listed richard burge's house and is located at 603 west yandel within three blocks of 1121 terrace court is appalled at the alterations to make the property without certificates of appropriation from the historic preservation office
 The alterations obliterated the original characteristics of the property and now the antithesis, antithesis, I can't say that word, of both the spirit and letter of the city's historic preservation ordinance as spelled out in the staff recommendation.
 The alterations are even more egregious if they were made without building permits of any kind, which should trigger a review by the Historic Preservation Office, because that would mean they are not approved for safety and code compliance, and any increase in value might not have been picked up for ad valorem tax purposes. A check of the CAD records for 1121 Terrace Court shows the owner of record is...
 various LLC also at that address is tangible business property as MACH VEH CMP FURN INV owned by ocean pools care of Ricardo a fear. I
 and no homestead exception is claimed. The above facts coupled with allegations of other neighbors that a pool service is operated from the address is evidenced by the coming and going of trucks in the morning and evenings could lead one to believe that 1121 Terrace Court is not a personal residence but is perhaps investment property being used for business purposes.
 In his appeal letter, and I'm sorry if I'm saying your last name incorrectly, Mr. Fiera makes wide-ranging claims of targeting and rampant code violations and lack of compliance with the historic preservation ordinance, but provides no supporting evidence that he was targeted and no examples of specific properties that he asserts are in some form of violation. With the list of such properties, investigations could be made, exemptions could be noted, such as in existence before historic designation, and enforcement actions commenced.
 But as noted, no such examples are forthcoming. Under these circumstances, it is impossible to subsinate his claims. However, even if true, they justify allowing the violations to be overlooked. Nobody does the speed limit, so why should I have to pay a ticket? What message is this sent to other property owners, especially the new owners of 510 West Yandel, who is a building and infill home, and has bent over backwards to accommodate the requirements of the historic preservation ordinance and the concerns of the neighbors?
 I have attended a number of landmark commission hearings and most who are caught claim economic hardship in order to remove the non-appropriate changes. Ironically, they all had enough ability to evade the requirements and enough money to make the non-improved changes, but not enough to make the corrections. One commission member noted that these facts and asked rhetorically why the ordinances and commission existed if anyone had to do was claim economic hardship to get a pass.
 In summary, we at the El Paso County Historical Society find the alterations at 1121- Yes, I know that three minutes are- Thank you. That was so long. I just want to reiterate, those were not my personal feelings. That was a letter from a constituent that someone asked me to ask. I do believe that- Can you provide their name for the record? Yes, it's Fred Evans, past president and Burgess House Commission Chairman from the El Paso County Historical Society. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, if I might? Go ahead, sir.
 Good afternoon Mr. Mayor, members of council, Kevin Smith with Planning and Inspections. My understanding is if you approve this action you are approving the appeal from the applicant. Correct. Okay so then I. Just want to make sure that.
 Right. That's correct. I want to make sure that that's clear. Thank you for that clarification. I was going to make sure you all knew that because that's Before I pull my motion, I would like some context because I will be totally honest and I apologize to council and the city representative for not being very informed. And so I just want to be very clear. Because I also represent two historic districts and I do believe that there are some instances
 where individuals are pushed out of their neighborhoods because they cannot afford the historical requirements, like wood windows is one. But from what I'm seeing from the pictures is there are multiple additions that were added onto this property. So that is not the case, right? This is not an economic hardship. These are improvements that were made without permits and that do not follow the historic
 Codes, thank you. We have representative Followed by representative the side again, and I think we do have public comment We're gonna I'm gonna do this and then I'll thank you Mr. Smith, so what you're saying is that everything that's why you all granted the the permits to for him to go ahead and do the Repair work or is that what it was? No. No, sir. The the improvements were done without building permits. I
 And I can turn it over to Tony LaCruz with our department who can shed a little more light on it. Yes, sir. But they constructed these improvements, and in the historic district, they did not go through the proper channels, not only not receiving the permits through our department nor receiving the proper approvals from the HLC as well. So I believe Tony may shed some more light on this. Yes, sir. Can I hear from Mr. Tony then? Representative LaSalle.
 I didn't hear what you said. I think Mr. Tony was going to do a further explanation on that.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Representatives. This is Tony that accrues planning inspections. And if need be, we do have Providencia Velazquez, a Historic Preservation Officer, with a quick presentation that can show you more detail. But this case was denied by the Historic Landmark Commission. It was taken to the Historic Landmark Commission after all the work was done.
 At that point, no building permits have been approved. The Historic Landmark Commission denied the application for the certificate of appropriateness, and that is the appeal that you're currently hearing.
 The construction that occurred was primarily a front facing pergola. There are some detached pergolas at the rear, as well as modifications to windows on the perimeter of the structure. All these were done without permits, and that's basically what's being appealed at this point. Approval of the appeal, as Kevin said, would basically override the decision.
 What we're recommending at this point is that the decision from the HLC to deny the certificate of appropriateness be upheld. Okay, so the HLC denied them twice? The HLC denied it once. At this point, they've heard it once. Okay, so who was the second denial from? I'm sorry, you lost me there. I thought you were talking about the HLC. Who denied them?
 So the HLC denied the application for a certificate of appropriateness for the construction and that construct the certificate of appropriateness was applied for after all the work was already conducted. Okay. So at this point no permits have been issued. Okay. What you're hearing before you are now is the applicant is requesting that city council overturn the appeal
 of the HLC, thereby granting the certificate of appropriateness. Staff is recommending that City Council upholds the HLC's denial of the certificate of appropriateness. Gotcha. Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Representative Sotka?
 Thank you. Thank you mayor and thank you everyone that's concerned about this project I believe that staff has a presentation and I think if you look at the pictures you'll get a clearer view I myself drove by this building and The pictures don't give it justice is all I can say. Yes. So can we see the presentation staff? I
 um excuse me if i may uh good afternoon providence of alaska's historic preservation officer i'm going to walk you through the presentation so if you have any questions just let me know um so this item hold on it's not on the screen yet i'm sorry ready there you go it's on there now okay okay so item 41 is an appeal of the historic landmark commission's denial to legalize berg done after the fact at 1121 terrorist court in the sunset heights historic district
 The property was cited in 2018 for illegal construction and was heard by the HLC on June 6th, 2022. So it took four years to get to the Historic Landmark Commission. The Historic Landmark Commission was unanimous in its decision to deny the legalization of the work. The property owner has done an extensive amount of construction on the property without getting approvals or permits. The construction includes replacing the fencing, replacing the windows and doors, covering the stone wall with stucco, construction of a two-story balcony with electricity,
 and the construction of a pergola canopy with electricity in the rear yard. In addition the pergola canopy and balcony do not meet or comply with city required setbacks. And lastly we also received two emails from property owners in Sunset Heights asking City Council to uphold the historic landmark commission's denial of the proposed. Please let me know if you have any questions. DIRECTOR RIVERA- Mr. Mayor would you like to call for public comment. We have Mr. Luis Yanez.
 Who would like to address the council? You have three minutes, sir. Thank you. Good afternoon council My name is Luis. Yes. I represent mr. Feria the property owner of this building Mr. Feria did provide a proof of the adjacent properties Which at least three of them have similar? structures in the front including one owned by former councilmember Beto O'Rourke and
 If I may put it on the screen for you to take a look at. Give us one second. Thank you. That structure is also at the front of the property. My client, yes, he took out permits for most of his projects, but it's right –
 Whoever got on the screen a couple minutes ago is right. He did not get him through the historic lawn landmark commissions But he does have a stack of permits here for the fence for the windows for the roof and this were issued by the city Of El Paso he did expend a lot of funds and making his property the way it is we believe that his property is
 looks and is kept up to date on repairs as opposed to the properties that He did put stuck on the the
 Rock wall why because it was falling down That stuck us aesthetic it's it looks nice and it prevented that a wall from coming down Sorry, I don't mean to drop it. We're not Can you stop his time for minute yes, so we can get that fixed. Yeah, sorry we're not seeing the images We need to stop the clock I'll give him more time
 Thank you. I see. Can you please switch from the clock camera to the main Elmo to take up the center to? Can you start at the beginning would you explain on the first one, please they didn't have Okay Property around the neighborhood that also has a front porch Pergola similar as to what my client built that his house the pictures of the houses around the
 the neighborhood all these houses have additions and changes to the original windows as well this is another house that's been covered in plaster and it's fallen off my client
 and this is my client's property. He keeps it up to date on repairs, and we believe and we're requesting that you approve his appeal so that he may continue to have this and not spend all the money that he had to spend in doing this.
 One of the complaints was that the fencing was too high. It comports with the International Building Code. It's 42 inches, and it's on a balcony, and that's exactly what the International Building Code says. So for those reasons, we would request for you to consider approving his appeal. It would take an substantial amount of money, basically making it historically friendly for my client. Thank you, sir. And just so you see, the building term is,
 Thank you. Permits are not issued because I do own a historic building downtown They're not issued unless the historic Landmark Commission approves it. It wasn't the case back then when he did Thank you. Thank you sir Her persona Nella
 Mayor, I just have a question for the owner. You said it would take a significant amount of money to repair or to bring it into conformance. Do you have an estimate of what that would cost? And then number two for staff that are on the line, were permits allowed, did the city issue these permits and did the HLC approve these permits and can you explain?
 How high is Ricardo video and yeah the city approved those permits and I have in the back of the paint of the permits the Paperwork by the Commission History Commission and the amount I don't know ma'am because I mean that's 25 years of work That's 25 years of improving. Have you been doing this over the last 25 years? Yes, sir So I don't know how much money and what are the permits stated? I?
 The permits one says for replace the windows, replace all windows, re-roof. No, what's the date on them? I'm sorry, sir. Replace the windows was January 25th, 2005. 2005? Yes, sir. The re-roof was...
 April 15, 2002. What about the additional structures to the exterior? Additional structure was over here, sorry. January 25, 2005. And who was the signatory on the HLC approval from this? I think that time was Mr. Answorth, if I remember right.
 So that so it was a signature from a city employee in 2005 from the historic Landmark Commission Yes, yes, ma'am. I T can you please switch to the Elmo Minkham? Thank you Thank You representative So see though and then we'll go to Manila and then we'll come back to you
 Thank you, Mayor. I just have a few questions. The HLC, did they give a list of what he could possibly do to be in compliance or be able to be acceptable?
 Providencia Velazquez, yes they did and actually if I can just make a few comments before I answer your question. The first is the house that we showed to you that belongs to Beto O'Rourke that addition was approved prior to Mr. O'Rourke's purchase of the property. It was approved by the previous Historic Landmark Commission for the previous owner so that is completely in compliance and it is legal. Secondly as for Mr. Feria's
 um supposition that his neighbors have not been targeted that's not quite correct his neighbors have been cited also for legal work and third the permits that he has shown you were done well before 2018. 2018 is when he started the construction of the balcony as far as we know on the pergolas and everything else so the permits he may have um go back several years and they cover things that were not approved after 2018 after he started this construction
 So everything they decided, the roofing and the windows, that may be accurate, but the balconies, the percolas, the stuccoing of the facade and the fencing and all that, none of that was approved by city staff or the Historic Landmark Commission. He never got a permit for that. But he knew that he had to because you can see from all the permits that he received in 2005, he was well aware that he was in a historic district and he needed approval for all of this. He never got it. As for the Historic Landmark Commission, I can read to you their motion. Okay.
 And it is here. Just a moment. Okay, it reads, This is to certify that the Historic Landmark Commission, in its regular meeting scheduled on June 6, 2022, reviewed and denied documentation submitted by the owner, the location is 1121 Terrace Court, in legal description. It says for certificate of appropriateness for construction of a balcony structure on the main facade after the fact. List the recommendations to have the balcony structure be removed,
 The windows and doors will be replaced with windows and doors to match the historic windows and doors. The fencing will be removed and replaced with fencing meeting the guidelines. The stucco will be removed from the retaining wall. The balcony, fencing, and stucco will be removed within the next 30 days. The windows and doors will be replaced within the next 60 days. And no permits should be approved for the property until it is in compliance.
 Okay, and I just have a question so I know that the some of these permits were pulled in 2005 And some of the recommendations meet or are descriptive to that He won't need to pull permits for the windows correct because that was already issued Well, it depends on the windows that he's putting in ma'am The reason besides that I think you may have gotten a permit 2005 from your windows He may remove the ones that were there in 2005, but the new ones he did not get the okay for okay So the windows need
 On the updated man. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Those are my only questions. Thank you. Thank you Thank You mayor, so I'm gonna pull my motion to approve I am gonna make a motion to postpone and they would say that You know this this item is being Correct me if I'm wrong Provy This item is being submitted by the app that by the gentleman in front of us correct to appeal this So I think it also sir. I
 I think it's your responsibility to provide us with the information, right? You're saying that you have these permits. You're saying that they're HLC approved. You said you had permits from 2005 for windows. What material is that, correct? Because I know in the historic district. But I think this is documentation that we need to see prior to making this decision. And so with that, I'm gonna make a motion to postpone. I'll second that. And I'm gonna, you have two weeks, right? Our agenda goes up and I don't know how it works
 Representative, I'm sorry to interrupt. Under the zoning ordinance, the council's required to make a decision from the appeal within 60 days. Okay, when is that? So we would recommend against you postponing because it would go past the 60 day deadline. So why, and why was it just submitted for this council meeting? Was that per the individual? I don't know, but the 60 days is about to run, so we would not recommend the U-Mob. When is the 60 days up, Ms. Neiman?
 Ms. Velasquez, can you tell us when the date, the 60 days is going to run? Well, he submitted this on June 21st. So it should be, I guess, the 21st next week. So why are we seeing this today, two weeks prior? We're seeing this on the one hand because there is an appeal fee that has to go, that has to be accompanied by this, and Mr. Ferriero has never paid it.
 We asked him to pay the fee, but he never did. So we had to basically group and ask if this is still legal to bring forward if he has not paid for the appeal. That took a little time. And secondly, we have been a little busier than normal, but it is within the 60 days. And is there any authority, Mrs. Neiman, to extend that 60 days? Does council have that authority? So pursuant to your ordinance, the council has to make a decision within 60 days. That's what we're recommending against postponement.
 But we do not have the authority in this council to extend that time. The way we're reading the ordinance you're required to make the decision within the 60 days. So it's been appealed and it's about to run. Yeah I mean I just I this is super disappointing um
 Because I don't you know, they they submitted this application two months ago and now we're just seeing it My will say it is the responsibility of the individual to provide the documentation And I'm not ready to make a decision right now without having all of the facts Yeah, so I mean, I don't know I made the motion. There's a second. I don't know what happens Missing me on that. Can they come back on a second appeal? That's if the time Expires can I ask staff a question? I?
 Real briefly, Ms. Velazquez, can you clarify, they submitted the application but did not receive payment of the application? Okay. No, they submitted in the appeal, but we never received payment for the appeal. Okay, so unless I'm mistaken, then the application is not complete because you haven't received payment of the application, is that correct? So the list is? Well, please go ahead.
 Yes we never received payment and there was some discussion back and forth as to whether or not we could continue because the ordinance does state that if as long as the letter submitted city council seeking the appeal within 15 days of the decision then it can go forward and has to go forward within the next 60. So we erred on the side of caution and we move forward. Council if you're so inclined to move to postpone the item you can if you need additional information. We did provide represented alternate pro tem
 A motion to uphold the decision a motion to overturn the decision and then a motion to uphold in part based on the information that you have been provided with today. Representative Añelo are you withdrawing your motions. I have the first one was to approve and the second one was to postpone two weeks.
 I have only pulled the motion to approve. The motion to postpone still remains, and I'm gonna lean on alternate mayor pro tem to make decisions. Thank you. Just for clarification, do you reside in the house? Yes I do. You do? Yes ma'am. Okay, because I've heard that you are running an Airbnb from that house? Well when I bought that house there were five apartments.
 please speak into the microphone when they were when i bought the house they were five apartments so they are five apartments and you reside in one of them yes okay all right um well i i believe that the historic land commission has done their homework i'm i'm sorry to to to see that you were asked to comply with the city with their permitting and that you did not
 apply for those permits in a timely fashion and so I'm prepared to make my motion right now. We have a motion and a second for postponement of two weeks the second was by Representative Rivera. Correct we have a motion on the floor which is to postpone for two weeks by Representative Inelo seconded by Representative Rivera. Yes ma'am. You still you're not withdrawn?
 Yes call for the vote and to postpone for two weeks. I make one more comment mayor pardon me Can I make one more comment before we vote? Yes, ma'am I'm sorry. Just want to say again if this passes you have two additional weeks But again, the the onus is on you to provide information Right and so what you have not just permits any kind of emails those are what we need to see to make the decision Thank you mayor. Thank you. Take a vote, please. I
 Voting is open and the item has been postponed for two weeks with representative Lee Saraga voting nay and Representative Rodriguez abstaining. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much and like representative Rinello said you need to make sure you have everything and anything that you want us to look at and
 Here if not, we're gonna make a decision based on information that we do have in front of us and I'm sorry I was I'd started to ask the city attorney a question. Is it okay if I do that? Thank you Next item is item 42 and this is discussion in action on the resolution that the city reviewed Reviewed and approved the issuance of the unlimited tax bond series 2022 by pass sale in este municipal utility district number four move to approve second
 Motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve. Voting session is open. Alternate Mayor Pro Tem, would you please cast your vote? We're on item 42. 41. And the item has been approved with Representative Salcido voting nay.
 And the next item is item 43, discussion and action on the resolution calling for the 2022 general city election in the city of El Paso to be held on November 8, 2022 to fill the expired terms of district representative numbers 1, 5, 6, and 8 in El Paso municipal court judge court number 4 in making provisions for the conduct of the election. Motion to approve. Second.
 Motion made by Representative Rivera seconded by Representative Vanello to approve voting session is open Thank you, and the item has been approved unanimously Do we have a motion to retire into executive session motion made by? I wanted to see if we wanted to postpone this since representative Schwartzbein is not here I would like to still have the discussion to hear if that's okay if council doesn't want to take action afterwards We can talk about this moment We have a motion
 Motion made by, who made the motion? Representative Molinar, you moved. I know. Seconded by Representative Hernandez to retire into executive session at 239. And this is to discuss executive session item number one, consultation with lawyer regarding city manager and city attorney employment agreements, matter number 22-1043-831. And this is under...
 Section 551 071 so the City Council of the City of Opasso may retire into executive session I think we have to take a vote still. Yes Thank you Motion is open. We already did that. We just need a vote. Okay all those in favor. Yes all those opposed
 And we are retiring into executive session at 2.39. The City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.58 of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D to discuss
 Item Executive Session 1, Consultation with Lawyer Regarding City Manager and City Attorney Employment Agreements, Matter Number 22-1043-831, Section 551.071. Mayor, we have a motion to come out of Executive Session by Representative Molinar, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temblis Zaraga. Item Executive Session 1.
 There's no action. Motion to adjourn. Second. All those in favor? Yes. All those opposed? Great job today. You took over. And the meeting has been adjourned at 3.56 p.m., August 16th.