Again, thank you for giving us that opportunity to someday hopefully have peace on earth. Good morning, this is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, August 13th, 2024. Mayor Lee Sir is present and presiding in council chambers along with Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, Representative Acevedo, Representative Hernandez, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Rivera, Representative Canales is joining virtually. Good morning, sir.
 Good morning. And Representative Salcido is running a few minutes late. It is 9.04 a.m. Thank you. And again, I'd like to have a moment of silence, please. Thank you. May God bless America and may God bless El Paso. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. We'll start with Kaylin. That brings us to the Mayor's proclamations.
 For those of you receiving your proclamation, your group will have up to six minutes collectively to speak at the podium. The first proclamation is National Black Business Month. Are you able to hear me? Yes, sir. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome everybody. I'm sorry that I couldn't be there in person this morning. Good morning, sir. I'll read the proclamation. A proclamation, city of El Paso, whereas National Black Business Month, founded in 2014, is
 invites us to recognize black-owned businesses across the country, highlight their importance to communities and the national economy, and whereas the city of El Paso recognizes valuable contributions made by black entrepreneurs and business owners to our local community and local economy.
 in promoting economic development, job creation, and community empowerment, encouraging economic self-sufficiency, and inspiring future generations to foster entrepreneurs. And, whereas throughout history, and despite being systematically isolated from capital investment, development resources, and digital visibility, black businesses have persevered and thrived despite facing systemic racism, redlining, and even extreme violence, such as the Tulsa Massacre of 1921.
 And whereas the city of El Paso recognizes and gives honor to those who have paved the way for the current increase of entrepreneurs in El Paso County, such as John and Mary Woods, who were born into slavery and who, after the Civil War, married and became El Paso's first black entrepreneurs, who built a network of flourishing businesses. And whereas El Paso can value the impact and influence of black businesses by supporting initiatives such as ElPasoBlackPages.com, a free platform for El Paso's black business owners.
 El Paso Black Business Network, Black El Paso Voice, and various local initiatives that promote business diversity and celebrate the milestones, successes, and progress of black businesses and entrepreneurs. And whereas black entrepreneurs and business owners bring unique perspectives, talents, and innovative ideas that enrich the fabric of our city, it is crucial to provide them with the resources, opportunities, and recognition necessary for continued success.
 And whereas this year, as Black businesses continue to recover from the economic losses caused by the pandemic, it is crucial to recognize, support, and celebrate the National Black Business Month. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that the month of August shall be known as Black Business Month, signed by our Honorable Mayor Oscar Luis-Morales.
 Thank you very much, sir. It was really hard to hear and you broke up a little bit, so I'm going to have Representative Bivetta read it just for the people in here have the opportunity to hear it because you did break up a little bit. So thank you for that.
 No, no, thank you. Go ahead, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation of the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas National Black Business Month founded in 2004 invites us to recognize black-owned businesses across the country and highlight their importance to communities and the national economy. And whereas the City of El Paso recognizes the valuable contributions made by black entrepreneurs and business owners to our local community and local economy in promoting economic development,
 job creation and community empowerment, encouraging economy, economic self-sufficiency, and inspiring future generations of entrepreneurs. And whereas throughout history and despite being systematically isolated from investment, capital, development resources, and digital visibility, black businesses have persevered and thrived.
 and whereas the city of El Paso recognizes and gives honors to those who have paved the way for the current increase of entrepreneurs in El Paso County, such as John and Mary Woods, who after the Civil War married and became El Paso's first black entrepreneurs who built a network of flourishing businesses, and whereas El Paso can value the impact and influence of black entrepreneurs
 businesses by supporting initiatives such as El Paso Black Pages.com, a free platform for El Paso's Black business owners, El Paso Black Business Network, Black El Paso Voice, and various local initiatives that promote business diversity and celebrate the milestones, successes, and progress of Black businesses and entrepreneurs
 And whereas black entrepreneurs and business owners bring unique perspectives, talents, and innovative ideas that enrich the fabric of our city. And it's crucial to provide them with the resources, opportunities, and recognition necessary for their continued success.
 And we're asked this year, as black businesses continue to recover from economic losses caused by the pandemic, it's crucial to recognize, support, and celebrate National Black Business Month. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and city council of the city of El Paso that the month of August shall be known as National Black Business Month, signed by our honorable mayor, Oscar Leaser. Good morning. Good morning. Pleasure seeing you again. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Monica Tucker. I'm the founder of Black El Paso Voice and director for the El Paso Black Business Network. And our goal, of course, is to identify and assist with resources other black-owned businesses in El Paso. Recently, we had our awards and recognition ceremony in which we honored black-owned businesses and others in the community to include the city of El Paso,
 and others who assisted with us for our Juneteenth event which also recognizes our economic development and our participation with that in the city it was mentioned and thank you again for this proclamation city to the council and it was mentioned about John and Mary Woods
 And they were entrepreneurs here in the late 1800s. And this whole area downtown, it was black-owned businesses. And even I had no idea that I had a relative living here during that time.
 and their house is still in the area. So we just want to bring awareness to our contributions to the community and to thank others like the El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce who assist us with resources as well. Some of those who we honored are here with us today and I'd like for them to be able to share their experiences as well. Thank you, good morning. Good morning, my name is Alexis Thornton.
 And I'm Jinzell Nash. And we are the owners of Different Breed Performance Training. We've been going since 2020 in the middle of the pandemic. So this means a lot to us, just the acknowledgement. But we want to thank you guys as well for giving us a...
 spot to be able to train athletes that's basically what we do anywhere from three years old all the way up to professional actually I gotta give a shout out to Joe pick it because he actually helps us a whole lot but I want to say thank you guys thank you again like we mentioned to others we'd like for the city of El Paso and County of El Paso to help us
 to encourage other black-owned businesses to identify so that we know that we're here and so that we can also support one another. Most of us are here because of the military. I've been here since 96 and brought my business with me and still in business. And, of course, I'm still here after retirement. So we enjoy El Paso, and we enjoy having our businesses here as well.
 Thank you, and I want to congratulate you all. It's important to support each other, just like you said, and also support local. So thank you and congratulations. You want to come up? For the record, Representative Fierro joined the meeting at 9.06 a.m. That brings us to the next proclamation, and that is National Immunization Awareness Month. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, sir. Good morning. It's an honor to read this proclamation this morning. I'll give you a minute to walk up. Good morning. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Whereas giving everyone the recommended immunizations is the best way to protect them from serious diseases, and currently the United States has the safest, most effective vaccine supply in the history. And whereas vaccine-preventable diseases still circulate in the United States around the world, so continued vaccination is necessary to protect everyone from potential outbreaks.
 Even when diseases are rare in the U.S., they can be brought into the country, putting unvaccinated individuals at risk. And whereas most people vaccinated resulting in high vaccine coverage rates in the United States and where people are unvaccinated, outbreaks of disease like whooping cough and measles do return.
 Whereas it is important to vaccinate on time according to immunization schedule to provide the best protection early in life and when individuals are vulnerable and before they are likely to be exposed to disease.
 Whereas this year, the National Immunization Awareness Month will be celebrated by Immunize El Paso and will simultaneously promote immunization, advance equality in the use of vaccines, universal access to vaccinations services in August of 2024. Whereas the month of August 2024 has been declared National Immunization Awareness Month,
 to help ensure that everyone is protected against vaccine preventable diseases, to encourage everyone to make vaccine a priority by talking to family and friends and protecting themselves with vaccines, and encouraging businesses, government agencies, community-based organizations, service groups, and to spread immunization messages throughout the community. Now, therefore...
 THIS WOULD HAVE HELPED. NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED BY THE MAYOR, COUNCIL, CITY OF EL PASO, THE MONTH OF AUGUST 2024 SHALL BE KNOWN AS NATIONAL INDIVIDUAL AWARENESS MONTH. THANK YOU. GOOD MORNING.
 Good morning, Mayor and City Council. My name is Christina Rada. I'm the outreach director for Immunize El Paso. I just want to say a few words very quickly. First of all, thank you for this accolade. We are truly appreciative of it. We want you to know that we just celebrated 29 years, our anniversary in July, and we are so very proud and excited to have been a part of our community for so long.
 Our vaccinations efforts protect people against vaccine preventable diseases for diseases such as polio, hepatitis, whooping cough, and many others. Now we are preparing for flu season as it is around the corner next month and we will be prepared to immunize adults and children against the flu. We do have three clinics locations in El Paso to cover central El Paso, east El Paso, and downtown El Paso.
 We also have mobile clinics in our rural areas where we are able to vaccinate those who have problems getting to our clinics, whether it's transportation or others. And more importantly, we also immunize our older patients with the flu vaccine. So we do it at their home so they are not able to come to our clinics, making it much easier for them. Thank you. Thank you. I want to share a quick story with you. When I was 35 years old, I...
 Are you going to speak? I'm sorry. I'll let you go first. So when I was 35 years old, I was playing in the state league basketball game, broke my ankle, ended up in the hospital. And then I got my foot set, the whole thing. Went home a few days later, I ended up with chicken pox. And I'm 35 years old. And so it was a little bit brutal. So I called my dad and I said, Dad, I said, you know, I said they had a vaccine for that.
 what's the deal and he goes you know i had nine of you all he says to be honest with you he said i don't know who had what so i ended up with the chicken pox and it was rough it was pretty brutal at the age of 35 so i do uh recommend you know people to to get their vaccines thank you mr murray for sharing that story we do have records now so yeah we can show that we do that yeah well now i important you know i did i'd come from mexico and
 That's where all my vaccines should have been done, but I'm glad you keep records now. So since at the age of 35, I should be on there. Good morning, everyone. My name is Henry Brutus. I'm the executive director for ProAction Immunize El Paso. I really, and you know, that story really helps. I want to commend council for, and the city of El Paso, honestly.
 for keeping up our vaccination rates. We live in an age of cynicism where even vaccines are questioned now. Even though it's backed up by science that vaccines save lives, a lot of people we're seeing in different pockets of our country are not getting vaccinated. And even in El Paso, we're seeing the exemption rates, which are children being exempted from getting vaccines. But luckily we're still over 90%. We're one of the highest vaccinated
 cities, counties in the country. Vaccines, if you think about it, not only protect us, so if I get vaccinated, I'm protected, but also if enough of us are vaccinated, we protect the entire community so that we don't get these outbreaks that...
 mrs rada just mentioned so again i commend you and i encourage um everyone to to get your vaccines get your children vaccinated your your parents your grandparents because they're more likely to to face dire consequences if they're not whereas you know if we're young and vibrant we we can maybe overcome it but so again thank you we have one of our board members here i don't know if she wants to say a few words
 Thank you, Henry. Good morning. Mayor, I also ended up having the chicken pox. But it wasn't the chicken pox. Let me correct my story. It was German measles. Oh, measles. Yeah. So if you have records, make sure they're correct. Well, as a board member of MNISO PASO, my name is Manny Barrios, and I'm so happy.
 grateful thankful for City Council to recognize the valuable services rendered by immunize El Paso these people help keep El Paso healthy and I want to recognize the people stand up that are in the front lines every day offering the services thank you so so much for help keep on keeping El Paso safe thank you so much thank you and I've been vaccinated so you can come on up
 And the next proclamation is Desert Defender Day. Representative Hernandez, good morning, ma'am. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. Welcome to City Hall. It is an honor for me to read this proclamation into the record. And the proclamation reads, Proclamation of the City of El Paso, whereas the City of El Paso is proud to recognize and celebrate the outstanding dedication, service and contributions of the United States Air Force Security Forces Center.
 DESERT DEFENDER GROUND COMBAT READINESS TRAINING CENTER OPERATING AT FORT BLISS, TEXAS.
 the Security Forces Center readiness training center and all the acronyms that come with it compromised comprised of active duty Air National Guard and Air Force Reserves personnel and a total force association play a critical role in the defense and security of our nation by providing specialized training and support to Air Force security forces worldwide ensuring that they are prepared to meet the demands of national security and global missions and
 And whereas the men and women of AFSFC, DDGCRTC, demonstrate exceptional professionalism, commitment, and bravery, embodying the highest standards of excellence and integrity in their service to the United States.
 And whereas their presence at Fort Bliss strengthens the bond between the military and the El Paso community, fostering a spirit of cooperation, mutual respect, and support. And whereas the city of El Paso acknowledges and appreciates the sacrifices made by the members of the United States Air Force Security Forces Center, Desert Defender Ground Combat Readiness Training Center, and their families who endure the challenges of military life with resilience and unwavering patriotism.
 And now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that today, August 13th, 2024, shall be known as Desert Defender Day, signed by our honorable mayor, Oscar Leaser. Congratulations and thank you for your service. Good morning and welcome. Good morning. Thank you for having us.
 I'm Lieutenant Colonel Scott Hazelden. I'm the commander of the Desert Defender Readiness Training Center and Accompanying me are my senior enlisted leader Chief Master Sergeant Brad Shova my director of training operations Mr. Carlos Fernandez a retired Air Force lieutenant colonel with 22 years of service and also a native of El Paso and
 and representatives, the men and women of my unit that deliver this critical training for us. So on behalf of Desert Defender, I'd just like to say that we're deeply honored to receive this proclamation from the city of El Paso. Our mission is to provide the top-tier ground combat training and support for security forces deploying around the globe to some of the most dangerous places our nation needs us.
 We are truly humbled to be recognized by such a supportive and patriotic community as it is here in El Paso. I'd like to thank you specifically, Mr. Mayor, thank you very much, and specifically also you, Councilwoman Cassandra Hernandez, for supporting us here. As the largest Air Force mission station at Fort Bliss, we take great pride in our unique role and the collaborative spirit that exists between our branches of service, specifically the Air Force and the Army.
 This recognition not only acknowledges our hard work and dedication, but also highlights the strong bond we share with the El Paso community and our fellow service members at Fort Bliss. We're proud to call this city our home and are grateful for the unwavering support we receive.
 Thank you for this esteemed honor and for standing with us as we continue to serve our great nation. Your recognition inspires us to maintain our high standards and continue our vital work with renewed vigor and dedication. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. And we're very honored for you to call El Paso your home. Thank you. Are we pictures? Yes, sir. Run and center! Thank you, sir.
 Thank you for your service. Thank you for your service. A big step back for me please. . . . . Ready, one, two, three. One, two, three. . And for the record, Representative Salcido joined the meeting at 925 a.m. That brings us to the next proclamation.
 And that is Southwest Transplant Alliance 50th anniversary. Good morning. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas.
 Whereas for 50 years Southwest Transplant Alliance has been a key El Paso neighbor fulfilling the gifts of organ and tissue Donation and is one of the largest federally funded Organ or recognized organ procurement organizations and whereas STA saves and heals lives through donation cares for donors while supporting their families and raises awareness about the need and impact of a donation and
 Whereas there are more than 100,000 people in the United States, 10,000 Texans, and hundreds of El Pasoans waiting for a life-saving organ transplant with another person added to the wait list every nine minutes. The impact of a donation is incredible.
 Just one donor can save up to eight lives and improve the lives of 75 others. And whereas thanks to the support of the El Paso community, Southwest Transplant Alliance will continue to save and heal lives in El Paso through education, innovation, and compassion for the next 50 years and beyond.
 Whereas we extend special recognition to Southwest Transplant Alliance for their five decades of work saving and healing El Paso lives through organ donation. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that August 13th, 2024 shall be known as Southwest Transplant Alliance 50th anniversary. Signed the Honorable Mayor for the City of El Paso, Oscar Leaser. Good morning and welcome. Good morning. Thank you for that.
 My name is Gina Medina. I am one of the Oregon recovery coordinators here in El Paso. I'm here with my team. We have Ricardo Haloma. We have Jose Castro and Joshua Na. On behalf of Southwest Transplant Alliance, we are thankful to the City of El Paso for allowing us to serve the community. Our mission continues to save lives through organ and tissue donation.
 86% of El Pasoans are registered organ and tissue donors, a true testament to our culture of love, selflessness, and sense of community. We hope to continue to bring renewed life to those in need of life-saving gifts here in El Paso.
 I just want to thank every single one of you for having us here. My name is Ricardo Jaloma. I'm the hospital services supervisor for Southwest Transplant Alliance. Thank you once again. Also, I want to thank my local team, right? We wouldn't be able to be doing these type of numbers without them. Thank you. Thank you for our local team. They are the clear example of being a catalyst for donation, as well as always creating a culture of joy.
 My name is Jose Castro. I'm the tissue supervisor here in El Paso. And out of these 50 years that SCA has been here, I've been doing tissue recovery since 97. So we want to thank the community here for being tissue. I don't know if people are familiar with tissue. Tissue consists of corneas, skin, ligaments, tendons, arteries, veins, and the heart for valves. So we enhance lives, and we also save lives as tissue recovery. So I want to thank everybody here. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah.
 And the final proclamation is Stephanie Hahn. Mayor Pro Tem. Yes, Jen, you have to come up too. Hi. You were a little busy last time I saw you. I was. Was on fight night. Whereas Stephanie Hahn started her boxing career at the tender age of 10 years old, and whereas Stephanie Hahn is one of boxing's fastest rising fighters...
 She is undefeated in eight professional boxing fights and is ranked second by the World Boxing Association's Women's Lightweight Rankings. Stephanie has her sights set on becoming a world champion boxer, just like her sister, Jennifer Hahn.
 And whereas Stephanie Hahn has fought 40 amateur fights and won the Golden Gloves Nationals and PAL Nationals, she made Team USA and proudly represented the team in Puerto Rico and Poland, just to name a few. And whereas on July 27, 2024, Stephanie Hahn won the WBA Intercontinental Americas Championship,
 which was held at the el paso county coliseum and whereas stephanie hahn is an el paso police department officer and an instructor at the el paso police department training academy and whereas stephanie hahn's tenure with the el paso police department began in 2016 and she's been an instructor at the department's training academy since 2021
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that August 13th, 2024, shall be known as Stephanie Hande, and it's signed by the honorable mayor, Oscar Leeser. Before we, you speak, Ms. Cruz, Acosta, ma'am.
 We're going to use three of your six minutes, sorry. Okay, it's okay. The El Paso Police Department landed a special recruit some time ago that is making a difference in her community while being a standout athlete.
 Meet Stephanie Han. By day, she's an El Paso police officer training others to be officers at the police academy. The rest of her time, she's a professional boxer. I grew up in a martial arts school. My dad, he started all his kids, Master Han, at a very young age. I started martial arts at three years old, and I've competed in karate, taekwondo. In high school, I wrestled at Irvin High School. I did boxing, kickboxing, so I've always competed my whole life.
 Han is one of boxing's fastest rising fighters. She's 9-0 with a recent win against Miranda Reyes at the County Coliseum. It was eight rounds, went the distance, but I came out victorious. I'm currently the WBA international champion, and I've worked very hard for it, so I'm very proud of myself.
 Han stepped away from boxing for 10 years. During that time, she got married, had two children, and became a police officer. These past couple years, I've been 100% to the sport of boxing. So I go to work. That's my day job. And then after I go to work, I go train. I'm very committed. I don't miss training. It's a lot of sacrifice, but right now I know it's worth it. I'm almost worthy of that title shot, the world title shot. So I'm going to keep going until I make that dream a reality.
 Currently an instructor at the Academy, Han balances her passion for boxing and love of being an officer. For me it is time management. It is hard putting in the work. I work a full-time job but still it's not an excuse. To be a champion you have to put in the hard work, you have to put in the dedication, you have to be committed to it. So I work my day job and then after I'm done at work I go home, feed my kids and I take my kids to train with me in Las Cruces.
 And my son, he actually does boxing too, so it's nice that he actually gets to work out. And then I go train with my family if I have to afterwards. And then I come home and repeat day after day, same thing. It's a lot of discipline. And thank goodness my dad, he raised us with a lot of discipline in a martial arts school. So for me, it's just extra work, but it's fine. I'm able to do it. In a role model position, she has a message for young children. If you guys want to become a police officer, it is,
 the absolute best job in the world. If you guys don't want a same thing, same routine every single day, being a patrol officer, you're gonna get excitement, you're gonna get action. It's truly awesome dealing with the community one by one with that citizen and actually making a true difference. Being a professional boxer, it is a lot of hard work, a lot of dedication, but you guys are capable. There's so much talent in El Paso. Start young, stay committed, stay disciplined, and anything is possible as long as you put in the work.
 Han is now looking to become a world champion and she's well on her way. I'm proud to represent El Paso. I'm proud to be a police officer. I'm proud that I come from the city. So when they see me, they want to take a picture. I take a selfie because I know that they're proud of me and I'm proud to represent the city. Congratulations. And congratulations.
 I had the honor of going to my first boxing match ever, and it was very exciting. And I got to meet you originally, obviously, when you were a dignitary police officer. Did a great job and decided to go back to boxing. So we lost you on the team, but you did a great job and you're missed on the dignitary team. But it was great to watch you for the first time. But if you could do them a little earlier, I didn't get home till after midnight. But other than that, it was okay.
 I want to say thank you. Thank you for this day of recognition. I appreciate all of you guys here. A lot of you guys came to my fight, Brian Kennedy, Molinar, Oscar Leaser. It truly means the world that I have the support of the community, of my department. I know that Chief Silva is here. I also have Academy Supervisors, Lieutenant White and Sergeant Gallegos. It truly means a lot that you guys support me on my journey. Right here we have Luis Trevino. He made the boxing event happen. He does so much for the boxing community here in El Paso.
 And my family, my family, my brothers, my sisters, my dad, they're all here and I truly would not be able to do this without their support. They are my training partners and my biggest cheerleaders and I am blessed to have them. So thank you again, I do wanna be a world champion. I know that I'm capable and I'm not gonna stop until I make that a reality and I hope you guys continue watching me in my journey, so thank you. Thank you. Representative Kennedy.
 I do want to make notice, oh you have more time Jen, go ahead, sorry. Oh, go ahead. Don't get mad at me. Good morning Mr. Kennedy, good morning Oscar, Lisa, Mayor, Mr. Mayor, I'm so happy to be here with you guys and all the distinguished council. Thank you for supporting Stephanie, thank you for recognizing her accomplishments. She is an amazing woman. I mean she's not only beautiful, talented, intelligent, strong, she has desire.
 And everybody talks a big game but nobody puts in action. Stephanie is a pure example of action and she's going to represent us well always. I mean you already said in the video she's she's a mother of two special needs daughter. She is a police officer she teaches at the academy. She is the best role model for El Paso and she's a community leader so I'm so proud of her. I'm her big sister and I know she's going to do
 big things not just in this community but for boxing for her family for this whole community. So thank you for acknowledging her. She appreciates it and is very well deserved. Thank you. Thank you.
 Real quick, good morning. Thank you for having me here. My name is Luis Trevino, and I'm gonna make an announcement right now. November the 23rd, Stephanie Hahn will be defending her title right here in El Paso, Texas, at the El Paso County Coliseum. November the 23rd, she'll be defending the title, the WBA title. Thank you very much. Thank you. Representative Kennedy. I wanna make special note that Master Hahn is with us today, and so if we could give a round of applause.
 And the entire family, I've known them since I was over at the Coliseum and working amateur boxing with Jennifer, you know, and some other people that are, some are no longer with us. But I've watched you grow up, Stephanie, from being the little sister to now being the bigger sister. I will tell you that it is just, it's an impressive family in the fact that you have all continued to recognize El Paso,
 and to perform here in El Paso is a treasure. And I want to thank Master Hahn and the police department and everybody else because this is the likes of which we have not seen. So thank you. Representative Salcido. Can we take a picture all together? No, wait. I'm sorry. You're going to bring what? My dad. Yeah, absolutely. Yes, ma'am. There's a microphone over here. Right over here. Thank you.
 I'm sure my dad is bashful. He only likes to talk when he's yelling at us. So I think he just wants to take a picture with us. All right, we still have a couple more council members that want to congratulate you. One second please, Representative Salcido.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say thank you so much for all the hard work you do for our community. I was born and raised in the Northeast, so I grew up watching you all. Inspiration. I always admired you all's discipline, the passion, and just seeing you all on the stage and fighting was just like, made me really proud. So I am very, very proud to see both of you here.
 And getting this recognition, it's important for the little girls and everybody to look at. And you all were just very, very inspiring, your whole family. And just I think we could all agree that you could be our spokesperson to recruit. We definitely need more recruitment, right? So I just want to thank you for giving and serving our community as a police officer and training them. And so just.
 I'm just very proud of you all. Thank you. Thank you Represent Molinar. Thank you very much mayor I think one word sums up everything that is here today all of you before you its family to master Han Thank you very much for leading the way for your discipline and showing the leadership for your all your family and what you can accomplish Through hard work and dedication so that goes a long way to Stephanie. You are my sister and my
 Representative better your is your brother as well We worn the badge you wear it now be proud and you make us all proud for a district for thank you very much What I'm gonna sum it all up real quickly. First of all, um you You have really represented El Paso well but when I saw right on the bottom said that you're a boxer police officer and the number one a mom and
 says it all thank you and congratulations thank you ready one two three are we all doing the pose ready one two three okay we have 57 more
 All right, ready? One, two, three. One, two, three. Ready? One, two, three. I think that's it. That's what you think. Thank you all again. Hey, how are you? Ms. Prine?
 Is there counsel per the rules of order no use of personal cellular devices nor personal communication should take place on the day as Nor while participating virtually well the meeting is in session Once you obtain the floor from the mayor you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. You may speak twice per item Please speak into the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the day as well The meeting is in session for those joining us virtually, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem.
 Page 3, item 3, revise per airport. And that revision is to strike out the word assign and replace with sign. Page 3, item 4, delete per environmental services. Page 12, item 32, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per mayor leaser.
 Page 15, item 42, revise per purchasing and strategic sourcing. And that revision is to strike out under total contract time, strike out one year and replace with three years. And, Council, I'd like to, on page 3, item 1, I'd like to strike out the minutes of the work session of July 29, 2024, until I can clarify one of the motions. There's a second. Second. And, Mayor, we do have public comment. Yes, ma'am. Ms. Turner on item number 8.
 Item 8 is a resolution to authorize a city manager or designee to sign an advanced funding agreement between the city of El Paso and the state of Texas through the Department of Transportation for a highway safety program Improvement project on Piedra Street from its age 20 to Gateway East Boulevard morning mayor council good morning, mr. Turner and
 It's not that I'm against this. It's just that my street, which has become an alternate route for interstate traffic, is not getting anything. Handicap access to the sidewalks are poor. We have people driving in the center lane, which is a turn lane. We have people who are speeding. We have tractor-trailers cutting through. And these are just neighborhoods. So we have tractor-trailers cutting.
 cutting through. I have talked to streets, but I know they have a process that they have to go through, and they can't do something overnight. But I am just here since so many of this is in my district. I'm just here to say don't forget us. We have a lot of traffic. They've come out. They've seen it. They've seen people speeding, racing. There's one
 Ramp on the sidewalk next to chase that is too short and too high and I've already seen one individual in a wheelchair almost Fall face-first into the ground these items need to be addressed. I mean especially these access to the sidewalks because last time I counted there were about 13 individuals using scooters and Wheelchairs in my neighborhood area. Thank you. I
 And Ms. Turner also has a question on item 18, and this is a notation of campaign contributions received by a candidate. You know, and I did talk to Ms. Turner on this this morning, and Ms. Turner's correct. We do not have the name of the candidate receiving the donation, and that's what she was very concerned with. Go ahead, Ms. Turner. My concern was I don't know what the office is the individual is running for. Right. And I think everybody would like to know what that is. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. We'll make sure to add that as part of the items going forward. Ms. Chavez is running for, has she filed an application? And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. I'm looking on the website. Ms. Chavez has not. She is going to run for District 1. However, she has not filed an application yet for a place on the ballot.
 So there is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. We'll get IT to assist you. Representative Canales? I'm sorry, sir, we didn't hear you. Aye. Thank you. Thank you. And the voting session, and that motion passes unanimously. That brings us to page 12, item number 32 that was moved to the forefront.
 Item 32 is discussion in action on a resolution to appoint a member to the El Paso water utilities public service board of trustees In the area of expertise of environmental or health as recommended by the El Paso water utilities public service board selection committee Mr. Mayor, I'd like to make a motion to nominate Dr. Hector Motion
 There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina, and this is to nominate Dr. Hector Ocaranza to serve on the Public Service Board of Trustees on that motion. Yes, ma'am, I'm sorry, Representative Hernandez? Hi, is Dr. Ocaranza here? He's right there, ma'am. Please come forward. Anytime we're making appointments, I ask the same questions to our,
 folks that were getting ready to appoint have you reviewed the requirements the requirements to serve on the board and do you meet all of those requirements are there any others that you would like to mention Rene that's required for this board I don't know what they are so my assumption is that you reviewed them in that meet those qualifications yes ma'am residency is there residency requirement as well
 Are you a resident of the city of El Paso's jurisdiction for El Paso Water? Yes, ma'am. Okay, so you meet everything? Yes, ma'am. Great, okay, well thank you. Thank you. Have a good one. Thank you, Representative Nunn. This is Mr. Prine. Ms. Turner also signed up to speak on this item, ma'am. Ms. Turner. I'm a busy day, ma'am. I signed up to speak on this thing because we appoint people for all these areas that you pick out or you've decided, but there's nobody up there representing the regular people.
 There's nobody representing those living on a fixed income. Just so you understand, I disconnected my swamp cooler. So I didn't have a swamp cooler during the summer and I still don't because I can't afford the water. I can't afford the water. Even paying the minimum is expensive.
 you know, I've got like a $60, $70 water bill. A lot of that comes from all these extra fees that are really taxes that gets thrown onto it and shouldn't be there, but it's an ungodly amount of money, and I'm in better shape than a lot of people. And if I'm having issues, they're having big issues. And if you live in an apartment, your water gets turned off, they will evict you. So I want you all to start putting somebody on this board
 you will actually look out for those of us who are on fixed income or low income. Not those, you know, pulling in $50,000, $60,000, $70,000, $100,000, $150,000 a year. You may be a lawyer, you know, living on a police pension plus this. Sorry, guys, popped off my head. You know, city manager, lawyer, whatever. There's a lot of little people in this town, and they're carrying a heck of a burden. And at some point, you all are going to have to start...
 paying attention to it. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Turner. And with that, Ms. Prine? Yes, sir, there is a motion and a second to approve the resolution. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Canales? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session? And that motion passes unanimously. Thank you. Congratulations, sir. I'm sure you'll be a great addition to what's a great board already, so thank you.
 With that, Ms. Prine, it is 10 a.m. Yes, sir. Is there a motion to recess in order to convene the Mass Transit Department Board Meeting? Adjourned at 10.09 a.m. Thank you. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor?
 anyone opposed and the regular city council meeting is back in session at 10 09 a.m we're on page number 11 item number 28 and this is discussion in action that the city council declares that the expenditure of district 6 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed
 Fifty five hundred dollars to purchase two radar based data collectors to be utilized by the El Paso Police Department Serves a municipal purpose of increasing public safety operation efficiency this item was placed by representative Thank you motion to approve There's a motion made by representative Fiero second it by representative Rivera to approve item 28 on that motion call for the vote. I
 I'm gonna stop the voting session, Council. Ms. Turner signed up to speak on this item. Again, good morning, Mayor, Council. It's not that I'm against this expenditure, but you just did a budget session. This is an item that should be in the budget. Why aren't you putting items that should be funded in the budget into budget? This is my question, it will always be my question. If it's important enough to spend taxpayer money on, it's important enough to put it in the budget.
 I mean, am I the only one that thinks that way? I'm not against the District 6 request. You know, I'd like to have some out on my street. But the fact is, these are items that should be in the budget. It's your responsibility as members of council and the mayor and our city manager to make sure that the items that the city needs is in the budget and not being funded out of your quote, discretionary fund.
 just my position on that thank you mr turner we have a motion in a second yes sir and the voting session is open council representative canales yes thank you and the voting session and that motion passes unanimously that brings us to item number 29 and this is discussion in action to approve a resolution that allocates the use of an amount not to exceed 3500 for the 2024 annual texas municipal league conference in houston texas
 is an allowable expense because TML is an organization that advocates, educates, and represents government entities in the entire state. And this item was placed by Representative Rivera. Representative Rivera? Yes, sir. I'd just like to ask the council to approve this training for TML. Second. I make a motion to approve.
 Motion a second motion was made by representative at a second if I represented to Fierro and miss Turner also signed up to speak on this item Again, thank you. I signed up to speak on this one. Yes, ma'am and 30 and the problem that I saw was Mr. Rivera is not going to exceed $3,500 and mr. Molinar has a $2,500 for the same trip to the same place for the same event inquiring minds have to ask why and
 Yeah, but it says not to exceed that means you spend 3500 just says not to exceed Well representative Rivera's budget is a thousand dollars higher than representatives Molinares again both of them say not to exceed so it doesn't mean they're gonna spend that amount of well again you can see my question and quite frankly I
 Look at this as a taxpayer funded vacation. Yes, ma'am, and I find it on this unacceptable We you all go down you go out all these meetings and we can't even put budget items on the budget So I don't know what you're doing down there other than taking time off at our expense But I think when you put an end to this if you all need training the American arranged for somebody to come in and train council all at once and
 Without spending our tax dollars to send you all out someplace. Thank you So there's the motion made by representative to be at a second and by representative Fiat or to approve item 29 on that motion call for the vote Representative canales. Yes. Thank you in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously
 item 30 is discussion in action to authorize the expenditure of district 4 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed twenty five hundred dollars for the district four office to attend and participate at the 2024 texas municipal league conference in houston texas as it serves a municipal purpose of increasing expertise and adaptness in performing the duties of a public official this item was placed by representative molina motion to approve a motion and a second
 MS. Turner, do you have additional comment on this item? MR. No. MS. Thank you. There is a motion made by alternate mayor Potemol Inar, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 30. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Fierro? MR. Aye. MS. Thank you. Representative Canales? MR. Yes.
 That brings us to item 31 discussion in action on the transfer of fifty two thousand one hundred sixty five dollars and eighty seven cents From the district one discretionary account to the district one general fund on August 13th 2024 this item was placed by mayor pro Tem Kennedy pro Tem I would like to make one correction. There is no district one general fund. It just goes to the general fund Is that correct? Thank you, and I have a motion to approve so motion in a second. I
 And we do have public comment on this item. Yes, ma'am. We have Susan Martinez. Ms. Martinez, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Susan Martinez, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Ms. Martinez, you're on mute. Star six, please. Good morning. You have three minutes. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Yes, is it my turn? Yes, it is. You have three minutes.
 okay i just want to say that um i understand that these funds are allocated to each district in the amount of ten thousand dollars um i guess every year and uh some of the districts have according to what i understand from the represent our representative's office uh funding in the hundreds of thousands of dollars
 In our case, in District 1, there's $53,000 plus $10,000 more for this year. So that's a total of $63,000. You've been listening to people who have concerns and issues for their neighborhoods, and I really think that this process needs to be more transparent. I think that...
 in the cases where there's potholes or there's sidewalks that are kind of messed up or there's a lot of traffic or whatever they need to see some sort of transparency from the city representative to let their constituents know how much money is in those funds so that you don't have to necessarily go through the whole budget process to get something done you can actually get a hold of your
 city representative and do what you need to do. In our case, we identified a whole bunch of issues with Coach Jack Corral's park that I sent yesterday. And I really think that if the money's been allocated and that's how the city runs, then that money should be used for that district. And I don't understand why city representatives don't become more transparent about that. And then one individual,
 will be able to say, nope, I don't need that money. I'm gonna send it back to the general fund. When it's only because they were not transparent enough to disclose that information to their constituents. And I will tell you that as a member of the neighborhood association, I will encourage all of them
 to make sure that their city representative discloses how much money is in their general and their discretionary funds so that that money can be spent. I think there was an article, there was a concern about air conditioners. Somebody could have probably taken care of that with discretionary funds. And that wouldn't have to be a budget issue. There's potholes all over creation. I know you say transportation has to do it, but there's things that can be done to benefit neighborhoods
 using those funds. And for somebody to go say, I'm gonna dump that $53,000, it could go for the benefit of their district back into the general fund, which has a budget in the billions of dollars, that $53,000 is peanuts. It would be better spent on the neighborhood that it was designed for, the area that it was designed for.
 So thank you very much for listening to me and I want to thank the blood donor people I want to thank all the people that do those organ donor things the Air Force guys in the Han Do we live in a great thank you. Thank you miss Martinez. You've reached the three minutes. Thank you, ma'am Thank you. The next speaker is former city representative Peter Schwarzwein. Good morning, sir Star six to unmute your telephone. Good morning. You have three minutes. You're back on mute sir. Oh, go ahead So you have three minutes
 Howdy, y'all can hear me? Yes, sir. Good morning. Okay, thank you. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Mayor and Council. It's another wonderful, warm day here in August in El Paso, Texas. I'm just calling to here to speak out about item 31. I'm here speaking here as a personal citizen on behalf of some of my former district residents.
 Many of which have reached out to me personally to express their concern about the nature of this proposed action by the soon-to-be former city representative of District 1 at or near a lame duck session. They're concerned about speaking out about this item and disapproval of it. To say they were in shock by this item to return funds that were to be used for District 1 is an understatement.
 The discretionary funds are put in place here to help District 1 residents. These funds have been passed down from my predecessor when I came in in 2015 and probably even before that. And their belief is that these funds should be used to help District 1 residents, parks, programs, and initiatives. I'm not sure exactly what the budgetary impact of sending $52,000 into the general fund out of the budget of nearly $1.3 billion will truly do.
 Ultimately, I think it's up to the council here as a whole to let these funds be used for the residents of District 1 who aren't here, working with a future District 1 representative who wants the job and the hard work it takes to represent the district. Thank you again for all the work that you do serving our community. The final speaker is former Representative Ann Morgan-Lilley. Ms. Lilley, star six please to unmute your telephone. Ms. Ann Morgan-Lilley, if you're in the queue, star six please. Good morning.
 Ms. Lilly, if you're in the queue, star six, please. I don't see her phone number in the queue, and I don't see any of the phone numbers unmuting their microphones, Mayor. And Ms. Turner would also like to speak on this item. Come on up, Ms. Turner. Again, good morning, Mayor of Council. Ever since I started coming to Council, one of the things that I have always deposed has been discretionary funds. I saw that proposal.
 Those taxpayer dollars is nothing more than a private slush fund for council members. Now, we can't spend money on anything that is not your responsibility to do. Okay, we just can't throw a party for anybody. It has to have a public purpose. If it has a public purpose, it belongs in the budget. If you have maintenance problems,
 You've done all of a sudden at the last minute something broke. Yes every now and then but you know what if you do Preventative maintenance things last longer if you check on stuff You can plan ahead for maintenance And I'm quite sure we always will always have money for maintenance because we always have money for other things The fact of the matter is I know a lot of these people want this discretionary funds because they want to come and access that money in an effort to to
 i don't know relationships between the council members and constituents you know hey he got us this party so we can vote for him well she got us this party because now we can vote for him here's the deal i have never changed my position on this and i won't ever change my position on this i view discretionary funds as simply a slush fund for members of council thank you thank you mr turner uh mayor pro tem
 I find it fascinating to be lectured by a former city rep who left three and a half years of the money unspent Who also expended money outside of his district for the trolley and said it was for the benefit of his district because he was looking for the city as a whole these are not funds collected from district one and
 where we have 58 parks and 10 trails. Miss Martinez called me yesterday with a concern about a park, and by the end of the day, Pablo had reached out and already addressed the issue with her on what the issues were with her park, and we're working it under the process that I deem to be appropriate.
 I think that it is, my opinion is, it's most appropriate to have a $10,000 discretionary fund, and I've used it for the community groups in my district to go to the convention that was downtown. I will say that I have watched expenditures, and I have a list of my predecessors' expenditures all the way past the election date in the lame duck period all the way to the end, including a $25,000 expenditure for a park with no plan on how to implement it.
 I think those are budget items. They should be run through the budget, and I don't think there's any time that's too early or too late to show good fiscal responsibility. I still do have $10,000 in discretionary funds to use for those items that I think are emergencies in my district, but we don't have kingdoms, and we don't have fiefdoms, and we don't just have one part of the city. We have the city as a whole.
 I did have somebody yesterday say, well, I agree with that, but since you found this money, you should spend it on my park. And I said, well, if I found a bank bag laying on the street, I wouldn't say I didn't steal it, but since I found it, I'm going to spend it on a park. And I asked the question, I said, what if I decided to spend all the money on the park that my grandson, who is in a wheelchair, wanted to go play at? And she'd go, well, that wouldn't be right. It should be the park that has the most needs.
 And I said, and that's why we route it through the Parks Department, because they do an assessment on what the needs are. And Pablo's already talking to the people, to Ms. Martinez about her part. So what I'm saying is I'm comfortable that I still have a discretionary fund, and I'm just saying that I feel it is appropriate that I put the rest of this money back into the general fund. Will it have a huge impact? No. But you know, the travel of 100 miles starts with the first step.
 And I want to take that first step. And I would ask that the council support me on this action. Thank you. Ms. Prine? Yes, Mayor. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Salcido. And this is to transfer $52,165.87 from the District 1 discretionary account to the city's general fund. On that motion, call for the vote. I didn't. I don't have that. I don't see the phone number that she listed. I don't see it on the queue.
 Ms. Lilly, if you're in the queue, star six, please. And Morgan Lilly, if you're in the queue, star six, will unmute your telephone. Thank you, ma'am. We'll take the vote. Thank you, though. Yes, ma'am. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Canales? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session. And that motion passes 5-1. Representatives Kennedy, Acevedo, Fierro, Rivera, Canales, voting aye. Representative Hernandez, abstaining.
 ALTERNATE MAYOR POTEMO LINAR VOTING NAY AND REPRESENTATIVE SALCIDO NOT PRESENT. THAT BRINGS US TO THE FIRST READING OF ORDINANCES ON PAGE 12. THESE ARE ITEMS 33 TO 38. IS THERE A MOTION ON THE INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES? MOTION APPROVED. SECOND. THERE'S A MOTION MADE BY REPRESENTATIVE PIERRO, SECONDED BY ALTERNATE MAYOR POTEMO LINAR TO APPROVE THE FIRST READING OF ORDINANCES ITEMS 33 TO 38. ON THAT MOTION, CALL FOR THE VOTE.
 representative canales yes thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representative salcido not present that brings us to item number 39 and item 39 is a public hearing on an ordinance living fy 2024 2025 taxes the public hearing is open at 10 29 a.m we have miss turner that signed up to speak on this item this is the ordinance living the taxes
 I'm surprised I'm the only one here. Good morning again, Ms. Turner. Good morning again. What I wanted to say about the tax rate is, when you look, go on, I go on social media, everybody's yelling at you, cut the taxes, cut the taxes. So I've asked, well, what do you want to cut? Say, cut the fat. Okay, what's the fat? Just cut the taxes. I said, what do you want to cut? Police and fire, public safety, that's over 50%.
 Do you want me to cut public safety? Do you want them to cut parks, rec centers, streets? What do you want them to cut? There's a lot of noise out there. They want you to cut taxes, but they won't tell you what they want you to cut. I think that's disingenuous. If you want your city council to cut taxes, you should have the decency and the integrity to say, I think this should be cut.
 participate in the budget sessions, participate with your government through the year. Our government only works when people are involved. Now, the people like that in front of me probably don't want 500 people in here talking because, well, I'm hungry, I need to go to the bathroom, I need to do this, I need to do that. You know, I don't want to be here for 12 hours, but that's how our government works, and I've been in a few 12-hour meetings. They're no fun for anybody.
 Any citizen who's complaining about the tax rate, please tell the nine people in front of me what it is that you want to cut. Because there's not a single one of them sitting in front of me or virtually that are mind readers. They can't see it. You have to provide input. These buzzwords, cut the fat, lower taxes, have zero meaning. I know I have two candidates for mayor here.
 You folks, please don't tell me that. Let's not. We can't talk about elections. No. Just speaking, I can't believe stuff like that. You know, I see all this stuff, cut, cut, cut, but nobody, everybody raises. So if you want to cut taxes, please tell the nine people that represent you what it is you want to cut. Thank you.
 Thank You mr. Turner and I think it's important you know as we talk about the tax rate just like mr. Turner was saying we didn't cut public safety we didn't cut quality of life amenities we didn't cut a lot of things but we were able to roll back taxes to come up with this rate and that's something that's really important it wasn't something that just came real easy we were able to also pay off the the Plaza theater thirty four million dollars and then continue to
 buy police cars, continue to buy public safety vehicles on a one-time funding, which is cash, instead of financing them for 25 years. And did not touch the fund balance, and that's something that's really, really important. You know, I remember when I took office in 2013, and maybe you can help me, Mr. Cortinas, I think the fund balance was it's either seven or nine days, which is one week away from bankrupting a city. Is that correct? It was nine days, Mayor. Nine days? Okay, thank you. So...
 That's one week and two days away from bankrupting the city. Thank you for that. So now we, what's the fund balance today, sir? 81? Currently at 81 million. 81 days, so big difference. Sorry, 81 days. And we didn't touch the fund balance, didn't cut the fund balance, and continued to do what's supposed to be, and still number one priority as elected officials is public safety, and we were able to continue to enhance and do that and roll out the public safety bond. There's a...
 2019 440 million dollar public safety bond that's been rolled out we just opened up a 80 million dollar part of a public public funding for a incredible children's museum that was on the bond for 19.2 million city spent roughly 40 45 million including the art piece so still able to roll back and come up with this great rate so congratulations to colonel weston and the whole team and with that
 This is a public hearing is there anyone else that would like to speak on the ordinance living the taxes see no one coming forward Is there a motion to close a public hearing at 1035? There's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by alternate mayor pro tem only not to close the public hearing at 1035 I am on that motion call for the vote representative Canales
 Yes. Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present. Item 40 is a public hearing on the proposed budget as amended for the City of El Paso filed by the City Manager with the City Clerk on July 15, 2024, which begins on September 1, 2024 and ends on August 31, 2025. The public hearing is now open at 1035 AM. Miss Turner signed up to speak on this item.
 Okay, Miss Turner is not going to speak. Is there anyone else? This is a public hearing. Anyone else that would like to speak on the proposed budget? Seeing no one coming forward, is there a motion to close the public hearing at 1036 AM? So moved. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares to close the public hearing at 1036 and the adoption will take place on August 20th, 24 on that motion. Call for the vote.
 Representative Canales? Yes. Thank you, and the voting session? And that motion passes unanimously. This brings us to item 41, and this is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign an agreement for professional services between the City of El Paso and MNK Architects Inc., a Texas for-profit corporation for a project known as Architect and Engineering Services for the El Paso Police Department Northeast Regional Command Center renovation project.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is John Garcia from CID and I'm presenting today the solicitation. Can I have the? IT, may we have the presentation for item 41, please? Once again, this is a solicitation for architectural services for the Northeast Regional Command Center. Our contract value is at $858,000 and this is part of the 2019 Public Safety Bond.
 This contract includes comprehensive architectural and engineering services for the renovation of the El Paso Police Department Northeast Regional Command Center located at 9600 Dyer Street. There are services under the solicitation which include but not limited to facilities inspection, service planning, design, ADA and compliance, and overall the renovation of MEP. Request for qualifications advertised on March 7th. 11 firms did submit a proposal
 Through evaluations of the SOQs, M&K was identified as the highest-ranked offer, and we negotiated with that contract amount of $858,000. Any questions? Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Do we have a timeline on this? A timeline for the design duration, sir, or overall? The timeline start date to completion date. So for the design, I would say it's eight months, depending on the 
 the amount that we're going to renovate or the actual scope because right now it's still in development we did assessments so i would say eight months for design another i would say eight months for procurement so we're looking at probably three years for three or four years for from design to cradle to grave from design to construction okay and i'm not sure you're the right person as i do see chief silva um
 When this construction, everything does start, the personnel from the Northeast Regional Command, where would operations be? And that's what we're assessing right now. So that's one of the things that we did discuss. Since they still have to have operations at this command center, we're looking either
 the option of keeping them in-house and working around the renovations since they have to still operate or looking at closer facilities around that command center. Well, does it in any way impact both the library and municipal court? At this time, I don't think those were part of the options as far as the municipal court or the library that are adjacent to the command center. In other words, for example, if they're working on the HVAC system and they have to shut it down, does it impact municipal court, does it impact the library?
 Would say our intent is not to impact them sir. All right. Thank you. It's all I have. Thank you, sir That's it. Miss crime their motion motion to approve. There's a motion made by alternate mayor protein Molina seconded by Mayor pro Tem Kennedy to approve item 41 on that motion call for the one vote representative canales Yes, thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. I
 That brings us to item 42, and this is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2023-0683R, transport medical billing and collections to Digitech Computer. This contract will allow the fire department to manage the billing and collection services of EMS and ambulance-related transport. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Alternate Mayor Boutin-Molinaz, to approve item 42. On that motion, call for the vote.
 representative canales yes thank you in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously
 That brings us to item 43 and this is discussion in action on the request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing Be authorized to issue purchase orders for solicitation 2024-0518 digi app website to Gibson Group touch city Limited the sole service provider this contract will provide continued maintenance services and support software support software support to maintain the functionality of a digi org website a
 There is a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Alternative Mayor Pro Temo Lina, to approve item 43 on that motion. Call for the vote. I think we have Ms. Turner on 43. Ms. Turner? You are correct, sir. Ms. Turner? Somebody's phone. Go ahead, Ms. Turner. Item 43, $119,028. I remember when we put the digital wall up. I remember everybody was happy. Everybody patted their backs on it. It was a great thing for the city of El Paso.
 and our history. And here today, if you read the contract variance, you have to ask yourself, why are we even bothering to spend this money? Because in the contract variance, we will remove implementation costs related to website development, upgrades to the existing digital wall, and its components. In other words, we're just gonna let it sit there and go to dust electronically.
 So why bother spending this money if you're not going to maintain it? Please, Mayor, counsel, explain to me. If you are not going to maintain it, why are you spending money on it? Thank you, Mr. Turner. I think I have Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. I see Mr. Feith approaching the podium there. He may be able to speak on what I was going to say there.
 Thank you, Representative. Good morning, Mayor and Council. For the record, Ben Fife, Managing Director of Quality of Life. Thank you, Ms. Turner, consistently for keeping your eye on everything that we do. The digital wall recently went hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of upgrades. It was down for a number of months. We're happy that it has reopened. The contract that you're getting is for the maintenance that's required for the new phase of this
 this venture but we do not need to have a repeat of services that we have needed in the past with these new upgrades and so I'm open to any questions about that the digital wall has served as has received 55 million touches since it opened in 2015 we anticipate 55 million more over the next nine years ten years of lasting of this next phase of the project thank you and mr. Turner to
 Your point, Proposition 2 and 2012 Quality of Life Bond, we had set up about $48 million for digital wall, the Mexican American Cultural Center, repair of the libraries, the Children's Museum, and...
 At this point I did get an update just recently and we set up 48 million dollars that the voters approved and so far We're at a hundred and six million dollars spent and still not finished with those projects So that's where you see stuff like this coming forward. My concern mayor was the fact in contract variance It says components. So something breaks you're not going to maintain it. That's how it reads. I
 Absolutely. And again, I would just say that those components are now covered by our IT department with equipment that we can procure ourselves rather than having to have the organization or the company out of New Zealand do that for us. That's called maintenance and operations, sir. Thank you, and with that, we do have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor, the motion was made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 43. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Canales? Yes.
 Thank you. End the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. We now move to item 44.
 And this is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2024-0472, traffic signals improvements to ZTEG construction. This project will consist of installation of traffic signals to enhance vehicular and pedestrian traffic flow at various intersections throughout the city to include Paseo del Norte and Westtown, Paseo del Norte and Northern Pass, Frontera and Roxbury School Flasher, and Hawkins and WH Burgess.
 There's a motion made by Alternative Mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 44 on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Canales? Yes. Thank you. In the voting session, and that motion passes unanimously. Representative Fierro not present. Item number 45.
 is a public hearing of an ordinance granting to Value Advertising LLC a non-exclusive franchise for waste containers on sidewalks and other city property. There is public comment from Ms. Turner. Keep these out of residential areas. Nobody wants garbage cans put in front of their house. I mean, they're all up and down Mesa, and guess what? It doesn't look good. And here's the other thing. There's one of those cans up by the women's club right next to fire hydrants.
 Uh that will interfere with fire department accessing that hydrant and more often than not these things are sitting in a way of Individuals like myself who are either using a wheelchair or scooter blocking access to the cut to get off the sidewalk Best thing you can do is in this program, but I know you won't do it. Uh, it makes our neighborhoods look ugly Uh, they don't bother to empty them their little uh
 Boards for people to come by and spray paint. They serve no useful function, and they interfere with citizens who are disabled and emergency personnel who have to get to things like fire hydrants. These things have to come to an end. Thank you. Representative Nundas, followed by Representative Acevedo.
 I consistently vote against these because of exactly what Lisa Turner said. And over the weekend, I found several trash bins overflowing, several trash bins with faded advertisements on them.
 several trash bins where the lids were off and all over. And I really do think that they are hurting our community aesthetically. And so how much is the value for each of these contracts? Because you have to do them by placement, right? Yes, so Nicholas Evada with Environmental Services. So currently we have six vendors that have this franchise fee. This one is just a renewal for them. Each vendor has 150,
 cans per their contract and I believe we receive I believe it's five dollars per can monthly for for each one that's placed out in the right of way yeah there it's not it's it's it's hurting the image of the city and it's it's a big problem who is doing follow-up with maintenance on them
 Follow-up on maintenance is the responsibility of the the franchisee, but we do have our code officers that go out there and do Inspections when we do get calls about them that way They're making sure they're emptying them on a weekly basis as they're required for their franchise so our solid waste and recycling code officers go out there and check them when we Get informed of them and also while they're doing driving around and inspecting properties and doing other environmental services duties And they do see any issues with them though. They'll get in contact with our our
 point of contact and they'll get with the franchisees okay not supporting this today I don't think the city is doing enough to hold these franchisees accountable co-inspectors you know they already have a myriad of things to do they should not be making sure that a private entity capitalizing on private public right-of-ways
 and they're hurting our image and I do not like them. I have voted against these for years and that's why and I really wanna see some results and making sure that they are being held accountable to keep it clean with their trash bins. It makes no sense, it's contrary to their intention and have them pick them up weekly. They're overflowing and it's super trashy. I don't like it and I hope that we can reform that program. Thank you.
 I think I'm a representative of Nundus. And, you know, you said there's six vendors, maximum 150 each. Yes. So that's 900 bins. Yes. And if they're full, it shows that there's a need. Yes. And if we didn't have those in the city, we'd need to put trash cans out along the city. But I think it's important that they do get emptied if needed.
 If they're full and not empty, there's a need, but the need to be empty to continue to provide that service to the community, no doubt. Representative Acevedo? Thank you, Mayor. I guess off the top of your head, do you know how many...
 Times code enforcement has gone out because they've been over feeling filled or they haven't been picked up Typically we get calls to our two one two six thousand number and we automatically call the vendors and they usually go out there and Pick them up and and get an emptied out as soon as we give them a call I don't know the number of times our code officers have have gone out there per inspection. I could get that number for you Yeah, I mean I just think that I
 If they're paying us $5 per month, right, for each of the cans, so that's $60 a year per can. The fact that they're not keeping up some of their, like, they're part of the deal, right? Where I see where they're getting money off of advertising on a lot of these, but I think that...
 They also have to keep up with making sure that they're cleaning up their trash. And if they're just doing it because they're making a lot of money off of the advertising, I feel that they're not being good in terms of their deal with the city. And so I feel that, yeah, we should provide accountability from the city side. But at the same time, if they were being...
 A good contractor be being good vendors really at this point then the accountability but wouldn't have to come through right and I feel that that at the same time that the public should know that code enforcement is Already really strapped with a lot of what they're doing and they're not being sent out unless we get a call and
 3-1-1 by a citizen or citizens are calling our offices and saying take care of these trash cans and I feel that That's a lot of added work that they should just be doing on their own right and and I feel that I'm not sure if there's anybody here that that owns any of the trash cans here to see if they could provide a Testimonial on how they provide accountability on making sure the trash is picked up, but I mean, they're not here, right? No, sir Okay. Thank you so much representative Acevedo just based on
 The concerns and comments I'll address this with staff. I think there's a way we can proactively spot check while code enforcement's going out and with some of their additional duties so that we're not just waiting for a phone call when someone vendors not complying per contract. So we'll have that discussion to take a more proactive approach. And yeah, and I thank you for that, Colonel Weston. I think that.
 We're making, if all 900 are out, we're making $54,000 on this a year. It's not a ton of money for the way that it is making our streets look across the city. So just thinking about that, it's like, okay, cool, you want to advertise and you want to pay us $60 per bin, but if you're not going to make it look nice, then why are we doing this?
 And I just want to clarify, it's not a PD code that's going and doing the inspections. It's solid waste and recycling. I have 14 code officers that take part of this that help maintain recycling and trash throughout the city. But at the same time, they're not going to go out there unless you get a call from them, right? It's not that they're Well, no, they're constantly driving around the city doing inspections on recycling vans and trash cans. So if they do see something, they do report it, and we get it back to us. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Representative Salcido, followed by Representative Rivera.
 Thank you Mayor and thank you so much for being here. A couple of questions. How much revenue does this provide us? Good morning. Forrest Clancy, Deputy Director for Environmental Services. Currently it provides about, it's actually $2,000 a year for the permit and then it's $2 per camp per month. It comes up to about $30,000 in annual revenue on the monthly bill, on the quarterly billing.
 And in total, I know that you mentioned it was six. So it would be a little bit under $50,000. Currently, not all vendors have 150 cans per their permitted ordinance. Some of them just have, one of them I believe has 60, another one has like 15. But there is six vendors that the other four do have all 150 cans. Okay, okay. $150,000.
 I have the breakdown if you guys need it. Oh, okay. If you could just share with me. So our biggest vendor has 148 cans. Second biggest would be 128, and then it goes down to 105, 86, 85, and 35, respectively. That's it.
 Okay, perfect. And I think this one in particular, this one's just expiring. We are renewing. It's a reno, yes. And I think on these, I think it, you know, I heard a lot of the concerns from my colleagues, and I think it lends itself for an opportunity. I think also Colonel Weston has mentioned certain things here where...
 I know we are right now renewing this one, but I think what I would like to see if we could have a letter of expectation, meaning like where they're telling us that they do their own maintenance and how often, when do they go out,
 and kind of just really have a plan that they can hold themselves accountable to, and we will also hold them accountable, but I think that we wanna make sure that they're gonna be great vendors, right? We wanna make sure that they're making our streets look beautiful. So I don't know if this, is this pressed for like a timeline? Can we just postpone so that we can have that conversation with what expectations we want from these vendors to deliver to the city of El Paso? Yeah, when's the expiration date?
 They're all going to have a varying expiration date, but they all have franchise agreements, so what we can do is we can edit in for new contracts to put these kind of terms on for the future franchise agreements that says, you know, what kind of collection schedule you guys would like, and we can have that discussion. Yeah, I think that's a great, great point, and I think with this one, I mean, if we could just...
 move it for the next meeting and already start off with the precedent on this first one so that we can really set a standard for the rest as they're expiring and we're renewing.
 Chime in and what it is that we want to see there. So I would probably just motion to I'd recommend Not postponing it. I mean operationally we can put the you know, I've heard the feedback I'll put the emphasis on it. We can put the the expectations. I think the expectations are in place I just think we have to
 Button it up is based on some of the concerns that I'm hearing here and we can do that much more proactively as a staff I don't think there's a need for us to Postpone this for us to come to the same conclusion and we'll do that My recommendation would be to keep it on the agenda and for the vote And for clarification, we've received less than 10 calls in the past year for them requesting for emptying of the bins for our customer service department Yeah
 you know but yeah that definitely answers are my questions and I think you mentioned not postponed but to hold them accountable of how we wanted to roll out you said that we would have a look at the franchise that the terms are already in the agreement so what we have to do is we just have to do a better job making sure we're holding the franchisees accountable for for doing the job properly and I'll address that with staff
 Those terms already exist about what the expectations are and what we're supposed to do. So if we're seeing that some of these that aren't being done properly, then it's incumbent upon me to make sure that staff is holding them accountable. Thank you, Colonel. And I guess on to that point real quick, and I don't know if I'm out of time, but on the franchise, what specifically does it say about what we expect for their maintenance or proactive maintenance?
 It's in the ordinance as opposed to this backup so it's section 5 So during the life of the franchise that they will maintain repair replace the waste containers as necessary Shall keep them reasonably clean and neat and attractive appearance and free of odors And then it goes on to state what essentially the process is if there's issues that we identify and notify them if it's not cured within seven days of that notice the city can order the removal of the waste container and
 And then it goes in through, again, the processes, and that's in Section 5 of the ordinance as opposed to this backup. So we have the process in place. I think to Colonel Weston's point, we just need to maybe improve our process as far as the enforcement, ensuring that they're meeting the standards per the agreement. That's perfect. Yeah, I just wanted to make sure. It is there, just moving forward how we are going to hold them accountable, right? Thank you. Thank you. If I may, we will recommend to update the template that is currently being used to document
 reflect the language of the code. Yes ma'am. And I think that's important and put on there that certain violations or a number of violations will end up terminating their contract. And I think we need to be harsh enough on that. That seems to be a huge concern that when we do redo the template that we,
 Right what we feel is adequate enough and if not complied by then they The permit will be terminated and they'll have to get their camps off the street Thank you mayor you put you said what I wanted to say. The only thing is I want if Code enforcement has to go out there on their own when they have a lot of other issues to take care of for the city I find that these vendors are taking advantage of the city. It's in itself not only for the five dollars that they pay and
 but that they feel that they won't act unless they get called. I like what you're saying, Colonel, about this, but I'd like for you to put it back on them because I don't care how many code enforcement officers you have, their responsibility is the city first. The medians and all that stuff comes first before the vendor puts out his trash can. And as you're getting 14 calls only,
 They come to the city representatives calls first, and then we have to send a CR and then you guys have to go down there, whatever it is you have to do when in fact, if it's my business and I'm looking to do business with the city, I'll be checking. Once or twice a week, I mean, once or twice a day.
 per week to make sure that my trash bins are kept neat and everything else and the trash isn't around them, isn't in the center medians where they normally end up or other people have to pick it up. That's not right. I don't care how cheap it is. If they want that, raise the cost on the contract or whatever it is you have to do but they have to meet
 a certain number of days that they have to go out on their own to pick up and check on their own bins, as far as that's concerned. I can honestly tell you, I've seen that.
 And from what I agree with Ms. Turner on her saying that her street is dirty, I've seen that as well. And those trash bins are overflowing. So I mean, I'm having a hard time to decide on whether I'll say yes today, to be honest with you, unless you come back to me and you say, you know, this has been implemented. This has been implemented to satisfy council as a whole. You're hearing us over and over again because I don't know, a couple,
 Months back I read an article where apparently a voter I mean a visitor for the city was saying that the city will pass was a dirty city and that that I take take that personally because You find the spots that are and so I wish we could change our image on that I've even said you travel from the into the city from the west to the east or east to the west and all along the Interstate median you're gonna find trash
 You know, that's just the way it is. And and with these trash bins along the way, they help. But like the mayor said, when you see them overflowing and then you go by once, twice, three times and they're still at that state, that's a company's obligation to take care of that bin. Not the city of El Paso. The city of El Paso just monitors it.
 But if you're gonna sit back and say well my code enforcement guys will do it. No that doesn't fly with me It's a business owner that has to take care of it. Thank you mayor. And maybe we should cite them if that's the case Yes, sir. I agree Thank you for that representative Pharaoh followed by representative canal is followed by representative South Cedar. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. I'm I
 You know, first and foremost, this is a great exercise on how to make our community better, how to make it more appealing. Having said that, I have to disagree with some of my colleagues up here. I think that some of these vendors are doing an excellent job. There's one in the corner across the street from Mountwood High School, on the corner of Bob Mitchell, in front of a church in Mountwood. And I'll tell you that that's full all the time.
 but the vendor comes two or three times a week it's full all the time because as mayor touched base on that trash needs to go someplace and if it wasn't in there it'd be in the churches or over the fence in the bushes at the church or they throw it on the fence or in the parking lot so i think that we can't paint all these vendors with one brush that they're not doing their job or they're not following up or they don't care about what their product looks like
 I think maybe there might be a bad apple in the bunch, but for the most part, the ones I've seen, they're doing the job that we agreed with or we hired them for. And I think we need to continue to support them. And, Colonel, that's a great idea about fine-tuning the contract, but let's be careful not painting everybody the same brush.
 Thank you. Thank you. And that's why I think we need to have a contract that kind of spells out what the city expects and Then make sure we inspect what we expect and move forward with it But you're right if they're doing the right things It won't be an issue, you know so but if they're not we can put them into compliance to make sure that We they go they continue to go and empty their cancer because you're right. There's there's a huge need or they wouldn't be full and
 yeah i think we just have to put emphasis on you i looked at just looked at the the contract that robert pulled up and i think we've got all the needs addressed i think this is this is really a function of us having to do as you're saying and i i totally agree we have to make sure that the compliance piece is really buttoned up and i'm not saying that that our folks aren't doing a good job with that but obviously i think we can tweak that
 Think that the visual image of our city really is important it lends itself to economic development and people being proud of where they live So I think it's it's important that we do that I don't think we have to do anything in terms of the contractual language to get that done I
 Mr. Weston is correct. Despite the language in the code, it does give additional authority to ESD. Can you speak up now, please? It does give the director of environmental services the discretion to notify each of these franchisees within 24 hours that their waste container is out of compliance, and then if they don't follow that, it gives them the authority to take action themselves. Yes, ma'am, I agree.
 representative canalis thank you mayor can you hear me okay yes sir yeah i wanted to uh similarly urge uh caution on on this vote this isn't a referendum on the effectiveness of this program altogether we're deciding on franchise agreement with one particular vendor one particular franchisee and i haven't heard any specific concerns raised about this particular franchisee venue
 They're just one of six that are operating within the city. And I want to note as well that these do work very effectively in many of the neighborhoods in my district. And in fact, we've received requests from neighborhood associations and other individuals within the district for the placement of these in areas where they were seeing large amounts of trash being left on the street in many cases.
 that has the placement of these trash cans that solve those problems at no cost to the city. I know the maximum deployed amount is 900 currently. And yes, that's only bringing in $50,000 of revenue, but it's also,
 allowing us to avoid a huge capital cost and operations cost of servicing 900 trash cans that otherwise the city would have to be paying to empty on a regular basis. So yes, I understand there are aesthetic concerns and I know it was maybe approximately a year ago the council discussed updating the aesthetic requirements of these waste receptacles, but I think we wanna be careful
 to say that we don't like how these look and so they should all be removed that's going to leave a large uh hole in our in our trash services that we have around the city um and you know we have these these franchisees performing a lot of uh operations that we would have to take on ourselves and so i would just start to caution and voting against this one particular franchise agreement because of you know specific concerns about some specific locations or aesthetics
 I plan to support this today. I have not heard any specific complaints about venue, this particular value, I'm sorry, this particular franchisee. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Well, I'll just wait for, I'm sorry, I had to.
 Not necessarily a question, more of a comment. I just do want to thank you because I know that you're using your staff to do these checkups and whatnot, but it makes me feel very good that you mentioned that they can hold them accountable. Carla mentioned that you can hold them accountable if they're not performing. And then allow us and give us time to really
 have a workshop even bringing them the vendors as well to hear their concerns and maybe However, they're rolling out and all of us to collaboratively come up with something that works for everybody Yeah, and I think that you know, I'm really glad also that mr. Turner came up and talked about the ad accessibility I think that should be another check. So there's a lot there's a lot of things I think we can do throughout our normal operations
 without having to wait for a complaint to come in. Certainly, these are gonna happen. I mean, it's imperfect, and sometimes these things may fill up quickly, and we'll deal with those as they come along, but I think the procedures that we put in place are really important, and I think that if we put some emphasis on that and do a couple of these additional checks to include
 ada accessibility at curb cuts and those kinds of things i think those are some additional things we need to pay a little bit more attention to perhaps yeah thank you so much for that comment and and i'm looking forward to to working on that thank you thank you and i think this was a great dialogue to kind of fine-tune a process that kind of lacks lacked a little of fine-tuning so i think council uh great dialogue and and colonel and the department i think that uh
 you know like we said earlier if we didn't have them we'd have to supply that and then we'd it it'd be on the back of the local taxpayers so it's it's a good service but it just needs to be fine-tuned thank you for that and with that we have a motion in a second yes mayor the motion was made by alternate mayor prote molinar seconded by representative salcido and this is to approve item 45 on that motion call for the vote representative canales yes thank you in the voting session
 And that motion passes 6-2. Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Salcido, Fierro, Rivera, Canales voting aye. Representatives Acevedo, Hernandez voting nay. The motion carries. That brings us to item 46, and this is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning of several parcels at Joe Battle Boulevard and north of Pelicano Drive from R3 residential and RF Ranch and Farm to C4 commercial and from RF Ranch and Farm to C2 commercial and
 from RF Ranch and Farm to AO apartment office and imposing conditions motion approved there is a motion made by representative Piero seconded by representative Rivera to approve item 46 on that motion call for the vote representative Canales yes thank you and the voting session and that motion passes unanimously
 item number 47 is an ordinance amending title 12 chapter 12.56 parking meters to remove the applicability of proceeds from 2025 until 2042 for the central traffic district and the south el paso district there's a motion made yeah we have representative salcido has a question please thank you mayor
 Nicole, can you give me a little background on this a little bit? I don't know if you have a presentation. I don't have a presentation. So this is the item that...
 I'm getting weird back there. Got it. All right. Thank you Nicole Cody managing director. So I don't have a presentation on this item but this is part of the action that we're asking council to take. The Plaza Theater debt service was paid off on July 2nd and so the parking meter revenue was dedicated for that debt service and so now that that debt service has been completely paid off we need to amend this ordinance to allow the parking meter revenue to now come to the general fund.
 Thank you. I do remember the briefing. Thank you. No problem. Thank you. With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Piero, and this is to approve item 47. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Canales? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Molinar not present.
 We now move to item 48 and this is a public hearing of an ordinance ordering a special election to be held in the City of El Paso, Texas to determine whether to revoke the city's authority to issue bonds for the multi-purpose performing arts and entertainment facility voted at the city's November 6, 2012 election making provisions for the conduct of the election and resolving other matters incident and related to such election. Second. We have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor, we do have public comment.
 We do have three members of the public to speak, correct? Yes, sir. All right. We have four. We have Ms. Turner. I don't want to shock you all, but I'm actually in favor of something. So, yeah, I'm in favor of you doing this. You know, downtown, you're trying to put the size of New York City on a cracker. You can't get to downtown. Okay.
 You want to have this widening up I-10. You want to put those decks up. I don't know where all that traffic is going to go, but if you built that arena, nobody could get to it. And that's the biggest thing when you all try to do something like this. You forget what is the most accessible place for everybody in the city to go to, not where...
 It's advantageous for somebody, but for the higher population, nobody, I'm not going to bother coming down from the west side. I doubt anybody from the east side is going to come. Plus, you've got something you're doing in the northeast. Thank God. I'd like to see the northeast grow myself, even though I live on the west side. I see no use for it. And I won't get into what was the, quote, 2012 election because there were issues.
 with how the citizen input went, how things were tabulated and such. But the fact is, please, don't build it. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner. The next speaker is Martha Morris. Martha Morris, Betty Garcia. Betty Garcia, we have Max Grossman in the queue. Mr. Grossman, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, sir. Good morning, can you hear me? Yes, sir, good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council. Thank you very much. I want to prelude my comment by congratulating the City Council, Colonel Weston, Robert Cortinas for achieving two years in a row of no new revenue and not issuing debt for two consecutive fiscal years, as well as all your other achievements, firing Tommy, canceling TRZ 2 and TERS 10A, auditing gas cards, P cards, 380 agreements.
 This City Council led by this Mayor, Brian Kennedy, and other members of City Council has taken this city in a new and very positive direction. And putting the downtown arena question back to the voters is part of this positive governance. Finally, we can get past the myth that the voters supported building a multipurpose arena in our downtown.
 The word downtown was omitted from the ballot, even though it appeared on the ballot ordinance, was concealed from the voters. The 2016 RFQ called for a 15,000 seat basketball arena when no such thing appeared on the ballot, which had no mention of sports,
 no mention of its intended function. The council was prepared to use eminent domain to deprive people of private property to build this thing and to demolish a dozen buildings that are historical that can never be replaced. Another myth that is debunked here is that my litigation, which took 6.5 years, cost the taxpayers money, when in fact, JP and I and all my other supporters saved the taxpayers the half a billion dollars that the last...
 council was prepared to spend. And that was affirmed by the recent study, the consultants, that to build what was intended to be built would have cost over half a billion dollars, not $180 million. The mayor, Brian Kennedy, and others have been very articulate and clear about how the voters were deceived, and that is the correct term. I'm still amazed that there is still one member of city council who continues to push these myths
 THAT SOMEHOW THE LITIGATION COST THE TAXPAYERS MONEY WHEN THE TAXPAYERS SAVED HALF A BILLION DOLLARS AND THAT SOMEHOW THERE'S A CONTRACT WITH THE VOTERS THAT IS BEING VIOLATED TODAY. ON THE CONTRARY, THIS CITY COUNCIL WITH ITEM 48 IS AFFIRMING OUR LIBERTY.
 is returning this question to the voters. The voters now know exactly what it is that was going to be built and exactly what is proposed to be built and now have the opportunity to move forward with this project or to cancel it. There's going to be a 12,500-seat private arena. That's how you do it. Get government out of the business of entertainment and put it in the private sector. Bravo. Please support Item 48. Thank you very much. God bless you.
 mayor that concludes public comment on this item thank you ma'am and i think it's important that when we talked about proposition two that uh it was for 228 million dollars without even talking about the arena i think i kind of brought it up that uh it was 40 million dollars that was supposed to be spent on five different projects whether it was the children's museum which again beautiful incredible but it did cost the taxpayers more than double what was on the
 on the ballot, so we didn't quite spec it out properly. Then we had the Mexican American Cultural Center and the libraries and we had the digital wall which we just had that conversation with and things that we were going to, and the zoo on there, and things that we were gonna spend money on and it was set for $40 million.
 The last running total I have that we have spent, and I think this is an important number, so far we've spent $106 million on those projects
 Almost two and a half times what we told the voters to please vote on it And this would be our agreement between us and the taxpayers and I think mr. Grossman, you know I'm not sure where his numbers are coming from, but I know that it can't be built for 180 million dollars You know whether it's three four or five hundred million dollars. It's still not a
 not what we told the taxpayers should be. So we're going to go back and give them that opportunity to look at and see if they want it brought forward again, and if they do, come up with a realistic number of what that will cost and what the real impact will be
 the budget well real impact will be on every taxpayer whether it's somebody with fixed income or somebody that does not have a fixed income will be responsible for any additional expenses as they have as we've been doing it so I think it's important for transparency purposes to allow the taxpayers to look at real numbers numbers that
 were not fabricated and not realistic back in 2012 and numbers that are current and numbers that like I said it's we've seen from 40 million we told them it cost to it'll be I think close to 110 120 million dollars of something we told them it cost $40 million so it's important to be transparent and give the
 taxpayer who is the one responsible for paying for it, not just a few people. But when we talk about projects like this, we don't say, well, it's just going to be for the few. It's for everybody. It's for anybody that pays taxes. And that's important. They have the ability to say, hey, I can afford it or I can't afford it. I'm going to fix income.
 It's really going to put a big burden on me. I don't want it. So let's go out, and there shouldn't be anybody saying, you know what, we don't want the taxpayers to decide. They already decided. They decided on something that was very fictitious. So I look forward to allowing the taxpayers to really voice their opinion on something that's realistic. Thank you. Representative Hernandez, followed by Representative Salcedo. Was there a presentation from management? No? Okay.
 If we could pull up the ordinance, because I just have a question why there's two propositions. Proposition A, but it's got different language on page one compared to page two.
 And the first proposition says shall the authority of the City Council of the City of El Paso, Texas to issue the remaining 128 million of Gio's Granted by the museum cultural performing arts and library facilities proposition of the bond election held within the city on November 6 2020-12 for the purpose of providing funds for acquiring constructing the equipping Multipurpose performing arts and entertainment facility be located in downtown El Paso be revoked and then further down it says the city of El Paso proposition a again is
 To cancel the city's authority to issue the remaining 128, 128 million, a million NGOs for the multipurpose arts and entertainment facility to be located in downtown El Paso, which was approved by the voters in the city November 6, 2012 election resulting in the revocation of the bonds. Is there a reason why there's two languages listed? We do have bond council up here. Good morning. Paul Braden with Norton Rose School Board, bond councils in the city.
 The first is the legally required proposition. The second is what's going to show on the ballot They should not mirror not necessarily the ballot supposed to be a summary of the proposition and To convey the meaning behind the proposition and so is this How is the first part of the language going to be used? Is it just on the ordinance or we're going to use that on any? other language for any educational purposes It's in the ordinance
 It's just only gonna be in the ordinance the city course can put together information materials that summarize the proposition as well as the ballot language Okay, may I ask you additional questions? So as it also shows the ordinance shows kind of a history of what took place with a multi-purpose center and it specifies in the beginning that the voters of El Paso
 authorized to issue $228 million. When there is a voter-approved project, is that considered a contract between the city of El Paso and the voters? There's a legal concept considered the contract with the voters, and so what goes before the voters in a prior election is viewed as a contract with the voters. Okay, so it is a contract with the voters.
 If we ask the voters to reverse their vote, is that a violation of their contract? Or is it just you give them the option? It is not. It's a revocation of the prior agreement, if you want to take the metaphor forward. What we're asking is to revoke our authority to issue the debt to cancel the project. But the initial language is to allow for the city to issue out the debt to construct the multipurpose center.
 So does it cancel the project completely or it just cancels the city's ability to issue the debt?
 It cancels the ability, well, it revokes the authority for the city to issue the remaining unissued bonds. There's a specific statute that allows for this kind of election. So the first election authorized the city council to issue bonds for the various projects as discussed. There's a portion that has not been issued yet and this election would, if it passes, would revoke that authority.
 That's all the questions I have related to the bond. Mr. Cortina, let's do a breakdown of all the expenses we've done so far. We had 180, correct? What has the money been used for, including litigation relocation cost, including consultants and also all of the studies that we have done? Can you give a simple breakdown of what's been spent, what we have in the bank, and what is remaining to issue?
 I don't have the specifics but for the ordinance there's still 128 million pending to be issued for this particular project Currently there's about 34 million still in proceeds that we've issued in the past that we still have on hand The funds that we have issued prior to or already issued have been used for property acquisition Legal expenses related to the acquisition of those properties various consultant agreements that we've had in place approved by the City Council And I believe that's it and I believe there may have been some architectural expenses as well early on in the project. I
 City Attorney Neiman, do you know what the legal expenses were as part of this project? Approximately like $2.4 million. Okay. So for the public, so we could better understand what this council is asking at this time, which I'm completely opposed to. Okay.
 betraying the El Paso voters who have given us the authority and trust but since we've been stuck in litigation and spent approximately 2.4 million dollars. Now there's an effort to end the project because it's been stagnant not the fault of El Paso taxpayers the fault at.
 bad actors in this community who don't want to see our community progress. Quite frankly, that's what they're asking, not to invest in our communities. And when you don't invest in your city, then it's incredibly difficult to ask businesses to come to your city and invest, to ask our small businesses to grow because we're not giving them the opportunities that it demands. We were given $180 million. You said about $18 million was spent.
 Of that $18 million, we've spent on economic development studies. It's $18 million that we've spent? Approximately $18 million. And then how much do we have in the bank? It's $17.8 million, roughly. How much do we have in the bank? Approximately $34 million. Okay, so we have about $34 million in the bank that we've already issued out. Okay, we've already issued out, and we're paying that back right now in our debt service, correct? Correct.
 17 point, we'll call it $18 million have already been spent. And of that $18 million, this is what the city of El Paso did with your money. We spent 2.4 million in legal fees. We purchased deteriorated, dilapidated buildings in downtown that need emergency funds to rehabilitate. We paid for a great study by one of the best worldwide renowned
 architects and design firms, Gensler, who found a way to save every single one of those buildings and still build a multipurpose center on that footprint with a promise not to evict the remaining two individuals who can stay and revitalize that entire footprint.
 We paid for three or four economic impact studies. We paid for numerous attorneys and all of the time they spent for real estate acquisition and to help relocate individuals who all have testified that they were placed in better conditions and were very grateful. And now you have buildings in downtown that are continuing to deteriorate through neglect and all we got in return was like an announcement of some barbecue joint.
 This city deserves and demands more. This city has given city council a mandate and we have a contract with the voters. It is disrespectful. We are losing credibility. It is going to be incredibly difficult for El Paso voters to trust in future governments. And you're making a decision with the lame duck council. This November, you will have six vacancies on this council.
 making decisions that are more personal and politically motivated as opposed to wanting to improve the city. And what you're hearing from some members of the community and council is that they're doing this to save you taxpayer dollars. But that is a disguise because when you invest in the community, it is expensive.
 It is proven through empirical data and through evidence that when you invest in a community, the community uplifts and a community grows and economic development is spurred through that. And what does it bring? It helps bring small businesses to our core, to our city. It helps revitalize and improve our downtown.
 We have seen unprecedented investments into hotels because downtown developers believed in this administration and our leadership to make sure that we were building a state of the art, world renowned and a world class facility that Opasos deserve. This council with this decision will be known for the missed opportunities that we have left this community without. It is important.
 Very sad day and I repeat this over and over again. I'll pass El Paso City Council, please Respect the will of the voters give us time to present a plan to them. You're presenting nothing to them So we have to sell hope we're selling a vision here and you are misleading them by claiming that you're gonna save them money when we know that the revenues from economic development will rise and
 It will help with communities and downtown. It will bring small businesses the services and goods and supply chain that they need. And this is an economic development vision. They are misleading you to believe that they're gonna save you money when we know that our sales tax revenues and our hot tax revenues will outperform and will help reduce the burden that we have on El Paso taxpayer, residential payers,
 If I can shift El Paso residential burden to the business and commercial side, I mean, we're gonna be able to save you taxes.
 This is a complete sham. I want the public to know that they're lying to you. They're misleading you. We have a contract with the voters, and there are personal and political opportunities here that are being disguised as a savings to you, and they're not. They're hurting our community. This is a missed opportunity. This is why we don't have opportunities, economic opportunities in El Paso, because of these various type of decisions. Pay attention. Elections have consequences. Thank you.
 Thank you. I do want to just clarify one thing and thank you for your comments But you're assuming that everybody running for reelection up on the dais will get beat even guys without an opponent will get beat So that would be that's we would have six different people If somebody did that have an opponent gets beat and everyone else running for public office Sitting up here at the dais could end up getting beat and I don't see that happening. So thank you representatives, I'll see them
 Thank you mayor. I did want to I guess echo or agree with mayor on the point that you mentioned that the initial Proposal in 2012, you know, the the estimate was just incorrect and I agree with you I absolutely agree wasn't allocated for no operation and maintenance The number wasn't realistic and I understand that I did actually did vote for that initiative and
 2012 and I think with this item that's before us the thing the reason I just can't support it or haven't been supporting it is the lack that the communication in regards to getting the voice of the community before this item rolled out and I think I was very vocal last time where the community just wanted to be a part of this conversation before it was before us and on a ballot
 just wanted to just reiterate my points and of where it's done it's more of the the community the community doesn't feel that they were heard before it's in front of us right now so for those reasons i will not be able to support it we're missing the voice of the community before i came out thank you thank you i don't have my microphone on you couldn't hear me representative uh canales
 Thank you, Mayor. Both of my questions were already answered by Mr. Braden. Thank you for joining us again, Mr. Braden. I just want to be clear. I placed this item on the agenda originally, the precursor to this item, about a project that's proposed in my district. I'll say for the record, I am not running for office currently.
 I will remain on the council next year, you know, regardless of how any of the other elections go. And so I had no political motivation in placing this on the agenda. I simply did what I think was right. And I also want to clarify about the contract with the voters. I do think that, and Mr. Brayton clarified that...
 the authority to issue bonds approved by the voters that does constitute a contract with the voters. I don't think asking the voters if they would like to withdraw from that contract, that happens unilaterally, would be violating a contract with the voters. This is not an action that the city is taking unilaterally. That is an option that was available to the city council. We could have decided to unilaterally make the decision
 to not issue these bonds, and that's a legal option that we have. We are not doing that. Instead, I placed an item asking that we go back to the voters to get a fresh opinion from the voters 12 years on. And I think that is a responsible thing to do when the project has changed so materially.
 in the last 12 years. The cost has grown very, very significantly. I think it makes sense to have a fresh test from the voters to see if this is something that they still want. Mr. Braden, sorry, I lost the view of the room. I don't know if he is around the podium. He's at the podium, sir.
 what was your question okay thank you uh oh go ahead mr braden are you uh are you comfortable with the the language that is there in bond ordinance and the language that is proposed for the ballot
 Yes, I am. I think the ballot language is a good summary and we work collectively to make it clear so that the voters will understand what they're voting on. It contains the statutory required phrase, but it also, I think, makes clear what this election is about. So I think it's a good summary of the proposition. Thank you. And then the ordinance language complies with what's required of us in the local government? Yes, the ordinance complies with the statutory statute.
 All right. Mayor question do we have a motion on the table already. Yes there was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy seconded by Representative Rivera to approve. OK. That's all of my comments. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you sir. Representative Al Salgado followed by Representative Salcido. Mr. Brayden sorry. Thank you Mayor. Yes sir. I had I guess I'm trying to get the finances of this.
 completely understood by by all the numbers that have been thrown out so one one question that I had was we can't use any of the bond money that's already been bonded to do a voter education campaign right that is correct but then what allowed us to pay 2.4 million dollars in legal fees from this bond money
 Is there a statute that allows for that? Bonds were previously issued, and as part of acquiring the land and doing other things associated with the pre-existing project,
 there were expenses incurred. So those are capitalized to the project and you use bond proceeds to do that. That's not unusual for any type of bond finance project. But it's probably unusual to get into legal expenses on that, right? That's not always something that happens? Well, for land, I think most of it had to do with land acquisitions and things associated with that. I mean, they were appropriately accounted for as capital expenditures and so that is not unusual. And then let's say the voters say to build it
 and there's new people that are on council that decide to let's say make a motion and say we're going to build it in Durango that is possible right. I'm sorry. So what was the question. If this passes and if it fails let's say that the voters say
 We are asking the council to build it and with new people coming in next year and They decide that they want to build this in Durango. That is something that is possible, right? But do don't he does not prohibit it
 sorry dude he does not prohibit it it's not prohibited by any bond ordinance or any legal decision at this point right no um okay and then i think that's all i have for you and then for mayor if i could answer one specific question some of the legal expenses regarding the litigation were not attributed to the
 project they were paid out of the general fund. OK OK and that might be the answer that will make me understand all this math because I think that what you were saying Mr. Cortina is 2.4 in legal fees 17.8 million in property acquisition consultants and architectural studies.
 And then you said 34 million on hand that kind of added up to about 125 126 million. And so that was my question on here because the amount that is on the bond language and the ordinance it is 128 million. So I was trying to completely understand how we got from the 180 to the 128 and not. Sure. So it's one hundred and eighty million dollars for the project. We've issued fifty one point five million.
 Total actual spent to date is 17.4 roughly. I'm rounding 17 million three hundred seventy thousand four hundred to one dollars So total issued but not spent so the remaining proceeds on hand is thirty four point two million Okay, so that leads to the remaining one twenty eight point four five that's in the Ordinance before you all okay. So, okay that I
 That is making more sense. Okay. Thank you so much Miss Neiman is correct about the legal expenses So the legal expenses that were covered by the cost of the project were covered by the project for those related to the acquisition of those properties the litigation expenses related to the legal cost related to the litigation were covered by the journal fund and It's been obviously multiple years since it did
 for quite a while. And I guess just one more. How much do you think we could recover out of the $17.4 million that's already been spent? It would depend upon the purchase of those properties. As we've briefed you all in executive session, the city is currently trying to dispose of those properties. It will all depend upon whatever those properties end up selling for. But it's a good percentage that maybe we could get back? Or you don't know? We'll see. We'll have to wait and see. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Representative Salcido?
 Thank you, Mayor. To Mr. Cortina's. Yeah, I'm just trying to follow the money here as well. So I have a couple of questions. And I know that you said you didn't have all the totals. So if you can just kind of total everything up. Sure, I do have the totals. Oh, you do? You do have them? Yes, ma'am. So what was the numbers again? I'm sorry. The total project was $180 million. Million. And then the total that we have. We've issued $51,544,364.
 Okay. We've spent to date $17,307,401 total issued but not spent so the remaining on hand $34,173,962. So if you take the 180 back out to 51, the 17 and 34 that leaves $128,455,636 which is reflected in the ordinance. Okay. And so just so that I better understand the $34 million that you just talked about, um,
 If and I don't know how this will prevail for or against but if this is not the Authority to revoke to issue the bonds you mentioned 34 million were already issued What happens to that those funds? There'll be a future action needed from City Council to defuse those bonds it could only be used towards a project or to actually defuse which is pay the debt related to the cost or issuance of those bonds
 Okay, and does that take away that we pay interest on that or it would go to the fees the debt service related to the Money that we issued for that project. So we'll be paying debt issued on this correct even if it takes the proceeds Yes, ma'am. We went back towards paying out the amount that we've issued for the project Okay, and then up to this point, I know that you gave me a bunch of numbers What is the total the grand total that we have spent? So this is as of last week 17 million three hundred seventy thousand four hundred and one dollars and twenty seven cents
 So if this whole thing goes away, then we will still be paying. We already are currently paying interest on this number. We're paying debt service on the $51,544,000 that we issued. So the $17,000,000 plus the $34,000,000 is like debt that the taxpayers are paying. And we're paying debt service on for the MPC project. Okay. And then, of course, if there is no project, then there's no return on this investment that we just did. Right. Correct. Okay, thank you.
 So when you do sell the property, you will have to pay off the debt of the $17.4 million? Yes, sir. Perfect. Thank you. Representative Molinat? Thank you very much, Mayor. You've heard me say this before. The time that we were lied to, and I say we, the citizens of El Paso, was early on, even before the actual voting in 2012. We can point the finger at a former city manager, and I'll take the hit on that one.
 but a group of people who came together and disguised this and saying this was gonna be the best thing for the city of El Paso and all this other stuff. So they had done their homework correctly. Those amounts that they issued for the quality of life bonds were invalid, incorrect, and not standing any merit at all. And so we see projects that have not been done on time.
 cost overruns. Yes, who could have predicted the litigation? Who could have predicted a COVID pandemic? But this is the time to we need to move forward and give the opportunity for the voters for the city of Paso to come back to life and say we need to do better. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez. Mr. West, I just had some like
 Quick questions for you. Is there anything that prohibits the city of El Paso to move forward right now with a public-private partnership RFP to determine what we can do and work with a private entity to move forward with the multipurpose center and work in tandem? Thank you.
 There's nothing that prohibits a public private discussion on something in the future. I will say that You know based on council's decision with this particular money that may be or may not be in play But there's nothing that would prohibit a discussion about what what could be done in the future Okay, so thank you for that and then and that's something I really want the public to understand is that What you're hearing is all noise. It's all rhetoric, you know, the city right now can move forward with an RFP and
 we could see what kind of appetite there is to enter into a public private partnership. Did you know that the Children's Museum La Nube is a public private partnership that we worked with a community foundation using bond proceeds to build now one of the best world-class Children's Museum that I'm very proud of to have been part of a very insignificant small part. But those are the type of agreements that have
 proven to the city that not only can we bring philanthropy dollars, but that we can have private operators run a facility and do it more effectively and At lower cost and and when a public entity operates it, you know, we are always limited resources And because we don't want to raise taxes for these type of facilities, so the city hasn't done a public-private partnership number one and
 The city has not looked at any vacant properties in downtown that are not city-owned. So the city council, what they did is they voted for, and I voted against, a self-imposed restriction to only look at city properties. And so when there was a conversation about the Union Depot being one of the sites, there was a lot of opposition because the location limited our ability to scale and make it bigger and there was traffic concerns there.
 And so council was ready to find another facility then and then they pivoted because the public didn't like it. And so instead of listening to the public and going back to the drawing board, they're saying fine, we'll just revocate the bonds and now the voters are being penalized because we're not being engaged. We're not being engaged and these are the critical votes and the consequences of not having an engaged community. So know the facts. We've self-imposed and we restricted our ability to look at all properties in the downtown area.
 We have not done a request for proposals and have not done a call out to see what kind of agreements we can do to get those funds today.
 SO NOW THEY'RE ASKING YOU TO CANCEL THE PROJECT BUT WHAT'S THE ALTERNATIVE WELL THE ALTERNATIVE IS COUNCIL GET TO WORK YOU KNOW THERE'S NOT A POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT HERE UNFORTUNATELY BUT WE DO HAVE THAT CONTRACT WITH THE VOTERS THAT SAYS WE CAN SO THEN LET THE 2025 ADMINISTRATION DO THE JOB IF THIS COUNCIL DOESN'T WANT TO DO IT AND DON'T LET A CITY COUNCIL THAT'S ALREADY ON THEIR WAY OUT MAKE THIS DECISION WHEN WE HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR 12 YEARS TO GET THE MULTI-PURPOSE CENTER THAT WE WANTED
 And it's so unfortunate that the city council is not even preparing an alternative plan for you to consider. So when you go to the ballots, know that the city council hasn't done their due diligence. We haven't prepared an alternative plan to you because of the pettiness that we have seen and revoking our ability to rehash the conversation about the location.
 And it's all a consequence of lack of engagement. And so I ask that you get informed and we do a robust educational campaign so that they understand what's been spent, what has already been obligated, the things that we have not done, the remaining balance, and making sure that El Pasoans really understand the consequences of their vote.
 If they vote against this it's because we did not do a good job at educating them About what the alternative plans are because they're in this council isn't isn't showing an appetite or willingness to provide that alternative plan So if there's no alternative plan, it makes sense that the voters will be like well, they can't figure it out Let's just cut the cord and and let's not spend the money but we have immense opportunities with the right leadership and
 This January week I truly believe that we can get there. We can't predict elections which is why making these tough decisions with the lame duck council it's not appropriate. You have to let a leadership that's going to be here for a longer period of time make those decisions.
 So again asking council don't violate the trust with the voters. We will lose credibility with El Paso voters We have not done our due diligence. We have not looked at other sites. We have not done a call for RFPs We have not given the voters a plan and that is why they are Going to go into this election uninformed because council has not done their due diligence. Thank you Neiman when is the lame-duck process? Are we in the middle of lame-duck? I
 Keep hearing this. I mean whether we're talking about city manager recruiting or we're talking about this. I keep hearing we're in lame duck and
 I'm either misinformed or we are not in lame duck. I want to know. No, sir, we're not in the lame duck session. Are you sure? According to the charter, the lame duck session begins on election day and finalizes on the day that the new council is sworn in, which is usually the first day. So when is election day? I want to make sure I know when I'm in lame duck. November 5th, sir. November 5th? That's the first day of lame duck. All right, so November 5th, council, you know you're lame duck. No, anyone up for election? Anyone up for election will be lame duck.
 So at this point we still have an obligation to the community to do our job, would that be correct? Or are we lame duck? No sir, you're not lame duck. Okay, thank you for that. And also the lame duck session only applies for the appointment.
 Right, and the voters have had the opportunity and they voted for 15,000 basically cedarino with luxury boxes that will cost three, four, five hundred million dollars. Again I think Representative Molinar kind of said they were lied to. I keep saying misled which is the same thing, different definition.
 I believe that we keep saying that the voters don't have an opportunity. The voters don't have an opportunity. I think this is exactly what we're doing here today. We're giving the voters an opportunity to voice their opinion based on the information, the right information, the information they should have had back in 2012. And then it might have been a different outcome or it might have been the same outcome. We don't know, but they didn't have the proper information. They were told they could...
 build for $228,000, I mean $228 million, they could build a children's museum that was built, and I agree, it is gorgeous, it's beautiful, but the city participation from 19.2 million is over 40 million now.
 So and then we got the public sector to invest to make it what it is today an 80 million dollar facility But we still have to double our investment if you talk about doubling your investment and then get in the public sector to invest He's still talking and asking 360 million dollars, which I'm not quite sure that when we did the ribbon-cutting They talked about how tough it was to be able to get the money that was that was received so I am
 I think that we keep saying that the voters don't have an opportunity, the voters don't have a choice. This is exactly what we're doing. We're giving the voters a choice. We're giving the voters the opportunity to voice their opinion and give us their opinion on whether they want it or not. Now that they have the facts, let's ask them what they want. And if they do want it, then we need to move forward. And you're right, the next council will have that opportunity. Because after the election, it will be what's called lame duck at that point.
 uh representative mullinar and then this will be your last time and we'll call the question thank you very much mayor um i'm not really too concerned about the lame duck period what i'm concerned about more is the our authority to take action on items our authority to bring items onto the agenda our authority to make decisions uh even during the lame duck period what miss neiman just stated we're still going to have city council meetings
 We're still going to vote. We're still going to take action. Now there's going to be certain things that we will not be able to do, but for the most part, we will be able to continue business.
 So let's not get hung up on what we can and cannot do. The authority rests with us here on the dais as city elected officials, the mayor, and so that's what we need to do. We need to move forward. Thank you. Thank you. And I was busy the day I took office and I'll be continuing to be busy until the day I leave office. I'll continue to represent 100% of our constituents every day, day in and day out.
 And I will continue to work hard and I'm here every day and I'll continue to be here every day. Represent Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. I just wanted to clarify one more thing. Again, in the last year or so, the council has gone through a very significant process to.
 put together a package for a proposal that ended up being the proposal to build a hybrid venue next to the Union Depot. Again, that was first presented in front of the Council and to the public in February, and it was considered again in March, and it was considered again in April, and this Council chose to take no action on that item.
 And then after that, we went through May and June and July and August. And there were no proposals from any members of Council that were put forward to consider an RFP for a partnership or any other alternative. There was simply no action taken on the proposal that had come all the way back from February.
 I took the initiative to put the work in needed to make this proposal to the Council in September. It was passed by a majority of the Council, and that's why we're moving forward with this today on our agenda. So I just want to clarify, when it said that the Council didn't make any effort to put forward an RFP,
 That was never something that was proposed by any members of council for us to consider on a council agenda. So I plan to report this today. I think, you know, obviously I put this on the agenda in the first place, so I think it's the right decision to ask the public how they want it to be. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ms. Fine. Thank you.
 Yes, Mayor, the motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Rivera, and this is to approve item 48 and adopt the ordinance calling the special election on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Canales? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes five to three. Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Fierro, Rivera, Canales voting aye. Representatives Acevedo, Hernandez, Salcido voting nay. The motion does carry.
 That brings us to the final item, and this is item 49, discussion and action that the City Council approve. Let's do a call to the public, though, first. I know that we have a couple people from call to the public, and it is 12.03. By the way, good afternoon, Rudy. Thank you, Mayor. We'll now move to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are
 are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have eight members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Elizabeth Crawford. Ms. Crawford's topic is Psalm 2 and government leaders. Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford. Star six please to unmute your microphone. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 In light of our nation in chaos, in light of the crazy rhetoric spewing from both sides of the political aisle, Democrat and Republican, in light of a world exploding with conflict, and also in light of the fact that El Paso on August 25th is hosting a concert, a heavy metal concert that openly mocks.
 The Lamb of God. I would like to read Psalm 2. It's probably written by King David of Israel. Psalm 2. Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands of thunder and cast away their cords from us.
 he that sits in the heaven shall laugh the lord shall have them in derision then shall he speak unto them in his wrath and vex them in his gorgeous pleasure yet have i set my king upon my holy hill of zion i will declare the decree the lord has said unto me thou art my son this day have i begotten thee ask of me and i shall give thee the heathen for thy inheritance and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession
 Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron. Thou shalt cast them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Be wise now, therefore, O ye kings. Be instructed, ye judges of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the son, lest he be angry and ye perish from the way. When his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. God's holy word comes to you. Thank you so much. Have a good afternoon. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como. Mr. Como's topic is exercising constitutional right to the rescue 1983 animal services. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am. Let's try this again. Good morning, sir. Last meeting. That's what I did. I'm not supervised. These are the key points we talked about. Do you agree to it? We have a hot mic. Please make sure you're on mute if you're in teams.
 and that you wrote out really quickly and then it would just be like we still have a hot mic please make sure you're on mute if you're in teams go ahead mr cole as we're starting to see more and
 And guys, Captain Ray Spears also told me that right now one of their biggest concerns is that these loose dogs could keep backing up and attack any local residents or even children. I reached out to the El Paso Animal Services Department to learn more information. They said that they will soon give us an update on this case. That was Channel 7. They discussed the problem with a gentleman from Texas Parks and Wildlife, a gentleman who was trained in animal behavior.
 He says we have a problem. We have a stray problem. We have a problem with people being able to be attacked, kids, women, children, whatever. We know this. We've discussed this. I have a certificate for dealing with aggressive dogs. I dealt with the shelter for a year and a half as the first volunteer that was allowed to deal with behavioral dogs. Paula Powell wanted to send behavioral dogs to my house for me to take care of because of my abilities of dealing with these strays.
 I think that kind of gives me a good idea of how to handle the problem what to do with the problem I don't think we have anybody else that's actually worked a little over a year with a certified trainer to learn Behavioral problems and how to read them and what to do with them I think that puts me a step ahead of what we've been dealing with we're putting people in danger It is now a matter of public record that a gentleman from the state of texas has said this It is all now now a matter of public record that I am a
 Basically an expert in this and I have warned you all for four years We need to we need to stop putting our community at risk Managed intake is illegal. We know this now. Why are we still doing it? Can anybody answer that question? I mean, we're breaking the law. Nobody cares. I Don't get it guys, you know, I
 You still have I'm sorry sir. You still have a minute if you'd like that. We had a hot mic for a minute Yeah, I was just watching that It was actually in your office. Somebody said to me one day you ask questions that you already know the answers to well Yeah I do and I do it for a reason When I talk to somebody and I know the answer and I ask them the question and they lie to me I know they're a liar and you know, how
 We have an awful lot of misinformation, shall we say, coming from the shelter. The reason why I quit the ASAC committee was I couldn't get straight answers. We couldn't discuss what was really wrong and what we really needed to do to fix it. We weren't allowed to. So I mean, it was just a headbanging thing. You know, I tried. I failed. I don't fail much. I try not to anyways. I don't know, guys, I don't know. I'm just bewildered that we've allowed this to go on for so long.
 you know we had a public safety person thank you thank you sir what happened to him the next speaker is matthew guzman matthew guzman's topic is residents of sunset heights are increasingly being met with hostility from our neighborhood association a complete lack of transparency from current president when bylaws were requested good afternoon sir you have three minutes
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. First, let me thank the council for providing a platform for us residents to make our voices heard. That's really what's at the heart of the issues I'm presenting today. And second, let me apologize in advance for taking up your time with something as trivial as neighborhood association politics. I know you guys have bigger fish to fry, but unfortunately, the climate within Sunset Heights historic district has been growing increasingly hostile of late.
 We're at a point where residents of the neighborhood have given up completely on attending our association's meetings because they've been consistently met with hostility from existing members as well as the leadership of the association. As recent as last week, the official Facebook page of the Sunset Heights Neighborhood Improvement Association used their platform to call residents liars and to disparage local business owners.
 When we tried to voice our opinions and concerns, we've been called guests in a neighborhood where we've chosen to live and invest our time and money on our homes. We've been told we are a part of the oligarchy. I'm still trying to figure that one out. And that our opinions hold less weight than those of people born into the neighborhood.
 And any time we've tried to have our voices heard, they've been consistently stifled, and mainly by our president, Cito Negron. I'm sure many of you know him. At the beginning of June, we requested bylaws from Mr. Negron, and we're told he did not have a copy of them. It's now mid-August, and we've had to go through the city's channels in order to obtain them.
 We've also seen no financial reports from the association, and there's just a total lack of transparency from the leadership. The association has also made public statements on behalf of the neighborhood that do not reflect the diversity of voices in the community.
 As an example, a vote was taken in July on the neighborhood's official stance on the I-10 widening and deck park projects without notice and without the ability for residents to vote by proxy. And both of those are not in compliance with the bylaws.
 It seems that the only opinions that make it out of our community are those that are in alignment with CETO, which coincidentally always seem to align with his boss, Commissioner Stout's stances. Which brings me to my final point that I feel our neighborhood association should be a nonpartisan forum where all residents can feel welcome and feel heard.
 And instead it seems to have been hijacked and it's currently being used to advance political agendas. And I felt compelled to go on record and to share this with the council because I feel it's important that you guys know what's taking place within our community, especially at a time when the public needs to hear from every voice on these issues that we're all gonna be voting on in the near future. That's all I've got. Thank you guys for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Daniel Rubio.
 Mr. Rubio's topic is Sunset Heights neighborhood improvement association. He will be followed by Stefan Posseger Leticia Marie holds and Lisa Turner. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes good afternoon, sir Hi guys. Good afternoon My family and I moved to Sunset Heights about three and a half years ago One of the biggest attractions we had moving downtown was and is the possibility of the deck Park Plaza my family and I are in a huge favor of the deck Park and the widening of I-10 and
 In recent months I have learned that there is a neighborhood association for Sunset Heights. Upon attending two meetings I have learned that the neighborhood has taken a stance against the I-10 project and most do not seem to be in favor of the deck park by votes that are not extended to all residents. The previous meeting I was at they held another vote where somebody who's not even a resident of Sunset Heights was allowed to vote. I'm here today to talk about the leadership of the neighborhood association.
 The current president of the association has been at the helm for six years. He has provided a hostile negative environment from online form of harassment, slander, and just being an online troll. The association and its leadership has done a great job of making new families feel unwelcome and have made it clear on multiple occasions that we are guests to Sunset Heights. All this ties in with the remarks at their meetings. The majority of what the president, Zito Negron, states, I have read or heard verbatim from County Commissioner David Stout.
 Learning that the president of the association works directly under Commissioner Stout is very concerning Every sense that the association takes always seems to line up with Commissioner Stout's words I have requested from the president and the city bylaws which we have been waiting two and a half months to receive another concern is that Wanting to take away the parking minimum in our neighborhood and
 So that is another stance that the association has taken in favor of, of removing the minimum parking. We live downtown. Parking is already very difficult as it is. To eliminate that and have just free parking for anybody in general, whether you're a resident or not, makes it that much more difficult for us to just be in and around our house. Really, that's all I have, guys. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Mr. Posiger is not here, so we'll move on to Leticia Marie Holtz. Ms. Holtz's topic is lack of representation around new, younger families and the concerns for our children's safety with a push for more low-income housing and the removal of parking minimums. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am.
 Hi there, thank you for your time. I would just like to echo my peers' messages on lack of representation. Under current leadership, the Sunset Heights Association has been pushing for additional low-income housing and eliminating parking minimums. It's apparent, at least to me, that we already have a surplus of low-income housing in the form of neglected houses that justify grossly low rents.
 We have discovered that many of these landlords live out of town and they're completely unaware of the dealings taking place on their properties. It's a situation that's led to many of the concerns I share with several new families in Sunset Heights as we worry for the safety of our children.
 There have been reports of prostitution, of drug dealings in nearby houses. There's a notable number of homeless people entering these houses, strange vehicles pulling up to them at all hours of the night. So our house personally has been robbed of tools and bicycles at these same hours, and I don't think that's a coincidence.
 Aside from feeling safe in our own homes at night, we should also be able to walk safely to parks like Mundy Park, the car park, Caruso. I'm sure by now you've heard accounts of children nearly being kidnapped in these areas, of domestic disturbances surrounding these parks, including a recent stabbing at Mundy Park.
 Parking is also a great concern as both my husband and I's vehicles have been broken into ransacked and robbed of tools and personal items Removing limitations on who can park where and when would only worsen the situation and increase the great difficulty we already face in parking at our neighborhood parks or even directly in front of our own house and
 From what I see, not a single person that makes up the current leadership of this association has young children of their own. So I have to wonder how they can relate to these concerns. There's been an argument that the low rents enabled their families around 50 years ago to live in the neighborhood. And while that message is heartfelt, I don't see how it supports or works towards increasing the safety and security of our children living in the neighborhood today.
 Think they deserve better and as worried parents. I think we deserve to be represented. Thank you Thank you. The next speaker is miss Turner is Turner's topic is burden of military leadership. Good afternoon Good afternoon. Miss Turner. Good afternoon mayor County several meetings ago a citizen came up here and Seriously insulted our city manager and his service now. I
 I thought it was on purpose, and I held my tongue because, Colonel Weston, you know how us old NCOs can be. We fall apart, and the next thing you know, it's one stream of obscenities after the other. It's taken me a while to calm down. You should understand something. If you've never worn the uniform, you don't know the responsibilities that are placed upon us. I'm just a private, but I have an air defense battalion to take care of.
 I have to take care of the search radar. I have to take care of the IFS. At times, I had two, which doubled my workload. Of course, I was deployed at a time when the Berlin Wall was up. I don't do my job. Death toll is five, six, seven, eight, nine figures, depending on payload and target. That's the responsibility the military will put on a private. As a squad leader, I may have 14, 15 people I'm responsible for.
 At work and off work if I have to put somebody in combat to die you're laughing representative Fiero It's not a damn funny subject. Well, I'm sitting out here watching Mayor I don't see miss check in the audience. So that concludes call to the public this afternoon. Thank you, ma'am We'll go to that concludes call to the public. Yes, sir. I
 Well now return to the regular agenda to item 49. Please ma'am. Thank you. Item 49 is discussion in action that the city council approved the proposed communications plan and budget for the special election to revoke the remaining bond authority for the multipurpose performing arts and entertainment facility on November 5th 2024. I'm short. Who didn't know? Laura Cruz Acosta communications director for the city of El Paso.
 So just a quick overview in terms of the direction that was given to the count to staff regarding the last council meeting the summary action you all had voted to allow for nine community meetings one in each district one hybrid and also be able to provide you all with the cost analysis on various items. The outreach would commence about once the election is called which would be today.
 and to be completed no later than one week before the first ballot and the mail are sent out. That gives us a window of August 13th through September the 13th, and the communication should include a timeline of events from 2012 to the present time with a list of all the expenditures that were provided. The original estimate that I gave you all last time is about $367,000, and the recommendation that I have for you all, given on the narrow window of one month to
 Allow for this outreach would be a dedicated website press release social media traditional media along with digital digital ads and city TV as well as yc5 reaching out to the neighborhood associations in addition to the nine council meetings and We would ask for you all to also share the information via your newsletters and be able to provide a newsletter the areas that are noted in yellow are to be done and
 With some funding associated. So the recommendation that I have for you all today is to be able to provide social media ads community meetings as well The mailers and local digital ads as well as any unknown incidentals for a total cost of one hundred forty eight Thousand dollars given the month and that is the end of the presentation Thank You mayor Thanks for
 doing everything you've been doing in the last month alone. On top of the rest of the year. But I had a few questions on this. So you're thinking it's 367,000 plus another 148,000 or is the 148 part of the 367? The 148 is what I'm proposing for y'all. So you're saying slide four is 367 but you're saying let's just do 148? Correct. Okay.
 I think one of the things that we intended when we put this item was for sure the the community meetings taking place during those dates that you said through September I believe 13th. On the 13th through September 13th. Yeah. And so I think the intent of the rest of the stuff what that would only be during this one month only as well. That is my understanding of the action we all took.
 Yeah, because I think that I think it was mainly like at least this is what I thought the intent was when we put this on where we wanted to have the community meetings so people had the Ability to attend within the month before they got the the ballot But then I don't think that that prohibited from doing more outreach via TV or social media or anything like that So I apologize for not clarifying that enough Okay and and so that
 Because I don't see why some of these ads, like you want to do social media ads, you want to do mailers, I think it's important to do that up till election day. Where if you send a mailer out right now, there's not a lot of people that are necessarily completely paying attention to them. So maybe a mailer is good,
 at the end like it's like the first week of September for one and then another mailer like closer to early voting or something like that. So I I think that that would be more helpful where all of this communications plan which looks great from the Web site to press releases to council newsletters mailers that continue up until the day of the election and then having the meetings go from August 13 to September 13 as was stated. And then.
 So I don't know if that helps or my colleagues agree that we should do the community meetings this first month and then more outreach via all these different platforms for the rest of the election. And then I think with community meetings, we could...
 I know my office is happy to help to get people there right because I'll just make it like one of my regular community meetings and we could coordinate that. But one thing that I have said in the last few weeks is that I think it's it's a good idea to start coordinating with our offices because a lot of us have lists with our constituents so we could make sure to give them calls. I know a lot of my staff time goes toward making calls when we're getting close to a community meeting like we're having one tomorrow so my staff called on Friday.
 We had some reminder calls yesterday and it really helps for a more engaged community once we do that. So I'm here to offer that. I don't want to speak for the rest of my colleagues but just throwing that idea out as well. And then in terms of timeline and I know that I might have just thrown a wrench into your your thoughts on.
 on Meta and mailers and all that. But what do you think would be a timeline on these ads with that start August 13th and then run through September 13th? Or when were you thinking about that? So if I'm understanding you, then the recommendation would probably be to space this out.
 start with the community meetings and then space out the remainder of the advertising that I wouldn't change anything, I would still leave it as is but space it out so that we continue to make sure that the community is completely educated in terms of the effort. I think the timing isn't an issue. I mean I think we can do that. It's probably better to go that route if you give us the flexibility to do it more towards the election.
 and I agree, I mean, it's very, I think doing the community meetings and then pushing out the content, I would like to scale the content down to what's being proposed. I think it's kind of realistic from what we can accommodate from a budget standpoint, but I don't think it's an issue moving a lot of these different initiatives as we get closer to the election.
 Yeah. And I think that that would be good I guess. Let's go website could start whenever right to get a good website up in a week or two whatever you're thinking. And then the rest starting after September 13 when all the in-person community meetings have taken place. But I do still think that doing only one mailer is not advantageous to reaching as many voters as we can.
 So maybe adding another mailer would be a good idea at some point. Like you could send one right before early voting starts where people are going to get the information and understand what they're going to be voting on. In our experience, at least, I participated in at least four different bond efforts and we've only done one mailer. And the turnout has been successful for our efforts in terms of education.
 So I wouldn't recommend it. The council may disagree and you all may choose to give additional funding associated with it. But I have not seen any need for a second mailer at this point in time. OK. I just think that the nature of this is is so big that getting as much information to voters as possible is good. And then they're also going to be.
 Engaged in a presidential race which gets a ton more, you know And especially in such a polarizing time that we're living So I I would still recommend the second one, but I understand where you're coming from also And this budget is being allocated from where coming from contingency funds contingency funds. Okay, so then it's gonna be I
 2.2 million dollars for the election for City Council and then another 140 so maybe like 2.35 or something like that 2.34 total spent on the election Yeah, that's about right. Okay, and then We got an email from Brenda DeAnda Swan kind of explaining the ads and how it's not that expensive and
 It was kind of fascinating to see actually like I don't know kind of nerdy about all of those things so is that email being taken into account on doing stuff on TV or She's I don't see it here. And I know that that just I got that. I don't recommend it Be for a couple of different reasons primary reasons that I don't recommend it is because this is intended to be an educational campaign and
 You run the risk of leaning into a persuasive campaign that I don't recommend that we run into. Okay. Yeah, and that makes total sense. And so I see exactly why you're doing that. And I might have a few more questions, but let me just look at this. But I'll stop for now. Thank you for your answers. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez, followed by Representative Salcido.
 Thank you for the presentation. Thank you for putting this together. I'm in support of that. I just wanted to get a sense of well number one the cost. Where is this funding coming from. It's going to come from what the pull the funding from contingency funds to be to do this. OK. And then related to this new the community meetings are you working with council. Yes I'll be working. You're doing your own. I'll be working with each of y'all.
 In order to coordinate at least one council member has already given me a date. It's being proposed on September 11th. Representative Rivera has already given me a date for his next community meetings. I'll be coordinating that effort. DIRECTOR MACK.: OK great. And you said all of them will conclude by the first. All of your outreach will conclude by September 13th. DIRECTOR MACK.: So based on the conversation that we just had right now the direction that I'm understanding is that you all want to be able to have
 more robust timeline. So the community meetings being proposed would be from August 13th through September the 13th and then continuing on in terms of all of the what I'm proposing whether it be the social media the mailers or the digital ads as well as any other any any unknown costs associated with this would continue on until early voting because once early voting starts then I have to stop my advertising.
 Sure that's fair and just so long as we can get messaging to those first set of ballots. Sure. And that's my only priority. In terms of in the past for bond elections I have seen where you've come to council and executive and shared all of the where we're at in the election and the details of the language. Can we are you going to repeat that. Can we see what's going to be messaged.
 Will share with y'all the messaging but the messaging must be reviewed and approved by the bond council because I don't want to step out Of balance. Okay, I just would like to see the courtesy of that information before sent out. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am Thank you mayor, thank you so much Laura and thank you for all your hard work I mean, I know it took a lot and but you guys always rise to the occasion here, but I
 very important to inform the community. So they're very grateful that they're gonna be able to have more information at their disposal for them to be able to feel very comfortable making that vote that's before them. So I have a couple of questions for you. I know you mentioned, you were talking about the
 the strategy I guess of how you're gonna deploy this. Different districts communicate differently. Remember I was kinda sharing with you, for District 5, they have mailboxes and so,
 where you go all community mailbox so for them I think it's a little different on how you communicate sometimes because there's I'm a I'm usually forget to go get my meal at times because it's not in front of me so by the time you get the messaging it might be already the election or or whatnot so just communicating effectively probably I don't know if it would be like I don't know some other ways digitally I think for my district just to share some suggestions
 as you're crafting. I don't know for other districts how it is, but for District 5, yeah, you know, mail,
 Early yes, it might work but but yeah, so just to give you an idea there, right? That's part of the reason that I'm proposing also them the social media components as well in order to make sure that we're getting the Word out we can do Within social media it allows you to angle it by zip code as well as by gender by Income it does give you that luxury in that respect. I
 Okay, okay, that's great. That is great to hear that you're looking at all different ways to do it. I think we were talking about the mailers. You mentioned, I think Dr. Acevedo mentioned two mailers. The first one, I guess, where were you thinking of doing that one? I'm proposing only one mailer, and the recommendation based on the conversation that we're having today would likely be that we set it out a little bit closer to the timeline right before the early voting starts.
 And so probably depending on how I need to reverse, do a calendar reverse and I need to look at the calendar more closely and be able to work with a vendor to figure out the timeline because the timeline is impacted by how quickly I can get the mailers out. It usually takes about two.
 anywhere from two to three weeks to get a mailer out to the actual mailbox very true i think it's a deadline you have to submit and then it's gonna have to work it backwards i think one important thing that we we want to i guess not forget is i think certain people uh vote in the mail and so that mailer needs to be whatever timeline that is because then those people will not have
 information and I think from what I gather and I'm not a voter expert or anything like that or constituent or whoever is voting or I know that there's they some are not in they could be deployed correct where they could vote wherever they're at Sure. So yeah, so just kind of I think it's important that first may look to be able for them to see that information because they are still constituents of
 of El Paso. Got it. And I think the last part, of course, this kind of all estimated cost about 148,000 as of right now, correct? Correct. As it's moving and strategy is changing as far as how you're deploying the educational message for this.
 Is also metrics included in this? Yes, all of this will capture metrics. Our website has metrics capabilities. The Facebook and Instagram ads have metrics associated with this. The local digital ads, they all provide metrics in that respect. And will we have some,
 I can provide those for you. Yeah, well, we have somebody that kind of, you know, when you're gathering data, right, the data's as good as you could understand or what the message is saying to you, right?
 will you be doing crafting that to explain like what came out of it? Like usually it's called like the data voice, meaning what you kind of saw or not just giving me the raw data. Yeah, sure, I can provide an analysis and translation of the data.
 There you go. Yeah, so I just didn't know if that's something, I know that you have not a lot of, how much staff you have allocated for this, but if you are doing that or if we could hire somebody to do that, however that would fit or work best for you, because I know that you've got a lot on your plate,
 So just the best, but I did want to get that data voice back so that we're spending this dollar, right, but we can also hear and have a story to understand from the people in the community. So that's kind of just some suggestions as you're crafting this. And I want to thank you, though, for putting so much robust information for us that we did request for the community to be able to be informed. And thank you for your hard work. Of course.
 Representative Ferrell. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You know, the representatives of Tuxedo brought up a good point. With a very limited budget that you're working with and you're really spreading out, doing real well, thank you, but is there a way to analyze or capture the data of what you're
 All of the information that we provide, it can be, as I mentioned to you all, the social media ads do provide the data provided for us, so we can capture that easily. The local digital ads, the vendors do provide that data for us, so we're easily able to provide that information for you. The mailers, of course, will be able to give you the total numbers in terms of what was issued out and what was returned.
 And then, of course, the community meetings will be able to get in sign-in sheets from the community related to those conversations that we have. And is there a platform to capture what local media is running on their stations? I do have, actually, I do have a contract already with a vendor called TV Eyes that captures all of the data associated with the viewership as well as the costs associated with it.
 And you'll be able to share that information with us. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Acevedo, followed by Representative Salcedo.
 Okay so I thought of more questions. Sorry. What does this mailer look like. Is it going to be a six by nine a brochure and eight and a half by 11. What size would it be. It would likely I have spec'd out at this point in time an eight by 11. OK. And so at this point I don't know what it'll what the final will look like in terms of the amount of information that bond council will allow for me to put on there.
 So it may get smaller. OK. And then one of the directives from the last time that from the last item that we had was
 including a timeline of events from 2012 to the present, and then a list of all expenditures for the bond series that have been sold but not fully utilized. So is that something that we're going to be able to get through, or you haven't had conversations with bond heads about that? So if you'll notice on slide three, I do have that data point in there, and so I will include the timeline from 2012 to, I'm probably going to go back to 2016,
 2006 I think I'll go back several years back in terms of the history I've already started that process but of course that is going to take a little bit of time so we'll put that all that together and of course Mr. Cortinas has already provided you all with a list of some of the funds associated with that and it's something that we've been tracking in coordination with legal as well as with the comptroller.
 Okay. Yeah. And I think that those amounts I was trying to kind of make sense of them live in the previous item. That's what I was asking Mr. Cortina's about where it could get a little confusing for the math to kind of add up and and I'm hoping that you can take that into consideration as you're as you're planning all of this and then I'm assuming that
 that the message will be kind of consistent. Whatever's on the mailer is kind of the same thing that's gonna be in the PowerPoint presentation that's gonna be shown to the community. And then if there's an ad on one of the meta sites, then you're gonna have a link to the website that'll kind of flush it all out. Yeah, so that's exactly what we've done before in the past with all of our bond efforts as well as charter efforts. And we coordinate all of those pieces, brand them and connect them all together.
 Okay. So I think that that makes sense to me. I do want to make a motion to approve the proposed communications plan and budget for the special election to revoke the remaining bond authority for the multipurpose performing arts and entertainment facility on November 5th 2024. And to also include an analysis a translation of data that will show us outcomes of this effort.
 and then have the community meetings hosted between August 13th and September 13th and have the outreach through
 other mediums commence after those community meetings have taken place, so post September 13th, and to make sure that the timeline is included in the communication as stated that will also list all the expenditures of bond series that have been sold but not fully utilized in all communication materials moving forward. You're not done yet. I'm kidding. Thank you.
 We have one thing I think it's important, and then I represent Salcido, but that will you be checking with legal to make sure that the message is within, and I know with bond council and everyone to make sure that the message is the right message and make sure
 are not misled in any way, but actually they know exactly, and I know this is what you're proposing, is to go out in the outreach, but the outreach needs to make sure that they have the right message so they can make a decision based on the right knowledge and the right information to be able to say yes or no. Correct. Yes, sir. I will be working with the city attorney's office as well as bond counsel for the final language on any and all pieces that we put out. Perfect. Thank you.
 Thank you for that. Thank you, sir. And I knew the answer, but thank you. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. That was one of my questions, so thank you for asking it and answering it already. Yeah, that was one of my questions. Well, it was the marketing material, but yeah. So you're saying that's going to be presented to us in executive? Or when is that happening? So I will likely, as with I have in the past, the materials that I'll produce, I'll
 I will likely share with you all as I do with the emails. For example, I send you all emails almost on a daily, if not every other day kind of basis. So I will bounce it off first with the city attorney's office, provide it and share it with you all and then y'all can give me any feedback
 Any and all changes will be finalized with the city attorney's office and with the bond council Okay, and then to make sure that we get you what you need I know that he read in the in the motion in regards to the metrics and
 If you're gonna take a look if you are not able to you know have to craft all that to hire somebody Do you need that direction or no? It's something that we already do As it is because there are several for example We do several average a lot of advertising for the Health Department to the advertising for the Health Department is grant funded So we are required to provide data for that information to maintain that grant. So
 So it's not something unusual that we do. Okay. And I guess more like specific like of the information that I'm kind of looking for, and it will take a lot of time I think where I don't want to  that's why I want to make sure that you are properly  if you need to hire or not hire, why not. But like when I'm gathering data, I like to really understand certain components of things. I can share those with you on email if you like just to 
 we're spending these dollars I just want to make sure that we're getting the max for the community because it's their tax dollar so this can also help the
 each representative to understand because it's like demographic it's telling us it could also bring something else make us aware of something within our districts that there's a need we want to be able to capture that as this is an investment the taxpayers are doing and so just i'm just trying to make sure that everything's covered right so all the data that we have provided it does break down in terms of demographics it can break it down to economic impact it can break down to um
 the engagement in general, it breaks it down into different formats. Okay. I'll just share. I just want to make sure that we include everything you need. I know. Because everything is so fast, and I don't want to burden you as well. So I'll send you an email with what I'm talking about just so you get better clarity. Okay. Thank you so much. Of course.
 representative Fiora and thank you ma'am representative Salcido are you suggesting that we add that as on to the motions amendment in case miss Cruz needs it just to have that budget available or a budget available yes sir
 Well, you're giving me, I mean, give me a little bit of latitude or flexibility. We're giving you an estimated amount of money, and I'll figure out operationally how to meet all of your policy requirements. Okay. Yes, sir. Thank you. So we have a motion and a second, Ms. Price? I can't always use more money. Yes, and Representative Aceredo, may I ask you to restate the motion? I didn't write it word for word. Okay. Okay.
 I will try to do my best. So I move to approve the proposed communications plan and budget for the special election to revoke the remaining bond authority for the multipurpose performing arts and entertainment facility on November 5th 2024 and include an analysis of the outcomes of this education campaign translation of data
 and then host community meetings between August 13th and September 13th and then other outreach through other mediums including social media and mailers after those meetings have taken place. And the communication for the communication for the
 For all of this including PowerPoints mailers social media websites should include a timeline of events from 2012 to the present and a list of all expenditures for bond series that have been sold but not fully utilized. And you feel OK with not including part if needed a
 Little bit more budget for the city manager. No, we've given you an estimate If I had to add something to be able to identify that I can't imagine it's gonna be too much money for us to be Able to do it. Okay, so I don't think I need I don't think I need amount certain you've already seen the Demand we paired down from the original request and I think I can try to do it within that budget Okay, so end it there You can replay it after the meeting
 Yes, sir. Prior to taking the, calling for the vote, we do have public comment on this item. All right, we still have Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor. Ms. Lara Cruz, of course, you've been with the city a very long time. Yes, sir. You've been the Strategic Communications Director a long time. Do you feel, in no disrespect to Dr. Acevedo, but is this motion too overreaching or too burdensome? I don't believe so, no, sir. It's not something that we, it's something that we do on a,
 Annual basis of anything. I know I just kind of feel like it's like telling you what to do In other words, we give you direction but not a too much direction. So I'm a city manager I'm not sure if you have any thoughts on that
 No, I mean, I'm comfortable that I don't think you know, I mean, I really don't think you have to go into that level of specificity, but I want to make sure that we're delivering what what you as a body are wanting us to deliver. We planned on going through very specifically what that timeline looked like anyway. OK. And once again, our bound council is available for. Thank you. Thank you. That's all. We're besties now. Yeah.
 If you want to ask about the yeah go ahead ma'am. Yeah go ahead. You're more than welcome to. The clarity and the motion I'm sorry I know it was really long but read the I'm just trying to make sure I understood the yeah read it again I'm sorry go ahead. They're challenging you sir. I should have I should have just written it all out. I'm saying you're going to have to play it back Mr. Prime. Yes okay so. First time was better by the way. Three times is a charm I guess.
 OK so I move to approve the proposed communications plan and budget for the special election to revoke the remaining bond authority for the multipurpose performing arts and entertainment facility on November 5th 2024 and include an analysis of outcomes of this education campaign to include a translation of the data collected and host community meetings between August 13th and September 13th
 and have outreach for through other media mediums including social media occur after the community meetings have taken place as well as the the mail that will be prepared and in the communication to include a timeline of events from 2012 to the present and a list of all expenditures for bond series that have been sold but not fully utilized.
 Thank you that yeah now I could looking for the the metrics part of it I think just to give them I guess the opportunity if if the metrics or the data what we're requesting to give to be able to hire if they are not able to Be able to to provide all the data in the story that we need and I think that is
 Mr. Wesson said that he was good to to figure that out on his own So I think having analysis translation of data and outcomes kind of gets that together and then they'll figure out if they need to get More money and truth be told I mean we're gonna bring Forward to you all so you can see after we do the vetting with bond council what that campaign is gonna look like And I know that council wants to make sure we cover everything but I know that this motion is exactly what I
 that she is proposing to do. And basically you're just, because I know Representative Mullinari asked that, but your motion is what she would do. Because I've watched it and I've worked with her for eight years now. And this is exactly what she does. It's not anything different. It's not anything that, you know,
 We're reaching out for her to do something that she would not normally do I know that you guys want to make sure you put your motion forward, but I don't see anything different that she wouldn't do every day It's basically just to say to hire if need it is all I would want to just either way kissing What I'm trying to make sure that the the hours are spent wisely and if that's very Encumbersome to be able to have the latitude to hire that's all so just to hire in that motion that part to that Can we
 Add a friendly amendment. Oh motion to add a motion to include her suggestion. You're still reading the motion. OK. You're all right. OK. This is the last time I'm reading it. And I and I and I think the the intent is for all of us to be on the same page. It's not to overreach. And I hope you don't take it that way. It's literally so we could because this is such a unprecedented moment that I think we all need to make sure that we have the plan moving forward and it's completely stated.
 I'll state it again. I move that the city council approve the proposed communications plan and budget for the special election to revoke the remaining bond authority for the multi-purpose performing arts and entertainment facility on November 5th 2024 and to include an analysis of the data with outcomes a translation of data and higher
 outside consulting if needed for this analysis and have the community meetings take place between August 13th and September 13th.
 And for any other outreach through other mediums such as social media to be conducted after the in-person community meetings have taken place and for the communication to include a timeline of events from 2012 to the present and a list of all expenditures for bond series that have been sold but not fully utilized for the public to understand
 What they are voting on and the friendly amendment it's already been and I are included the friendly amendment Okay, so we're gonna second yes do your job to the best of your ability as you know how to do Can it be blue and yellow for the city colors Everything's covered but I know that
 Knowing that I missed Laura Cruz Costa This is exactly what she would do to make sure that we do full reach out and make sure that we're accountable for everything We do so. Thank you. And without mr. Prine. Yes, sir. We have we're not gonna read it again Go ahead. We have public comment from Alan Serna and miss Turner. Good afternoon, mr No, good afternoon mayor of council We're doing this simply because the 2012 election was fraudulent We had community meetings
 People filled out cards and thing is corpses filled out cards four-year-olds filled out cards people on their deathbed filled out cards And what the city failed to tell us that 40% of the people Specifically said they did not want any professional sports teams or arenas supported by Taxpayers downtown we had an individual out of the city manager's office say well if fraud existed It's immaterial
 And all these cars that people filled out had your logo on them. And the city attorney's office at that time said, it's not a crime if it was tampered with. So if that's true, then I think we need an ordinance to make sure that it is a crime to tamper with your documents. And the thing is, how are people going to trust you? Because they got this in 2012. They thought that council was dealing with them honestly, and they were not. That's an obstacle you'll have to overcome.
 Plus the opposition is gonna spend five to ten times as much Opposing what you're trying to do in an effort to save this again I recognize the fact that y'all don't have to issue the bonds. Okay, if you don't have to issue the bonds I think the incident is dead but to be sure you have to have a vote I'm not sure the legality because I'm not bond counsel and I'm not your lawyer even though I would love to play one every Tuesday and
 But the thing is, I heard Ms. Cassandra talk about, Ms. Hernandez talk about economic development, all that stuff. Let me put it to you this way. If you got money, you don't put it into an arena with 4,000 people because all you're gonna do is create jobs for high schools and high school dropouts. Our education level in this city is that of a high school graduate. The most effective use of our dollar is to make sure
 It is not that that nearly half our population is more than a high school graduate But right now our city is dumb I'm sorry when you nearly 50% of your city has a high school diploma or less This money should not be going to an arena. We don't need Subsidized billionaires we need you to put your money where it will impact the greatest and that's an education in our community followed up by roads and
 The best thing for business is to have roads that aren't full of potholes. Let's be honest. The less time people spend on the road, the more money they make. It costs less to get your product to its destination, so you pay less out of your product. But remember, when you do these things, people aren't really going to pass behaviors of counsel that will have shrouded anything you do in a community meeting or any data you bring out of it.
 We were lied to in 2012. We had a fraudulent election. In my eyes, it's... Ms. Turner, you've reached the three minutes, ma'am. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Y'all have a good day. That's about the last one on the agenda, right? Thank you, Ms. Turner. Hey, and Ms. Neiman, I know that it's really important and there's some requirements that you need to follow and city manager when we're talking about reaching out to the community and this was a very lengthy motion but
 I'm not quite sure if it covers all the requirements of the law, and we need to make sure that with your professionalism and your leadership, with you and Colonel Weston, that we do cover every aspect of what's needed and we make sure that we follow everything of the law and stay within the guidance to make sure that we do do the right thing. Absolutely, sir. Thank you. Thank you very much, and thank you for that. Ms. Pryor? Yes, Mayor.
 So there was a motion made there is a motion made by representative Acevedo and read into the record seconded by Representative Salcido on item 49 on that motion call for the vote Representative Canales. Yes. Thank you and the voting session and that motion passes unanimously There's a motion and a second to adjourn the City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed?
 And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, August 13, 2024 is adjourned at 1.02 p.m. Thank you, council.