Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Good morning. Morning, Representative Vanilla. Good morning, Representative Schwartzberg. You look well-rested. Thank you. It's a long day yesterday. Yes, it was, doing the people's work. Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Good morning. How's the lady action? I like that we see Mr. Stansbury in his podcast studio going on right now. I like that.
 Mayor, it's 9 o'clock and I do see a quorum on the screen. May we get started? Please. Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Ms. Prine. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, August 17th, 2021. It is 9 o'clock a.m. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow videoconference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding, and we begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthline. Good morning. Present. Representative Anello. Present.
 Present. Hernandez? Molinar? Present. Salcido? Present. Rodriguez? Good morning, everybody here. Rivera? Rivera? That was me, present. Thank you. Lizárraga? Present. Thank you. We do have a quorum. We now go to the invocation delivered by police chaplain, Dennis Kaufman. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Bless me. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this meeting of the El Paso City Council. I pray that you'd give them a special wisdom and guidance and understanding as they conduct the city business. I just pray that you would fill them with a special understanding and a desire to do the work that you've given them to do that you allow them to do. We thank you for the blessings of the freedom that we have in this country.
 Thank you for this meeting that you're having this morning. And I pray, Father, that you would be with them and just bless them in a special way and bless them with what they do for us as a city. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Thank you, Mayor. Will you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance? Mayor Leaser, will you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance? I'm going to ask Mr. Stansberry. Mr. Stansberry, can you lead us? Yes, of course, Mayor. Thank you, sir.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Amen. Thank you, sir. I know that the last Hall of Fame you had your son do it, and I think he taught you very well, sir. Yes, he did. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for doing that for us.
 Council, please remember to keep your cameras on at all times so we can ensure a quorum is maintained throughout the duration of the meeting. If you need technical assistance, please notify me. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor. You can text him. He does have his cell phone with him today.
 PER ROBERTS RULES ONCE YOU OBTAIN THE FLOOR YOU WILL HAVE UP TO 10 MINUTES FOR DEBATE STAFF PLEASE TURN ON YOUR CAMERAS WHEN PRESENTING OR SPEAKING EVERYONE ELSE PLEASE MUTE YOUR MICROPHONES TO REDUCE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE THAT BRINGS US TO THE MAYOR'S PROCLAMATIONS THE FIRST PROCLAMATION IS EL PASO ATHLETIC HALL OF FAME AND EL PASO SPORTS COMMISSION WEEK CLASS OF 2021 REPRESENTATIVE NONDES
 Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. The proclamation reads, whereas the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame was founded in 1955 to honor those athletes who have in their athletic fields of endeavor brought great credit upon themselves and the El Paso County.
 And whereas the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame honors each year the high school students, athletes of the year and the 2021 Hall of Fame class under President Ed Stansbury. And whereas the organization will honor Joe Overton, Jim Whittle, and John Berkelbott in the living athlete category along with Maria Kennedy and Erwin...
 and the Coach Administrator category. And whereas Victor Firth will be honored in the Official category, Felix Chavez in the Media category, and Charlie Brown in the Post-Humaneist category. And whereas the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame has inducted almost 385 athletes into its prestigious organization,
 and whose individual plaques are proudly displayed in the concourse of the Don Haskins Center on the campus of the University of Texas at El Paso. And whereas the sponsorship of the El Paso Sports Commission aids the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame,
 feigns yearly efforts and continuing to provide fond memories for decades to come for El Paso, Texas and the region. And now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the week of August 17, 2021 shall be known as El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame and El Paso Sports Commission Week, class of 2021. Signed by Honorable Mayor Eliezer.
 Thank you, Representative Hernandez. And Mr. Transferi, I can tell you that it's amazing. This has been around for a long time. And you would think that every year it would be a little bit more difficult to
 to find new nominees and new talent, but it's not because we have so much talent in our community. And we have so many people that give back to whether it's athletics, sports or great athletes. And I know that the hard part in your part and is to pick from the great talent in our community. And so I congratulate you again on an incredibly great, great class of 2021. Thank you. Congratulations, sir.
 Thank you Mayor and Council. Thank you. The next proclamation is David L. Carrasco Job Corps Graduation Day. Good morning everyone. Good morning Representative Rivera. Our proclamation reads as follows. I'm the City of El Paso Texas. Whereas our nation's youth is one of our most valuable resources and whereas the David L. Carrasco Job Corps Center is
 outstanding vocational and academic education training program for the youth of El Paso and surrounding areas has reached its 51st year. Whereas during these 51st years the David Alcarazco Job Corps Center has provided much-needed assistance and attention to students by helping them become responsible, employable, and productive citizens.
 Whereas the City of El Paso commends the 2020 and 2021 graduating classes of David Alcarazzo Job Corps Center as they celebrate their accomplishments through a virtual graduation ceremony. And now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and City Council of El Paso that August
 the president of the college of education and the president of the college of education and the president of the college of education and the president of the college of education and the president of the college of education and the president of the college of education and the president of the college of education and the
 Community in our country is brighter every day. So thank you for that representative That brings us to the consent agenda All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion and less separate discussion is requested by council members and
 Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Chair Potemkin? Yes, I have not received any revisions as of 9 o'clock today. Are there any revisions from members of council? Do we have a motion? Is there a motion? Move to approve? Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortvay. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Fernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. And the motion passes unanimously.
 we now turn to page eight to the regular agenda we're on item number 32. this is discussion and action to direct the city attorney to present and discuss the firearm carry act of 2021 house bill number 1927 and this is representative molinar's item
 Good morning, everyone. Good morning, sir. Representative Molina for the record. I brought this item to the meeting agenda for today to discuss House Bill 1927, which takes effect on September the 1st. It does impact our community and the right to carry concealed or open, but we also have the duty and responsibility to act.
 Well in all different areas and respect each other's rights and things like that but primarily I wanted to make sure that things that are covered through city employees that may carry and What they need to do discussing city policy we as elected officials and any type of signage So I'll defer to the city attorney. Thank you, sir. Miss Newman. I
 I apologize I've been on mute the whole time Mayor. No. I was talking. Thank you. I apologize. Good morning members of Council. Good morning. For the record that's correct I did meet with Mr. Molinar earlier last week and he expressed some concerns about what it means for us to change the law in terms of permanent carry. There are two items that will be presented for introduction at Council today for parks and city facilities.
 At the next council meeting we will come back with a presentation that will explain to the public What the new law will entail and the rights that the public how have to carry a weapon without a permit in in city facilities And otherwise Thank You, Miss Newman. Thank you, sir. There's crime. Is there a motion? There's a motion and a second to approve item number 32 on that motion mayor pro temp short line I
 May I put a request to speak? It just came across. Yes, sir. What exactly is this motion approving? Her presentation of the House bill. So I think she's going to bring it. I wouldn't think that we would need a motion on this since there's two other items on there to be presented in two weeks.
 I don't think there's any action on this. I actually feel more comfortable deleting it. I don't want to give the impression that this council and this body are supporting actions that were opposed by our own police, our police union, and many other police unions across the state. The fact is, is that this HB...
 1927 is extremely dangerous to communities throughout our country, throughout our state. This is something that is putting not just El Pasoans in risk, but Texans across the state at risk unnecessarily. To have very commonsensical approach towards training for firearms and basic permits is not something that infringes upon anybody's constitutional rights.
 It's an absurd law. It's one that puts our police officers in danger And I can't support I can't support this item or giving the appearance that this council is supporting HB 1927 So I'd actually like to make a motion to delete this item there's no action on this item because all it is is a
 The city attorney has motioned that she will be doing a presentation and bringing it back forward. So there's no actual action on this item. Otherwise, for the city attorney to vote on right now. Well, we shouldn't be voting on it because there's no action on it. There is a motion on the floor. Mayor, Representative Molina, do you withdraw your motion? No. Who said this motion? Representative Rivera. Yeah.
 Yeah, I withdraw. Can I speak, Mayor? I had asked to speak. Yeah, well, Representative,
 I'm sorry, Representative Hernandez, then you, and then Representative Nello. Mayor, I just had a concluding statement before I continue. I just, again, I don't think that HB 1927 protects Texans, protects El Pasoans, and it puts our police officers, our boys in blue, in danger. And that's something that has been communicated to our governor and to our Texas state legislature numerous times by individual police officers, police chiefs, and police unions.
 This is something that puts us in danger. And after the trauma and terror that this community has gone through because of gun violence and white nationalism and racism, this is not something that we should be supporting in any way and I would encourage
 I would encourage us not to vote in support of this item. We will have a presentation because it is the state law right now, but to go and give any credence that we are supportive of HB 1927 is absurd and is abdicating our responsibility as representatives to this community. Well, there is no second on the item any longer. Representative Hernandez, followed by Representative Rivera, followed by Representative Vanilla.
 Mayor, if there's no second, I'd like to make a motion to delete. Hold on. Let um, I'm gonna allow them to speak real quick. You had your opportunity. So representative Hernandez. Hi, um, good morning everyone. Um, I did have, um, some comments for, um, Mrs. Neiman that she's bring back as she brings back the presentation.
 I had a conversation with, and I've mentioned this before to you, conversation at one of my community meetings. Some of the folks had a lot of questions, reservations, and concerns about how this may increase crime. And then one of the ideas that came from that conversation is, could the city or could our law enforcement and first responders help assist with...
 whether it be free or training courses to encourage safe use of firearms since it's no longer a state requirement And so I would really love to hear from our police department to see what we can do to proactively Keep El Paso and safe by encouraging safe use of firearms Again, it's not
 It would certainly not be, you know, an effort to encourage the purchase or use of firearms, but to encourage safe use of them. But anyway, I just wanted to share those comments with you because it was a discussion point at our community meeting, and I wanted to make sure we elevated the voices of our constituents.
 Mayor, can I respond to Representative Hernandez's request? Please, ma'am. So Representative Hernandez, under the bill, there is no prohibition or limitation on education by our law enforcement officials or private entities that provide these types of services?
 It's simply a regulation that states that people no longer need to have a license to carry a weapon. So certainly that is something that I would defer to Mr. Gonzalez, our city manager, to speak to about how that would happen and the resources that would be required or allowed or available to us. Thank you.
 It was my understanding this was only going to be an introduction, so to speak, at this meeting. Who would be prepared to speak and give any kind of presentation at the next council meeting? Yes, sir. All right. Correct. Thank you. Representative Rivera? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. I share concerns, Mayor Potem, and...
 And as a former police officer, I can understand what Representative Molina was trying to do. And it is our duty, you said it last night, regarding the decision, the tough decision we had to make on facial coverings. We have to educate our public. We have to educate our constituents. Even though the fact that you might read the penal code, and you might read the criminal code,
 and not understand it or have a question, I can see where he had brought it into the agenda as would be real appropriate for us to do to ask representatives to educate our constituents about it. And Representative Hernandez just
 had a question on that itself. I had planned to bring in some of the officers during some of my community meetings or ask presidents if they wanted the officers to explain to them, I think that's our duty to do, our own constituents and educate them because I agree with you, I agree with you. It's a very dangerous law. We were promised all kinds of criminal offence by the governor when he was here acting as if he really cared about our community.
 But he didn't. I think Representative Ortega said it best. We got nothing in return. We got a slap in the face. And it is with this law passing, it's unfortunate. And I worry about my former colleagues being out there and having a gun pulled out on them at any time, or us walking or us as a body at a function and something goes wrong.
 I share your concern, but I think he was, I believe, and I'm not, I believe that Representative Mugunad was just trying to educate us and the public about it, and so I hear what you're saying, and I just wanted to express that to you all. I also feel the same way as everybody else does, and I show very strong concern for this law myself because,
 Although as a police officer, I can't carry our weapons. I choose not to. There are only certain occasions that might call for it. But for someone who has not had a background check done to carry a weapon, that poses a real threat to our community. And we all know what that feels like. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for that. Representative Anello.
 Thank you, Mayor. I guess this discussion has confused me a little bit on what the item is. Looking at the item posting language and the backup, all it calls for is a comprehensive understanding of what was passed at the state level. Correct, Representative Molinar?
 Because I'm hearing a lot of conversation about training, bringing in police officers to discuss things, but literally the post-it language was just to get an update from our legal and legislative team to understand what the new regulations are and what needs to be in place to comply with that law. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct, Representative Anello.
 Okay, thank you. I mean, you know, I completely understand where Representative Schwartzbein is coming from. I think this body as a whole collectively opposes legislation. Representative Rivera and Representative Schwartzbein have been very articulate about why this has been so problematic for our community as well as Texans as a whole. And so I don't want it to come off as we're supporting that legislation at all. But the simple fact remains that it
 You know, license to carry laws were very specific. They came with very heavy regulations. Those no longer exist. You know, I had a conversation with my husband who is licensed to carry when this happened and he was like, oh, I learned, you know, you can't have your gun in this place.
 And I said, where did you learn that? He said in my license to carry class. And I said, yes, but those don't exist anymore. And so you have to be aware that people aren't going to have that full information when they are carrying their weapon as Representative Urbana stated. So I think that it is really beneficial for us to understand what information is being given to the community, what information is being given to our law enforcement around this bill and how we are supposed to respond to it because all I
 I know is that now you can carry a license and that's it. But what happens to those former statutes that were in place regarding being licensed to carry? And so I think it is a good item to have up because I have a lot of questions about the bill and how it impacts us as a governmental entity and our constituents. So that is all I have to say. Thank you for that clarification. Thank you very much, Representative Nenello. Representative Molinard? Second. Pardon me?
 I was trying to second this item a lot earlier, but I was having technical issues. So I was waiting for Representative Anello to finish speaking so I could second it. Okay. Which one? You're seconding Representative Molinar's item? Yes, that is correct. Okay. Now again, no second needed, but you're more than welcome to second it that City Attorney will be bringing back a presentation with two items to discuss. So go ahead.
 Representative Molyneux, I think you're up, sir. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Thank you very much. So once again, I am not here supporting this law. The purpose or the intent of placing this item on the agenda was not necessarily to support the law. We need to make sure that city representatives are doing what's best for our community. So in my humble opinion is we can have legal, our city attorney's office,
 create a presentation, carry or excuse me, forget that word, presenting information on the public for what they need to know, city employees and city policy regarding firearms carrying in city buildings and things like that. And the last part,
 and visits the signage any necessary signage that may be needed to properly carry out this law. It's not this item is not in support of it. We're just bringing a presentation just like for today our meeting agenda has items 33 and 39. So if you scratch this you might as well scratch 33 and 39.
 It doesn't make any sense all it is and just like I said yesterday and I'll reiterate today Knowledge is power whether it's not supporting the bill and it's just that's all it is Just want to make sure that the information Constructive knowledge is out there and we move forward. That's it The law will take place whether this item is deleted or not. It's going to move forward. Thank you. Thank you Yes, there is a motion and a second. I
 to direct the city attorney to present and discuss the firearm carry act of 2021 house bill number 1927 on that motion mayor pro tem shortsvine mayor i had to put in a request to speak yes sir oh there it is yes sir questions for our city attorney
 Yes sir I'm here. Good morning Ms. Neiman. I'm just curious so regardless of this item being placed by Representative Molinar you are planning on coming back with an item to educate and inform the council and the public about HB 1927? So there are two items that are posted on today's introductions that are as a result of those changes in the law.
 In my estimation, what Mr. Molina is asking is for a presentation on the actual bill. So what we are introducing are changes to our local codes that are impacted by that bill. So as part of the presentations you're preparing, it would also inform the public about HB 1927? It might be a little too expansive because the introduction of the ordinance is specific as to changes in the law.
 as to how it impacts, I believe it's Title 10, and then our parks provision. So talking about the law in its entirety is not within the confines of those two introductions. Do you believe that there's any need for additional council action like this item to inform the public and this body about Texas House Bill 1927 at this point?
 I believe that based on the comments from council, there might be some misunderstanding about what the law permits or does not permit when it regards to training and our private entities that already have the ability to do that irrespective of the law. Okay. Your vote, sir. No. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes.
 Yes. Ms. Zaraga? Aye. And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein voting nay, the motion does pass. We now turn to page nine to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 33 to 39. May we have a motion? Move to introduce the ordinances. Second. There's a motion and a second to introduce the first reading of ordinances, items 33 to 39. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzbein. Aye. Representative Anello?
 Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizara. Aye. And that motion passes unanimously. We now turn to page 12. These are public hearings.
 I believe items 40 and 41 are companion items. Item 40 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from A2SC apartment special contract to C4SC commercial special contract at 9641 North Loop Drive and 215 Sophia Place. And item 41 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from RF Ranch and Farm to C4C commercial condition and imposing conditions at 551 Englewood Drive Avenue.
 I believe so. Second. We do have public comment on that, Ms. Prine? That is correct, Mayor. Can we take public comment, please? We have three callers. Yes, sir. The first person that signed up to speak on this is Ms. Sylvia Carrion. Ms. Carrion, if you're in the queue, ma'am, star six to unmute your telephone. You'll have three minutes. Good morning. Yes, ma'am. You can hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 You know, this is Sylvia Carreon, president of the Mission Valley Civic Association. I was present at the virtual presentation of this project on Ivy property, and in support of the rezone change to accommodate the project of commercial industrial park. I had taken pictures of the presentation provided by Mr. Kyle Valley, which is the senior president.
 and had a meeting with my board and other members of my association discussing the pros and cons. It was voted unanimously to support the project. The reason is that the original zoning was for apartment complex, so we feel there are enough of these up and down North Loop and already surrounding areas of the Western Valley planning area.
 What our community needs is projects that will afford employment opportunities, that will pay good salaries with benefits to their employees, and I pray this will be the case.
 As a retired deputy sheriff, I used to patrol this area, connecting the city and the county lines, and I'm familiar with this area. I do respect the feelings and the opinions of the residents of the Placita del Rey, which is on Camino del Rey, and I hope they will understand our position to support this project.
 As the city began to grow, many of the farmers could or would not continue their farm work and begin to sell their land, which most of it went to commercial endeavors. This complex is now surrounded by numerous commercial businesses, new housing, apartment complexes, and sale of land to commercials.
 I believe that Mr. Caravalle is respectful of the opinion of the residents and will work to enhance the project to plan as such. I thank you for your time. I also have a letter on the reading of the 551 Englewood. This is Mr. Hector Lopez.
 I met with Mr. Lopez a couple of years ago when he did his rezoning on his old property on North Loop. And he has a business there called...
 which is commercial trucking. And I was very impressed of the fact that, so in reference to the application to Rebound 551 Inglewood, since there were concerns of city losing farmland to commercial, I was very impressed with his whole setup there.
 He had the courteous to take us on a mini tour on the businesses, advise us on the business, what you call CTPAT, which is Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism with the federal government. This young man has done a great job with his business, and I do also support the Inglewood Project. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ms. Cargill. Thank you.
 mayor i was just informed from planning that 42 and 43 are also related items may i read those into the record please item 42 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending the future land use map contained in plan el paso for attractive land from 03 agriculture to g7 industrial and then also at 9641 north loop and 215 sofia place and item 43 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending the future land use map
 use map in plan El Paso for the property at 551 Englewood. So what I'd like to see is removal of the second and a new motion to approve all of them as read into record. Oh, yes sir, I'll remove it for now. All right, so do we have a motion now? So moved to approve the second. Thank you. Thank you, we have an additional speaker on these items. It is Mr. Hugo Morales. Sir, star six please to unmute your telephone.
 Mr. Morales star six, please. Good morning, sir. You have three minutes Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Yes Morning mayor and council members. My name is Hugo Morales. I'm with Kim Lee horn and associates I'm the civil engineer for this project and representative of the owner Cal Valley I'll be happy to answer any questions you may have I just sign in to make sure you know, I'm here to answer questions. I
 No, this is, we'll do, thank you very much. There's no questions. And with that, that's all to the public on it. Yes, Mayor, we're the only two individuals signed up to speak on the four items. There is a motion and a second to approve items 40, 41, 42, and 43. I think Representative Hernandez, do you still want a presentation? Yes, sir.
 Yes, sir. These are drastic changes that are happening in the Mission Valley. I think that we need to have a presentation and then a discussion. Thank you for that presentation, please. I know that they went around everybody's office and did the presentation and I thank them all for it is very well done. And I thank you all for it.
 Yes good morning Mayor and Council. Roll Garcia planning inspections. So before before you I don't mean to interrupt you but I didn't realize I had Representative Rodriguez wanted to speak prior to the presentation. Representative Rodriguez?
 Thank you so much, Mayor, and thank you, everybody. These items are actually very exciting projects, not only for the constituents of District 6, but for the entire community of El Paso as a whole. We have been working on these projects since October, so almost a year now. We have done a lot of outreach
 not only with my constituents, with neighboring neighborhood associations, with planning, with the developers, with the landowners. And I just want to also thank the landowners, Mr. Ben Ivey and Mr. Hector Lopez for being so gracious
 and allowing the city to participate in their personal business. So thank you all so much for this. And also thank you for wanting to grow our community as far as the job market. I know that these projects are going to bring a lot of job opportunities to the community.
 great paying jobs not only that but with the vetting that we've done you know working going above and beyond with the developers we are going to make sure that the projects that are built in these two different areas that they're quality projects that they're not just projects that that we can't be proud of they're going to have new amenities they're going to have walking trails they're going to have food truck zones for the food truck they're going to take care of the future
 people that are going to be housing those businesses. We've had, you know, the multiple communities meeting where we kept going back to the drawing boards and finally we got it right. So this was just for rezoning, mind you all. And really everybody has gone above and beyond. You know, there's been a request for a lot of...
 trees and a lot of landscaping and both of them are going to do their part and they're going to go ahead and do this. So I would really appreciate, you know, on behalf of not only my constituents in District 6, but the entire City of El Paso that's going to benefit from these future projects for everybody to support this. So with that, thank you and I look forward to for you all to see this presentation and your support. Thank you. Thank you. Another presentation, please.
 Yes, good morning again, Council, Mayor and Council of Ogier State Planning and Inspections. Again, I'll be going over the two rezoning items and then after that I'll be passing it over to Ms. Karina Vrazgala for the future land use map amendment presentations. So again, these are these are the rezoning for two properties. There are 9641 North Loop as well as 551 Inglewood. These items are in line with strategic goal number three of the City of El Paso. Next slide.
 So this kind of gives you an idea of the proximity of these two properties to each other as well as to the City of Socorro. It is important to note the City of Socorro has already gone through the same changes that are being requested today in terms of rezonings to light industrial heavy commercial. Socorro has already approved that and again these two projects do propose the same. Next slide.
 These are just areos of the two properties showing that they are vacant. The North Loop property does consist approximately of 230 acres in size. The Englewood property approximately 20 acres in size. Next slide. The current zonings of the property and showing the surrounding zonings for the North Loop property. Currently zoning as was mentioned is eight two apartments. As you can see it is there is existing commercial in close proximity to this property.
 The request here is again to go to C4, Heavy Commercial Light Industry. For the Inglewood property, that property is currently zoned RF Ranch Farm. As you can see there as well, there is existing manufacturing as well as existing C4 within the area. And the request here is also the same, to go to C4, Heavy Commercial Light Industry. Next slide. Thank you.
 So these are the conceptual and detailed site plans proposed for the property. For the North Loop property, this is a conceptual plan. Again, it is purely conceptual. The final design will come in as part of a detailed site plan prior to construction. But this does give you a good idea of the proposed layout in terms of what they're looking at in terms of the layout. There is an existing nursing home facility here.
 They're within the property, which as you'll see on subsequent slides, there are some conditions being imposed that go towards protecting and mitigating the impact on that existing nursing home facility. There's also some landscape buffers abutting that residential existing neighborhood.
 And as you'll see, there are some mitigation measures being provided again to soften and mitigate the impact of this development on the surrounding properties. For the Englewood property, this is a detailed site plan. This is a binding, this is a binding plan. This is what is being proposed there. This is what will be built there on the property. As you can see, it does include a warehouse building
 along with parking for semi tractor trailers, along with ponding areas, as well as a landscape buffer surrounding the entire property. This property will gain access from the adjacent property to the north that will provide for direct access from North Loop. Semi tractor trailer access to Englewood is being prohibited at this time. That's based on the current conditions of Englewood.
 So the main thing here is that this is the binding detailed site plan, and this is what will be constructed on that property. Next slide. These are just shots of the current properties. Again, they are vacant. Next slide. So as we mentioned, we did kind of go up and beyond in terms of outreach with the community regarding these two projects. We did hold committee meetings with the surrounding neighborhoods, as well as with the applicable neighborhood associations.
 For North Loop, we did conduct two community meetings, one in April, one in May. Again, representatives of the relevant applicable neighborhood associations were part of those meetings, as well as the residents there of that adjacent neighborhood, as well as others within the general area of that subject property.
 Um, in addition to that, public notices were mailed out prior to the city plan commission to every property within 300 feet. Um, for the North Loop property, we went above and beyond and also included notices to every single resident of that adjacent, uh, residential neighborhood. So even though they were outside of the 300 feet,
 They were also provided a notice on the city plan commission meeting. So in total, 48 notices were mailed out. We did not receive any opposition on the North Loop item. And we did receive one letter in support. And that letter is from the existing nursing home facility on the property. They were also part of these committee meetings and were very involved in the outreach that was conducted. And they go ahead and send us one letter in support.
 For the Inglewood property, we did conduct a virtual community meeting on May 13th. There's approximately 20 attendees to that meeting. Again, the applicable neighborhood associations were also part of that meeting. Also, public notices were sent out to all properties within 300 feet. A total of 26 notices were mailed out.
 The recommendation again on June 3rd of 2021, a city plan commission did recommend unanimous approval of these two items with several conditions. And as you can see there, these conditions go towards mitigating the impact
 and protecting the surrounding and existing uses in the general vicinity of this area. Conditions do include landscape buffers, extra wide landscape buffers in the case of North Loop, surrounding the nursing home facility as well on that side adjacent to the existing residential neighborhood. It is important to know if there's an existing 100 foot wide
 Mesa drain irrigation ditch there that will also serve to go ahead and buffer and mitigate the impact of this development on the residential neighborhood. Beyond that, this 24-foot landscape buffer will apply. Also, a six-foot rock wall on that side, as well as a detailed site plan and a controlled four-way system.
 installation there at the intersection of Camino Verde and one of the two access points that will be providing access from this property direct access to Americas Avenue. For the Englewood, kind of the same thing, landscape buffers, the prohibition of semi tractor trailers to Englewood.
 detailed site plan and then also the construction of that access point to the existing property to the north to provide direct access for these trucks directly to North Loop Drive. Next slide. And that concludes my presentation regarding these rezoning items.
 Thank you, Mr. Garcia, and I know that I attended the meeting and there was a lot of concerns by the area, by the neighborhood, and I am very impressed with the proactive that you all took to address all the concerns and come back with the changes and have everyone agreed on the project.
 So I know during the first meeting that I attended, it wasn't that way. So you listened, you came back to the neighborhoods and all the people around and made the changes that were asked of you all. So thank you for the hard work. You're welcome, sir.
 Good morning. This is Karina Brescala with Planning and Inspection. So I'm going to do a presentation on items 42 and 43. Those are the future land use map amendments related to the previous two rezoning cases.
 so a little bit of background for you all um the future land use map or flume is a component of plan el paso that is the city's adopted comprehensive plan the current guidance for the broader area of mission valley that we're looking at is to conserve as much agricultural land as possible
 The comprehensive plan was adopted in 2012. In the almost 10 years since then, there are several changes that weren't really anticipated by the comprehensive plan. And so that is part of why the owner requests have come in today and are being heard by you all. So a lot of the farmland in this area is, as Ms. Carreon mentioned, is no longer being actively farmed. Irrigation rights aren't in place on some of them.
 So a lot of it is not actually being farmed. In addition, we're looking at an increase of commercial traffic through the Athletic Port of Entry, the Zaragoza Bridge. And so that has driven a lot of interest into the area for these kinds of shipping and distribution operations.
 The big one that made a lot of headlines was the Amazon Fulfillment Center. It's just outside city boundaries, but I think that has attracted a lot of interest from similar operations to looking at this area. It's got very good access to both the Port of Entry and along major freeways and arterial roads.
 And then as Raul mentioned, the City of Socorro, they left here, did a large-scale rezoning and update to their comprehensive plan and feature land use map that changed a lot of the land, about 300 acres just outside of city limits, to industrial. So this is really...
 These changes are needed to allow the development that you could fall. And it's really just a matter of updating the comprehensive plans, but it's more in line with what we are seeing in terms of trends in the area today. So this is the proposed future land use map change. It's a request to switch the sector from 03, that's an open space sector, applies to active farmland, intended for preservation.
 to C7, industrial. This is a growth sector in San El Paso, meaning that it was appropriate for immediate development. And this particular designation applies to industrial parks and other kinds of industrial uses, trucking terminals. So definitely appropriate for the two developments you just saw.
 The same exact two properties. So the first case is about 230 acres south of Loop 375 and east of North Loop. The proposed change is shown in the maps, 03 to G7.
 And then the second property, about 20 acres at 551 Inglewood, the same change of three to G7. And then on the maps there, you can see there's a lot of G7 already existing that was there in 2012. And then the area just to the northeast of the Inglewood property is the existing shipping operation that would be expanded.
 That's it for the Future Land Use Map Amendments. If you guys have any questions for me or Raul, we would be happy to take them. No, thank you, and I know that you worked really hard on this also and had the opportunity to meet with you and the whole team at least three times, so I thank you all for your presentation and your hard work. And with that, Ms. Prine, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Your Honor. We ask the speak maker. Representative Rivera has a question,
 i think representative hernandez had the floor before me let me see she was nine minutes ahead of you you're right representative had none this thank you karina um thank you for your presentation i just have a quick question about the future um the fuma um can you how often is that changed so um it comes forward with certain types of rezonings uh often when you guys see these they're cleanups it's something that was misidentified in 2012.
 I'd say maybe one out of every five or six rezonings also comes with an accompanying future land use map amendment. And that's just to update to make sure that we are lining up the uses with what is actually going to occur on the property.
 And I've already expressed that I really don't like amending these maps without a clear strategy. But I just have that question for you, but thank you. Daralil, thank you for your presentation. I do have questions on the slides here. On slide five, looking at the detailed site plan.
 Where is Sophia rezoning? Is it, or even on slide four, where is that property? Because when I look it up online, it takes me somewhere completely different. Right, right, ma'am. It is that subject property, that large property, 230 acres, does have two addresses on it. So for property notification, we didn't need to reference both addresses. It is that North Loop address and that Sophia address, but it's the same property, ma'am.
 Okay, because it takes me to like across the area and to a residential area. So I was just double checking. Now, my question for slide five, right next to the residential area, you mentioned the Mesa drain. Where is the Mesa drain on the map for the industrial business park? Sure. If we can go to that slide, please. Slide five on item 40 presentation. Okay.
 Right. So on the Northview property, you see the residential neighborhood there to the left side of the development running north-south. That is the 100-foot wide Mesa drain. And beyond that...
 There will be a 20 foot landscape buffer, as well as a six foot rock wall, again to provide mitigation and protection regarding the impact of this property on that residential neighborhood. I'm sorry, how tall is the rock wall? Six feet, ma'am. That's the standard height for rock walls. Thank you. The Mesa drain also goes through my backyard and I have the end of my property and then the Mesa drain, which is pretty wide.
 but it's not far at all whatsoever. And so I am curious just some basic planning principles. Is it ideal to rezone industrial parks next to residential parks? Is that what this body is going to be recommending?
 So when you look at the location of this property, man, it is located at a corner of a major arterial and a freeway. And as you go east, you do hit I-10. So based on location, it is kind of right for this type of development, right? Commercial light industrial. But that's also why we impose these conditions. As you can see, they are...
 there are numerous conditions to go ahead and mitigate and protect that existing residential neighborhood. A question about the building 9 and building 11. Will you have 18-wheelers idling near the perimeter of these properties?
 Yeah, the residential properties. So again, remember there's there needs to be a detail site that's come in as well as a plan and a lot of details will be addressed during that process. But the idea here is to kind of start a little to the east to the right side as if you're looking at the picture to start with that side first and kind of move west from there.
 That is going to be something that is going to be looked at in terms of the detailed site plan. Again, to protect and mitigate noise and visual and any other effect regarding this development impacting that residential development. Will there be any open space requirements? Yes, ma'am. There will be landscaping, obviously, green areas.
 that Title 18 landscaping ordinance will apply. Plus as indicated by the applicant through discussions, they do propose some green areas in terms of providing those areas for their employees.
 So and again, all that will be identified on the on the detail site plan. Any public dedication will happen on the plan in terms of parkland dedication. Since it is light industrial, they will be responsible for providing park fees, for paying park fees that will go towards the betterment and enhancement of existing parks within the same park zone. Okay. And so my concern here isn't about the economic benefits.
 I certainly appreciate businesses who want to grow on their private properties. My concern here is the layout of the property. I find 20 feet to be insulting. If I lived in these homes, I certainly would not want my children playing in the backyard and having 18 wheelers idling near my home. And I think it's incredibly unfair to ask these residents to have to endure that without having adequate
 spacing between the homes you think a hundred feet is wide and I can assure you it's not 120 feet is not significant amount of space to separate residential homes to an industrial park and if the city approved an industrial park next door to your home you would be outraged the notices that went out mr. Garcia are they were they in Spanish
 Yes, ma'am. That standard protocol, both in English and Spanish, ma'am, for all reasonable cases. And just based on the planning principles, I certainly agree that it's off of 375 you need to have some form of industrial parts.
 I think it's insulting the way this is being proposed. I think it's unfair for the residents to build their homes, some of them are custom homes, and have to live next to an industrial park. And if it were next door to your home, you would agree. There's other concerns from other property owners about properties being landlocked. Those are real issues in the Valley. We see this every single day when properties are landlocked and cannot get in and out of their property. You've heard that from one of the property owners.
 And even though there's access, you have specific things going on in your property where you need access in various locations.
 So based on the presentation today, I see no detailed site plan that's going to show significant open space, that's going to show significant buffering. And for that reason, I want to err in the side of caution and protect these residents from these externalities of idling vehicles, trucks, because it's completely unacceptable and you would not want to live next door to that.
 Let's not approve these type of residential areas if they're going to abut industrial parks. I mean, who came first? The residents were there first.
 So bring back a plan and I would encourage the developer to bring back a plan with significant space and open space that that will be next to residential areas and put yourselves in their in their shoes. It's absolutely unnecessary and unacceptable, inappropriate. And I and I will feel very bad that these residents have to endure this. I will not be supporting these items today. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you for your thoughts and comments.
 I have Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. First of all, I commend Representative Rodriguez and planning for going out and meeting with the people out here. It's a tough call, as Representative Hernandez has said, but the conditions are there. And I understand that the city is going to have to be
 Just for the public's knowledge, Mr. Garcia, is the landowner, did the landowner sell this property or is he working with the company? I believe they're working together still on this project. So it's still Mr. Ivey's property? I can double check that for you. I believe it is and follow up with you soon. Okay.
 When you gave me this presentation, you did say it was that he was working together. So the other thing that I have concerns with, and Representative Fernandez touched a little bit on it, was if you can go back to the conceptual plans and the detailed plans. Go back. Slide five of the presentation. Right. And then you have the conditions. Right. And then you had a set of conditions that you. Correct. If you keep moving forward on the slides, please.
 I'm sorry. Next slide. Next slide. Okay. My concern, and with all the great work that Representative Rodriguez and you have done out there and meeting with the people and them supporting you and everything else, I have a problem with the fact that this is still only a conceptual plan, okay? And from experience, this conceptual plan can change, and it only goes to the CPC. And that was a very...
 eye opening situation that I experienced. And I would suggest that the rep request a detailed site plan, not too different from the conceptual plan that was made. I mean, I can understand if it's changed just a bit, but that conceptual plan that you made, you can change it. And having experienced that in another location that in my district, it's very frustrating that it doesn't come to council.
 and council should be the ones to approve this, a detailed site plan and not just planning when it comes to that. I understand that you're trying to mitigate or rather minimize the time that these detailed site plans are spent with council, but this is a very important site. From what I gather, there's a lot of support for it and there's support from it from the nursing home there and I think it's great.
 But I would suggest a detailed site plan before the building permits are made or given and also or built and that plan, that detailed site plan comes to the council for approval. Rep Rodriguez, I don't know if you agree with that or not. May I answer? May the rep answer, may I? Yes, sir.
 Okay, so thank you all for your concern. Representative Rivera, the detailed site plan has been requested. Mind you all, this is only for rezoning. So right now what we're trying to do is just rezone, no plans been submitted or anything, but believe me, that condition has already been requested. As far as the concerns that Representative Hernandez has,
 I absolutely hear you. I had the exact same concerns as you did, which is why it was so important for me to meet with my constituents multiple times. And we kept going back to the drawing board. And again, this was just for rezoning. And Mr. Ivey was very gracious to let us participate in this process and to listen to the community and to listen to their concerns
 and the developer as well. So it's been a group effort. It's really been about everybody going above and beyond. I have trucks, I know what trucks sound like. I know how loud they are. And so this is really my concern. And I made it known to my constituents. I made it known to Mr. Ivey, I made it known
 to the developer and everybody agreed. And so with that said, that's how we kept going back and forth, back and forth. So finally everybody agreed. The neighbors in that area are welcoming this project. They're saying, we'd rather have this type of development than apartments because that's only gonna create a lot more traffic. And they're also saying, and if this is gonna bring great paying jobs to the city, we're all for it.
 So I really do appreciate your concern. Like I said, I had the exact same concerns as you, which is why we've been working on this project since October. Again, no. Thank you, ma'am. In that case, then I would just like to see that condition under the conditions of the detailed site plan, not only when the building permits are issued, but also I'd like to see return, have that detailed site plan returned to us if we're still here or future councils for approval.
 If you don't mind, I'd like to make an amendment to that. Making a motion. I'll second it. Thank you. Yes, sir, he is. Yeah, thank you. Okay, it's just adding that other layer of protection that these plans don't change that much. That's fine, and I appreciate that. Thank you for that, Representative Veda. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Honella. Thank you, Representative Honella. Thank you, Representative Honella.
 Thank you Mayor. I just wanted to express the concerns that I have that have been shared by both Representative Hernandez and Revetta Raul. I know this is something that we spoke about in our briefing. I do have concerns about the 20-foot buffer
 i also think that a six foot wall is a little small for what's the activity that's going to be going on on the property um and i agree with representative roberta i think that if there is going to be a detailed site plan it should come to council and be worked out you know and i i understand where the community is coming from they they want this more than apartments it also makes me like a little sad that
 You know, that's why they're conceding to this, because they just don't want something else. You know, there's never been a conversation about what's good for their neighborhood and what would actually help them thrive. It's just we don't want apartments, so we'll take an industrial park. And that's unfortunate that that's the process that we have today.
 um but i'm happy to second representative ravenna's motion and i expect that site plan to come to council with the full conversation before it coming to council so we can really have the best outcome for these people so thank you thank you and with that we'll uh take the amendment first ms pine yes mayor so the amendment would be to item 40 and representative rivera is this to require a detailed site plan
 Yes, as one of the conditions to require a detailed site plan prior to any building permits or built. Representative Rivera to come to council, correct? And to come to council, yes. Okay, so this is to require a detailed site plan prior to issuing building permits or construction and that they come back to city council. For approval. For approval on the detailed site plan. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzweil.
 Aye. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Now there is a motion and a second to approve items 40, 41, 42, and 43 as amended. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? No.
 Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Very excited for my constituents, for the developers, for Mr. Ivey, for Mr. Hector Lopez. This is finally going to come true. Yes, thank you. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga? Aye. And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Hernandez voting nay, the motion does pass.
 Thank you, Council. And I know this has been going on for quite a while, and this is a great way of working through differences to try to do the best thing for the community. So I thank Council, Representative Veta. Thank you for your amendment. I think that was really important. So thank you all. Mayor, it is 10.07. May we recess this meeting to conduct the Special Mass Transit Department Board meeting? Yes, ma'am. And thank you, Representative Hernandez, for all the work you've done on that. I appreciate that.
 Yes, ma'am Thank you. May we have a motion to recess a regular City Council meeting? There's a motion and a second to recess a regular city may we have a motion to reconvene the regular City Council meeting Second there's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting all in favor Here anyone opposed
 And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 10 12 a.m. We're on page 13 item number 44. This is a public hearing on the proposed budget as amended for the city of El Paso followed by the city manager with the city clerk on July 15, 2021, which begins on September 1, 2021 and ends on August 31, 2022. The public hearing is now open at 10 13 a.m. I do have a question on it.
 mr cortinas i'm reading and i've been reading the budget which is i don't know what 500 pages and i came across a non-executive level employees will receive an incentive pay of 10 percent of their salary while employed with the office of the comptroller this incentive is only effective during their employment at the office of the comptroller what is that and is that a yearly or
 Because I'm a little, if they leave at any time, do they give the money back or what is that? So this is an incentive for a centralized function for those accountants that work within the Office of the Comptroller. We've had a lot of turnover in that department over the last couple of years. As you know, that's a critical function, not only from all of the financial reporting that they do, but also monitoring all of our grants, especially with what we're seeing right now with the federal dollars that we're receiving. It's very important that we're ensuring compliance.
 following that not only federal but the state funding as well. So in order to help stabilize that department, we've been losing accountants not only to the private sector but just to other state departments as well. They can go out and take a position in another department and receive more pay. So what we're doing in order to try to stabilize that department is providing additional incentives because it is a centralized function. An accountant within the Office of the Comptroller is performing more duties than an accountant within one single department.
 These accountants handle multiple departments, multiple functions. So it's an incentive similar to what we've done in the past with our CDL something else that's in the budget resolution as well. And again, this is just an incentive and if this works, if this pays off and it does what it's intended to do, it's something that we'll continue to explore and utilizing this type of tool for other departments as well in order to help ensure city staffing in key areas.
 Now is this a yearly or a one-time? It'll be added onto their base pay, and so they'll only receive that incentive for as long as they're employed within the Office of the Comptroller. So if they leave the Office of the Comptroller and they go to work in another department, then they will not receive that incentive pay. Okay. Thank you for that.
 This is the only I tried the read like I said, it's about 500 pages So I tried to read it in it. Is this the only one that we have? I know we have the CDL if you have one to get $90 per day, which is I understand But is there any other ones that I didn't find? It's only those two and then the additional compensation related item is related to the one and a half percent minimum compensation adjustment that we've talked about had built in the equity adjustments
 based on the amount of time an employee has been within their position if they're eligible for that equity adjustment they'll receive that plus the minimum one and a half percent pay increase as well and those items are included in the budget resolution which has been provided for a while now going back to the early early June provided the red line version the final version is posted for as backup on this agenda item
 And Robert, the only thing I'd add is that equity adjustment is based on that compensation study and council has briefed on that. And I found somewhere here that departments will, I think here it is, the department heads and their designee hereby are authorized to request budgetary not to exceed, and it's going from 25 to 50,000 non-transfers within the same department budget transfers.
 So this is just essentially aligning and being consistent with the city manager's approval for multiple items at $50,000. And so again this is related to any budget transfers that are done between departments or between funds. Anything exceeding that is reported and to the city or actually has to be approved by the city council. And then on the item I think we decided number eight and nine related to the capital improvement projects all of those budget transfers are reported on a quarterly basis to the council and is tested back up on those quarterly reports that we do.
 Okay, but the city manager has the authority she's assume manager and his designated here authorized on the budget transfers have been between Department and non-enterprise funds to reprogram funds within the enterprise department not to exceed a hundred thousand dollars And that used to be 50 and I guess it I guess last year maybe so now we've gone without bringing at the council on from 50 to 100 and
 from prior year on the enterprise funds primarily related to environmental services that they're moving money from their operating to their capital funds it's all within their their same department their same fund so there are times where they may need where they may need additional funding for a capital project the same thing with sun metro and so in order to allow that flexibility to the operational necessity to be able to do that in an efficient manner the non-enterprise funds again that's our sun metro environmental services international bridges
 the tax office. So that just again provides an operational efficiency to be able to move money between their funds so whether the operating capital fund. Okay. Like you said, there was a lot of reading and I'd fall asleep and wake up and continue to read. We provided that red line version back in the beginning of June. I know. That's what you can see. That's what I'm using. Yes, sir. And I appreciate that. That made that made a lot easier. Okay.
 i can tell you that i've been asking for us to kind of cut back the budget a little bit and and i still have asked to roll back the right some and i will not be supporting the budget and it's not something that i said uh just today or any other time i've been i've been saying this from the beginning of the budget because every reason we give that it's been tough for us it's been tough for our constituents and i believe that um
 we can look at ways of saving money. And what I'm gonna ask that we do is we look at every department. And I've been trying to look and look at the budget, and it's not for me to, and I've talked to some people and they said, what do you propose? So what I'm proposing is a 2% cut across the board
 to exclude police and fire, any first responders, any public safety. I don't want to see that touched as we have a $430 million public safety bond that we have to execute. And as we've been growing, the police department, I see that one cannot be touched, but I'd like to see a 2% cut across the board or I will not be able to support the budget as I've asked and nothing has been brought up to suggest to me that we'd be able to do that.
 I know we've had a discussion saying that we do cut the budget, that next year will be harder for us to be able to tax and again we had a discussion on that and I believe that 3.5% of 1,000 or 3.5% of 2,000, it's still 3.5% and I believe that we have the ability across the board that...
 We can do without impacting any department and again to exclude public safety and I will not be supporting the budget moving forward So I have a brief presentation that we can go through pretty quickly. Go ahead sir Yes, go ahead
 Yeah, so you and I have had a conversation about, you know, I would like to see what that looks like to you, the lower rate. But I, so you're now proposing that we cut 2% across the board to lower the rate from our employees? Any department. I'm not saying employee payments, employee, because I don't believe in that. Any department. Any department can look at how they can save 2% of their budget and lower.
 I've done this in my own personal business and a lot more than 2% and at the end of the day we're able to operate. So I believe that and it's not employee salaries. I'm not saying that I'm talking about each department has a budget and each department can look at how into their apartment they could look at saving 2% salaries. I'm not looking at that. Personnel, I'm not looking at that. I'm looking at within the department. How can they save 2% within their department?
 Yeah, I mean, that's something I would have to see from Robert and the departments themselves.
 before supporting that, like where are they making those cuts? Because I know they've had to do that before. We ask every year to see their supplemental requests to really understand what their need is, and there's always so many that aren't even funded. And so I don't want to be stifling our department's success without more information. So again, totally willing to have that conversation, but I would need to see what those cuts are per department. So that was all. Thank you.
 Thank you. Before you go, I know Representative Adnan also has a comment. I wanted to respond to Representative Vanillo's comment. Go ahead, sir. So as we're looking to those type of reductions, Representative Vanillo, as you're familiar what we've done over the past year was one of the big items that was deferred in the current year was the unfunding of all of our non-essential vacant positions, and that's where we were able to generate a lot of the savings. On the presentation that was shown going back to February 15th, the five-year forecast,
 One of the ways we were able to balance the budget without increasing the tax rate, but to reduce our expenditures was by not funding 100% of those vacant positions for the upcoming fiscal year. And so if departments are going to be forced to take an across-the-board 2% reduction, if that's what the council votes on and that's the council direction, is I'll tell you that a lot of the departments, the area in which those reductions would come from would be from those vacant positions. And so as we've discussed and as you all are well aware, I mean, not funding vacant positions –
 It does generate savings, however, it does impact the city workforce. It does impact the morale of our city departments because that means you have less people performing the same amount of work. The work is still there, it's just a matter of how many people you have to be able to get the job done. So as we've talked about, it's not only police and fire that make up almost two-thirds of our city budget, but if you look at the aggregate and the total city budget for the general fund, three-quarters of it is personnel. That's our salary benefits and taxes for our employees.
 So over three quarters, again, of our general fund budget is in people, actual jobs, actual people that are performing the services for our community. And so when we're tasked with looking at reductions, the departments can, yes, identify potential materials and supplies they could reduce, but those are minute and we do that on an annual basis. We do that on a monthly basis to make sure we're aligning our budget to actuals. The savings is going to come from vacant positions.
 And I understand, and that's why I put that we do not want to do public safety and first responders, and that's a big part of our budget. And if we talk about, and I know you're good with numbers, $100,000, 2% of $100,000 is how much, sir? $2,000.
 So it's, you know, we can find savings if we look for them. And I think, you know, with the money that we got from the federal government, the $77 million, the care package that we got, we really got money to be able to fund these positions, be able to.
 Run our city and I'd like to see our community really have the opportunity to see some of these savings You know and it's not going to be a total savings for the community because the appraisal of their homes was you know went up more than that quite a bit more than that and so this is more of time to find ways to be thoughtful and mindful of our community and our taxpayers and like I said, I
 $100,000, it's a $2,000 savings in any department, and I know we can find it. And I knew that someone told me, he says, why don't you just ask them to tell you what departments you wanna cut? And I said, well, they're gonna come back and tell me they're gonna cut police, they're gonna cut fire, they're gonna cut streets.
 they're going to cut things that are impactful to the community and you came back to bring cut services and pay to our employees that's not what i'm asking i'm asking to look at the operational of our community at our city and cut that i don't want to put fear in people that we're going to cut their pay we're going to fire people because that's not it that's not what we're talking about and it's funny because i was told just let them bring it to you and tell you that
 across the board what they do i said they're going to come back and they're going to say things that are really impactful to people and that they're going to hurt employment and jobs and salaries of people that's not what i'm asking i'm asking to really try to see how we can impact and look at
 our community and save money and we don't have to look at it today you can look at it and we can sit down and talk about it and and see what we can do but i can tell you i am not in support i'm not looking at ways of saving to our taxpayers as we got a lot of money from the federal government to help us fund those programs like you said that we're not funded that we're and right now we have them set up to be funded and just like the 10 you put for the otc
 We're having a problem funding those departments because we're having a hard time finding people that want to come to work and I get that and I understand that PSB did a presentation the other day 46% of the customer service Employees that they have are unfilled because they can't fill them. They don't have people to come work so I understand all that and The private sector understands that the homeowner understands that because we go through it and we live in every single day There's no some butts
 So go ahead, sir. If I may, so I don't want the public to get the impression that there hasn't been any savings that have been presented to the council that this council voted on. This council has presided over millions and millions upon millions of savings.
 across the organization. The OTC item that you brought up and the percentage of pay that they're getting paid in order for us to retain or to attract employees there, that has helped us tremendously. When we presented way back when, whenever there was a...
 someone, a scathing report, someone said, you know, we hadn't received a $20 million reimbursement from TxDOT. It was people like that who monitored grants who were able to get 19.2 million, which wasn't even 20 million. They couldn't even get the accusation correct.
 We recovered 100% of that. Also, we had money that went back all the way to the early 2000s with CDBG, covered millions of dollars, and the office of the comptroller were critical of that. We've had five years of no audit findings, no external audit findings, which is unheard of.
 When I started working here, we had multiple audit findings. We had like 18 audit findings, and that should have gotten you a bond downgrade just by itself. We've talked for years about the neglect that took place across the board in several departments, years. And you mentioned them, police, fire, streets, and those are facts.
 In the early 2000s, the tax rate was being reduced and money wasn't being invested in those specific departments that were critical to the growth of El Paso. And the recent dollars that were given from ARPA were primarily for the revenue loss and also the expenditures that we're spending on COVID and we continue to spend. And we're going to continue to have those expenditures continued.
 We've shown the increases that are coming because of what you mentioned, police and fire, the collective bargaining agreement, the increases to adding more police officers to the public safety bond. So, you know, it's critical that we maintain the momentum we did give.
 There wasn't a tax increase last year. We did that and council had a lot of questions about that. They thought we did that because one person wanted it and that's not why we did it. We did it because exactly the point you made about how the public needed to recover, the businesses needed to recover. This year we're recommending the same budget in terms of the no tax increase and a decrease to the disabled and seniors.
 So I believe this budget addresses the concerns that the council expressed to us and all of you expressed to us. Also believe that it has money in there for more streets, like council asked.
 So this budget is a very strong budget that meets all the priorities across the board and it's a prudent budget because it also takes into account what we need to plan for in the coming years so that maybe we can again try to work towards no tax increase in the following years.
 So that's what we're doing. We're positioning ourselves for the future, not just one year to the next year. I think that's what the city did in the past, and it was a mistake. And we're still paying for it today because there's still neglect. There's still more. And I think if you go across the board and ask every council member, there's more things that they want. I've been to every council district in terms of making district presentations, and the list is long.
 And it starts with streets and ends with streets, and in between is public safety.
 Again, I think this budget does address everything that the council asked for. I respect what your comments are, Mayor. In terms of savings, we have had savings. We've presented savings across the board. We've shown that to the council. We've shown it to you. And I think we can have more savings. But the thing is, there's so much demand for more needs out in the community that there's simply not enough funds to cover the priorities and then also be all things to all people.
 You know, and I don't disagree with anything you said. And every time we talk to our constituents and we tell them we've been saving money, they'd like to feel that savings. And I understand that we're not going to have a rate increase, but we're going to have a tax increase. I think we need to be very honest when we say that, that we will not have a rate increase, but the taxpayers will see an increase in their taxes this year.
 And if we have a no rate increase next year, they may see a tax increase to their taxes also. So I'm not arguing that we've not done some savings, that you've not been able to do some things. We've refinanced some things that have given us the ability to kind of expand the budget and
 But at the end of the day, like I said, $100,000 is a $2,000 savings within a department. And I don't want to look at personnel because that's not correct and that wouldn't be right to our team members that have worked really hard year in and year out. And a perfect example again is the office of the comptroller trying to retain their team members by giving them a bonus to stay there. So I get that. And I have no disagreement.
 I just know that there's ways to look at how we can still be efficient and do the job that we were hired to do by the constituents. And again, I know that a lot of them are suffering today, and I know a lot of them are hurting today and having a hard time meeting their tax bill, because those are the ones that I've had the opportunity to talk to more than once.
 and we'll continue to talk to them because that is our job. So I thank you because you're right. You've presented it and done a job, but I can tell you that at the end of the day,
 And I don't want council to say that I didn't say this from the beginning because I did and that all of a sudden I sprang it up on them because I'm not. But I'm trying to let you all know exactly where the constituents are coming and they're coming through me to be able to try to do what's best for them. So thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez, I know you had it on here. Now you're raising your hand because I know you would like to speak. So go ahead, ma'am.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Leeser. I really appreciate your intentions here. You know, I too get these questions very frequently, but just as a reminder to Council, you know, we struggle with this every budget year. Some of us have, this is our fifth budget year. Can you all hear me okay? Pardon me? Yes, ma'am. You can hear me okay? Yes, ma'am. I keep freezing.
 So this is my fifth budget year since I've been on council and then three budget years since I've worked as support staff. And I have to say that, you know, there's, to me, there's a clear strategy. I've been able to look at the budget very closely. And as Mr. Cortina said,
 you know, 80% to round up numbers, okay, because I know the fiscal folks are gonna be like, now, don't do that. But approximately 80% of our budget goes to personnel. So when we're talking about cuts here, you absolutely will have to be personnel, because 20% of your operation to run the departments is insignificant. So if you're really trying to bring more value to residents, it's not gonna be to slash their operating budget.
 We also have to remember that there's grant-funded positions. There's grant-funded activities. And so to do a cut across the board will dramatically impact your grant-funded departments. We account for about 27% of your tax bill. So when we talk about what the strategy is to bring savings to El Pasoans, I think we've done that through our exemption increase that we recently adopted.
 for persons with disability and over 65. I think really the strategy here is to focus on growing the tax base. 100% I believe in the strategy. I'm seeing the economic benefits. I think the pandemic gave us, you know, two steps backwards, but we are seeing that aggressive push forward. And so I am optimistic that our sales, taxes, and our economic development and job opportunities is going to grow significantly.
 So Mr. Cortina's and Mr. Gonzalez are correct. They brought us potential savings. We could have had a discussion about to give that back. But instead, what we have heard from constituents is the demand to fix our roadways. So we re-diverted those funds. So these questions are actively being answered. These requests are being answered through our actions. And I'm really proud of the way council has pushed forward with approving that.
 But I do understand that El Pasoans are suffering. And so it is really our responsibility to emphasize, to grow our tax base and to achieve economic success for our community. And I think really every community is struggling with that. And that is why we push so much emphasis on budget into our economic development departments. Now, but I really truly thank Mayor Leaser for thinking about our residents.
 That is a heartfelt message that we need to always remember that people are struggling and that we need to be very cognizant of how we're spending our dollars. If you look at any other city in Texas, you're not going to see a strong emphasis on personnel and operations. I think El Paso is very unique. We're not rich in our general fund as other communities are. And I think the way it's being proposed is fiscally appropriate and conservative. And I do support the way it's being proposed.
 Now, I have taken a look at the budget resolution. I just have a quick question for you, Mr. Cortina. The budget resolution states, and I don't have a red line, so forgive me if this has already been addressed. You can borrow mine. I just don't have it in front of me. So on page 6, it states that businesses of the city shall be Monday through Friday. Okay.
 and a 4-10 work schedule and 4-10 work week for more than 50% of the employees assigned to the work at City Hall and administrative functions. I certainly supported that back when we had this 4-10 schedule. Pandemic kind of made things a little weird in terms of our virtual telecommunications schedule.
 So is this a new proposal? And if so, which departments will be excluded? Are there gonna be departments that are required to work full week schedules? No, it's not a change. And actually, so Kerry Weston's leading up working closely with the city manager on the hybrid policy of bringing people back to work, obviously maximizing the use of telecommuting for those that can.
 So that's something that we're still in the process of finalizing. Otis L. E. Getter has put together a draft of a policy. We still need to review that and finalize that. But as far as that item in the budget resolution, there's no change to that item. Okay. Okay.
 All right. Okay. So that makes sense. So, but our, I guess we can wait till we have that discussion, but I just wanted to make sure that our one-stop planning department and any customer service interfacing, those departments would not be impacted. Correct. And so actually another example of that is our tax office. So working very close with Maria Pacillas in the tax office, there's a huge demand for actual in-person use of that service. Okay.
 And so we're looking to open that back up September 1. So, again, that's another example similar to the one-stop shop where those customers prefer that in-person interaction. So that's a service that we're going to be reopening here very soon in the next couple weeks. Okay. I don't have any other questions. I know you have a presentation, so I'll let you move forward with that.
 Thank you representative nundas and I think uh, your statements were very so true, you know district six the The project that we saw will help us grow our tax base and not by the company Growing but but the companies that come within then development and that's very exciting to see as we have 49 projects in economic development. We've never had that many in the in the years that I was here in the years that uh,
 They've been doing it. We've never had 49 projects in the queue. But our biggest problem is if you saw the census report, the census report says people are leaving El Paso because it's hard to afford. The census show that we've had no growth
 And they're moving, whether they're moving out of the city limits to just our neighboring cities or our neighboring state, we have not had the growth that we should have. And it will cost us financially. And also it's going to cost us in representation in the federal and state governments. So, you know, this is things that we've got to look at, be careful.
 that is being impacted by our taxes. And you're right, we need to lower the taxes, we need to create jobs, we need to bring companies to El Paso, but we also need our residents to stay here so we can divide it by a greater number. Thank you. And let me look, I don't remember who was next. I know Representative Veda was on there, but I'm not sure if you were next. This was a public hearing, so Laura, Pryne, I don't know if we have anybody that signed up to speak. Just wanna make sure we're not.
 DIRECTOR DEWOLF. I'm not sure if anybody signed up to speak on the. DIRECTOR HARRIS. No we don't. DIRECTOR MACK. We don't have anybody signed up to speak yet. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. We actually have had Hernandez Analo spoken so it is Representative Rivera followed by Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you Mayor. I just I just want to.
 I commend Representative Hernandez. She said it best. This council has worked. Those of us that have been here for a second term and working with the Mayor Pro Tem who was in his second term as well and who the leader has also, we've worked hard with our staff to get to where we are today and I believe we've done it as best as we could and our community is asking for streets
 our community asking for services. We keep asking for services for our community as well. So it's kind of difficult to, and I understand what you said about the census, but it's kind of difficult for us to sit back and what would $2,000 mean to our departments, Mr. Cortina? I mean, isn't that a street resurfacing at least?
 Well, I was going to go through the presentation, but that would be another area. I mean, if the council decides that they want to make a reduction, it's either going to be vacant positions or this council just took action on August 2nd to put the additional $3 million towards streets. Exactly. And so those one-time costs, it's either going to be vacant positions or taking out one-time costs.
 Because we don't want to take a reduction on a reoccurring cost because you're going to have that cost again next year. That's correct. Or you're just essentially kicking the can down the road. Yes, sir. I agree with that. And for having done that and keeping us like what was said earlier, I mean, you've planned for this and we've planned for the future and we've made those tough decisions. And, you know, it's going to be interesting as to how we can succeed going on.
 Even more so because we don't even know how difficult what difficult times we're gonna have with this Delta virus Just hit our community in a harsh in a harsh and brutal manner so I Thank you for your your your staff and Salsa staff for working on this and keeping us abreast of all this. Thank you mayor. Thank you, sir
 And I do agree with you. Everyone's worked really hard and I thank you for that. Mayor Potem. Thanks again, Mayor, and thanks again, staff. Would like to see the presentation, but you know,
 You have spoken before about wanting to hold the line on taxes or to lower taxes. This is the first time that I believe that you've actually put out something concrete in terms of it. So I would want to understand from staff by across the board decrease of 2 percent, how that would how would that impact bringing back our services? I also do want to understand how it would impact
 personnel in terms of hiring or decreasing salaries. And also I'd want to understand what that kind of increase would actually look like to tax, to rate payers,
 as it relates towards our entire tax bill, not just to the city but to the entire dollar of the tax rate that is there. I understand that some of our taxing entities like the school districts have not come up with a rate yet. The majority of taxes that rate payers pay for in El Paso are by the school districts. I think that's important to understand as well is that while we do have our share here which is around 26%
 that is not the majority of the taxes that people pay. So when we talk about inevitably, when we talk about taxes, people see the city of El Paso is collecting it. So they tend to throw that onto us, but I think it's important to understand the 2% decrease, what that would look like for them or for our rate payers as well.
 The other thing too is respectfully, census data shows that we've had a very modest increase in our population, if not a decrease, but I don't think that there's in any way can show conclusively that's because of our taxes that our residents paid and why people are choosing to leave our city.
 If anything, probably what has led for people leaving El Paso has been exactly what this council and others have tried to address, which is namely bringing good paying jobs, educational and economic opportunities to our population. And that right there is not an issue that one council or one mayor is going to address.
 That is a generational battle in terms of bringing good paying jobs and increasing the educational level of this community so that we become more globally competitive.
 And so I think it's really important before people start suggesting what the census data shows and why people are leaving or not leaving, that we have a better understanding about that. But those are some of the questions that I have around that. Mayor, are you suggesting that you would want to see a decrease of 2% that would impact, that would not impact personnel?
 Yeah, and I think I said that earlier that I don't want to see it impact personnel. That's really important You know police and fire public safety cannot impact that and I want to see it without impacting personnel But I want to sit down with mr. Cortez and I think you stated it perfectly that Personnel like in terms of impacting personnel as it relates towards our Museums towards our libraries as well or do you think personnel towards our libraries in our museums? Should it be a part of the city? team members
 i mean they're the answer would be yes they are so this is anyone that's part of the team so i want to sit down with mr cortinas and see what it would look like but i i didn't want council to come back and say you haven't been saying this you didn't say this and i know i've talked to a few representatives and they said give us some items that we can support and
 I want to look at that and I want to so I'd like to sit down with Mr. Cortina's prior to the budget being finalized and
 and me vetoing the budget or understanding what we can and cannot do and have that type of presentation um so i think you you kind of said it best that you want to look at it all high would impact water wouldn't and it's really easy to do it you're right it's easy to go out and say okay the only thing we can cut jobs the only thing we can cut is salaries and that's not that's not even right i mean that's not even right to have that discussion because we're playing with the um
 With the emotions of people and that's not what I'm asking to do and that's not proper to do and I would As the mayor of the city i'd feel very insulted if that's what we're looking at doing And if i'm a team member of the city, I'd feel more insulted
 I agree. I think that what is most appropriate is for all of us to sit down with with Mr. Cortina's to understand What this budget would look like in these kind of cuts that you're proposing. Absolutely. I agree with you I feel that's not something that is handled, you know behind closed doors with You know with you and Mr. Cortina's to figure out what's cut. Well, it's not closed doors mayor Potem I do want to get briefed. I do want to do a a
 I mean, I do want to be prepared and ready. I don't want it to bring it to us next week and say, okay, here it is. I do want a briefing. And I'm not sure where you come up with the briefings become closed-door sessions. You did. I mean, with all due respect here, you just said you wanted to sit down with Mr. That's right. And for him to brief me and give me to see how it's going to look like, absolutely. That would not be considered a closed-door session unless you believe that no one should be briefed and should be brought items without knowledge of.
 So anyway, so no, I want everybody to be briefed. Everyone to be prepared and everyone to look at it so they can see the impact of what I am proposing. And I'd like to see the impact of what being proposed. Yes, sir. So Mr. Patinas, would you report back to the council these some of the things that have been brought up in terms of how this would impact bringing back our services, how this proposed decrease would affect the rate payers and how it would impact or not impact personnel?
 Well, I'm going to let Mr. Gonzalez chime in here in a second. But so I've already said, and I don't speak for city manager, but we obviously work very closely together, is that when we're looking to make reductions, it's going to be either to, like I said, our non-essential vacant positions, or it's going to be the one-time cost that we have built into the budget. And so those one-time costs are all the set aside funds that this council has approved to address the priority. So whether it's the streets projects, the public safety capital,
 the facilities money the sports complex maintenance money those are one-time items that we can take out of the budget but those are priority items
 We've been working very hard on this council's approved over the last several years to address those items that have been deferred and neglected For decades if we could just bring it and look at it. Mr Cortez to make a decision on that instead of guessing what it could be and couldn't be and who it's going to impact and Who we're gonna insult and and not I think it's important if we can really lay down a Process and a program to look at and then say this is what it is and this is what it will be or won't be
 I don't want to assume anything at this point because there'll be some things that we agree and disagree on. So my final comment would just be that as part of the budget process that we put in place seven years ago, what City Manager brought forward is this year round budget process so there are no surprises when it comes time to adopt the budget. We have these discussions during the budget updates that we're bringing before you all. We did the one-on-one briefings with you all. We did the budget overview presentation a month earlier than we've ever done in the past. We did that in early June as opposed to early July.
 to ensure that we were listening to the full council. So representative of Nello, Hernandez, several of you brought up, you wanted to make sure that we're briefing you all staying on top of this much sooner than we had done in the past and we did that this year. So we've had these discussions. I think we've done a very thorough briefing. This budget's been presented multiple times going all the way back to February when we did the five-year forecast on what the budget and how that development plan was gonna look as we talked about the phasing in not going back to the 100%.
 to ensure that we're being financially responsible as we look into the future, not only for this coming year, but as we look five years down the road with those costs that we know we're going to have. And so whether it's public safety, which will continue to be one of the main drivers, not only on the capital side with the public safety bond, but also with the increasing of the staffing that's required in order to staff those facilities. So as we're adding the new police regional commands, as we're adding the new fire stations,
 The city council over the last five plus years, going into year six now, has been approving the 10-year plan for our police department. And that plan, again, was to add the 300 net increased officers to the police force, which have been declining over a few decades. And so that's one of the main drivers is the collective bargaining, the police fire staffing plans. Again, those two departments make up, again, almost two-thirds of the city's budget. And so...
 If we're looking at reductions and where those things are going to come from again, it's going to go back to non-essential vacant positions or one time cost to ensure that we're not having those reoccurring, which is something that would have to be added back in next year. Yes, sir. And I thank you for that. But at the end of the day, I do appreciate you looking at it and bringing it back to me and the rest of the Council. Robert or Mr. Gonzalez, do you know how this would anticipate how this would impact bringing back our services?
 So Robert did a really good job of kind of giving a strong overview of the points we've made to Council in previous presentations. The one thing I would add would be that none of this that we're talking about right now is a surprise to anybody. In that we've talked about all these things. We've talked about whether it's neglect, we've talked about whether it's committing funds on a set-aside basis.
 so that you don't have the bleeding taking place, whether it's streets, whether it's police and fire equipment replacement, that we should pay for with pay as you go dollars, not issue more bonds. And so we've been diligently working on that over the years because we've been listening to the community, we've been listening to council,
 And again, it's backed by the resident survey. It's backed by the CR process, all the issues that you get and request throughout the year. We do the budget chime in process. We do the student budget advisory survey that we do as well. We have all these different points of access to input and feedback from the community.
 And in addition to that, we also paid attention by not increasing the rate.
 There's a lot of discussion after a lot of chatter, and I've heard that directly when I do meetings out in the public, and they talk about the tax rate. And I talk about the cost of living, and I talk about the comparison between our city and other cities, and it's a lot less expensive to live here when you factor all the taxes, and you factor all the cost of living issues, including housing. And so when you factor all of that into it, those are the kinds of discussions we have with the public.
 But in terms of looking at service delivery and bringing back services, we're not at 100% today. And every single one of you has asked about whether it's senior citizen centers, whether it's after school care, whether it's museums in different parts of the city that y'all have individually asked for, whether it's more library services and hours, or whether it's rec centers, whether it's the new facilities that we're opening,
 So we're, you know, we have to maintain the older facilities and we're opening new state-of-the-art facilities that have to be maintained and have to be run with the people. So when you take everything off the table in terms of you're not going to touch any people, since that's already been said several times. And let's just say the numbers is 20% off the, you know, you say 80% is people. 2% off of that 20% that's left in the budget is only $1.9 million dollars.
 You had a crack at that whenever we recommended the streets allocation on the last council meeting that we had, where we had 3 million go towards streets and half a million, 2.5 million go to the streets, and half a million go to the payment condition index to be updated. So I have said to each and every one of you that whenever you say, why isn't my project on the list? I've said, well, only money is going to solve that.
 Because we're either going through a meritorious process like the PCI or we present things to the full council and we all approve them as a body. So as I've said to all of you, more money is the only way to get more projects on the ground. We have a lot of commitments that are coming up and they're not going away.
 That 10-year plan for the police department is not going away. Adding fire personnel because of that station we're going to open up because of the public safety bond, that's not going away. CBA is not going away. And it's going to get more competitive in terms of market adjustments relative to the CBA because of what's going on around the country in terms of just the hiring process and how difficult it has become for police officers.
 So we have a lot of challenges. I think we've met them head on. We have, I think, addressed all of the Council's concerns. Is everyone absolutely 100% happy? Probably not. But this budget does address a lot of the key priorities that the Council as a body said that they were interested in funding and interested in getting done for their district and the different parts of the city that have asked for this.
 throughout your meetings, throughout the CR process, throughout different emails that you get. So I think we've been extremely responsive to y'all's requests. And this budget, I believe, has all the things that were outlined, not only from the community in terms of their feedback and all the surveys that I've referenced, but also the council and what they've repeated in terms of overlapping
 and what that feedback has given us. So that's not anecdotal. I mean, you could argue that the chime in is anecdotal, but it mirrors the resident survey. I know a lot of you hear from different people, but that's not a survey.
 And so we have tried and truly tested all the information that we've received and we can back it up. So, I mean, that's all I have to add. I mean, we can bring you back different scenarios and I don't know where it came up that we're not gonna come back and scare anybody or anything like that, but it is what it is. I mean, the numbers are what they are. And then when you look at the allocation of, well, this pot of money where it doesn't affect anybody,
 And it's gonna affect something. It's gonna affect a service somehow, some way. Because we're not at 100% now. And I don't think that, I don't know that that's, I mean, I think we've said that over and over. I don't know that that's resonated, but we're not at 100% today.
 And I thank you for that. And I anticipated that we would continue to show how we can put fear in people. And I don't want to put fear in anybody. I mean, let's look at travel. Let's look at memberships. Let's look at different supplies. We don't need to look at people. We don't need to look at services.
 There's things that we can look at. Anybody can tighten their belt. Any business can do that. I can tell you that my office did not renew the membership for the Conference of Mayors, which was 28, 20, because I didn't wanna spend that money. These are things we can look at. Not personnel, not police, not fire. Let's look at travel, memberships, things that really,
 really can impact the community and save money to them. And I don't want to put fear in people. I told somebody that this was going to happen, that we're going to come back and tell us that we're going to lose personnel, we're going to lose services. I don't want to do that. Let's look at it and stop talking, and let's look at it and see if it is possible. That's all I'm saying. But, you know, we keep talking about how it's going to impact police and fire. That was my beginning. I don't want to do that.
 You know personnel I don't want to do that. Can we look at travel memberships? I know I didn't renew mine, which will be that's probably part of the budget that there's 26 $20,000 We don't that we can cut right there and then and things like that. I am we have three people We're down the two. We're looking maybe add another one. Maybe we won't because we're looking at things as as
 How do we tighten our belt without affecting our and I don't want to talk about it anymore because I just want to sit down and take a look at it. And at the end of the day, see if we agree or disagree. I'm okay to disagree, but I don't want to continue to say the same thing. Mayor, I don't know what part that I missed came across as what you're describing.
 If I did my apologies, but I I don't think I said anything relative to what you just described I know and I just want to work with you and mr Cortina's and the rest of the council and look at and didn't in the day We'll see what's there and not there That's all I'm asking and and I and I don't and at the end of the day if I have to be to the budget because No one is willing to give me that opportunity. It'd be a shame. It really would be but I will do it and
 Well, again, just for clarification for you and for the council, I am not throwing out any kind of concerning comments like you've described. I'm just simply outlining the fixed costs and the cost drivers that we have. I did not say we're going to cut in those areas. So I don't know. That's what I'm saying. We can look at memberships, travel. We can look at non-ancillary things that we can look at.
 That's not a problem. Anyway, we're going to, I know that. I just want to make it clear that I don't want you or the council to misconstrue my comments. I am not saying that those cost drivers that I'm going to go in and cut in those areas and bring back those scenarios. I didn't say that. I just want to be clear about that because I think that's what you construed from my comments, and that's not what I said, sir. I appreciate that. Thank you, sir.
 uh representative rodriguez followed by representative molinar thank you mayor um so i just want to let councilman at the my first two years here um i actually donated the salary from from one of my part-time staff back to the community um you know that could have been money better used for projects i know that in my district there's a lot of me for speed cushions i can't i
 i can't emphasize that enough um i'm willing to look at at my discretionary funds i can't speak for the rest of council um it's money that is being saved and it's just accumulating assimilating i'm absolutely willing to look at my discretionary funds and seeing if there's anything there that we can um keep in the budget like from what mr gonzalez said for projects um in my case
 speed cushions is my project so i'm definitely willing to look at that and i'm more than willing to give back as much as i possibly can thank you thank you represent molinar thank you for that thank you mr mayor um
 I'm not sure who from the police department is on, whether it's Chief Zarud or Chief Assias or city manager, if you can direct us or answer this question. But let's just say from the calendar year, January to now, for 2021, how many people have the El Paso Police Department lost? Whether that's through normal attrition, call it retirement, termination, resignation, unfortunately, possibly death, I'm not sure.
 If anybody could answer that question. Good afternoon, Chief Silva. I would have to look that up and get back to you on that.
 Yeah, and I just want to make sure everyone hears it again for the 10th time that I am not looking at cutting anything to do with public safety, police, fire, anything to do with them. That we need to continue because we have been, it's been very important to make sure as the city grows and the voters voted on $413 million public safety bond, and we'll have to fill those facilities as they come on board.
 And I agree with you, Mayor. I'm not asking anything to be cut back from the police department. I'm just going to be looking at facts and reality. So based on whatever the, let's just say it's 25 people, use that as an example. So you're going to have 25 people that are not being compensated through salary and benefits.
 So that's a cost savings. We currently have an academy. Unfortunately, we've lost some people in that academy. Those people are being compensated and they will continue to be compensated. We hope they continue and we hope they graduate. But in between now and their graduation date, there's going to be more people losing for based just on attrition.
 So, and I can't really speak about the fire department. So that's going to be two things. So if you look at the numbers and do the math, you're going to have a cost savings there regardless of what it is. But I'm not saying we're going to cut the police department. This is a natural process. And that's one of the biggest challenges that we faced. I know, for example, when I was on police department, I know Representative Rivera can probably echo that. I'll let him speak for himself. So it's not something new.
 So there will be a cost savings there, but it's not wanting that we want that cost savings. So that's one point. The second point that I would like to make, which is going to be...
 Not pretty, but I won't sugarcoat it for anybody. We currently have the Office of Economic Development being housed at an off-site, and we are paying leasing space, office space, to another private entity. And how much is that costing us a year? And what is the lease end date for that? And it's because if it's going to be renewed, then we're going to be paying more. I'm sure we can save some money there.
 Sir, can I ask a question just to make sure I'm clear? You wanted to know from January 2021 to present how many officers are left? Okay. That's correct, Chief Seeligbaum. Thank you. Representative Molina? I had that number on the number of officer separations. So our budget staff, that's one of the things that worked very closely with the police department on. They tracked that. And so I've got for this fiscal year, September through June,
 there are 42 officer separations, 42 police uniform separations. Okay, so through June. So go ahead. Yeah, so to what you were saying, that's a good question, sir. So just so that the community and everybody listening is aware, our budget office works very closely with the police department to ensure we do capture all of that savings. So we work very closely on looking at the timing of the academies, what the number of cadets they're recruiting for,
 the potential turnover because you're correct, they do see some of those individuals that do begin the academy end up leaving.
 We factor all of that in when we're coming up with the budget for both police and fire. So one of the things we want to be very cautious on though is that for example at the police department if they do lose a couple of cadets in one academy that the following academy what we've been doing in order to stay on target with that net 300 plan is to allow them to overfill the next academy to ensure that they continue to stay on track
 Because you're well aware, especially now that they've increased the length of the training going to over 10 months, 11 months now, I believe. If you lose in a year on training because you're not fully filling those academies, then obviously you're going to end up losing about two years because of the time with the field training officer and everything before they get on their own. So, again, the budget office, again, works very, very closely with the police department. They've gotten extremely, extremely efficient.
 coordinated as far as coming up with all of that projected savings not only on the academies but they expect to turn over from existing officers to ensure that we're accounting for all of that abnormal attrition savings that we see throughout the year so and it's not just our police and fire departments we do that with every department because we know every department will not have every position filled every single day of the fiscal year we know that that's not a fact although some departments like to argue with us and they think they will
 We know based on the historical data, looking at the number of positions they have, the number of attrition that they normally have, we utilize all of that data, factor all of that in when we're developing the budget. Okay. And Mr. Cortinas, thank you very much. I appreciate that response. And it's great to know that your office and others are doing that due diligence to come up with the budget. But I just, and once again, Mayor, I'm not saying to cut salaries. I'm not cutting anybody else. Thank you for that. I'm just saying it's a fact that it happens.
 And so we need to acknowledge that fact, and we need to be prepared. And obviously Mr. Cortines and his staff and everybody else is doing a wonderful job on that because OK, that's that. But now to the second part. You know like I said we do have an Office of Economic Development being currently housed in a totally separate place. We have a lease there. When did this lease begin? When did the lease end? And how much are we paying for that lease? That would be to me a significant con savings.
 and that's what i want to look at things that we might be able to do so and that was a great point there and like i said memberships travel expenses there's so many things we can look at well let's add leases to that no offense oscar leisure thank you sir thank you so some of the memberships are required for example our capital improvement department we have engineers that are required to maintain certifications some of that travel is also included as far as maintaining those certifications
 So, I mean, those are areas again that we just like every account that we have for every city department continue to monitor our budget office does a really good job of working very closely with the departments collaborating very well to ensure that we're providing them the resources that they need to provide the services for our community and also taking care of our workforce on top of that.
 And I agree with you to a point, but like I said, how many people are currently being housed outside in a city building that or in a building that is not owned or leased by the city? So that would be interesting to know. So I would request that information later on. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The development department has responded that the lease is just under $88,000, and they're looking to see when that expires. $88,000 per year? Yes, sir. Plus expenses? Yes.
 Lights rent whatever over I mean rent. I mean lights and any other expenses That's a good start good job, mr. Cortina's, thank you Who's I don't see who's there you are I just saw your name pop up and then you Yes, ma'am both go represent Manila followed by representative Rivera I
 Yeah, I mean, I think Representative Molina was bringing that up. You know, I'm the person who, at the beginning of this conversation, just asked for actuals, and I understand where... Sorry, there's a lot of feedback. You're doing okay. You don't have feedback here. Okay, good. No, it's fine now.
 Still there. But, you know, I get where you're coming from, Robert, right? Because I just randomly opened or I opened my budget book to just random departments, right? If you look at animal services, I think there was like a 5% increase this year. And that's all for employees and employee benefits, right? And so I completely see what you're saying. It's like most of our increase in this budget is coming from employees and employee benefits, right?
 And we don't want to cut that. And so I would like to see the actuals on are there other places that can be cut. And I think the conversation is becoming a little contentious because there is that fact. But if you look at IT, right, again, there's a 13% increase. More than half of that comes from employees and employee benefits. But there are things like travel and outside contracts that did increase, but so nominally that I'm not sure that cutting those things
 would have that much of an impact, right? And that's why I would like the departments to say, if we have to cut 2%, this is what it's gonna be. And if that's going to be salaries and employees, and we're gonna have to have that conversation, but those departments should be making those decisions, unless this council wants to sit through and go item by item and start cutting things, which I would be happy to have a meeting to sit down and do that if we all wanna go through and do that work.
 But I think we're overstepping a little bit.
 I guess what I'm trying to say is that like, you know, the mayor has asked for something. I understand where y'all are coming from, where the biggest increase right now is salaries. But I would like to see actuals on if we did have to do that, what would it look like? And I'm not saying that I support that. I'm not saying that I don't support that. But I do need to see those actual numbers to be able to make a decision. And so the back and forth with the mayor over fighting about what those actuals are, it's a little disheartening. You know, it's like.
 We're asking for that let's just see it. I also I mean what is our total budget and what is 2 percent even look like Robert. And you can't do that based on our whole budget right because you have grants. If you back out of something general fund if you back out police and fire and all personal services so all salaries and benefits and taxes a 2 percent reduction would be just under 1.9 million. So the city manager was right on when he said that 1.9 million dollar amount.
 Which is exactly what we put into streets, right? But and I get that argument. I completely see what you're saying. It's easy to say we just added 1.9 million. And if you want to get out, what was the last thing to come in? And I, you know, I wish this this conversation in this work had happened, you know, two or three months ago. So
 we could be doing it a little bit more. But I just, I need to see some actuals to be able to make that decision is what I'm saying. And we don't wanna see employees, we don't wanna see benefits. And I would like to hear from the departments on what that would look like for them, if there was enough time to do that. Representative Inouye,
 I appreciate your comments. And what I'll just simply say is, because you described it as arguments, there's no argument. We're just simply providing information. So we're trying to communicate. That's how we're doing. But with regard to what the question is, if the council wants us to do this,
 and that's the will of the council will do it. I think it's been drilled in my head about, you know, that the body is the one that directs. And so if that's what y'all want us to do, we will do that. We'll come back and we'll present different options. But as I've described, and what Robert just reiterated, what I said earlier, is we take all personnel costs out, we're talking about 1.9 million, and it's going to,
 I mean, there's only certain sections that you can cut. And so you have to also keep in mind we're not at 100%. So that's not an argument. That's not a complaint. That's not a retort. That's just a fact. And so just want to tell you all that if that's what you all want, we will do that. We've always done that. Anything that anybody, any nine of you have asked, we've worked the issue and come back and presented it. We're happy to do it.
 And I want to be clear, I'm not saying that I want that done. I need to make a decision, and I need facts to make that decision. What I would say is, Robert, you said $1.9 million. That's 2% of every department's $1.9 million. How does that impact the taxpayer? Not of every department. It's after you take out everything that everyone has said to take out. It's 2% of what's left. Go ahead, Robert. Okay.
 So 1.9 million is equivalent to I'm going to round here. It's equivalent to approximately half a penny on the tax rate. And so that I mean that's like point zero zero zero zero one impact for a taxpayer. Yes I will tell you give me just a second. Thank you Representative Nadella. And with that I look forward to you all sharing that with me and the rest of council. And all I asked was for. I was waiting for that number from Robert so he was going to get that to me really quickly.
 Equivalent to $7 of savings. $7 of savings. For the year. For the year. $7. So what's that? What's that per month, Robert? $0.58 per month. And that's to my point. It doesn't sound like I'm asking for a lot now, does it? $0.61 a month. Yeah. Now we're not asking for a lot. We're just asking to look at how we can help our community. And, you know, we talked about that we ask for a lot of projects. We need a lot of things. And all we need is money and we can get it all done.
 You know, that homeowner, all he needs is money to pay his bills. If he had a little bit more money, he could take his family to the ballpark if he just had a little bit more money. But instead, he's doing exactly what every business and every homeowner in El Paso needs to do today is tighten their belt because they don't have that money. So I'm just I'm getting them. So instead of two percent per department, one point nine is isn't.
 We say insignificant amount, right? In comparison to the total budget. Does it make more sense to look at specific things, right? Representative Molinar mentioned the $88,000 lease, but then also there's a cost to move in, right? So since he asked that, what is the, you know, let's pull out specific things that we think to get to 1.9. To me, it's more impactful than asking each department to decrease their
 their amounts, considering that for some departments, their only increases were employees and employee benefits. So that's just, that's, those are my suggestions. I don't know where I stand on this. I just would need actuals to make any kind of decision. Thank you. With regard to, like, leases, we've looked at that across the board. It's not something that just happened overnight in terms of...
 how we look at the properties we own and how we can get out of things that we lease. Like, for example, I think that the fire department pays quite a bit on their lease. I want to say it's over $200,000 on their lease. And so when we move them into a headquarters through the public safety bond package, they won't have to be paying that anymore. So we've looked at things like that across the board, not just...
 happenstance and not reactionary to these different costs that we bear. And with respect to the ED move, we also had savings in another department in order to offset that. So we didn't just unilaterally do that. When we did that, we were making sure we had savings in another area relative to lease costs as well. So just needed to add that to the council has full context.
 Thank you, and I can tell you that I'm having a really really hard time as the mayor of the city of El Paso He got elected by the people of El Paso that you and mr Cortina's are trying to justify why you will not work with me and show it to me That is about as disrespectful as I've seen by both of you and I'm very disappointed because all I've asked is for you guys to show it to me and let's look at it together and we may or may not agree and
 And all I've had right now is why you don't want to show it to me because you've done everything possible in the budget that you can justify why it happened. I'm getting very, I didn't want to get upset, but I'm getting disappointed to be honest with you. Because all I've asked is please show it to me. And I'm going to ask one more time very respectfully that all I want to do is look at it and sit down and share it with myself and the rest of council and see if it makes sense.
 I want to make sure you don't misconstrue my comments because I did not say that.
 I said we were happy to provide it. I said that more than once. I don't understand where you get that. We're not showing you that. And by the way, the budget, you've had it this whole time. You've not held anything from you. So I don't understand, Mayor. I just want to sit down and look at travel, look at memberships, look at things like that that are. I wouldn't say that something like that that's not accurate, Mayor, whenever I did not say that. I don't want you to put words in my mouth.
 You know, and I never would because you always say that if I do. There are times that we're happy to provide the information. The information has been provided also already. So please don't put words in my mouth there. I didn't say that. You know what, Mr. Contreras? Now you're being disrespectful, and I'm going to ask you to stop at this point.
 You're being disrespectful and you and I are getting along very well. And all I'm asking is for a presentation and an opportunity to look at it. That's it. And I don't want to continue the conversation, to be honest with you. Mayor, we said we would provide it. Thank you. I appreciate that. I don't understand why you're saying this is disrespectful whenever we said we would provide it. Okay. Thank you. We're happy to provide it. Thank you, sir. And with that, Mr. Cortinas, can you do the present? Let's go to the presentation, Mayor Pro Temp.
 If you don't mind, please. Mr. Cortinas. I just I think it's important that I don't really feel that staff is being very disrespectful at this point. I think that they've been clear in presenting to us over the last six months numerous budget updates in terms of economic development in terms of all of our departments where all of us have had the opportunity to ask questions about this budget and they're willing to work with us moving forward as well.
 Um, I also think too that it's important that in terms of us housing our economic development department in an outside building, that is an economic development strategy. And I know that you feel it's extremely important, Mayor, that we put the best face forward when we're bringing people outside of our community to come invest in El Paso. That's why you believe so much in the FAM tours that we have here. And having our economic development department in a
 refurbished building, a building that also houses our El Paso Chamber of Commerce and a building that also houses the Borderplex Alliance is an economic development strategy. Now perhaps some people don't believe in having economic development strategies, but having those build, having that building house all three of those institutions
 puts a really great face forward when we're trying to increase economic development and we're trying to increase foreign direct investment from people from the outside wanting to invest in our community. And people don't necessarily care so much about where they're going, but they want to be able to go to one place where they can talk to people to find out what is going on in this community and how they can put their money and their investments in our community.
 And so thank you again. Thank you for that. And I do agree with Representative Molinar that it's a great place to start looking. And when we're looking at things, we can say, but I thank you for that. That's really the point I had. Thank you, sir. Mr. Cortinas?
 Sure. For the record, I don't believe that I was disrespectful either. So I was just answering the questions that were asked by the members of the council. Mayor, I don't believe anybody said that we were not willing to meet with you. So again, just for the record, I do not think it was disrespectful. Thank you. I look forward to meeting with both of you. Appreciate it. I.T., if you'll bring up the presentation, please. Thank you. You can go to the next slide. So look at the budget calendar date. So this again is just a recap on what we have pending. So again, back on August 2nd, City Council, you all approved the introduction of the tax rate.
 which again maintains the overall same tax rate as we have had for the last two consecutive years now. Today we are having our public hearing on not only our budget, but we also have the Mass Transit public hearing as well. Next week, August 24th, we will have the in-person City Council meeting, at which time we will have the public hearing on the tax rate and also the adoption of the budget and the city's tax rate. Again, that in-person City Council meeting, similar to what we ended up having to do last year, is the direct result of the requirement related to the public hearing on the tax rate.
 uh carla can chime in if she'd like to but that's one of the items that was not included in the governor's executive order and so right now we want to show that we're in compliance with the requirement of that hearing and that it takes place in a city facility so we will need to have that in-person meeting on next tuesday next slide please so again as we've been talking about as city manager referenced and talked about earlier again the budget focus that we've been talking about now for over six months again maintaining the overall same property tax rate again for the second year
 The City Council again increased the exemption so provided more relief for over 65 and our disabled community members again over 52,000 again 52,000 homesteads that have either the over 65 or the disabled exemption which is providing them tax relief on the value of their home to the tune of $42,500 off the value of the property so an increase of $2,500 on that exemption.
 And finally, the third point there, which we're going to get into here a little bit later when I talk about the budget highlights of what's included in the budget. But again, the focus and what we've been talking about restoring those high priority services, which were impacted by the COVID-19 in the current year. And again, restoring those in a phased in approach. Next slide, please. So as we talk about long term financial sustainability, again, remembering that we're not only worried about what's going to happen this fiscal year, but again, it's important that we look ahead.
 to next year, three years, four years, five years down the road to ensure that the city is in a strong financial position. So utilizing strategies, again, of what we presented of looking at the cost in the future that we know of. So, for example, the collective bargaining, the public safety staffing plans, the remaining quality of life projects that will be completed, and the operating costs associated with those, looking at increasing our fund balance and our budget stabilization fund.
 something that reversed the trend from 2012 to 2014 in which the city's fund balance reserves had declined to the tune of about nine million dollars we've reversed that trend over the last going on six years now to the tune of almost 42 million dollars of increase in our fund balance and our budget stabilization fund maximizing debt refinancing to generate savings and minimize the impact on the tax rate this is something that was critical in this current year something you all took action on back in april so originally this budget did not include
 any capital funding to continue moving forward with those capital projects, whether it's public safety, quarter of life, any of the street projects, any of the infrastructure projects. But through the refinancing, we were able to do to generate over 20, almost $21 million total of savings in this current fiscal year from that refinancing, locking in that low interest rate. We were able to get those capital projects up and going. On a slide I'm going to have in the presentation next week, but I'll talk about it now when we talk about the property tax rate,
 The debt portion of our property tax rate has remained relatively flat right around 28 cents over the last five fiscal years. So if you look at the property tax rate for the debt service component, we've actually done an extremely good job of maintaining that portion of the tax rate through the refinancing, through taking advantage of the low interest rates. So while there is a slight increase from 28.3 to 28.6 cents on the debt portion of the tax rate next year,
 It's important to remember that that includes the $180 million that we'll be bringing forth at the next council meeting in order to continue moving forward with the public safety bond projects, the street projects, and the various projects approved by the, already approved by the city council and those various capital improvement plans. The achievement of quality and performance excellence through organizational focus and continuous improvement. You all have seen multiple presentations by a performance office through the transformation presentations done by all of our city departments.
 how they've utilized Lean Six Sigma, the BODGES criteria in order to become more efficient providing a higher level of customer service and savings and cost avoidance to our city. There's been a lot of discussion about economic development. Again, strategic use of the new economic development funding that we were able to negotiate as part of the El Paso Electric sale through the franchise agreement. Having access to that as an additional financial tool as far as economic development concerns,
 again, in order to align directly with our strategic plan and again, be able to attract those jobs to our community in order to grow our tax base. And then finally, the last point there, working on creating and implementing a plan to address the unfunded pension, something that's in our 25 by 2025. And again, this is for our police, fire, city employees. So again, we are very fiscally sound right now in our current pension plans for both police and fire and our city employees at almost 80% funded.
 However, we need to develop and have a long-term plan policy in place that addresses how we're going to continue to ensure that we maintain at least that standard or continue to improve and address the remaining 20 percent that is unfunded. Next slide please. So as we showed back on February 15th as we look to our five-year forecast when we began the FY 2022 budget development process you'll see there was originally a pretty significant gap 21.8 million dollars.
 It was through the phased in approach again. The biggest portion of that was from the unfunded vacant positions. So again, as I talked about already today, not funding 100% of those vacant positions, but again, phasing those back in. We did originally when we developed the FY 2022 budget only reinstate 4.8 million of the residential street project funding to set aside funds. So again, there was about $2.2 million of savings from that.
 We were able to restore that with the action that the council took here recently to add the additional 3 million and the 9.2 million over the last couple of weeks. And so through those cost saving measures, again, through the vacant positions, now going back to 100% in all areas that we're able to close that gap for fiscal year 2022. However, as we look ahead to fiscal year 2023, if you go to the next slide, IT, as we look to fiscal year 2023, again, based on conservative revenue estimates, obviously with the impact of COVID,
 still some uncertainty related to how that's going to continue to impact our sales tax. We have been very fortunate that we've seen strong sales tax growth over the last several months. However, we know a large part of that has been due to the stimulus dollars provided by the federal government. So we know or are expecting to see a downward trend in the sales tax collection as that money begins to dry up. But as we look to fiscal year 2023 and the increase there, we're looking at about a $37 million gap right now.
 So very similar to where we started, a little bit higher than where we started this year, 2022. So we're at 22 million now to 37 million. The biggest driver of that is again our public safety departments, our police and fire, as we're looking to not only be competitive with the collective bargaining agreements on pay and incentives, but again as we continue to increase the number of officers on both the police and add the number of firefighters necessary as part of those operating costs related to those public safety bond projects that were approved by the voters back in November 2019.
 Those costs also include the quarter of life bond project that have remaining operating costs associated with it. It also includes some form of compensation adjustment for our city employees. And so you'll see there that, again, on the revenue side, on an annual basis, we see about $10 million of new revenue on the general fund side. While on the expenditure side, we typically see $40 to $45 million of increased costs any time we begin the budget process.
 and so again it's through all of the various things that we talked about and making that deficit go away and balancing out the budget which we're able to do this fiscal year however if you look out even one more year fiscal year 2024 on the next slide that gap continues to widen so by phasing in not going back to the 100 percent that we've talked about for going on six plus months now on the next slide i t please in fiscal year 24 that gap continues to widen
 to just around $51 million. And so again, that gap continues to widen again as the cost of those officers and those firefighters primarily being driven by the collective bargaining impacts. So again, those pay scales are created and intended to make sure that the city is being competitive on the recruitment efforts, but also on the retainment efforts again to make sure that we're retaining our police force and that the additional staff we're adding through the additional academies
 is actually adding a net increase to both departments and that we're not seeing a decrease as a result of the attrition. On the next slide. So again, the original proposed budget, which we presented back on June 8th to you all, was at $473.2 million, was originally $31.2 million increase. You'll see there the largest driver being public safety, our infrastructure, which is our street department, our capital improvement department, and our Aquarium Life. Our Aquarium Life, which is the portfolio of our parks,
 recreation centers, senior centers, aquatics, museums, zoo, that department or that portfolio was severely impacted by the shutdown of all those facilities due to COVID. However, as we pointed out if you go to the next slide IT on slide number nine, as we look back to the pre-COVID budget in fiscal year 2020, the actual increase from fiscal year 2020 the pre-COVID to the fiscal year 2022 preliminary budget which was again presented on June 8th represents about a 15.3 million increase
 AT, can you go to the next slide, please? Slide nine. Thank you. So again, about a $15.3 million increase. And so several members of the council back when we presented this a few months ago had wanted us to really highlight where those increases were coming from. And one of the points that we were making was that a majority of these portfolios, a majority of these strategic goals are still below the pre-COVID levels. And so as we adjusted the current year budget to account for the impact from COVID, we're
 Next year's budget, which begins on September 1, we have multiple strategic goals that are still below that pre-COVID level. If you go to the next slide, IT, on slide 10, again, let's highlight that information from the pre-COVID budget, our fiscal year 2020 compared to the fiscal year 2022 proposed or preliminary budget, which was presented back in June and July. You'll see public safety there representing almost a $21 million increase. Next slide.
 Our IT and communications representing 1.6 million, and you'll see the remaining strategic goals coming in flat or still below the pre-COVID levels. So some of the highlights on the next slide, IT, looking at public safety. So what's included in the budget for next year? Public safety, the number one priority for this community. Again, looking at the collective bargaining impacts for both police and fire. Voting back in the academies, which were deferred for the current fiscal year. So again, our current year budget only included one police academy.
 and again that was intended to generate that savings so that we were able to maintain the overall same tax rate in the current year the budget for next year which begins on september 1 includes two police academies to get us back online with that net 300 plan that we've talked about looking at the fire department the budget for next year includes three fire academies in the current year there was only one budgeted and so next year's has three and this is to get them back to their optimal staffing level which unfortunately they've fallen below on this year
 due to COVID and the inability to have their academies this year due to the spacing issues. The budget for next year also includes additional 9-1-1 communication staffing. This is an area that Chief DiAgostino is seeing severe turnover on, so we've addressed that through some of the compensation efforts that we've done over the last several years, but there's additional staffing, so there's seven new positions in the budget for next year for 9-1-1 communications. Additionally, one of the priorities for Council is the Crisis Intervention Team, ensuring that we're continuing to fund that area.
 So there's a $1.2 million increase in next year's budget to continue to fund that effort. As we talk about the set-aside funds and the strategic use to minimize our use of debt, so having money in the budget on an annual basis to pay for things such as police cars, fire trucks, ambulances, or public safety radios which need to be replaced. The budget for next year again which begins on September 1 and what's been presented for several months now includes $7.8 million of set-aside funds for those type of items.
 And again, this is something that the city council has approved over the last several years, but prior to three or four years ago, did not exist in the city's operating budget. If the city wanted to go buy police cars and fire trucks, the city was financing those type of items. The city council has approved, again, these set-aside funds so that we can begin to get on a replacement cycle to begin to address not only the police cars, but the fire trucks, ambulances, and some of the important capital replacement items that those departments need.
 Again, another key priority for the City Council has been the discussion about body cameras. So we've applied for several state and federal grants. If we're recipients of one of those grants, more than likely there's going to be a match that's going to be required, a city match. So the budget for next year includes just over $400,000 for a potential city match related to body cameras. On the next slide, when we talk about streets, again, the number one priority we hear from Chime In response, by far and away, even above public safety.
 something that the city council hears about, I'm sure on a daily basis, is the need to improve our street condition. The budget for next year with the action this council's taken over the last couple of weeks of adding the additional money into the budget for next year means that we have $20 million total next year for street resurfacing projects, 500,000 of that which will be used on the pavement condition index study to refresh that, but a total of $20 million for street resurfacing projects. That is significant. That is helping us get caught up on what was deferred due to COVID over the last year plus,
 And so again, $20 million in the budget for next year, $20 million of set-aside funds that will not have to come in the form of financing or debt. That's $20 million again built into the budget for next year to go to where those projects were deferred and get us back on track with the projects that have been approved and presented by Sam Rodriguez. You all saw a presentation, a pretty thorough presentation on the Vision Zero Traffic Intersection Safety Program.
 This is a new program and the budget for next year again, which begins on September 1. We have $1.8 million to go towards those efforts. And again, it's very, very unfortunate that on way too often basis we hear of a pedestrian fatality, a traffic fatality. And so this again, this new program, which was presented by Hannah Williams, did an excellent job presenting that information.
 Working with multiple departments throughout the city, state as well, in order to ensure we're beginning to become more proactive and doing everything we can to protect not only our pedestrians but our motorists as well and our city. This budget for next year also includes the $500,000 for our ADA on-demand request funding. Again, something that was added starting back in 2016. Prior to that, there was no money in the annual budget to begin to do on-demand requests for ADA projects.
 so this budget for next year again includes 500 000 for those requests that we receive from our ada community to be able to go out and do uh curb cup curb cuts and various types of improvements for our community to again increase the access for those individuals who require that again another discussion that we talked a lot about is the neighborhood traffic management plan this budget includes 250 000 for that program for next year
 There's also an additional $200,000 that was included in the 2020 capital plan, which this council has already approved. So between those two funding sources, we have almost half a million dollars for the NTMP, which in speaking with Richard Bristol, he assures me that it's an adequate amount to begin to address the backlog that they have within that program. On the next slide, we're talking about quality of life. Again, I talked about how this is an area that due to COVID and the shutdown of the city facilities was impacted in the current fiscal year.
 We've heard a lot about not only from the senior community of wanting the senior centers open, but also from our libraries, our park facilities, our aquatic facilities. So this budget for next year includes almost $11 million increase for those services. Budget for next year also includes additional $1.5 million for our sports complex facility maintenance. This was a high priority for the council a few years ago. This was added into the budget.
 So again, that's $1.5 million to, again, provide that additional facility maintenance that are sports complexes. The budget for next year also includes $500,000 for an automated irrigation pilot project. So again, as we talk about looking at the budget and some of the areas that could be reduced, one of the areas that's a fixed cost that we deal with is our utilities. So we obviously operate a lot of city facilities, over 200-plus facilities.
 which require electricity we have over 200 plus parks which require water to ensure that they stay green and so one of the things we have built into the budget for nature is how do we become more efficient and so we have a pilot project utilizing automated irrigation that's to the tune of about 500 000 to see how that project will work to see if there's an opportunity for the future of potentially reducing our water usage again becoming more efficient and saving money at the same time
 The budget for next year also includes restoring the funding for our Winterfest program in the downtown area, which has been hugely successful. Unfortunately, this past year due to COVID, only the virtual option was available, so that was deferred in this past year. But again, restoring that and again attracting communities, providing a different type of amenity for our community to come downtown and enjoy the Winterfest in the downtown area. On the next slide.
 Here's a list of all the different facilities that are going to be opened or have been opened already and will be open in the next fiscal year. Again, you'll see the list there of what's already been opened, what's in the planning stages to be opened back up. Some of those that you see at the bottom there that have been planned for next year have already been opened back up or in the process of being opened back up. So again, when I talk about that $11 million increase for our quality of life services, these are the facilities that are going, are utilizing that funding to provide those services for our community. And then on the next slide.
 When we talk about our workforce again, we talked a little bit about this earlier, again, providing a minimum 1.5% compensation adjustment for our city employees. You all recall in the current fiscal year budget that you all approved last year, we did not provide a percentage increase, but instead we provided a one-time lump sum payment to our city employees. This budget for next year provides a minimum 1.5% plus internal equity adjustments based on the compensation study that was done a while back by the consultant.
 the budget for next year also does not include again does not include health care cost increase for our civilian employees again so in order to provide some not only compensation adjustment but again to provide that relief for our 6 000 plus city employees in particular talking about the civilians no health care cost increase for them again the city has taken on that full increase to the tune of almost two million dollars of increased health care costs for the city
 Funding the Shape It Up Wellness Program. So again, encouraging our city employees to be active physically and mentally, taking advantage of that $1,800 annually, up to $1,800 annually. And then additionally, utilizing that healthcare savings account, which if you're in the consumer-driven healthcare plan, the city will provide, if it's yourself, $500. If it's you and your family, up to $1,000. And that's funding that will stay with you. It does not expire. So if you don't use it in one year, it will roll over to the following year.
 or if you leave the city, you can take that with you. The next slide, again, just showing you the change that's been made to the proposed budget. Again, we proposed the $473.2 million budget. The city council took action here recently to add the additional 3 million for residential street resurfacing and the PCI study refresh, bringing the total FY 2022 general fund revised budget to $476.2 million. And then on the final slide, again, just to recap on the calendar,
 Again, August 24th, we have our in-person City Council meeting. We will have the public hearing on the tax rate and the adoption of the budget and the city's tax rate as well. So I'll be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. I don't see anyone. Oh, yes, I do have. I do have Representative LaSarga. Representative LaSarga. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say that I believe Mr. Gonzalez said it best, that this budget has addressed a lot of the key items that,
 that were outlined from the council and the community. We aren't at 100%, and I believe that we had asked the city manager to bring back services, and I agree with the comments that Reps. Hernandez and Swartzbein have made concerning this item. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Salcido, please, followed by Representative Rivera.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Robert, for this presentation. I just wanted to share I am all for requesting all the information needed to be able to make any decision. I am hearing my colleagues' requests and also hearing staff say that they are more than happy to provide the information being requested. So I believe both are in agreement on how we will move forward, and I'm looking forward to seeing how the different scenarios will impact the budget that has been presented today. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Rivera?
 Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Cortinas, on slide 15, what year did you say that no health cost was going to be, was not going to be there? I'm sorry, I missed it on that one. So in the current year, we had no health care increase for those that were in the CDHP. And so this is for a calendar year. Our health care plan starts on the calendar year. So January 1. Actually, employees are going to go through re-enrollment here pretty soon, beginning in October. And so these rates, again, will maintain, will be the same as we move into the next calendar year. Okay.
 Thank you. And that was okay. That was it, Mayor. Thank you very much, Mr. Cortez. Great work on the presentation, sir. Thank you. And with that, there's no other questions, so we can close the public hearing. Mayor, Ms. Neiman has her hand up. I'm not sure if she needs to comment. Oh, I didn't see it. Ms. Neiman. Yes, sir. Good morning. Thank you. How are you? Sorry, I did not see you there.
 DIRECTOR RIVERA- It's okay. I just wanted to reiterate what Robert started at the beginning of the meeting. Under the tax code council is required to have
 next week's meeting in a pub in the meeting in a place that is a public place that is easily accessible to the public. As we all know during the pandemic we met last year at the convention center. We are recommending to have the public hearing once again here at City Hall on August 24th to comply with the requirements of the tax code that it's a building that the public normally has access to. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you for that clarification.
 And with that, we can close the public hearing. Mayor, I will call one last time for any public comment. Is there anyone in the queue that would like to speak regarding the proposed budget? If so, star six to unmute your telephone. If anyone would like to speak during this public hearing on the proposed budget, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. I don't see anyone coming forward, Mayor, and nobody signed up to speak on this item. So at this time...
 Mayor I have a point of clarification to Ms. Neiman. Of course. Thank you Mayor. In terms of an in-person meeting next week at City Hall as per Dr. Aronza's anticipated mandate we would be required to wear a mask while in council chambers. Yes sir that's correct. OK. Thank you. And so and so will the public that will be available or be allowed to come into the chambers. OK.
 but they're also able to carry a concealed weapon without a permit while in city council chambers as well that will not take effects or until september 1st good to know thank you thank you so at this time council may we have a motion to close the public hearing at 11 51 a.m and postpone the final vote on the budget until august 24th 2021 second
 There's a motion and a second to close the public hearing and postpone the final vote on the budget until August 24th, 2021. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Representative Anelo. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Dizarra.
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 45 This is discussion in action on the resolution that the city reviewed and approves the issuance of the unlimited tax bonds series 2021 by Paseo de Leste Municipal Utility District number six There is a motion and a second to approve item number 45 Yes, please on that motion mayor pro Tem Schwartzweil representative Vanilla
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 46. This is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services to perform mechanical and electrical services on a task order basis with Bath Group, Inc., EMA Engineering and Consulting, and Park Hill, Inc. Motion to approve. Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 46. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello.
 Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 47 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services with Mijares Mora Architects, Inc. for a project known as El Paso Fire Department Special Operations Division Station.
 Motion to approve? Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 47. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Aye. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizardo? Aye.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 48 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services to perform construction management services on a task order basis with Broaddus & Associates, Consular Engineering, ECM International, ESCO International, Moreno-Cardenas, Inc., and Park Hill, Inc. Motion to approve. Thank you.
 Second. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 48. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizárraga. Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, we're about five minutes short of call to the public.
 which we can recess for five minutes okay may we have a motion to recess there's a motion and a second to recess until noon all in favor anyone opposed and the regular city council meeting is in recess at 11 55 a.m and we'll come council will you please turn on your camera we need a quorum to reconvene the meeting please move to reconvene second there's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting all in favor
 Yes. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 12.01 p.m. We now move to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the City, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or groups in character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business Nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda however, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda and
 This afternoon we have 16 people that signed up to speak during call to the public. Each one will receive three minutes. We'll begin with Ms. Anne Nila. Ms. Nila's topic is animal services. Good afternoon Ms. Nila. Star six please to unmute your telephone and you'll begin speaking for three minutes. Can you hear me? Yes ma'am. Okay.
 I was just trying to address the mayor and the council today on animal services along with the community have come a long way in the efforts to save more pets. What's been accomplished in El Paso would not be possible years ago. But the dedication and leadership has resulted in El Paso becoming the premier public shelter in the county or in the country also. Look at everything in the staff that has done over the years.
 and continues to do in the middle of the pandemic. They push hard to adopt and foster pets. They provide free pet food, vaccinations to struggling pet owners, and they investigate neglect and cruelty cases with the El Paso Police Department, and they're flying pets out of the city to try and keep up with the constant flow of animals entering the shelter. They're doing all these things and much more, and yet we have a direct view
 who want to discredit and abuse the staff and all of their efforts. These individuals will yell and claim that the rescuer in El Paso hates animal services. Please don't, just don't believe that. Don't let these individuals make it seem like the community as a whole is not supportive of animal services.
 We should be celebrating what we have been able to accomplish in El Paso. As a community that is saving the vast majority of animals, it makes me wonder if euthanizing 20,000 pets a year would make these folks happy because that's what animal services used to do.
 The biggest complaint was that the shelter was asking folks to help lost pets by hanging on to animals for a day or two to find their owner. Well, guess what? That's changed. Animal Services has now been accepting drop-off stray pets the same day they announced that all over media, and despite this, the compromise that selects you are still not happy. In fact, they are just downright ugly.
 the group threatened and bullied your previous director paul powell and now they are doing it to your current director and the entire staff i've been to the shelter i've volunteered there for years before the pandemic hit i've seen all the challenges the staff has and tough and impossible jobs but now imagine busting your butt every day and in the end you have people attacking you and your department all over facebook
 Council, I expect you to support your employees at Animal Services, not the folks who are creating the false stories and holding us back. If you had your own employees treat their coworkers the way these select few treat staff at Animal Services, you would fire them for creating a hostile workplace. So that's what I am asking Anne today to stand up for everyone in Animal Services and in the community. Thank you, Miss Neal. We're working together to save this.
 The next person in the queue is Mr. Michael Castro. Mr. Castro's topic is deny police funding for cannabis prosecution. Mr. Castro, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Hello. Hi, good afternoon, city council. So, yeah, I just want to touch again on the $72,000 that's being requested by the El Paso Police Department to purchase equipment to test for THC percentage in cannabis.
 Again, you guys, New Mexico is on the verge of becoming recreational, or it is recreational. Sales begin in April. Cannabis, marijuana is in this city, and you guys know it. As a city council, as people, we know that cannabis is legal in almost half the states in this country.
 New Mexico, our sister city, Sunland Park, New Mexico, is going to have a multiple, over three, four, five dispensaries right here in Sunland Park, New Mexico, supplying the El Paso, Texas area. If you guys allow this funding, you are going to hurt the people of El Paso because now you'll be able to prosecute. You're going to go after people for a plant. Guys, New Mexico is thriving off this plant.
 City Council, I've been talking to you guys and reaching out to you guys for a minute and I would like some feedback in this, me personally. I think I've done, I think I've given you guys quite a bit of information over the past two years on what's going on here in El Paso and I think I deserve some feedback. If the El Paso Police Department gets to just come in and request funding, I think that if there's a community out here fighting for cannabis reform, fighting for cannabis rights, cannabis justice,
 We deserve some respect out here as well because you are putting nonviolent criminals behind bars and this is our community. We are people who choose this plant as medicine and for recreational purposes as well. And it does not make us bad people whatsoever. So to allow this funding, you are allowing racist laws to continue in El Paso.
 Again, the education I've given you guys, over 100 years of arrest in El Paso, when is that going to stop? Over 100 years of arrest, you guys, 1915. Don't forget that year. You guys can be the city council to start changing things in Texas. We need all levels of government to get involved, from the city council to our state representatives, all the way to the top in this fight against cannabis. We are putting people behind bars for no reason while people make millions off this plant.
 City Council, do not approve this funding. And if you guys aren't, you guys need to voice your opinions on this. It's so quiet right now. All I've heard is the police department wants $72,000, and I've heard nothing from the City Council. Thank you, guys. You guys have a wonderful day. Thank you. The next person is Ms. Sabrina Soto. Ms. Soto's topic is EPPD request for funding to test misdemeanor amounts of cannabis. Good afternoon, Ms. Soto. Star 6, please, to unmute your telephone, and you'll have three minutes.
 Good afternoon, Ms. Soto. Good afternoon. Hi, yes. My name is Sabrina Soto. Today I'm calling in regards to the El Paso Police Department requesting $72,000 of funding for testing equipment to test for the THC percentages in cannabis.
 If we allow this funding to happen, we are only going to be hurting our community. The El Paso Police Department is going to be putting away and convicting regular people. We are not criminals for choosing this plant as medicine. I am sure everyone is well aware of the rain that the City of El Paso has been receiving lately.
 Some of our streets have been completely flooded, vehicles submerged in high waters. The $72,000 could go to fixing and cleaning up our streets or other priorities El Paso may have. Thank you, City Council. I strongly suggest that you deny the El Paso Police Department this funding because it could go to better uses. Thank you again, City Council. Have a good day. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Valerie Castro. Her topic is also denying police funding for cannabis prosecution.
 Good afternoon, Ms. Castro. Star 6, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, Ms. Castro. Hi, good afternoon, City Council. Recently, the El Paso Police Department requested $72,000 to purchase equipment to test for high THC and cannabis products. As an El Paso citizen...
 I believe that it is pointless and a waste of time and money. New Mexico is about to have Canada's sales in April next year. So you think the city, you think that it is okay to keep arresting us over a plant that our sister city will be thriving on while we sit like dogs? What are you going to do to protect us, the people who choose this plant as medicine, instead of hurting us? Our taxes shouldn't be spent on going after a plant.
 Right now we have a lot of damage in our city from the rain. A lot of that money could be put into repairing our city. We have a lot of damages that are just sitting there. A lot of this money could be used for that. Thank you. Bye-bye. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Bernadette Arenivas. Her topic is saving dogs with help of animal services. Good afternoon, Ms. Arenivas. Star 6, please, to unmute your telephone. Bernadette Arenivas. Yes.
 Ms. Arenivas, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Ms. Arenivas, you're on mute, ma'am. I see you in the queue. Star six will unmute your telephone. We'll move to Mr. Jesus Reyes. Mr. Reyes's topic is corruption within the El Paso departments. Mr. Reyes, star six, please. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Mr. Reyes, good afternoon. We can't hear you, sir. Mr. Reyes, we can't hear you, sir. I know your microphone is active. However, we can't hear you.
 Hello, good afternoon. Can you hear me? Yes, now we can. Thank you.
 Yeah, sorry about that. My name is Jesus Reyes, and I was calling to bring to the attention of the city mayor and the city council some of the issues my small business has been facing. We have been targeted by the street and maintenance department for not agreeing with some of the illegal activities that they're conducting. A lot of the employees there are abusing the power of the office that they hold.
 to basically harm small businesses like mine. And it's getting to the point where they're basically doing whatever they can to either close us down or do something to my business because now they're putting the public safety at risk. And that includes pedestrians. That includes motorists. That includes my own employees. My company focuses on closing streets for utility companies and vehicles.
 This department has continuously for two years since my business has been open, have harassed my business and they're trying to basically have our clients stop working with us by telling them that they shouldn't work with us, that we're not a, we're a conflicted company just because we don't agree with the things that they're doing and we question them.
 for you guys to please look into this i have already talked to sam rodriguez with the city manager i have talked to deputy director or former deputy director i talked to former district 4 representative mr morgan and none of them have helped me it's actually getting worse every time i speak with somebody above them at this time nobody that is supervisor or above
 is allowed to talk to me anymore. They're not allowed to answer my questions because they just don't wanna see what I'm trying to present to them and show them the evidence that I have. Thank you. Thank you, the next speaker is Ms. Silvia Mimbella.
 Miss Mimela's topic is rain event on August 21st, 2021. After 7 p.m., stormwater from the Franklin Mountains created mud and rock damage to properties due to poor drainage. Good afternoon, Miss Mimela. Star 6, please, to unmute your telephone. You have three minutes, ma'am. Yes. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Okay.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Oscar Lizer and Council. My name is Sylvia Mimbella. I live in District 2, where many elderly live as far back as Chivas Town has been known. I am 64 years old, and I have seen my district suffer throughout the years. I am here today before you because of the bad rainstorm that we had the...
 Our mountain just came out and overflowed it, and this caused many damages to our historic district, and it brought mental anguish to our elderly. I would like to point out the lack of cleaning our city alleys from the mountain debris.
 We once had rock walls that were actually six feet tall to have privacy in our alley. Right now, if you go to our alley from Frankfurt up to Fort Boulevard, you'll see that the alley has...
 been raised from the debris coming down. I don't know whose part it is to do that, but I sure as hell have been, I'm sorry for my language. I sure have been cleaning up the weeds and everything and doing my part, but my rock wall is now three feet where anybody can just jump over. And that's because of the rains throughout the years that has caused these bad,
 Drainage around our area has caused this inedible to drive, you know, to drive through our alleys. It's hard. And I'd like to point out that it's been unsafe in our district. And not just draining them, because I'm seeing that they're draining them right now, but to keep them clean throughout the year, around the year. Keep them clean from trash and weeds.
 They've always been all trashy. My house was knocked down with that with the force from the rain. It was knocked down the rock wall. Our city engineers have gone to take pictures. The gas has turned off because my house is very old. So the rocks landed right on the outside of the exposed gas lines.
 Thank God that they were not damaged. So the gas people have been out there to turn them back on. But I would like to ask the city, please, we kept up with our yards and kept up with our taxes faithfully. What has the city done for our district to keep our district safe?
 from the debris from the mountain, please have a chance to go out there and walk the alley. From Frankfort to Fort Goldberg, we don't have the luxury of those paving alleys that you all did for the district too, from Frankfort down to Five Points. We don't have those paved alleys. Thank you, Ms. Mimbella. Thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three-minute limit. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next speaker is Ms. Mary McKay. Her topic is current thoughts on animal services. Good afternoon, Ms. McKay. Star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Good afternoon. Can you hear me now? Yes, ma'am, we can. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 Hi, thank you for having me. I want to begin by thanking the staff at Animal Services for everything that they do for the pets of the city, and also to thank you guys at City Council for everything that you do for our community. So I think we all understand that Animal Services does a lot of really incredible and innovative things for our pets, like flying them to other cities, working with rescues, featuring high-risk dogs.
 prioritizing their mental health and well-being which i think is so so important but there's still a lot of things to do and i think they do still need a lot of support from city councils um and there's a lot of room for improvement with that um first of all i want to ensure and i'm sure this is already in place but i just want to ensure that the city is prioritizing the mental health of animal services employees just like they are prioritizing the mental health of the pets there
 So please continue and expand in being innovative and coming up with creative ways to help their mental health, new programs, whatever needs to be done. Because if the employees are not having their mental health being taken care of, then there's a limited amount that they can do for the mental health of the dogs. And I would really like to see a focus on that, not just for them, but all of the city employees. Okay.
 I know also that this past year and a half or so has been really difficult for everyone emotionally and financially. But now that we're kind of on an upturn with at least with the economy, I'd like for the city to focus on ensuring that they're fully funding animal services for everything that they need to do. Animal services is supposed to be taking care of all of the dogs in the city, but if they're not getting the funding that they need to be able to accomplish that,
 then they can't do that. And as of right now, it feels like the animal services is just supposed to be a warehouse where we just throw all of the dogs that people find, and that can't be what we accept. We need the city to provide them with funding for diagnostic equipment, like x-ray machines and blood testing and things like that for the strays that come in. They need funding to hire more people to do enrichment activities and care for the dogs.
 and also to take care of the people who go in needing help and things like that. We need funding for buildings on there. There's a lot of dogs that are stuck in outside kennels right now because there's just not enough space inside, and so they put fans and heaters and things to take care of them. But ideally, they should all be in climate-controlled situations, and we need to expand animal services if that's what it takes.
 so now now that we're in a position that maybe we can kind of start thinking about that i'd like to ask the city to allocate more funds for animal services so that they can expand not just in employees but in building capacity to help the pets and then the last thing is um if anybody is is talking to you know the wealthy of our country about potentially um having a vet school added on to texas tech here
 I think that would help a lot. We're short on vets nationally. Thank you, Ms. McKay. We're extremely short on vets here. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. If any of the following speakers are in the queue, please press star six to unmute your telephones. Ms. Liliana Vergara, Ms. Helen Diaz, Ms. Elizabeth Graham, Mr. Raul Molina, Mr. Hector Cardona, Mr. Colt DeMorris, Mr. Aziel Rodriguez, Mr. Raymond Davis, Ms. Bernadette Arenivas,
 If any of those speakers are in the queue, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Again, Ms. Bernadette Arenivas, Ms. Ileana Vergara, Ms. Helen Diaz. Good afternoon, Ms. Arenivas. Ms. Arenivas, good afternoon. We can't hear you, ma'am. You're back on mute, ma'am. Star six, good afternoon. Hi, can you hear me now? Yes, ma'am. Hi. Yes.
 I'm here today to speak as a member of the community and also as a member of the rest of the community.
 I wanted to say that I really do appreciate everything that animal services is doing for the community. There's a lot of talk on social media that they are quote unquote not doing their job. I, as a member of the community recently had a very positive experience with an officer, I believe her name was. I actually stopped in the middle of the road there was a small dog that I couldn't catch
 and I saw the animal services truck driving by, and I didn't think they were going to stop, but I jumped up and down to get her attention, and she actually pulled over, and she helped me catch the dog, and we spoke to a few neighbors who found the dog's house and got him back to their rightful owner. So, you know, that there in itself, you know,
 finding other solutions besides picking up a dog and dumping it at the shelter um it's worth
 I also wanted to say as a member of the rescue community, with everything that they're doing, you know, they are being flooded with dogs from this community. Community members are not taking accountability for not vaccinating their animals, not staying and neutering backyard breeding. I mean, there's just, I've heard there's like 100 dogs coming in per day, and that's just not...
 a good environment. So I understand where they're coming from, where they're trying to find alternative solutions to keep them in the community, to get them to a rightful owner or maybe a new owner. So I appreciate everything they're doing with that. I do would like to see more support from the city, from leadership from the city, because right now Animal Services is basically the scapegoat and the punching bag for everybody in the community that does not agree. As an example, somebody tried to...
 turn in an animal the other day and a member of the community posted their phone number, their name, and basically told anybody who saw that post, please call this number and basically just flood them. And with, you know, while they're not answering, you know, they're getting blamed for things that are out of their control, like dogs getting run over. I mean, those kinds of things are going to happen and it's very unfortunate, but it's
 We as a city need to take a step back and see what the root causes. And a lot of that comes from the community not containing their dogs, not staying and neutering. And I would just like to see more help from the children with that. During the pandemic, you know, there was – it seemed like there was more support for animals for a few times. There was more than a budget availability of, you know, helping with vaccines, with –
 tunnel you know if you did find a dog thank you thank you ma'am you've reached the three minute limit one final call for liliana vergara helen diaz elizabeth graham raul molina hector cardona colt de morris aziel rodriguez or raymond davis if you're in the queue star six to unmute your telephone mayor i don't recognize the phone numbers in the queue they're not associated with the callers that i just mentioned
 So I believe that concludes call to the public. Council, we're at the end of this agenda. May we have a motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, August 17, 2021, is adjourned at 1227 p.m. Mayor, would you like to convene yesterday's work session?
 We're going to have to sign off of this link and then rejoin the link we used yesterday. Thank you.