Good morning. This is a meeting with the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, August 24th, 2021. Present are Mayor Leiser, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, Representative Anelo, Representative Hernandez, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera, and Representative Lizarra. It is 9.08 a.m. and we begin the meeting with an announcement from our Spanish interpreter, Mr. Jorge Perez Vinalet.
 Good morning, Your Honor, members of the City Council, and members of the public. My name is Jorge Perez-Vinalet. I'm a Spanish interpreter, and I'm here to assist anyone who prefers to address the members of the Council in Spanish. Thank you. Buenos dias, senoría, miembros del cabildo, miembros del publico en general. Mi nombre es Jorge Perez-Vinalet. Yo soy un traductor en español, intérprete. Yo estoy aquí para asistir a personas
 Thank you. And now will everyone please silence their electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by police, fire and ministry coordinator for the Sheriff's Office, Chaplain Sam Ferroni. He's on mute. Chaplain, you're on mute, sir. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Council, officials and guests.
 And if you care to join me as I pray, you are welcome to. Almighty God, we give you respect and acknowledge you as our creator and our provider. We welcome your presence in our midst today. We recognize that you are omnipresent, you are ever-present, and you are here. You are omnipotent. You are all-powerful, almighty, and supreme. You are omniscient.
 all knowing, all seeing, and all wise. For as we begin this meeting, we ask that you guide every thought, every action, and every decision so that this meeting will be effective and successful. And may your character be displayed through each of us. Let the goal of bettering our city be accomplished this day and every day.
 And we pray these things in your mighty name. Amen. God bless you. Amen. God bless you, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Will you lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance? Who? Mayor, will you lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance? Will everyone join in, please? Allegiance to the flag. Council, if you would like to speak, please use the Creston pad to notify the Mayor. Per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate.
 And members of city council should not use any electronic devices other than the desktop computers during the meeting. That brings us to the consent agenda. Ms. Prine, before we get started, first of all, I'd like to welcome everybody back to a live meeting. And thank you, everybody, for being so respectful of the CDC guidelines, the city guidelines, Dr. Okodansha, and everybody wearing their face masks, even everyone out there in the room.
 All right, we'll continue, of course, that we've always talked about this, that safety for our team members, which is you all, is our utmost number one priority. So we'll continue to respect that. And again, welcome everybody back to city council chambers, and may God bless everyone. And with that, I'd like to have a moment of silence for whatever you think best suits today. Thank you, everyone.
 Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the Consent Agenda. All matters listed under the Consent Agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the Consent Agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 There are currently no revisions at this time, counsel. Are there any other revisions or call to question? We can make a motion to approve the consent agenda. Counsel, we have to use the voting software this morning. So we have a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda. Call for the vote, Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. End the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. We now go to item three. Thank you.
 This is a presentation and discussion on Department of Public Health Services. Good morning, Ms. Mora. We're just going to wait for the presentation to be uploaded. But before I begin my presentation, I would like to thank all of you for your support throughout the pandemic and throughout the years for public health and for the opportunity to share with you and the community the work we do at the Department of Public Health.
 Next slide, please. Next slide. So our mission is to provide research, evaluation, prevention, intervention, and mobilization services to the people of El Paso so they can be healthy, productive, safe, and secure.
 Public Health focuses on protecting the whole community from disease and injury. While a doctor or medical provider individually treats people who are sick, Public Health works to prevent people from getting sick or injured in the first place. While our services focus on residents of the City of El Paso, outreach extends to residents of El Paso and Houspeth counties, in addition to four other counties within the Rio Grande region.
 Our department is one of nearly 3,000 health departments in the country, one of 100 in Texas, and the largest in our Texas region, 910. We are considered a large health department based on the population we serve in El Paso. Next slide, please. As you can see through this map, we have a considerable presence throughout the city of El Paso and county areas.
 Our presence is felt through our 21 fixed service locations where we provide a variety of service for men, women, children, and local businesses, and through our five fully equipped mobile units which are deployed to serve underserved and remote communities on a regular basis. Next slide, please. To use as a point of reference to illustrate the volume of work we do on an annual basis, I'm going to provide a snapshot of some of the most common services we provided in 2019.
 We currently have 15 program managers. These are professionals who are subject matter experts in their field of practice, who lead over 280 employees in the implementation of services funded through 33 grant federal and other grants. In 2019, we administer over 42,000 immunizations through 18 childhood and 13 adult immunizations to a majority uninsured and underinsured individuals.
 Our laboratory conducted over 20,000 tests, which included tests for the detection of a variety of sexually transmitted infections, including HIV, arboviral diseases such as wild nile virus, Zika, and chikungunya, tuberculosis testing, and water and dairy testing for forblitz, local commercial organizations, southern New Mexico, and northern Mexico.
 We conducted over 24,000 pediatric dental procedures for low-income children at our fixed location and through mobile services. We also conducted almost 4,000 tuberculosis treatment visits at the patient's home and at our clinic. We served almost 53,000 weak clients in El Paso and Houspeth counties, and we reached almost 400,000 people through our variety of education initiatives.
 Next slide, please. We are currently developing our 2020 services report, which is delayed due to the intense involvement in the pandemic response, but I wanted to touch on some of our accomplishments during the pandemic.
 Responding to the pandemic has been an extraordinary event led by extraordinary people who have worked nonstop since early 2020 to organize and mobilize an exponential number of resources and people to yield extraordinary resources. To date, we, the city of El Paso, have administered over 150 COVID tests and almost 250,000 COVID-19 vaccines.
 Collectively, since the onset of the pandemic and across all sectors, which include city, state, schools, hospitals, private labs, we have conducted almost a million and a half tests. And during a highest peak in November, we increased our capacity to over 10,000 tests a day and conducted over 50,000 tests a week.
 Throughout the COVID vaccination campaign, we've reached and have sustained the highest vaccination rate in the state of Texas, with over 71% fully vaccinated over the age of 12, and over 84% have received at least one dose. Almost 88% of people over the age of 65 are fully vaccinated, and nearly 100% of them have received at least one dose.
 82 percent of our children aged 12 to 15 have received at least one dose and 57 of them are fully vaccinated this is an accomplishment that has elevated the city of el paso as a highly performing city and ahead of many other cities throughout the country an accomplishment that has brought a lot of pride and joy to many of us in addition thanks to the foresight of our leadership
 such as you, the city of El Paso purchased and established four COVID response clinics located throughout the city of El Paso with capacity to provide a multitude of emergency response and other services and which are currently fully equipped in offering COVID testing and COVID and flu vaccinations.
 In the area of informatics, we built a new multi-prong electronic communication system to develop a database with unlimited capacity for storing COVID patient data and to facilitate a smoother communication with laboratories, patients, service providers, and the public in general. This system enhancement included a centralized system for mass reporting of laboratories through a shared portal and patient access to personal test results.
 Through our Education Task Force, we reached over 68,000 citizens through our door-to-door outreach and other approaches. We also expanded our capacity in several areas. For example, our epidemiology workforce capacity grew to over 300 additional staff to assist with the response. We also added 50 educators to our Education Task Force, and our laboratory capacity grew by 100 percent.
 In addition, we significantly expanded our testing and emergency response backup capacity through an extraordinary service agreement with UTEP. Transportation to primary care for our patients, and we have also, we provide transportation for our patients. In addition, we have replaced 15 very old vehicles in our fleet.
 These are just a few of the many accomplishments of the Health Department, which continues and will continue providing the most non-essential services to the El Paso community. Next slide, please. I think we're one. If you can go one behind, please. One more. I think it's a little bit out of sequence, but I can wing it. You can go to the next one, please. Next slide.
 So how have we been able to accomplish so much? So we have, through the collaboration, responded to efficiently to the pandemic, which had been impossible, would not have been possible without joining forces with a large number of partners. It has taken a small army of responders, the tactical and logistical expertise of our city departments and local partners, but more importantly, our ability to work as a unified and cohesive force towards a single,
 goal of protecting our community health. Our union enjoyed coordination with the fire department led by Chief Mario D'Agostino and the Office of Emergency Management led by Chief Jorge Rodriguez has been stellar to say the least. Together we have worked and will continue working as a seamless team to ensure all the needs of our community are met until we see the end of this stressful pandemic.
 Fire and Health have worked seamlessly together on a number of missions, including coordinated COVID vaccination efforts, the flu prevention mass vaccination campaign, deployment of the integrated medical teams, and an integrated pandemic communication system. An effective response would have also not been made possible with the assistance and support of a large number of partners.
 At the local, state, and federal levels, such as the Texas Department of State Health Services, the Centers for Disease and Control Quarantine Office, the Texas Department of Emergency Management, Customs and Border Patrol, local federally qualified health centers, elderly serving facilities, in addition to partners from the private industry, such as medical laboratories and pharmacies, just to name a few.
 And I will be remiss if I do not include our partnership with members of the local media who have supported our efforts by constantly maintaining our community informed since the onset of the pandemic. Next slide, please. We at the public health are looking forward with excitement to what is in store for us within the next few years.
 As part of the core emergency response functions of public health, we look forward to strengthening the capacity of our epidemiology and surveillance and laboratory divisions, and expanding and strengthening our workforce capacity to continue responding effectively to public health emergencies.
 We also look forward to conducting our community-wide health assessments in collaboration with the general community, local service providers, and key stakeholders. This assessment, community health assessment, will not only identify community health needs, but will also help us in the development implementation of the community's health improvement plan. Next slide, please.
 And I'm very happy to share this with you. In the last few months, we have been busy. We have been able to successfully secure new grants in the amount of $11 million, in addition to over $6 million in funds, which have been added to our current contracts, which will, among other, increase our workforce by over 60 full-time new professionals. Next slide, please. Under these new grants, we will establish
 The new Health Equity Program, where the front and center of all activities will be COVID health equity and public health capacity building. This graphic shows some of the most important components of our new Health Equity Program.
 The community-wide health assessment will be one of our most significant components. This assessment, again, will be implemented through a team of experts who will develop the process for community-wide engagement that will help generate valuable data directly from the community, in addition to utilizing already available health data. This assessment will be extremely valuable in identifying pre-existing community needs, in addition
 the effects of COVID on our community and our service delivery system. And most importantly, the Community Needs Assessment will serve as the foundation for the development of a comprehensive community health improvement plan in partnership with local service providers, all of whom, including the Department of Public Health, will be instrumental and responsible for meeting the community's priority needs.
 Another important component of the Health Equity Program is the creation of a fully equipped medical mobile clinic, staffed with a medical team headed by a nurse practitioner, who will take services to underserved communities, assess community health, and link people to needed services through a robust team of 26 new case managers, service navigators, and professional health educators.
 Through the Health Equity Program, we will also be able to strengthen our Epidemiology Laboratory Division's workforce and communication system capacity. In addition, through service partnerships with local promotora groups, we will multiply our community engagement and outreach efforts, which will be focused on promoting health literacy and facilitating access to care for underserved city and county communities. Through our Vaccine Expansion Grant, we will expand vaccination capacity for COVID,
 and all disease preventable vaccines for children and adults through recruitment of new vaccine providers in underserved areas, which will receive technical support in addition to vaccine storage equipment for those providers with limited storage resources. Our vaccine expansion team, in addition, will monitor vaccine safety at all participating vaccine provider facilities enrolled in the state safety net and vaccine for children program. Next slide, please.
 Again, the highlight of the Health Equity Program, without a doubt, will be our Community Health Assessment, from which the Community Needs Improvement Plan will be developed. Next slide, please. We are entering this new health equity phase, not without some challenges. As you're probably aware, the pandemic has brought a lot of employment opportunities for the local community. Thank you.
 We have experienced a considerable number of staff losses due to these opportunities. We are only challenged with replacing these current positions, vacant positions, but also with recruiting the so far over 60 additional full-time positions we gained through our health equity grants.
 To address these challenges, we are working very closely with our human resources team who are exploring creative ways to incentivize and retain current employees and recruiting new ones. Beginning on September the 18th,
 We will start conducting job fairs to assist our current equipment, as you can see here. The first one is going to take place, will be in collaboration with other public safety departments, which will then be followed by public health specific job fairs in the fall, and participation in job fairs at local, regional colleges and universities. Next slide, please. So how do we protect the health of the community?
 So I'm gonna talk briefly to you about the services we provide at the Department of Public Health, but first I would like to differentiate between these services. There are 10 essential services of public health that public health departments need to provide in order to have the necessary capacity to effectively protect the health of the whole community.
 Health departments, although not required as primary health functions, may also provide other non-essential health services such as clinical and population-based services to their communities. Next slide, please. The 10 essential services of public health necessary for public health departments to effectively protect the community's health are included in the Texas Health and Safety Code Title II in the section better known as the Texas Reorganization Plan of 1989.
 Texas was the first state in the country to institute these services as the backbone of public health practice. At the national level, this framework was established in 1994 and is used as the foundation for national public health performance standards. Delivery of these 10 essential services are a requisite of the Public Health Accreditation Board for accreditation of public health departments.
 Through these essential services, we are able to monitor the health of the community, diagnose and investigate diseases, inform, educate, empower our community on health matters, mobilize community partnerships into action, develop policies and plans, link individuals to community and personal health services, ensure a competent workforce, and conduct research and evaluation of our programs and the community healthcare system. Next slide, please.
 So how do we meet these 10 essential services of public health? We meet all and each of these essential services through our programs, which include food safety,
 laboratory, epidemiology and disease surveillance, STD and tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment, HIV diagnosis, preventive care and linkage to care, disease investigations and intervention, immunizations, health education and promotion, the 211 which links to services, our public health through our public health emergency preparedness program, through our academic health department for workforce development and recruitment,
 and through research and evaluation initiatives. All of these programs offer a wide array of comprehensive services to the community. These are very extensive to go over all of them. It would take hours to go over all of them today, but I would be more than happy to elaborate on any of them at any point you want. Next slide, please. In addition, as I mentioned before, to the essential services of public health, our department also offers population-based services.
 So what are population-based services? So these are the services that target a specific group or disease.
 uh... for example are we program is specific to the population of women infants and children or pediatric dental programs are so in fun six months of age enough to the age of twenty one or maybe they were waiver program targets on insuring and under insuring individuals and people under medicaid plans in our family planning services is exclusively for women and men reproductive age next night please we place
 sincerely place a lot of pride on serving our community, which also includes our families and friends. Empowerment of our community and excellent customer service is of high importance in our daily service to the public. To illustrate our community's daily input and our care for them, I have provided a number of comments of praise by community members we serve. We also get complaints, luckily not too many, and we have, like the city manager has,
 We have a policy that requires that we respond and address inquiries of complaints from the public within 24 hours. Next slide, please. So the robust number of programs we offer are summarized here, including our essential services, populace, and clinical services. In addition to highlighting, again, the relocation of our new state-of-the-art laboratory, which we're very proud of, and the four new COVID response clinics. Next slide, please.
 So again, these are the, in summary, all the services that we provide. Includes the essential services, population-based services, and we are also highlighting the relocation to the new lab and our four new clinics. Next slide, please. And finally, here are some of our services organized in different categories, including screening and treatment of communicable diseases and other diseases, maternal and child health services, and immunization services.
 so this concludes my presentation on behalf of the 280 plus employees of the department of public health and myself i would like again to thank you for your support and your interest in learning more about public health and i'll be ready to entertain any questions if you have any thank you miss mora we appreciate the presentation but also i think you forgot and i guess it's a little awkward to thank yourself but we thank you for the hard work and i know it's been a difficult time but uh
 you know we we've done a outstanding job as a city and as a and when i talk about a city it's you know not just us it's the county umc and the medical providers and all our partners we've really done an incredible job to just like you said to be one of the top if not the top in the country and i thank you for for the job you've done and we'll continue to work together with that we have uh
 Representative Hernandez, followed by Mayor Pro Tem, followed by Representative Rodriguez.
 good morning thank you mayor um thank you so much for that presentation um and to all the 280 public health department staff thank you very much for all the work you've done in response to the pandemic you have been in the front lines since the beginning and so your services have been invaluable to our community very impressed with the presentation you gave today one of the most extensive presentations that i've had from the public health department so thank you for putting that together as we
 are overcoming this pandemic, there is something clear that there needs to be more of an emphasis on how we are prioritizing our health. And so it shows there on the list, and I just would like for a little bit of elaboration, what services are we currently providing for diabetes? And I also saw PrEP, HIV PrEP. What are we doing with HIV PrEP at this time? Yes, so I'll start with diabetes.
 We have, so we do not provide primary healthcare services. We identify individuals who need continuous care for chronic conditions such as diabetes and we link. We have a very close relationship with the, primarily with the federal qualified health centers like Lafayette, Project Vida, and San Vicente. What we do, what we did two years ago with UTEP, almost two years ago with UTEP is that we had a very robust,
 program that included diabetes screening and linkage to care. That unfortunately stopped over a year ago because it's funded under the Medicaid Waiver Program and there was an uncertainty on whether or not that program would continue, so UTEP decided to stop the collaboration with us, and we are about to renew that because the Medicaid Waiver Program has been approved again. So we're very fortunate that that happens.
 We, right now, what we have done in the last, I'm going to say in the last six to eight months, we have integrated diabetes screening into all our clinical services. So that's, we started with tuberculosis patients, and they are tested directly to the state.
 We have also added those services to the family planning clinic as a routine service, and we are also, and of course the STD clinic as well, and we are also integrating and ready to go pretty much at the new lab for us to conduct services.
 diabetes screening at our lab. We've never done that before and now we have the capacity to do it and we should be starting that within the next week or two. We're just waiting for the lab to be fully operational. In terms of the of the PrEP, so we offer for individuals, for HIV related patients, we offer PrEP and we offer PEP.
 So PrEP is the prophylactic treatment for individuals who are at risk of HIV infection. And we are the agency that promotes and refers the largest number of individuals.
 to receive that free treatment at different facilities. We also provide the treatment at our STD clinic. It's also by referral. So we have that as a comprehensive service that we have that we offer to the community. There's a very strict,
 set up guidelines for the individual to qualify for PrEP and sometimes because this is hard for individuals who are at risk, who might be not fully careful on their practices.
 and sometimes they don't qualify because they have been exposed already to HIV, and that is where PEP comes into place. That's just a post-exposure prophylaxis. So we have those two. We have a lot of interest in serving the community in need, the HIV.
 at-risk community. So we have those two services that we provide, not only to the at-risk community because of the sexual practices, but also to healthcare providers with PEP in particular. Thank you for that update. I'm very excited to hear about the diabetes screening. I know there's been some services that Live Active has been providing.
 My family, grandmother, mother, and inevitably myself and my children will likely have diabetes as we grow older. And so whatever we can do to promote healthy living, healthy eating, and then especially diabetes screening, because we know that.
 A number of our family members are resulting in going to hospitals. It's becoming more of a tax burden for our community. And then we also saw the unfortunate event of COVID-19 and what that impact was to persons with diabetes. So, so I'm really happy to hear that we're taking practice steps to do that. And I think the first important step is the community assessment, health needs assessment.
 I'm very excited about that as well. I want to know about that assessment. When will that survey start to take place and when can we see the result of that assessment? It's not a survey. It's a very comprehensive process
 We are not, because it's going to be a major endeavor in terms of the cost. So we are working with the procurement process right now to develop the qualifications, the scope of work, so that we purchasing can issue it out into the community nationwide. So we can have bids and hopefully secure the best providers. So that includes
 He includes, they're probably the contractor is going to provide a team of individuals who are going to be most likely located in El Paso to organize community focus groups, for example, to do surveys, to meet with local organizations.
 and so on is very very comprehensive so we are going to also tap into the existing data resources that we have we know that the hospitals are required to have a community health assessment with tapping into those resources and the different groups that that gather around surveys for HIV for diabetes for others so it's
 what is called primary data, which is directly obtained from the individuals. And then secondary data is the secondaries, like wearing secondhand clothes, not directly from the store, is from other individuals who have gathered that data. So all of that is put together.
 And then the HEFTI report is going to be developed with the identification, not only of the community needs, and we're very interested right now in identifying, you know, the effects of COVID. The way I put it is the analogy one of my friends made is that we're going out, like after a hurricane, to see the aftermath of the hurricane. This is the same with the pandemic and find out.
 In what condition are people in the service, the healthcare system as well, we're very interested not only in tapping into individuals with diabetes because we know they suffer tremendous losses in the community, loss of life because of the underlying medical conditions, but we also want to identify, for example, the effects of long COVID.
 It's like who is suffering in our community, communities that are not sophisticated enough to research and to find out what the symptoms are and to see how is it that we can help them. So we're going to identify all those needs and then we're going to this health equity program also has a large number that I mentioned of case managers, navigators, and educators.
 to assist with linking the individuals to care. So it's a very robust, very involved process. But then after we finish with the community health assessment, which all of you are going to see ahead of time, then based on that, we work with the whole community, including the public, for the community health assessment. Once we have it,
 then we are going to get together with all the service providers and we're going to set priorities because if we find a lot of needs, we won't be able to meet all the needs. So we have to identify, let's say, the 10 top priorities
 and we in collaboration with all the other service providers we're going to develop the community's health improvement plan and that's when we're going to say okay diabetes or whatever the needs are then we put this improvement plan which is for five years and we have to implement it and monitor to ensure that all of that is happening so it is like the crown jewel so to speak of the health equity program and it's going to be very rich
 and something that is extremely necessary for us. I have to say that we were very creative because these are very expensive assessments, that we were very creative in our application to the CDC, to the point that they allowed us to use funding from Health Equity to have this community health assessment, which by the way is also required for public health accreditation, which I would like for us to pursue as well.
 All very great great news. I'm very pleased to hear that there's a strategy And just my final question because I know I'm running out of time here We currently have interlocal agreements with multiple municipalities. So this public health department serves the entire County Is that correct? Yes, we have we have a great service agreements with all the municipalities Okay, and that happened that happened after the the the see the county pulled out remember that
 Public health was funded 60% by the city 40% by the county and around 2006 the the because of financial constraints the county pulled out public services and we so we now since then like the Department of Public Health became a city department January 1st 2008 and
 And immediately after that, then we enter into agreements, not only with the county, but with all the municipalities that we renew. I'm gonna bring those to you in the next couple of weeks for approval. But we have agreements with all the municipalities in El Paso County. And just based on some feedback I received, I think it would be really important for yourself or someone in your team to present some of these findings at their city council meetings or commission or court meetings.
 because we do serve the entire county and so we need to we need to treat them as if they are one of the regulators and so they can have a voice as well so that's my only request is that we make sure that we improve communication with our contractees through our interlocal agreements but anyway great job really pleased and again thank you for this presentation today
 I'm sorry. Representative Hernandez, if I may, throughout the entire pandemic, we did give updates and we continue to give updates to the county. So they've been getting updates from our Office of Emergency Management on the pandemic numbers. And we also offered meetings throughout the entire process with the county judge. So that's been taking place as well. So it happened, especially during the pandemic. And I think that's been a big part of the process. And I think that's been a big part of the process. Thank you.
 the uptick that took place, but from the beginning until about, I would say, three or four months ago, we were doing it quite steadily. I don't know exactly what our schedule is now, but I do know we were in front of them, giving them updates.
 Thank you. And I think it's important also to talk about the dashboard that was created by the city that has really given incredible information. And I know that we meet quite often with you, Mr. Gonzalez, and talk over the numbers. And I'm very well prepared to have this discussion with you and Chief D'Agostino because
 first thing i do every morning is go through that dashboard that was created by the city to not only help us identify areas we need to identify but also the community to have the same information we have at their fingertips so thank you representative nundus with that mayor pro tem thank you mayor thank you sir thank you again for all the work that you all have been doing over these past few months well more than a few months two years yeah more than a few months at this point
 Not that anybody's counting, right? I'm curious about understanding why do you think we've had the success in our community in terms of our vaccination rates compared to other parts of this state? Well, my assessment, so I have a network, communication network with all the health directors throughout the state, and I have closer communication with the larger cities.
 And what I see is that, for example, the thousands, the hundreds of nursing homes that we targeted since day one, which yielded quite a large number of individuals that we tested, and we're still testing on a regular basis, and vaccinated through the deployment teams, that contributed to having such a high vaccination rate for the elderly, because we have
 We've established a system to communicate with the nursing homes, and we are still communicating with them. Same with the schools.
 We are the only that I am aware of, the only city that has an education task force that at some point grew with the assistance of several other city departments. They grew to a very large number. We were knocking on doors. We were all over. You saw that we were all over in terms of knocking on doors, promoting the vaccine. That also contributed to having such a high vaccination rate
 And I think the greater piece is that we have a large number of very capable, dedicated individuals that I really, my heart breaks to know that all these individuals from the immunizations programs, from the fire department, with families, young people, they fully dedicated themselves to responding to the pandemic. We provide a service seven days a week
 for promoting vaccination, vaccinating. We were very, very intense and we had a large unified group with the fire department and other city departments that many of the other cities didn't implement any of that. So I think there's probably a lot of other reasons, but I think that's probably some of the main reasons and the fact that we were extremely united and we were always following the best of the leaders
 and just executing, executing, executing. You were probably aware that a lot of the health directors retired early, resigned or were let go off because there was a lot of conflict within their groups. We did not have any of that. We reserved all the energy,
 our energy to just serving the community and making sure that we have, for example, the testing capacity that we reach in the vaccination rate that this that's something it is absolutely makes me absolutely very proud and I brag about it every time I can. That's great. I know that compared to the rest of Texas, her numbers are high. But how do we compare with say with our neighbors in New Mexico?
 how do we compare i'm sorry i'm saying compared to the rest of texas our numbers are quite high i'm curious uh where we compare with the rest of new mexico for example which are our neighbors uh across the way over here you know i don't have that data with me uh so i i'm not going to give a uh a response that i'm not sure of okay i will tell you mayor pro tem that our numbers
 are double digits ahead of the nation's numbers as well as double digits against the state and the large urban counties. And in some cases, in some of the categories like for the children, we're double the rest of the state in terms of the numbers. And for the seniors, like 20 basis points ahead of everybody else. I don't know if that could be provided or whatever, but
 I provided that in the last update. I can get that in like notes and send it to the whole council. That's okay. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Texas and Mexico would be great. The other question I have is in terms of the booster shots, we saw that the CDC was recommending or allowing folks starting in September, not just immunocompromised, but the general population September. I'm curious right now.
 What are our sort of third booster shot strategy is and and where are we currently distributing booster shots in El Paso right now? Yeah, so right now we're differentiating. This is what the CDC calls them, but I know it's confusing is the third dose in the booster shots so the third dose
 of the vaccine is for the individuals who are immunocompromised. And the CDC has told us, do not ask for proof of medical condition. The individuals attest that they have an immunocompromising condition, you immunize them, which is what we're doing right now at several of our clinics. According to CDC Director Walensky,
 we are going to start offering the shots, the booster shots to individuals who were vaccinated eight months ago. So she projected start of September the 20th
 We are in a different position than we were several months ago when we started the vaccination campaign because there's a lot of other providers. All the pharmacies are on board, and they are, in fact, already promoting and sending. I received notification from Walgreens because that's my pharmacy to go in and get my booster shot.
 So we is going to, I think it's gonna be much easier because we're not going to have 100% of the qualified individuals based on the eligibility that we determined before. It's only the individuals that were vaccinated eight months ago.
 And we are, we're discussing the approach. We have the infrastructure there in place to do, to have the COVID vaccine offer, the several vaccine clinics that we have. There's partners like Immunize El Paso, the federal qualified health centers, and the large number of pharmacies that are already getting ready to, or they are offering already UMC as well, the third dose, so for the,
 booster shot is going to be pretty much the same. And again, we're going to see small numbers at the beginning because remember the month we, the Department of Public Health, we administered the first vaccines on December 23rd.
 And we only had, I think if I remember well, the shipment was at 1,200. So the rest of the providers receive a very small amount. So the eight-monthers, so to speak, is gonna be a small number and then is going to increase and I think is much more manageable, but the strategy
 up to now is going to be pretty much the same. So currently boost third dose or booster shots are available at our COVID-Claire clinics on Remcon, Stanton,
 Alameda? In the convention center as well. Okay. And people can call to one two six eight four three, got the number right? And they can make an appointment online or they can just call and make the appointment. They are being seen right now is very fluid. We don't have a large number of people but we have a considerable increasing number of people coming in. And is there any
 George Perry, George Perry as well, I'm sorry. Okay, and is there any significant difference between booster shot or third dose? Is it just nomenclature? No, my understanding is that the third dose, you don't have to be past the eight months. You just have to have immunocompromising condition. It's the same amount of? It's the same, it's the same formula, yes. And then the other thing, just last question, and thank you again, Mayor.
 was in relation towards Representative Hernandez taking more of a proactive and aggressive approach towards diabetes in our community, said that for the first time we are gonna be doing diabetes screening, is that correct?
 No, this is the, we have provided diabetes screening before in linkage to care. This is the first time that we included as a routine service within our clinics. But we have provided diabetes screening in the past through a Medicaid waiver contract that we had with Utah. Okay. And so can you talk about next steps in terms of the diabetes screening, how it works in terms of the public? Somebody would go.
 come by one of your clinics, have the diabetes screening, if they are found to in fact be diabetic or at a certain level, what happens next? Well, the diabetes screening in our clinical service is for our patients, for tuberculosis, family planning, HIV and STD patients. So anybody who receives those services, they are going to be offered the diabetes screening as well. And it is going to be tested at our state-of-the-art laboratory now.
 And then if they have they are pre-diabetic or diabetic we're going to assign Service navigator case manager or a service navigator to link that individual to medical care at a medical clinic We don't provide treatment for diabetes, but we provide them information Yes Talk about it
 represented, but we have through our education, health education and prevention, we have a robust number of initiatives that address diet, exercise and so on and so forth that we can also refer the individuals to. In terms of us serving the whole community through our, through this mobile unit that is going to be stopped primarily led by a nurse practitioner,
 We are planning, we're going to offer that screening as well. So we're going to go into the neighborhoods, take the services close to the community, and we're going to offer that screening, which is gonna be tested at our laboratory as well. And of course, the Medicaid waiver, they continue to do outreach and offering the diabetes screening that is going to be offered as soon as we are ready to go at the lab, which would be within the next, maybe this coming week, we'll be ready to go.
 Okay, that's good because I know that that that's a big a big part of we've been doing the live act of El Paso Trying to get folks Healthy trying to lower our diabetes rates and part of that too is also helping people know what what it is And then the next step that they can be towards taking them kill themselves and their health more aggressively. So thank you again I think you're a man. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem
 And I do have some numbers for you. New Mexico is 69% first vaccine, 59% fully vaccinated. The state of Texas is 56% first vaccine and 46% fully vaccinated. The United States is at 60.8% first vaccine, 51.5% fully vaccinated.
 And of course, we're at 72% fully vaccinated and the 84% first vaccine. So those are the numbers you were looking for. And also they're talking about the third vaccine. They do have a requirement that you have to have a minimum of 28 days from your last vaccination to be able to get that next one. Thank you for sharing that, Mayor. And on the senior numbers, it's a really high number as well. If you recall, it's in the desert, it's like 95 plus and then on the 12 to 15,
 that's double what the state is. All right, that's one, yeah, and the seniors were at 95% first vaccine and 87% fully vaccinated. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yes, sir, thank you for that. Thank you, thank you for that. Now we go to, and Mayor Pro Temp, thank you again. And next, Representative Rodriguez, followed by Representative Anello.
 Thank you and good morning. Thank you for all the information, but I'm very curious about the job fair that you all will be hosting. Will you be able to send us information so that we're able to share that with the community? Absolutely, yes. Okay, and it's on the 8th or 18th? The 18th. The 18th of September? Yes. From 8 to noon? That's correct. And where is it at? It's going to be at, let me see where that is. Yes.
 It's at the railroad location. Railroad location. Yes. Okay. And do people need to have any type of medical experience, or is it just open to the public in general? It's going to be open to the public in general because we have a variety of positions from clerical assistants to nurse practitioners and so on.
 Okay, so you could just please send us that information so we could share and hopefully you all will have a greater turnout. And if you know of any qualified, interested individuals, you can also refer them to the City of El Paso website under human resources. Because we are on a weekly basis, we are opening new positions. So we're bringing 60 plus, but we probably have that many vacancies that we need to fill this year.
 Lot of job opportunities, which is a good thing. It's a great thing. So hopefully, you know with that information We're able to help you out more. So, thank you Representing no mayor if I may I
 Laura Cruz Acosta communications director for the city just to answer miss miss Rodriguez's question I just wanted to say that we will put out information on it we'll send it all to you all in terms of the information to the community we have our communications folks who will spread that information out to the community for y'all
 uh representative and thank you thank you very much thank you miss mora i'm very happy to hear about um the health assessment and the move to be making diabetes testing permanent i know that's been a conversation with staff and council for a few months now in the community so i thank you for taking that step and really listening to everyone i know representative hernandez asked about the timeline and you you know you explained that it's going to be a very comprehensive
 process. My question is, is the grant a one-time grant or is it annual? It's a very good question. So the we have the grants like the the most robust grant is almost eight million dollars from the CDC. That is for two years and then the other ones the vaccine expansion is for three years. That's the one that I first presented to you months ago for little under a million and a half.
 And then we have others that are going to extend five years. Now, right now, as you probably know, historically, public health has been underfunded all over the country. And the government, federal and state government, they usually require a lot of things from the health department, but the money has not been there in the past. Right now, there's a huge advocacy, because of the pandemic, for public health. So the discussion right now,
 And hopefully, I'm very hopeful this is going to happen. There's going to be a greater infusion of funds that are going to be permanent, not just really funding like we usually receive, which is why some of those contract amendments are extended up to five years. So there's a lot, I'll keep you informed on that, but there's a lot.
 a benefit coming, unfortunately, out of this pandemic in terms of public health infrastructure. And that was gonna answer my next question was going to be, how are we going to assess what the need will be once the grants have run out, right? Because it's amazing to be able to do these assessments and put a program in place, but the continuation of them after the five years will have a dollar amount to it. So I assume that that will be part of the process as well. That's correct.
 The one thing that I'm worried about right now is, not to worry because of the movement in support of public health, is the sustainability after three years. The community health improvement plan is going to be self-sustained because it's gonna rally all the community providers. They have their own funding, and they're gonna help us meet the deliverables under this community health improvement plan. So that's going to be fine.
 it is the continuation of supporting the public health workforce primarily. We're going to be able to establish, to develop more robust communication systems, epidemiology, for example, but it's after the five years, like what is...
 how are we gonna be able to sustain that? Hopefully by then we'll get notice that this funding is gonna continue, but if not, that's one of the things that we need to watch out for. Yeah, no, absolutely. And I think that's a conversation we should be having in the very beginning. So we can plan, you don't wanna find yourself
 in three years and you didn't make a plan for it and then everyone suffers so i appreciate that conversation very much my last and final question is in regards to the booster shots so you're saying eight months and and correct me if i'm wrong but it was up until last april it was still anyone over 65 or with a health condition and so will you all i know we we kept a very good records of who received vaccines from the city will you at all be taking a proactive approach and
 And if someone, you know, say who got their first vaccine in December by February has not received their booster. Will you be reaching out to them? Will be at therapy a process for that? We right now we're discussing that we have not determined if we're going to contact everybody, but that is certainly a possibility.
 We have a lot of individuals calling to, they lost their card and they want to replace. We don't replace cards, by the way, that's our CDC cards, but we provide a copy of the records. So we, people are, the amount of information out there and the education that our community has gained and the empowerment is very impressive. People know, they're calling each other, you see social media, there's like, okay, it's time for the booster and so on and so forth. So we,
 We will revisit that. I'm not absolutely sure where we are at in terms of contacting people like we did before for the second dose, but I will discuss that with Chief D'Agostino because FIRE is leading the vaccine initiative to see what we're going to do in that area.
 Yeah, and I think the best way to make that decision is right see what happens in the first month or two That the booster is available and then I you know We'll look forward to seeing that update to Council in the next few months so we can can work on that decision together Thank you very much for your presentation and for all your work. Thank you. Thank you very much Nexus
 Good morning. Good morning. Joe Molinar. Ms. Molinar, my pleasure to meet you finally in person, or at least to see you in person. And I'd like to say thank you very much for your leadership. You cannot have great leadership if you don't have followership. So the fact that you're having a health fair is great. The fact that it's in District 4 is even better. And just like Representative Rodrigo said, we're here to help you disseminate the information, and hopefully good and positive things will happen. And I thank you.
 You're very welcome. Thank you for your kind words. Thank you very much. And with that we appreciate your presentation and thank you for the work Thank you. Have a nice day. Bye. Bye Mayor would you like to recess for mass transit at this time and would you like to continue on this agenda? Okay, council may we have a motion to recess a regular City Council meeting just verbal please motion recess
 Thank you. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 10-11-44 a.m. May we have a motion to reconvene the regular city council? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Yes. Anyone opposed?
 And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 1045 a.m. We're on item number four. Item number four is discussion and action to approve the El Paso County 9-1-1 District FY 2021-2022 budget as presented by Scott Calderwood, Director. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Scott Calderwood, Director of the El Paso County 9-1-1 District. As we...
 do every year part of our statutory requirement is we bring our budget to city council for your review and approval this year we have met with most of the city representatives and with the mayor to present our budget i don't know if you want a presentation or if you would like me available for questions
 I would make a motion to approve. I've received the presentation unless any other member of council would like to see it. I'll second it. Are there anybody that's requested to speak has any questions at this point? Okay, hearing none, call the question. There is a motion and a second to approve. Call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. IT, can you please bring up my screen? The motion passes unanimously. We now go to item number five.
 Item number five is a public hearing on the proposed FY 2021-2022 property tax rate of .907301. The public hearing is open at 1047 a.m. Is there anyone from the public that would like to speak during this public hearing on the tax rate? If you're in Team Star 6 to unmute your microphone if you would like to speak on the tax rate.
 This is for the proposed tax rate of .907301. I don't see anyone coming forward or speaking on this item. Council, may we have a motion to close the public hearing? Motion. Second. There's a motion and a second. Is there a presentation on any of them? On the next item. Okay. There's a motion and a second to close the public hearing. The voting session is open.
 representative thank you and the motion passes unanimously we now go to item number six item number six is discussion in action to approve the resolution to adopt the fy 2021-2022 proposed budget as amended good morning members of Council Robert cortinas
 So again, this presentation is essentially going to recap everything that we've talked about over the last six plus months as you all recall as part Of our integrated budget process. We do continuous budget update presentations all throughout the year And we did a pretty thorough lengthy presentation back on February 15th of this current year Really outlining the five-year forecast of what we're looking at not only in the upcoming year but again taking that long-term financial look and what we have as far as those cause that we're looking at whether they be on the Public safety side the street side
 the investments in our streets and then with our parks facilities to include recreation centers senior centers aquatics and the restoration of all of those city services so with that again some of the key dates again going all the way back to october 27th we've done 20 different presentations related to the budget and various update presentations we did individual briefings with each of the members of council at the end of may in that first week of june
 That led into the June 8th overview presentation, which was a month earlier than we've ever done in the past Typically we do that at the beginning of July We actually did it June 8th to ensure that we were getting enough time for the members of council to fully understand everything that was Included in the city's budget that will begin on September 1 of this year on June 8 Excuse me on June 22nd again the City Council took action to increase or to decrease the property taxes for over 65 disabled and
 So by decreasing that the exemption providing more additional tax relief again to provide some financial assistance for over 52,000 homesteads that have either the over 65 of the disabled exemption and then that led into our detailed presentations on July 6 that were given by The different vision blocks broken down by the eight strategic goals and then also down to the departmental level as well and then that led into the last several weeks on July 27th, we presented the certified property values and
 On august 2nd, the city council did introduce the property tax rate, which is up for consideration today And again that property tax rate is the same tax rate that we've had now for three years And so that means no tax rate increase again for the second consecutive year So again as we take a look back of what we've been discussing again over the last six plus months again What were the priorities and so continuing to build upon what we did this past? fiscal year again again maintaining that overall same property tax rate and
 Providing additional property tax relief for our over 65 and disabled homesteads again. That's over 52,000 homesteads that have either the over 65 of the disabled exemption that benefit from that forty two thousand five hundred dollar exemption Which comes off the value of their home and is used to calculate their property tax bill Again continue to focus on the long term financial sustainability something We've talked a lot about ensuring that we're accounting for and taking into account those costs that we know are going to continue to come
 whether they be on the public safety side related to collective bargaining we've talked about we have both police and fire agreements which will expire here in the next two years we also have the staffing that's associated with the different public safety bond projects whether they be the regional commands the new fire stations as you all are well aware we have our police staffing plan which we're more than halfway through of adding the net increase of 300 new officers so with the increase in number officers obviously comes an increase in cost
 And then the last bullet point there is restoring those high priority services which were impacted by COVID in this past current year. So again reinstating or restoring the set-aside funds for our street projects, which has been a priority not only of the council But the community we heard loud and clear of restoring the parks recreation centers senior centers the aquatics all of the services That were unfortunately closed down for a long period of time again due to the health impact COVID had on our community and on the world. And so again the focus is on these four key areas
 as we look at the property tax rate again i've got a couple of graphs here that it's going to actually show you in order for us to maintain the overall same property tax rate and so again i just referenced and i've said that a few times and you've heard that over the last six plus months in order to accomplish that of maintaining the overall property tax rate we actually decrease the operating and maintenance component of the property tax rate which is the general fund portion of the rate we actually decreased that for this property tax rate which is being proposed today
 and with that comes a very very slight increase in the overall debt service rate however with that i'm going to show you here in a second over the last three plus years we've been able to actually bring our our debt service rate down by about a penny compared to where we were in fiscal year 2020 and so again providing additional tax relief for our seniors and homesteads and again restoring those high priority services are the key factors that went into determining the property tax rate for fiscal year 2022.
 So again, just to recap on things that have been presented in the past, we presented this back on August the 2nd. And so we are below the voter approval rate, again, which was set in place by the bill that passed in 2019, Senate Bill 2, says that 3.5% cap. So we are below that again for the second consecutive year. As we break down again the operating maintenance and the debt service rate, you'll see there also the total rate at the bottom. You'll see over the last three years now maintaining the same overall property tax rate.
 at just under 91 cents per $100 valuation. If I draw your attention to the O&M, which is the operating and maintenance, which is the general fund portion of the property tax rate, you'll see that from fiscal year 2021 to the FY 2022 proposed, which is on the agenda for today for approval, it's actually a decrease. And so again, in order to maintain that overall same property tax rate, the general fund portion of the rate is coming down. The debt service portion is going up very slightly
 But I'll draw your attention if you look at the debt service row there, our fiscal year 2022 proposed at 28.6 cents compared to fiscal year 2020 at 29.7 cents is still 1.1 cents below where we were two fiscal years ago. And so again, that's coming about from all the things we presented, the April 2021 bond issuance that you all approved, the refinancing that saved almost $21 million. And again, being able to lock in the very, very low interest rates. So we're able to...
 Not only save on the refinancing side but on the actual property tax rates that we locked in again We've talked about this in the past historically the city would Around a 4% interest is typically what we have for most of our bond issuances We were able to lock in an interest rate of two point five eight. I
 So what that low interest rate means is essentially that equates to about $30 million of a difference between a 2.58 and a 4% interest rate over the life of those bonds. So that played a significant role in allowing us to maintain that debt service rate and, again, not increasing the overall property tax rate at the same time.
 We've talked about this already again over 52,000 homesteads That's approximately 40% of our total homesteads that have either the over 65 of the disabled exemption And so again a large majority of a community that's benefiting from that additional tax relief That equates to twenty five point four million dollars when we look at the homestead exemption the over 65 and disabled So twenty five point four million dollars is the equivalent of property tax revenue now that's being provided in the form of tax relief for those three exemptions and
 You'll see the blue and the orange portion of the bars there blue portion is the largest over 65 You'll see that increase of 2.2 million. That's a result of not only the increase of the number of exemptions So we increased by I believe about 800 Additional individuals who are now benefiting from that but then again also the increase that the City Council approved of the additional $2,500 for that exemption
 So when the third city manager talked about we are not at 100% something that would again we've been talking about since February of how We face things back in Restoring city services, but again not at 100%. These are some of the examples of what we were What we've done in order to accomplish Maintaining the overall same property tax rate again And so you all were provided that list almost 25 million dollars of unfunded departmental supplemental requests so as part of the annual budget process and
 The office management and budget works very closely with all the city departments. As part of that process, each department submits a supplemental request, which is something that's currently not built into the budget, whether it be a new program or a new request. Those are reviewed. Some of those were approved and built into the budget for FY 2022. However, we still have almost $25 million. And if you all looked at those lists, you'll see that
 A lot of those are not necessarily once those are really needs and particularly if you look at for example the streets and maintenance department Some of their requests focused around set aside money for facilities increased money for set aside funds for facility improvements, especially with the flooding that we've had recently We've had a lot of city facilities that have unfortunately suffered a lot of roof leaks so it's Korean additional burden on our streets and maintenance staff not only from cleaning up the streets and
 but also from the facility side as well. As we look at what was provided from the city council as far as council budget requests, almost $129 million. Again, a lot of those requests centered around capital type projects, primarily on the street side and requests for additional street projects currently not built into any of the CIPs. Again, I talked about the refinancing and the role that played in providing the ability to maintain again the overall same property tax rate while at the same time,
 We have agenda items 10 and 11, which are the bond issuances, which will allow us to continue to move forward with those capital projects that were approved by the voters and also those projects approved by city council previously. Again, we also have our non-essential vacant positions, which are not 100% fully funded. That's something we talked a little bit about the last meeting, something that we're building back in.
 Again, working very closely with each of the departments to identify which of those positions they felt were critical that needed to be funded But again not being 100% fully funded on those positions again when we originally developed the proposed budget Which we presented back in July we had only restored about 68% So out of the 7 million we had only restored 4.8 million of the residential street project funding the City Council back on August 2nd July 27th actually took action to add a
 Additional funding 9.2 million on July 27th and then the additional as a result of the certified property values that came in Added the additional three million dollars for those residential street projects to again begin to restore Funding for those street projects that were deferred as a result of kovat We're still not at 100% of those projects that were deferred however with the action that the council took over the last couple of weeks and
 uh really going to be significant in helping us get caught up in those projects that have already been approved and unfortunately were deferred over the last year plus as a result of the impact on covert one of the things that's not in the budget for next year i just talked a little bit about facilities and the need that we have there and really the last two bullet points are really go hand in hand i talked about the impact again not only in city streets of getting those cleaned up
 Taking care of the medians the weeds obviously is going to be a burden that our streets and maintenance staff is going to have to take on To begin to address that issue. They've really done a good job here over the last several weeks However, just a monumental task to get the entire city cleaned up and so right now we don't have additional funding built in for any impact that we saw recently as a result of the significant flooding fortunately, there's been a little bit of savings that they've been able to use to be able to go and do some street repairs and
 I travel along Alabama so I know that they did some repairs there. Some of the road was cracking but unfortunately due to the age and the deterioration of some of our city streets when we receive rain like that it obviously creates a significant burden on our streets and maintenance department to go out and get those things fixed. So when we talk about we're not at 100% these are some of the examples of the things that we're facing and that we're dealing with. And again continue to develop a budget that is restoring, addressing a lot of the key
 but again maintaining that real strong focus and we save it over and over and over but it's important that we keep that in mind is that you know the city manager has talked about over and over that long-term financial sustainability ensuring that we're not rushing back to 100 too soon and that we're accounting for those future costs and how we're going to be able to balance the budget as we move into the next several years so i've talked about some of these already again creating the strategies utilizing the financial tools and resources to begin to address those outstanding costs that we have into the future
 the city council back in march of last year so prior to covet actually approved the budget stabilization fund which is an additional financial tool that we can utilize in the future we talked about the refinancing opportunities and locking in those low interest rates which brings down the cost of those capital projects which we're going to discuss here in a little bit continue to focus on continuous improvement something that you saw during the not only during the over representation but also during the
 transformation presentations that we've done julie baldwin in the performance office i've brought several presentations back to you all highlighting the efforts to not only save money but also create efficiencies improve customer service throughout the entire organization also as part of the el paso electric franchise deal having access to that additional funding that is going to go towards economic development incentive projects again that's going to be critical as we move forward especially as we're beginning to get a little bit further along in some of these larger projects that hopefully will come to fruition here in the very near future
 Ac yna olaf, y pwynt bwyllgor yma, mae'r rheolwr y dyn y dyn wedi'i bwysio i ni ddechrau at mater o ran yr hyn rydyn ni wedi'i atal. Ond mae'r penodiad heb ffonio yn ardal yr ydym yn ei angen i ni ddechrau ati i gael cynllun hir. Mae ein penodiad yn dda iawn iawn. Mae'r Prif Weinidog Molinar, rwy'n gwybod eich bod chi'n sefyll ar y bwrdd, yn dda iawn iawn. Rydym ar ôl 80% o'r ffonio. Ond mae'n ardal yr ydym yn parhau i ddweud, ac fe fyddai'r dyn am weld y dyn yn dod i fy
 y porsi ddim yn unig i'r gweithwyr y ddynion ond hefyd i'n cyflogwr a'r Gwasanaethau Cofi a'r Gwasanaethau Cofi hefyd felly wrth edrych at yr arweinydd costau dyfodol eto'r cyfnodau farnu cyfnodol mae gennym ein cyfnod farnu cyfnodol farnu cyfnodol sy'n parhau yn awgwrth 2022 mae'r cyfnod farnu cyfnodol gwleidyddol yn parhau yn awgwrth 2023 ac felly bydd y rhain yn parhau yma yn y ddwy flynedd nesaf yn ychwanegu mwy o weithwyr a chyffurwyr ar gyfer y newydd cy
 yn sicrhau ein bod yn adeiladu'r costiau gweithredu i gynnal y sefydliadau hynny ac yn sicrhau ein bod yn adeiladu sefydliadau o ddynion uchel, sy'n gwych, ond hefyd yn gynnal y sefydliadau hynny hefyd. Yn parhau i ddod i'r gweithle, sy'n fater o fater o'r hyn a siaradwn amdano gyda'r trafodaeth cymraith a chynnal y staff ar gyfer ein gyrff ddynion bus, ond hefyd yn edrych ar draws y bwrdd ar gyfer pob un o'n adeiladau cymdeithasol, yn sicrhau ein bod yn gynharach o ran cyflog
 new employees to the city workforce. Again, a future cost driver, the remaining amount. Again, we're going to have this discussion here in a minute for our capital projects that have already been approved from the public and by the city council. And then finally, that last point there is something I talked a little about just a minute ago. Still a critical need for the significant investment in, not only in our streets, and we say it over and over, Sam's talked about it, city managers talked about it,
 rydyn ni gyda'r cyngor a wnaeth y cyngor i'w ddefnyddio ar gyfer gweithredu, mae gennym 20 miliwn o ddolwg yn y cyllideb nes y flwyddyn ar gyfer prosiectau ar-lein a chyflawni'r stryd ymlaen. Felly mae hynny'n ychydig o'n cael ei ddefnyddio, gan ddefnyddio rhai o'r gwasanaethau blynyddoedd y diwethaf. Ond wrth edrych ar beth yw'r cymaint hwnnw ar y cyfnod anwyl i gadw ar gyfer cyflawni'r cyflawni cyffredinol, mae'n rhag 40 miliwn o ddolwg. 40 miliwn
 Yn ogystal, mae gennym angen ychwanegol yn ein sefydliadau, a'n ardal arall, yn hytrach na'r Gwasanaethau Cofi a Chyflawni, yw ardal yr ydym yn parhau i weithio arno. Rydych chi i gyd wedi cyfrifo 1 miliwn o ddolr arall yn ôl ar 27 Mediwr ar gyfer Gweithlu a Gynhyrchu ar gyfer ardal arall o ardal a chyfrifon a chyfrifon ar gyfer stryd. Felly bydd hynny'n mynd i fod yn ddefnyddiol iawn, ond eto, mae hynny'n ardal yr ydym yn cael ei angen yn sylweddol. Ac yna, techn
 yn cael ei ddibynnu yn fawr gan y contractiau ffurfio sydd gennym ar gyfer y cyfranogwyr cyfan, yn fawr gan y rhai ohonynt ar y safon diogelu cyhoeddus. Ond gyda'r holl eithriadau sefydliadol, mae'n bwysig bod yn ein cynnal ein buddsoddiad yn ein Gweithdy Technoleg Gwybodaeth. Felly wrth edrych ar y cyfan hynny, a phan ydym wedi'u ddifrifo, ac eto dyma'r hyn a ddawwn yn ôl yn Ffebrurair 2021, felly ychydig yn ôl 6 mis yn ôl, pan ddechreuom i ddechrau'r broses datblygu cyllideb, fe w
 rydyn ni wedi'u clodd mae'r cyllideb nawr wedi'i gydlygu o ganlyniad â'r gweithgareddau a'r pethau y gwnaethom i'w ddangos i chi am ddim yn 100 ond byddwch yn gweld wrth i ni fynd allan i fyny ffyn 2023 y ffyn hwnnw am 37 miliwn a bydd hyn yn parhau i ysbrydoli mewn ffyn 2024
 without any action being taken. And so that's what we would be facing. However, as I mentioned, we've already taken action on a lot of different areas and we'll continue to take action, continue to identify cost savings and efficiencies throughout the entire organization in order to be able to balance that budget for the next several years. So I just have a slide here that breaks down the entire city budget by fund type and by strategic goal. You'll see the strategic goals there. So general fund budget right now is at 476.2 million.
 That reflects the little over $3 million that the city council approved unanimously back on August 2nd to add that $3 million to go towards the residential street projects and the refresh for the pavement condition index study. So breaking down the $476.2 million general fund budget, when you break that down, 285.2 million of that is for police and fire. We have another almost 20% for all of the remaining city employee costs, which leaves, when you back out police, fire, and city employee costs,
 just over $96 million, which is a little over 20%. And so on the right hand side of the slide here, I included some examples of what's included in that other category, that gray shaded portion of the pie there, that 20%. So as you look to what type of things are included in that in the budget, for example, we have utilities, we have our electricity, we have water, gas that we need to pay for. That's almost $18 million for FY 2022. We have appraisal services, which is something we talk about,
 with Central Appraisal District, that's almost $5 million that we're paying. And that's an increase of almost $400,000 compared to the current year. We have our IT contracts, which I just talked about, of almost $10 million. Vehicle maintenance, fuel, communications, phones, obviously plays a critical role, the technology now, especially with a lot of things still being virtual. Property, general liability insurance. I mean, the list is just an example of the type of things that are included in the city budget.
 and i do have the maintenance and repairs category there of 6.3 million but there's still a lot of different operating costs basically the things that the city departments need to be able to provide the services that we're providing to the community so those are the operating or the you know the materials supplies the various contracts they need whether it's streets of maintenance parks and recreation to provide the services again for the community so i just wanted to provide that to provide a little bit of context as to what's in the budget
 Again, when you take police fire and our city employees, that's 80%, 8-0. That's 80% of our budget. And so that leaves, again, that 20%, which, as you can see here, there's a lot of fixed costs, a lot of contractual and committed costs that we don't have a lot of leeway with as far as making reductions to those items. So it provides a very, very small amount left over for city departments, again, to provide those services to our community. And so with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. And I'll turn it over to the city manager for some closing remarks. I know he had some. Yeah, we do have...
 Representative Lasadga followed by Representative Degas. Should I? Thank you, Mr. Cortines, for your presentation, for all your hard work. Mr. Gonzalez, thank you for all your hard work, for your team. You know, I think we want to go forward and not backward. I have a question on page 10, if you could go back to that slide, where you're talking about how we achieved a no tax rate.
 Did you mean to say increase? Could you talk a little bit about the increase of the 3.5% that's not in the rate, but in the actual revenue, the overall value? So we're collecting more revenue, is that correct? That's correct. And so 3% more revenue even though the tax rate is the same, because I think that's a little bit confusing.
 Mae hynny'n gywir. Felly mae'n ymwneud â 13 miliwn o arian tax adnoddau addas sy'n cael ei gyflawni o'r cyfrif tax adnoddau. Felly, er bod ni'n dal ymlaen o'r cyfrif adnoddau, rydym yn gwybod bod ni ar gael ar y cyfrif tax adnoddau newydd, ond eto, rydym yn dal ymlaen, eto, ar gyfer y flwyddyn ddiweddol, ar gael ar gyfer y cyfrif adnoddau. Felly, nid ydym ar gael ar y cap hwnnw, yn seiliedig ar y Gweinidog.
 Iawn, diolch. Roeddwn i eisiau mwy o gyflawniad ar hynny. Diolch eto am yr holl waith anodd. A, Brif Weinidog Pro Tem, Lizada, y peth unig y byddwn i'n ei ychwanegu i'r sylwad hwnnw yw, er bod hynny'n 13 o gyfrifolion, mae'r cyfrifoedd yn fwy na'r cyfrifoedd. Felly roeddwn i eisiau gwneud hynny'n glir. Roedden ni'n dangos i chi'r graff y dywedodd hi yn ôl, sy'n ymlaen â 20 miliwn plus.
 Felly dyna lle mae'r ail-finansio'r ddeg neu'r gwasanaethau sydd gennym yn yr operatio. Dyna lle mae hynny'n dod i'w chwarae. Felly os ydym yn digwydd i gael cyfraniad addas o gynyddu gwerth, mae hynny'n helpu i'w allan, fel nad ydych chi'n cael cynyddu cyflog i'r cyflog gwerth ei hun.
 Roedd yna blynedd pan, fel y dywedodd, roedd unrhyw berson sydd wedi cael ei gael yn y cyflwyniad y flwyddyn hon yn gyffredinol, yn ystod y blwyddyn diwethaf, nid yn ddewis am ddewis, roedd gennym 1.7% o gynyrchiad, a bod yn ddiddorol iawn o ran y cynyrchiad.
 Felly, yr un peth arall yr wyf am ei ddweud yw bod busnesau ddim yn gwneud llawer o'r cymaint hwnnw. Mae'n rhannu 28-72, yn fwy neu lai. Rwy'n credu bod hynny'n bwysig i'w ddweud oherwydd mae llawer o'r amser rydyn ni'n clywed am y llesiant a llawer o'r llesiant rydyn ni wedi'i wneud, rydyn ni wedi bod yn ei lleoli mewn busnesau bach a'r llesiant hwnnw. Ond mae'r rheswm pam y byddwn ni wedi cadw'r cyfrifiad fel y gwnaethom yn y flwyddyn gynnar ac rydym yn ei wneud eto y flwyddyn h
 diolch i chi arweinydd y sawniad arweinydd roledigus diolch mawr dim ond cwestiwn gyflym Mr. Gordinas ar eich sleid diwethaf allwch chi ddatganfod beth yw transfer gweithiol ie felly'r rheswm pam y gwna i roi hynny yno yw oherwydd pan wna i ddatganfod y rhan o'r bar oedd yna lle rwy'n dangos neu'r graff pai yno sy'n dangos costau gweithiol os edrychwch ar y cyllideb gwirioneddol mae'r arian gyffredinol yn trafod arian i'r adran gwasanaethau anifeiliaid
 Ac mae'r costau hynny yn periol i'r costau gweithredol yno ar y llyfrau celf. Felly, pe baech chi'n edrych ar y cyllid cyflog, nid ydyn nhw'n dangos yn y gadeiryddiaeth costau. Maen nhw'n dangos fel trafnir gwirioneddol o'r Ffin Genedlaethol i'r Gweithredol Gwasanaethau Celf. Ac mae'r un peth gyda'r parciau dŵr sy'n mynd i ddifri'r gweithwyr sy'n gweithio. Ie. Ac mae hynny'n trafnir o'r Ffin Genedlaethol i'r cyllid cyflog.
 Diolch. Ie, dyna'n i'n meddwl y byddai'n mynd i fod yn fy ngylch cyflawnol. Mae hynny'n ymwneud â'r gweithiwr. Ie, mae'n dangos y cyflog, ond mae'n ymwneud â'r costau gweithiol. Bydd yn cyflawni'r salariadau i'r gweithiwr sy'n darparu'r gwasanaethau. Ie, diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr, Rep. Rodriguez. Pryd i'r Prif Weinidog. Diolch. Diolch. Diolch, Pryd. Rydyn ni'n ceisio eto. Iawn, diolch.
 So I think this is probably one of the most important slides on this. I'm curious the questions relating to a couple of the questions. One is the unfunded department supplemental request. Can you provide a couple examples or a discussion about what those kind of requests are that are going unfunded for another year?
 So the ones that come to mind right away are from the streets and maintenance department. And so it's the things that I talked about of having annual set aside funds for facility improvements. I talked about how right now on the budget for next year, we do not have the one and a half million that we had prior to COVID included in the budget. And so right now, the streets and maintenance department, if there's a leak at a city facility, they're having to look through their current budget and try to identify, OK, well, I have to pull from somewhere because I can't leave a roof leaking.
 And so right now we don't have that one and a half million. That one and a half million would not be enough to address every issue realistically. And I don't remember the number off the top of my head, but on an annual basis we should have at least five million dollars a year set aside to be able to go out and do proactive type improvements to prevent those types of things from happening.
 And right now, although we made a lot of progress in a lot of key areas, that's still an area that we need to continue to explore. And also the vehicles is another area, vehicle replacement for that department in particular. When you think about all the different services they provide, it's not just streets. They do street light improvements. If a street light's out, they need bucket trucks. They've got street sweepers, pothole patchers.
 Large photos or big heavy types of equipment that's very very expensive So that's another area where right now we're working towards getting them funded on the regular replacement cycle similar to what we did with police and fire however We're discussing we're not at a hundred percent of where we need to be in that area and then Talked about the issues. We're facing right now with the flooding. I mean I
 i talked to richard a lot it's obviously a very critical department that provides an important especially right now with the state of the city with you know a lot of streets being damaged the weed growth is going to be something they're going to be dealing with for a while just making sure that they've got the staff that they need city managers talked a lot about this also that's a function on those state-owned roads state-controlled roads that now the city is responsible for maintaining so that was an additional cost two years ago that we've taken on
 and so that's something that we continue to explore whether it's you know increasing the size of the staff that he needs or the the equipment the pickup trucks which the city council approved again that million dollars back on july 27th which is going to come in very very handy especially for now with the critical need unfortunately there's procurement process that takes a little bit of time for them to get those vehicles but again it's going to provide a significant boost for that department
 Following up from that the bullet point about non essential vacancies are not funded at 100%. You know, I think it's understanding from this body that this is a very lean budget, very similar to last year's budget that we had focusing on needs and not wants.
 Felly, allwch chi siarad ychydig mwy am beth o'r cymaint o'r fagynnau nesaf rydyn ni'n ceisio eu gweithio arnynt a beth yw rhai o'r swyddi hynny ar gyfer y cyfrifol? Felly, rwy'n gwybod mai dyna'r cwestiwn a ddododd i mewn, rwy'n credu, ar y 6 Mawrth, ynglyn â'r hyn a wnaethom ei roi i'r cyngorau ar y nifer o swyddi heb gweithio. Nicole, dwi ddim yn gwybod os ydych chi arno, os ydych chi'n gallu cymryd ymlaen, ond rwy'n credu ein bod ni ar tua 70%, tua 70%
 Mae yna, rwy'n credu, ar draws y bwrdd, gwahanol adrannau sydd â swyddi fach sydd yn cael eu cyllid, p'un a yw'r Swyddfa Cyfrifiadwr, y Ddeddf Gwasanaethau Dynol, roedd ardal ardal ardal yn un o'r pethau sy'n bwysig iawn i'r cyngor nawr, ond yn amlwg, maen nhw angen eu swyddi i allu darparu'r gwasanaethau sy'n cael eu cyllid. Felly mae'r rhan fwyaf o'u swyddi yn cael eu cyllid.
 Nicole Cody, Rheolwr Llywodraeth a Llywodraeth. Ac fel y dywedodd Robert, mae'n iawn iawn ar y penderfyniad o ran y gweithwyr nesaf. Ac mae'r fathau o weithgareddau y mae wedi'u llythio hefyd yn cynnwys rhai o'r pethau hynny, ynghyd â'r rhai rydyn ni wedi eu bodoli yn hanesyddol hefyd, a'u bod yn parhau i ddweud nad ydynt yn cael eu gwerthu. Ac yna rhai cwestiynau olaf.
 a chyfeirio ar y cyfnod o ddiddordeb. Rwy'n gwybod bod yna un pwynt bwlet arall am ddim o gyllid addasol ar gyfer meddygau a chyflawni'r stryd oherwydd y llwythydd stori hanesol diwethaf. Gallech chi eto, rwy'n gwybod eich bod wedi'i ddod ati arnynt, gallech chi fynd ychydig yn ddyfri am yr hyn a yw hynny'n ei gynnwys ac yn ymddangos tuag at gwasanaethau a tuag at ein ddinas?
 felly y enghreifftiau rwyf wedi eu rhoi felly un rwy'n gwybod ein bod wedi cael llawer o strydau sydd wedi cael eu ddangos felly dydw i ddim yn gwybod os yw Richard arno os yw eisiau cymryd ymlaen a chadw mwy i'r trafodaeth ond rwy'n gwybod ein bod wedi cael llawer o strydau sydd wedi cael eu ddangos fe wnaethon ni wneud adroddiad amgylcheddol y mae'r rheolwr y duedd wedi'i gyfrifo ac fe fyddwn yn dod â hynny'n ôl i chi i gyd i chi allu cyflawni hynny ond er mwyn i ni symud ymlaen
 Felly dyna ardal lle o fewn y cyfrif cyffredinol ar gyfer ein Gweithlu Cyffredinol, mae'n fwy na'i gweithredu nad ydyn nhw'n cael llawer i allu mynd allan a chyflawni'r holl angen. Y mater o ran y sefydliadau yw un arall yr ysgafnau a siaradais amdano. Mae'r llifoedd yn llifio, mae'r amser cyffredinol ein sefydliadau yn ôl 40 mlynedd. Felly gobeithio y bydd y bond diogelwch yn gallu mynd drwyddo a rheniwadu a gwella'r sefydliadau a'r hwyloedd.
 Ond, roedden ni'n cael Angela Moore yma, ac fe wnaethoch chi weld y nifer o gweithgareddau sy'n gweithredu ar gyfer ein Gweithleol Celfyddydau. Iawn, rydw i'n gwneud hynny. Felly, rydyn ni'n edrych ar nad ydym yn gwneud hynny.
 a oes gennym unrhyw arian ar gyfer gwasanaethau cymdeithasol yn y dyfodol ar gyfer y flwyddyn nesaf? Yn ystod a'r hwyr, beth maen nhw'n ei gael yn ystod y blynyddoedd nawr. Pan ddechreuom y blynyddoedd, nid oedd unrhyw un yn disgwyl i ddod o hyd i'r mis o ddawel i gael 10 oed o fryn. Felly bydd y Swyddfa Gwleidydd yn gweithio'n dda iawn gyda'r Adran Gwleidyddion a Maint i'w sicrhau eu bod ganddyn nhw'r adnoddau a fyddant yn ei angen. Ac os ydym am ddod yn ôl i
 A ble ydych chi'n disgwyl os oes arian addas sydd ei angen, ble bydd y arian hynny'n digwydd? Mae gennym gyfnod mawr iawn sy'n cynnwys nondepartmentol o bron 650,000, felly byddwn yn defnyddio hynny os ydym yn ei angen. Mae gennym gyfle i gael adnodd cyflog, a'r hyn y byddwn yn ei ddefnyddio yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn fwyaf yn
 yn enwedig ar gyfer y gwasanaethau gweddill yw'r gwasanaethau sy'n cael eu darparu'n gyffredinol. A fydd hyn yn effeithio ar ein cyfrifoedd o ran edrych ar unrhyw adnoddau adnoddol o ran gwasanaethau drwyddi yn y dyfodol? Nid. Iawn. Dwi'n meddwl bod fy ngwestiwn olaf yn ymwneud â'r adborth PCI. Mae'n debyg ei fod hynny'n rhywbeth sy'n gwneud llawer mwy o ddealltwriaeth, wrth edrych am ddwy mis i'r dyfodol i ble rydyn ni arno pan oedd ymatebion hyn yn ystod
 Mae'n debyg, gyda'r llwyth o'r llwyth sydd wedi'i gael dros y flwyddyn hwn, y sefydliad o'r monsoon sydd wedi'i gyd-dwylo am misau yn ddiweddar, y byddwn yn gweld adborth sy'n hynod o bwysig ar gyfer y cyfranogwyr ar ein strydau, nid lle maen nhw wedi bod yn eu bodoli chwe mis yn ôl neu hyd yn oed ddwy flynedd yn ôl, ond lle maen nhw ar gael heddiw. Felly, a ydym ni'n gwybod pan fydd y PCI, os ydym yn cael ei gyflawni, yn dechrau? Mae'n debyg, Rydym.
 Mae'n dda. Mae'n dda.
 y cymuned hwn ac nid unwaith ac mae'n ymddangos bod hyn y flwyddyn wedi cynnyrchu y cymaint o'r angenion wedi cynyddu ac nid wedi'u lleihau ac felly mae'n teimlo bod hyn yn cyllid cyfrifol iawn sy'n cymryd i mewn a ceisio bod yn hynod o ddynol ac effeithlon yn bosibl
 ymdrin â'r angenion, y angenion gorau o'n cymuned, sy'n ymwneud â'r diogelu cyhoeddus, iechyd cyhoeddus a'n strydau. Yr un peth y byddaf yn ei ychwanegu, rwy'n credu nad ydych chi a Robert wedi ei ofyn o gwbl. Y peth un y byddaf yn ei ychwanegu yw bod hwn yn ymgyrchu sy'n ysbrydoli cyngor.
 ac mae'n fudged cymdeithasol cymunedol hefyd, gan ein bod wedi cymryd i mewn i'r holl adroddiadau ar-lein, i ymgymryd â'r broses, i'r holl gyfarfodydd anegddocaid sydd gan y Cyngor yn eu distric, i'r holl gofynion CR, y cyfnod cymdeithasol ar-lein gyda'r myfyrwyr sydd gennym. Felly, 5 neu 6 o ffyrdd o ddoddau o'r cymuned a'r Cyngor, sy'n cyfrifol i'r cyngor hwn, sy'n cyfrifol i'r cyngor hwn. Diolch, Ffyrdd
 Diolch yn fawr iawn, Prif Weinidog. Mr. Cortines, Mr. González, diolch yn fawr iawn i chi a'ch aelodau teimlo ar gyfer eich gwaith anodd drwy'r flynyddoedd yma. Ond, o unrhyw ffordd, nid wyf yn siwr yn union beth yw'r sleid, ond mae'n dangos, dwi'n credu, drwy'r cyfnod ymlaen, drwy 2024. Ond, mewn gwirionedd, pan wnaethoch edrych ar y sleid honno, mae yna. Diolch.
 I know we as a city council, to include myself, we have approved several 380 agreements and other things. And I know before I came on, and probably even before many of my colleagues were on, 380 agreements were brought to this council or a council and approved. Does your forecast in budgets include some of that good revenue
 fast revenue that's going to be coming in from 380 agreements or other vehicles such as that and if so what would that if you can find out and if you don't have the answer right now the percentage of what that would be yeah so in the in the revenue portion of that i t for bringing that slide up on the revenue portion of that yes that's factored in obviously revenue sources include property taxes so we're looking at property value growth those estimates are built in based on what we're seeing but on the expenditure side we also have the
 Rebate or the rebate that we have as far as the cost portion of that because it is a city for the most part That's could be the one that's contributing towards bringing in these new developments And so the economic development department's done several presentations about lining every time they do one of those agreements About lining the benefit entirely for the entire community and in particular for all the different taxing entities so for example I know a lot of the ones we've done recently it's primarily the city driving the incentives or participate in the incentives and
 but it does provide a direct benefit for whether it's the county the school district the epcc community college or the university medical center they're benefiting directly from that that growth as a result of those those projects so representative millinari for example the last 10 years in 19 2019 backwards in the last 10 years you've seen where the county in the next 20 years will receive 59.3 million dollars
 ISD is $158 million, El Paso Community College $17.1 million, UMC $32.5 million, and the DMD $1.2 million, for a total of $268 million. So when the members of the council, the mayor, when you all get in front and do these incentives, do these agreements that bring in jobs, that bring in developments.
 It does help the community, and that's a great example of it, to the tune of $268 million. So it helps them offset them having to increase the tax rate because, as Robert pointed out, sometimes they don't participate to the degree that we do. And if I may, real quickly also. Go ahead, Mr. Chair. So it's not just property values. It's also sales tax, and I think this year we've seen, obviously, a huge influx of federal dollars that have helped those suffering from financial hardships. But we've seen over the last three-plus years, even prior to COVID,
 Historically on sales tax growth, we received 2.8% roughly, a little under 3% on average annual growth in sales tax, which is our second largest revenue source. The last three years prior to COVID, we were heading close to 5%. And that again is directly attributable to what we've done as far as our economic development regional strategic plan
 so it's those two it's property values and sales taxes which is obviously we include that into our forecast okay thank you and mr gonzalez appreciate that information i just want to be sure that we as a city council are doing our fiduciary responsibilities and making sure that things are for the community doing well for the community second question i do have so for example um
 I guess it was almost two Thursdays ago, two weeks ago. I got stuck in District 2, not District 4, but either way. And I was in my car for two hours. And yes, I was being kind of like swept away. So I felt that personally, personal observation. But.
 I've been in El Paso for a long time and I pretty much anybody who has lived here in El Paso understands that we do have significant rainfall primarily in the month of June, July, things like that. And this past recent flooding and rainfall in District 2 got hammered very significantly.
 But is there a way to forecast additional funds? I know we're already doing about streets, but even in increments long term five years ten years that we can offset some more money for Streets and maintenance or anybody else that might need that it's not going away. We can blame climate change We can blame whatever we want to blame, but it's gonna be coming again. I
 Representative Molinar, I'll let Robert answer as well, but you're really kind of illuminating a point that we've been making about pay-go funds, set-aside funds, how important that is. I think you're making a very astute observation in that.
 Flooding is another area that does impact us We don't have the revenues that come in because that's collected by the water department but yet we still have an impact to us into our streets and also the rain does impact the The medians with regard to the weeds which that doesn't have anything to do with the rate that's collected But there is an indirect tie back to those costs associated with the flooding on our streets but well
 What we are tasked with is finding ways to come up with these different things and still addressing a lot of the lion's share with the council points in our direction. I think that's just an area that we still need to do more work in, and we will. And I think we'll take that under advisement in terms of what you pointed out so that we can work on that next year. So when we bring that back, I think y'all will know while we listened, that's another revenue stream we need to start working on and start building up as well.
 Thank You mr. Gonzalez. Yes, sir, and I'll just add to that. So yes To those of us that live in El Paso for a long time We know July August monsoons have an impact on on city services prior to kovat budget staff and manager We've worked on increasing because it's primarily overtime for that department because they're not working Extra shifts working extended hours. The overtime is the largest cost driver for them when those type of things happen We had been increasing their budget for overtime
 to account for that obviously the last couple of years we've held off and try to prevent that as much as possible but really overtime is really the big driver when these type of events happen
 Thank you. And you mentioned Alabama Street. And, yes, personally, I did go out there to Alabama. Also, I want to hats off to Mr. Bristol and their staff and their people because on that Saturday and Sunday or Saturday for sure, I know they were out there. I was taking a tour of District 4 and saw them out there doing what they needed to do. So we thank them for that. Thank you. That's all I have. Thank you for recognizing Richard Bristol and his staff, Mr. Mulliner. Thank you, sir. And with that, we have Representative Nadello.
 I don't know. Thank you, Robert. I feel like we've gone completely switch gears, but I couldn't not comment on the things brought up by Representative Molinar because I am wondering about emergency funds, right, because
 We've talked about you know kind of minor street damage and weeds in response to the rain But we haven't talked about portions of the sidewalks that have been blown out in front of schools that are still missing Ada ramps that are completely destroyed bus stops that you cannot access now two weeks Since those rains have happened streets that are still closed
 I can think specifically Magnolia and District 8 that is covered in mud. You cannot get into that street. And so I'm wondering at what point, based on the budget, we kick into some kind of emergency funds or ADA accessibility funds because, you know, specifically Alabama was a very terrible road, but so was Copia.
 and so is piedras and so one of the sidewalks that is completely blown out you go over there you can see eight feet into the ground is right in front of the softball field that was built by episd in partnership with the city and so at what point do we look to other funds to fix things that are becoming a dangerous hazardous hazard to my community so very good question and so i would respond by saying one of those things that we have access to now that we didn't have access to before is our budget stabilization fund
 so that's always an avenue that we could utilize if we needed to obviously that should be used only in an emergency type basis but that is a potential option the other thing that we're going to have a little bit more flexibility on is when we come back and bring you the fourth quarter financial report when i showed you all that back at the end of july we are still projecting a surplus for the rest of the fiscal year even with the action that the council took and so our intent was to bring that back we still have some street residential street projects that were still on first from the approved list
 but that's another area where if we need additional funds to send money into an emergency reserve that's another area we could utilize that there's always a potential as well just depending upon the severity of the issue of working very closely with richard and sam and potentially bringing it back and i'm not saying we're going to do this but it's always an option of that 20 million dollars that we have in the budget for next year for residential and collector roads a potential reallocating that to address some of the immediate needs
 And so we have a few options there, and so that's a horrible problem to have, but it's good that we have options available to be able to address these issues if we need to.
 Okay, and I mean it but we're not addressing them is the problem, right? Like I said, it's still been two weeks and I know that you know crews have been out there every day That the number one priority was clearing streets so they could be accessible But there are still some pretty dangerous conditions again sidewalks in front of elementary schools that are completely non-existent right now that have been that way for two weeks and at this point the yellow tape has fallen down from them and you can see kids and
 Walking around them and playing in them and it's it's you know, I would like to see kind of I know this budget doesn't kick Until September, but what are our options right now with the current budget we have? Well, we'll get go ahead. No, I was just gonna say so I know that Richard Bristol did send that email asking for that emergency Declaration so that we can get at least the ones that were really bad shape-fixed and and
 I haven't seen any of the requests as far as things that need to be addressed. I don't know if that, what they were allotted as far as using that savings is going to address some of those issues. Okay.
 but i know mr gonzalez and i'll let him speak for himself but i know that if anything is brought to our attention as far as needing funds to get those types of things fixed that we'll find a way to address those issues especially when it concerns safety for our community and i believe that uh city manager does have a copy of all the requests that we have sent in so yes ma'am we do and so what we'll do is we'll work with richard bristol and sam rodriguez we'll get an update to the entire council on that issue
 Thank you for bringing that up. Thank you. And I think, to your point, Representative Rinello, in the stabilization fund, I think we have $16.8 million in it. We put in $2.8 million last year, which is from the prior year. And this year we won't put any in like we did last year at around November, which it ends at the end of, what, August 31st.
 So do we know how much we have set up to be able to put in or we haven't determined that this year yet? I will say Mayor to your point because we don't have that number at this at this time we will have it at the fourth quarter report but I will say that I have assured Richard Bristol that whatever he needs I've called them. I've had on the phone with Sam so that Representative Inello so you hear that and so the rest of the council hears it that it's it's not funding that's holding them back I think they're
 They're suffering from the same thing that every other department is in terms of hiring. And plus they've got a lot on their plate with regard to the medians that they didn't have before that they have to address across the board. And they've got other needs on the streets in terms of maintenance and pothole repair. That's also on their list. So obviously we're placing the flooding issue at the very front of the list.
 but they've got a lot on their plate, and they've been going nonstop since the flooding started. And they can only start working on those repairs whenever the rain stops. I know there's been times where it has stopped, but it is a priority. And, again, we'll get something. We'll get a communication to the entire council so that you get a better feel for how these things are going to be attacked. Yeah, thank you for that because I think I've heard from just about every district on issues that they've had within their neighborhoods and concerns from their constituents. So I thank you for that.
 I think we have Mr. Rodriguez.
 Yeah, Mayor, Senator Riguez, the engineer. So we're working with Richard. They've contracted vendors to go and address their response as well to clean up, to pave some of the paving that was on Long Island Meadow on Fort. It was all done through some of the vendors that we were able to secure with the emergency declaration that we sent into the city manager as he authorized. So we're extending our resources, and it's very clear to us that we have the resources available to address.
 And we're looking to take a look at that list representative and all as well to address any safety conditions those those will take priority obviously over over any additional maintenance of their safety issues will get those addressed immediately as soon as we know about them. Thank you for that. And also, what do we have like $21.4 million in the fund balance?
 Do we have any amount that we've looked at moving forward with that or what we're going to be able to add to it this year based on savings or anything? We'll bring that back when we do our fourth quarter financial report, and we typically do that around the first of December, beginning of December. We do that because we want to close out our fiscal year. We still have revenue collections that we'll receive all the way up until the middle of October. So, for example, sales tax, middle of October is when we'll receive our August payment.
 so we don't actually start finalizing numbers until late october early november
 And like I said, we'll put that presentation together and come back beginning of December to show you all what that looks like. And I would just add that, as Robert has already pointed out, we do have options now because we have been working on these kinds of financial plans in the past. So as the mayor pointed out, we do have some of those funds that can be utilized. I will tell you that the fund balance, I know seven years ago, there was 20-some-odd days of operating fund balance, which is unheard of for a city this size.
 You know, the last city I was at, we had 129 days of operating fund balance, and we were a triple-A bond-rated city. And so we're double-A, and the fund balance had also been rated for a special project, and so there was a lot of things that we needed to adjust and make corrections to.
 So we have increased that. It's still not where it needs to be. So I wouldn't encourage us to be looking at that. That's the reason why we created the rate stabilization fund. But, yeah, we'll have more information in the fourth quarter report. And, again, funding is not limiting Richard or Sam in doing anything they need to do with regard to responding to the flood issue. Thank you. The $21.4 million, where does that put us at days of operation?
 Need to look at the cap for mayor the total fund balance we have including our budget stabilization. Is that 75 million? Are you referring directly to the unassigned? Thank you, thank you mayor I just wanted to talk a little bit about that emergency declaration flood of Flooding that's going to it has been declared. Is that correct? I
 What that allowed us to do is that because we have procurement Processes that we have to follow policies that we have to follow because it was an emergency to see manager has the authority to Do that we're gonna bring that back at the future council meeting for y'all to officially approve that But due to the nature obviously of some of the the situations that are treats and maintenance department was encounter We needed to move quickly to get procurement and set up those vendors like Sam mentioned and
 And so what kind of help, what other kind of help will we be getting as a result of that emergency declaration? So Chief D'Agostino, they've been tracking all of their costs. And so there's a certain threshold that has to be met in order for you to get reimbursed in those costs. I don't believe Mario wants to chime in that we've come close to meeting those type of thresholds. But we do check all of our costs. Anytime there's a situation or events such as that.
 Chief D'Agostino does work very closely and make sure that we're tracking all of our costs and Richard Brisson does as well. So how can we let the public know about accessing that and adding to those numbers? Yeah, this is Chief D'Agostino, Representative.
 We are working on this. The state has provided us a system. It's an online tool where people can register and they can actually upload pictures to it. We're working on the background to get that working. We have our public works both for the city and for the county side of it. Everyone's starting to input into that system. We hope to get as soon as we get that system, we can see its capabilities and we have a good shot on it. We'll push that out to the community so that everyone can upload their damages.
 Like Mr. Cortina just said, we are tracking costs. We're still waiting for a lot of cost reports from different areas of town. There was a lot of damage, but it's...
 It's taking time. The crews are busy repairing damage, and then they're trying to submit those costs up as well so that we can coordinate from a community-wide effort to see if we're going to meet those thresholds. So we are actively working on it, and all crews are involved at this point in time, and we hope to be able to push that tool out to the public here in the next few days, early next week. Thank you, Chief, for all your hard work. I appreciate your input. Thank you.
 Now, Chief, I think we've been having this conversation, and you said that we do have 30 days from the last storm that we do have to be able to declare a state of emergency, correct? That is correct, sir. Thank you. And we're looking at this last storm system that did hit us about a week ago, so yes. Thank you. Thank you for that, sir. And Mayor, the $21.4 million that you're referencing is our restricted fund balance, and so that's 5% of the prior year operating budget. We actually have $32.4 million in our unassigned.
 and then the 16.8 million in the budget stabilization fund. Yes, sir. Thank you for that. Mayor Potem? Thank you, Mayor. So along the lines of some other colleagues, I'm curious just again so we can recap, what is the coordination currently going on with our existing streets department as well as private contractors and EP Water in terms of some of the debris? Because it really is a citywide thing. I mean, depending on where that microburst or where that,
 that deluge occurs, that part of the city tends to be pretty damaged by it. There were parts of the west side during that same storm from a few weeks back that really affected Central that saw a tremendous amount of damage and there's still existing piles of dirt, debris, rocks, et cetera on Stanton, Robinson. Canterbury has received a tremendous amount of damage including along the existing El Paso water,
 conduit that's there as well. So I'm just kind of curious again to help us understand how these different partners and emergency contracts are all working together.
 Sam, you want to take that response? Yeah, absolutely. So Mayor Pro Tem, I don't know if Harold Kutz is on the line. Richard is not available this morning. But part of the coordination that they have going on with El Paso Water is looking at all the areas. They've offered their resources as well once they got done with some of their drainage systems to come in and clean up some of the work, some of the debris and the roadways.
 But the coordination and the master list is being coordinated through the streets and maintenance department. Harold, want to add any additional comments to that? Yes, basically we are doing that coordination and assessment of all the various sites. Some of the immediate emergent cleanups have been done via third party contractors with heavier equipment than readily accessible by our department and we're
 working with stormwater in order to propagate and prioritize sites cleanup is an ongoing process Thank you again, thank you sir, thank you for that I'm not sure Thank you, we have no other comments mayor we do have public comment on this item Yes, ma'am
 The first person that signed up to speak is Ms. Claudia Vasquez. Ms. Vasquez, I see you in the queue. If you'll press star six, you can unmute your telephone, and you'll have three minutes, please. Hey, everybody. Thank you for having me. I've never spoken in one of these meetings. I am thankful that you guys are going to listen to me for the first time. Thank you for allowing me to speak again. I would like to discuss with you why allocating money towards climate change solutions to our region is so important right now.
 Let's pay some attention. The United Nations reported a cold red for humanity at this point in time where several parts of the world are burning and several parts of the world are flooding, experiencing tornadoes, earthquakes, snow in early summers. We are at a point in time where we need to slow down and pay attention to what we're doing and start acting fast towards some changes.
 The University of Kearney, Mellon, and its professor, Neil Donahue, ran some experiments on pine trees and their great effect on air pollution. When pine trees aerosol combines with manmade air-borne chemicals, it produces pollution that is responsible for over 50,000 premature deaths from heart and lung disease. El Paso has grown so many pine trees over the course of years and little do we know that it's adding to our air pollution problem.
 Changing this and planting trees such as Oak Maple Beach would decrease the number of air pollution warnings of half and half each summer. I'm not going to bore you with each of the solutions I have already emailed each one of you, but let's have an overview. Okay.
 adding meshing in our canals to avoid trash travel more into our waters and our rivers protecting the whole openings of street drainages changing all of our street lights to led light bulbs weekly trash maintenance is critical a new compost site i believe new mexico has a compost site and we haven't
 opening it, or I don't even know if it's in discussion, but it would benefit El Paso so much. And holding people accountable for their illegal dumping
 We're the Windy City, so we could use that to our advantage and start adding some wind turbines to our region. I think that most of you are smart enough to know that these type of changes would benefit our city tremendously and know that these changes don't come easy or cheap. That's why we need to allocate this money where pressing matters are at. These changes will change our family members' livelihoods.
 on the long run. We need to pick a good fight and this is a great opportunity to bring the city together for a good cause, especially at a time where our city has been seeing bloodshed and many crimes that we haven't seen in a long time. I urge you please to make this change and use this to help and guide our youth, especially our youth that are so desperate for some change and would like to channel their energy onto better things.
 Thank you, Miss Vasquez. Thank you, ma'am. You have reached the three minute limit. The next speaker is. Thank you so much. Thank you. The next speaker is Miss Diana Camarena. Miss Diana Camarena. Miss Camarena, if you're in the Q star six, we'll unmute your telephone. Miss Diana Camarena. We'll move on to Mr. Colt Demore. Good afternoon, Mr. Demore. You'll have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon, Council, Mayor. It's good to be back in person.
 You know, I came here to talk today and I didn't have a speech written, but just listening. It kind of wrote itself. I'm here to tell you guys or to ask you guys to remove the seventy two thousand dollars that the police are requesting from the budget. Today, I've seen on the screens a whole bunch of stuff that's underfunded. I've heard about refinancing debt.
 The police department is not underfunded. They're requesting additional funds. The DA locally did not tell the police department to go and pay for these funds. She just said she wouldn't take the cases.
 So she didn't direct them to go do this. They're doing it on their own. It's a gross misuse of taxpayer dollars. And, you know, I've spoke to you, Mr. Molinar. I am a constituent of District 4. And, you know, I thought the conversation went well, but I've heard otherwise. And I heard that you do support this being a 20-year veteran of the force.
 thank you for your service but uh it was a misuse of funds then and it's still a misuse of funds now and i request that you guys please pull this from funding because from the tvs i've learned that this funding can be definitely used somewhere better thank you guys thank you thank you the next speaker is miss sabrina soto miss soto star six please to unmute your telephone and you'll have three minutes good afternoon ma'am good morning ma'am
 Good morning City Council. My name is Sabrina Soto. Today I'm calling in regards to the police department requesting the $72,000 of funding. I ask the council to please take into consideration the cannabis community here in El Paso that is fighting for cannabis rights and cannabis reform.
 With the testing equipment that the police department is asking for, more people are going to be arrested and convicted, therefore giving us a criminal record. We are not criminals for choosing this plant as medicine. There are so many opportunities in the cannabis industry that the El Paso City could be thriving on. Our sister city, New Mexico, is already thriving off of this plant.
 If we allow this funding to happen, we are going backwards when we should be going forward. $72,000 of funding for testing THC percentages in cannabis is a gross misuse of taxpayer money. This money doesn't need to be wasted on arresting people over a plant.
 that helped so many of us. This money could be going to fixing our streets that are still damaged from the rain and so much more priority that El Paso may have. Thank you again, city council. Have a good day. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Michael Castro. Mr. Castro will be followed by Mr. Adam Dodson, Sergeant Michael Short, and Gabriel Mejia. Good afternoon, Mr. Castro. You have three minutes, sir. Cool, awesome.
 All this is legal CBD cannabis. All this is legal CBD cannabis. This was grown here in El Paso, Texas by me. This comes from a cannabis plant, a CBD plant grown in El Paso, Texas by me legally. The THC plant and the CBD cannabis plant are the exact same thing you guys. They just produce different cannabinoids, THC and CBD. In New Mexico currently, we are recreational. I work in a New Mexico recreational facility, medical facility, I apologize.
 I'm 10 minutes away from UTEP. I service UTEP students. I actually service a UTEP teacher who goes to buy cannabis. Now, as a city, are we going to continue to go after our people and hurt people over a plant that is saving people's lives? Is it hurting anybody? Is it killing anybody? I would like to know. Do you guys know of anyone who has died because of cannabis? See, when I come up here and I reach out to you guys, some of you are very responsive. Some of you aren't.
 I always tell you guys to educate yourselves because what we're doing as a city, if we continue to go after people and continue to prosecute them, it's what comes after that. That person now has to go and hire a lawyer. That person now has to go and pay court fees, fines.
 They have to go to AA classes because they're drug dealers, or sorry, they're addicted to marijuana. Marijuana is classified as heroin, it's classified almost the same as heroin, cocaine. And that's how some of you may look at it and that is sad. Again, this is CBD flower, you guys. This is what you are going to waste money on to test. Because this is located in every single smoke shop across El Paso, Texas.
 Delta 9 THC is illegal, but do you guys know of Delta 8 THC or Delta 10 THC? That is a sub-cousin of Delta 9 THC, which is illegal. Delta 8 and Delta 10 are all legal in the United States. So what are we doing as a city continuing to waste money?
 Again, you guys, I brought this up many times. In 1915, El Paso started this. They were the first city in the entire country to outlaw cannabis. We started this. We started the war on drugs in El Paso, Texas. As a city council, you need to end it. You need to do something to protect our people because this is my livelihood. I've been doing this for the past 10 years and I've been making legal money off the cannabis industry.
 So for a law or something to come and try to take it away from me, it angers me because I have saved people's lives with this plant growing it. So thank you guys. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Adam Dotson. Mr. Adam Dotson. Mr. Dotson, if you're in the queue, star six, please to unmute your telephone. We'll move on to Sergeant Michael Short. Mr. Short, if you're in the queue, star six, please to unmute your telephone. Can everybody hear me now? Yes, sir.
 Good morning, Mayor, Council, Manager Gonzalez, Michael Short, and the El Paso Municipal Police Officers Association, where I currently sit as president. I'm calling this morning to, and I'm grateful, by the way, that I was able to log in and hear that presentation by Mr. Fortinas, and very impressive about all of the work that is being done in terms of budgets and everything, all the challenges that the city is facing right now.
 I'm calling because I don't want this to sound like a rant. I'm certainly not, but there are currently mandatory overtime assignments being addressed by the El Paso PD and the city of El Paso for a number of reasons. We have TxDOT contracts, three of which I'm aware of, COVID sites,
 and the infamous entertainment areas around the city of El Paso, in particular Cincinnati, downtown entertainment district and an entertainment area on Saragosa Street on the far east side, which are being worked mandatorily on overtime by El Paso police officers. What does that mean to us? That means our department is absolutely exhausted. We have two days off.
 One of those has to be a graveyard shift assignment, and then you sleep three-quarters of the day for your next day, and you go to work the following day. There's no time to be a parent, a husband, a wife, and deal with your house. Your officers are exhausted, and they are complaining ardently about having to do this mandatorily. We need 300 new cops in El Paso.
 In 2014, Chief Allen addressed Council saying, I needed 300 new police officers, and he was looked at. Kind of strangely, here we are years down the road, and we're five years into a 10-year plan, and we've made no progress. We're paying overtime in the amount of anywhere from 180 to 220 hours of overtime to El Paso police officers every single day that this operation works. Where is this money coming from?
 I don't know, I haven't been able to get an answer, but it's really expensive. I've heard a lot of talk today about where this money could be used otherwise. Why aren't these entertainment areas being tasked to pay for their own security? The problem here is many fold and I don't mean to portray that I have all the answers, but I believe our citizens in El Paso, our police community is paying for this.
 And are they being denied when they have to wait for an on-duty officer, when forcing off-duty officers to work these entertainment areas, and they may be having to wait for an on-duty officer to handle their needs? And that concerns me. It also concerns me that one quarter of the El Paso Police Department is retirement eligible today. That means one quarter of us, myself included, 32 years old. Thank you, Sergeant Short. You've reached the three-minute limit, sir.
 i apologize i thank you for your time council mayor manager gonzalez but i'm asking you to end this mandatory overtime before there's a problem thank you thank you sir the next speaker is miss gabrielle mejia gabrielle mejia if you're in the queue star six please gabrielle mejia miss diana camarana star six please diana camarana star six i see you in the queue man
 Diana Camarena or Gabriel Mejia. Good afternoon, Ms. Camarena. Go ahead, ma'am. Good afternoon, city council. I wanted to talk today about the funding money that is trying to be given to the El Paso Police Department. Every time I read anything with the city of El Paso and cannabis, it breaks my heart. When you all passed Friday release, it gave me a sense of comfort to know my representatives were being more open-minded and thinking about the human.
 What we do show now is our level of understanding and compassion for patients who either have physical, very observable disabilities or not visible and mental disabilities. Patients need this medicine and it needs to stop being put in a bad light for other people's pleasure.
 After the police showed up to my door that night, I lost all my family. Not because they're against cannabis, but because everyone decided to fight with my earthly parents. The parents blinded by what society would say about her daughter being around cannabis. A parent that believes in her heart, marijuana is la planta del diablo.
 Not because she's tried it, but because society told her it was wrong. My other earthly parent, one who has himself been to programs set by the city to help with substance abuse, also turned on me and decided that money and some level of comfort was better than standing up for his child. If anything, you can say now I have some trauma and PTSD because of what happened. And so will all of the future prospects that would get into something with cannabis.
 It's more than just about money to me. This is my personal life that was affected and it's still being affected by it. Things you shouldn't even know about, but I had to come up here and share it just to show you the impact that these decisions that you guys make have on your citizens. And not only that, the effects turned out to my children and I had to be really cautious with how I handle my situations because I wasn't the only one that lost family that day. We need education on it and I know it's hard. There's not much stable research and no one really knows how to set it up in a better light.
 It's okay to not have all the answers, but I believe it's possible to pave the way to greater learning. And I believe it has to come from this city, the city that is deeply rooted with being the wall that kept cannabis out. Our city has heard from years of abuse, so I don't see 72,000, I don't see a number, I see lives and more families being broken. For something safe, for a medicine, for trying to get better, they're getting worse.
 to not acknowledge that this medicine helps is just completely ignorant any effect it has now on the broken families will rise years from now when cannabis is legal and have other negative effects those effects we're going to have to put funds into and fix that instead of working on something better so let's do families a favor now and educate them set them up and set up our police force with more knowledge and maybe use the funds to give them thank you thank you ma'am
 Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you, and thank you, one, for signing up and was here and liked to speak. Thank you for taking your time. And with that, it concludes public comment, and now we have Representative Hernandez. Did you want to say something? Okay. I'm just going to clean the mic. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Cortina's for your presentation and to Mr. Gonzalez for all your hard work. I know it's been six months of budget discussions and if you can bear with me, I have to take off my mask because I'm having difficulty breathing and talking at the same time. So regarding some of the concerns that we've heard on public comment,
 You already know where I stand on this issue, and so I first and foremost wanna thank this body for voting in favor of a resolution, the site and release resolution, as relates to possession of cannabis. And I thought that was a really great step forward. But I wanted to share some information here because I've had discussions with our police department
 and with members of the community and my constituents, and this is such an important issue for me. I didn't want it to be ignored in this budget cycle. So currently in the United States, there are 18 states who have legalized for recreational use of marijuana. That also includes the District of Columbia, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Guam.
 And then in addition to that, there have been 13 states who have decriminalized the use of marijuana, cannabis, THC. I'm going to say all three of them so we know we're talking about the same thing here. And then as it relates to where Texas is, near the states who have legalized
 marijuana it's essentially the entire Southwest in all the states that surround Texas so that includes Arizona Nevada New Mexico Colorado California and then the other two states that have legalized medicinal use is Oklahoma and Arkansas and so we essentially have an island here
 And then to 10 minutes to the west, New Mexico, Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham, she promotes the culinary creativeness of cannabis, THC, marijuana. She's even challenged New Mexico residents on who can be the first to make a cannabis edible green chili. And so it's extremely confusing to Texas residents that all of your states surrounding Texas
 Texas are legalizing recreational use, whereas our police department is requesting additional testing so that we can penalize in a punitive way for possession charges, specifically as it relates to low possession charges or cases of THC, marijuana, cannabis. So it would be unconscionable for us to allow
 you know, as a matter of public policy for our police department to use the funding for low level possession charges. So let's talk about precedents in Texas. I have an article here that I'd like to reference that was issued last year by the Texas Tribune and I'll share it with the members of body. And it states very clearly that the department, the Texas Department of Public Safety
 have issued and notified law enforcement agencies that state labs will not be doing testing in marijuana, misdemeanor marijuana possession cases. So in Texas, the definition of a misdemeanor for marijuana offenses includes up to four ounces of possession of marijuana and the sale of up to delivery of seven grams. Now, it further states that the Texas legislature last session,
 did not provide any money for testing and misdemeanor cases. So we have a Texas department, a state Texas department, that has already taken this position that is not going to be providing funding for testing of marijuana, THC, cannabis charges for low-level possession charges. So if we do approve that testing today, that funding for testing today,
 it could amount to hundreds of thousands of dollars for El Paso residents for loss of wages, for loss of employment, and then would contribute to the lack of members of our community not to be productive members of society.
 I don't want to promote that. I also recognize that we do need testing. There is gang activity. There is distribution happening amongst our communities, but they're not misdemeanor related charges. So we want to promote that our resources are targeting for that type of criminal activity
 and not for the unintentional consequence, which could be our youth unintentionally being, you know, having low-level possession charges because all of these other governments and all of these other states are allowing for that. So I do want to make an amendment to the budget resolution, and I'll read it to you, and I hope we'll have a second and a vote on that.
 So I would move to approve that the $72,000 in funding requested by the El Paso Police Department to test marijuana, cannabis, THC, is not used to test for low-level possession cases that qualify as a misdemeanor by the state law of Texas. Second. Thank you, Mayor. And with that, thank you, Representative Hernandez. With that, we have Representative Molinaro.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. So there's a lot of debate on this, and I still call it marijuana. And whether you call it cannabis or something else, and the testing of it, we do, or excuse me, last year there was, I believe, the passing of the site release program. However, the only confusion I see is certain people will confuse that site release program with the possession of marijuana.
 It's not the same. Well, there are elements that are the same, but it is a choice. And if you choose to do that, that is your personal choice, whether it's possession, growing, transportation, whatever, but that's your choice. We still live in a law, excuse me, in a country where there's laws,
 The federal level still has laws against marijuana, whether that's possession, transportation, things like that. The state of Texas still has laws on that. So we need to respect the law on that. And so for those other reasons, I say we need to continue with the $72,000. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Moan. Representative Sandanello? I was actually pressing the button for Representative Schwarzbein. Oh, okay.
 after this item we vote we will recess for a few minutes or reset uh mayor pro tem's uh system after the item thank you thank you um i had a couple questions uh for my my colleague it specifically rates uh to the funding uh for for this are you proposing to remove this funding from the police department or to keep it within the budget of our police department
 yes thank you for that question so to clarify we are not proposing that the money be removed we are restricting that the funding not be used for misdemeanor related cases so the funding could still be used for larger cases of cannabis bus if it was above a misdemeanor amount as defined by the state of texas yes sir and the funding could be used for larger
 for the discretion of the department for other facilities or officer training or officer duties yes sir there's in this motion there's no prohibition um but the request was for testing so my assumption is that it would the sole purpose would be used for testing um i don't know robert do you have anything to respond in terms of in terms of the proposal and if you could have that restriction placed on it well i don't think she's
 Cutting it out of the budget. She's restricting the use for the on the misdemeanor We'd have to look at what she's referencing to give you a better response But I mean the council votes on it and improves it we have to execute it Okay, and what is the current budget of the police department proposed for? this upcoming budget year
 177 million. 177 million, we're talking about 72,000, okay. I mean, I think that every single penny that goes towards our police department is an important dollar and penny spent towards keeping our city safe. I think that Representative Hernandez with Representative Inelo second, but I think Representative Hernandez brings up a lot of relevant points. The fact that every single state in the Southwest
 Nevada, California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Colorado have all not just made it for medicinal marijuana but also decriminalized it for recreational usage as well. I just want to make sure that it's clear that
 we keep those dollars the 72 000 within the police department um so that the police department is able to use that to help our officers keep our city safe i think i think she i think she did say that okay the way she made her motion and i think that that is that is something that is
 makes a lot of sense. It's a common sense thing in terms of especially with what is occurring in New Mexico and also in terms of what we already have in terms of our site and release program with trends that we see with other law-abiding communities within our own state and the fact too that we are still prosecuting for larger than misdemeanor amounts within our city as well. So I think that there's a lot of
 worthwhileness into what uh representative hernandez is proposing right now especially with the fact that it still keeps that funding within our police department to to protect and to keep our officers uh fully funded or as well funded as we can thank you mayor pro tem representative rivera thank you mayor although the amendment sounds reasonable and it stays within the department i would ask you mr gonzalez if uh
 What I've been told by several of the higher administrative people within the department, stating that if it was up to them, they wouldn't. But the DA is requesting such exams. And so if the district attorney requests those exams, although you leave the money in there, that money, some portion of their funding is going to be spent into the testing.
 Are you aware of that or it has a district attorney even approach you that's a shame that I don't have The luxury to call one of the administrative officers to Talk to this body about that because that's what I was told that the district attorney was requesting that I can't speak for the district Attorney I did see that letter and it does represent a
 what you've described. However, I've been told that it's in the manner in which the question was asked as well. So I can't really comment on, you know, and look at you in the face and tell you that I know for sure exactly what that letter represents in terms of, cause I don't know what the question was that was asked. And in the manner in it was asked, I think the answer was yes, they do require testing.
 But I'm not familiar with the entire conversation. I'd have to go back and see what that conversation was with our police department and the DA's office in order to give you a better response. So although we vote for this amendment that Representative Knudsen has instituted right now or is going to for a vote, will the department, should it be proven that the DA has asked for it, where are they going to get that money from? Can they expend it from some other department?
 Other cost within their budget or because it's gonna be spent you see what I'm saying regardless of the fact and what? Would represent Moline are just stated terribly. It's still against the law. So if the district attorney asked for such exams The department has to comply otherwise that would be correct. Otherwise the city would be put in a liable position if an arrest takes place
 That would be correct. I mean, it would depend on, again, like you've asked, if the district attorney requests that a test be conducted on a marijuana charge in order to prove the consistency of that drug, then yes, you're correct. However, I don't know that for sure, so I can't answer that question with full knowledge of that conversation that took place between the police department and the DA's office.
 Okay, but you stated that you saw the same letter. So then I asked my colleague to understand I've asked him for a point of clarification because that's that's actually not with the da app And point of clarification is allowed in robert's rules. Um
 So the clarification is the DA did not ask us to test what she said. And I will ask Representative Hernandez to clarify this because I watched the community meeting in which the DA was present and discussed this. But my understanding is that she's saying she's not going to prosecute these low level cases. So regardless if the city spends the money to test or not, she's not going to prosecute them. So it actually for clarification purposes of your question, Representative Rivera with
 we're going to be spending money on a case that's not going to be prosecuted. Okay. And she says that at a community meeting, and she says something different to the department. And Ms. Neiman will tell you if there's requirements from the district attorney for a case in particular, if those exams aren't done, whether it be something higher, then the case is thrown out, correct? Yes.
 Thank you, Mr. Rivera. My understanding is that the testing requirement falls upon the agency that brings the case forward, and my understanding of the DA's directive is they will not prosecute cases without a test. Okay. That's what I was told. Okay. With that said, then I stand corrected. And so apparently they haven't received a memo up there from the district attorney's office because that's what I've been told. And so...
 We leave the money in place and some situation like that comes up, just be advised, they will have to spend for some testing, okay? So with that said, I can't say anything else unless one of the administrators decides to call in and directly talk to council right now, but I doubt if they will. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Rivera. I don't know if Representative...
 Yeah, I just wanted to clarify again to represent a Rivera's final point Um, I agree that where we are leaving the money in there for testing for when it is needed But this council also passed a policy That said we would not arrest in or we were not arrest for low-level cases of marijuana And so this just coincides with the legislative ability of this council previously, right? I have many updates
 with Chief Silva and with Dion Mack in regards to site and release. A lot of the cases that are being arrested by the police department with low-level marijuana are for multiple offenses, right? So not just low-level amounts of marijuana, but whether it be DWI or warrant. So that's not what we're asking here. We're asking specifically for cases that fall within a policy that this council voted for and supported. And so we are just asking to support
 You know support our own voices. So thank you mayor. Thank you. Yep, sir. Molinar. Thank you very much. Mr Mayor, so I'm gonna give you an example. Let's just say someone police officers unit full crew solo they've arrest somebody for assault class a family violence Another misdemeanor and that person is a possession of marijuana Whatever you want to consider low level so through the dams process certain things happen, but the case will finally be presented so
 So, and I understand the DEMS process takes time. Well, excuse me, the testing of the Marijuana takes time, excuse me. But once the case has been filed or the charges have been filed, so let's just say the family violence case goes forth. However, the Marijuana case can be used as what's called an extraneous case. So when the decision-making,
 authority is there in front of a court to find out what is going to happen or not happen, that extraneous case leverages
 In a different way that the prosecution of prosecuting an attorney can use that to his or her benefit in that court So if you take some of that away You're hindering the the police first of all then number two you're hindering the prosecution Now I personally have not had any conversations with our current district attorney about that and I'm not really sure how she's handling that but
 But it's a legal process, it's a legal step, and it does work, and you gain convictions out of that. And so why are we doing what we're doing if we're just not prosecuting correctly or fully? Thank you, sir. Thank you, Representative Leonard. Representative Sotega? Thank you, Mayor. Representative Hernandez, for clarification, would you state your amendment to the resolution again, please?
 Yes, ma'am. Sure. I'd be happy to. I move to approve that 72,000 funding requested by the El Paso Police Department to test marijuana THC is not used to test for low-level possession cases that qualify as a misdemeanor by state law. Thank you. And then, Mayor, may I add my remarks to address Representative Rivera? Oh, if you want, you can move on.
 i'm sorry i have district five um thank you mayor um i just have more well some more questions in regards to this it's kind of coming before us right now um in regards to the site and release um how many of those cases have been prosecuted since that took place i have to rely on the police department to tell us i don't have those numbers today but we can get them for you
 Will that be presented today? I'm just missing a lot of information here to be able to feel comfortable making a vote on this. We'll search for it. Okay, thank you.
 um thank you um we don't i don't have any statistics but i just recently had a my one-on-one meeting with the police department and then site and release um they showed they showed several citations that are issued um but once the citation is issued then it goes through the judicial process in the court so folks will have their day in court
 However, regarding the discussion with our district attorney, yes, she did come to one of our district three community meetings. Several questions were posed to her about the district attorney's position on cannabis and prosecution of those cases. And one statement that really.
 resonated with me her statement and not to put words into her mouth but to rephrase her statements were that their priority was to focus on criminal and high-level possession charges and
 And so those were the cases that they would be looking at and pursuing. And the other thing was that she had mentioned that it really wasn't a great use of taxpayer dollars, whether that be at the county level or at the city level, to focus our efforts on small misdemeanor, low level possession charges. And so I just wanted to add that for context. But as a reminder, there is currently state practices by current state offices
 like the Texas Department of Public Safety that are not testing for misdemeanor possession charges. And so these are public policy decisions. We currently are not testing for that. And so we would just encourage that those funds be used for high-level possession charges and not for low-level possession charges that would qualify as misdemeanors. Thank you, ma'am. And with that, we do have an amendment with a motion and a second. Mayor.
 yeah i just put in where i put them right here um i i just i just want to make sure that that
 that those $70,000 are still say to fund our police. The last thing I want is for the public to think that we're defunding our police department in this proposed budget even by a dollar. And so I need to understand more fully and I don't know if this amendment needs to be amended to transfer the 72,000 to be used for high level criminal testing for marijuana
 the ability to be used for other i'm trying to understand what would be the process to i guess reassign or reallocate these 72 000 either for high level um criminal testing of cannabis or for operations for the the police department can i ask real quickly so
 I think the way the item is worded is it clarifies that, but even with that, we're not making any changes to the overall budget. And if we were to make any changes above the 50,000, which the mayor brought this up in the budget resolution at the last meeting, anything above $50,000 would require council approval. So we would not be moving any money around within the police department. It would remain within the police department if the motion passes. Mayor Pro Tem. And I can add the word restrict because there's nothing in the motion says to delete
 but it's to approve that it not be used to test for misdemeanors. Misdemeanor amounts. What's that? For misdemeanor amounts. For misdemeanor possession charges.
 Okay, because I just I want to make sure that the public understands that if this were passed that those dollars are staying to fund the police department and to be better utilized for high level criminal cases, which the D. A. Has stated publicly that she is focusing on prosecuting and and also would follow what this state is currently doing. You're saying the department of which the department, Texas Department of
 DPS, Texas Department of Public Safety is currently not testing for low-level misdemeanor charges in the state. Is that correct? Yes, sir. That's correct. Okay. So this actually further aligns our policies as a city with what the state is currently doing as a whole. As it relates to what the Texas Department of Public Safety is doing. Yes, sir. Okay.
 Again, I think it's important that this amendment would keep those $72,000 within the police department that could be used to further fund our officers, that could be dealt with operations, or could be used to better fund high-level criminal cases relating towards high-level amounts of cannabis that the DA in El Paso has currently stated that she would actually focus on prosecuting.
 thank you and i know um miss cody you have you've been wanting to speak oh sorry i just had raised my hand when we were discussing whether or not the item the funding would move so the funding does maintain the outside line will not be moved all right thank you and without miss prime yes mayor there is a motion
 by representative hernandez seconded by representative anello to restrict the 72 000 funding requested by the el paso police department to test marijuana cannabis the thc so that is it is not used to test for low-level precision cases that qualify as a misdemeanor is that correct representative hernandez yes ma'am thank you thank you so on that motion uh before we go uh representative of um libetta i had a question real quick came in
 go ahead thank you yeah i came up with the with the with the email from mr rosales but to uh and uh lieutenant surface responded if you don't mind if i can read it for you would you all mind that before we take the vote okay thank you this this is an email received on may 10 2021 but to lieutenant john surface
 Uh, dear Lieutenant John Surfers, as you're aware, the inclusion of hemp in the Texas Agricultural Code has introduced a new layer to the evidentiary requirements needed to prosecute substances prohibited under Texas Controlled Substances Act, CSA. In light of the change, the El Paso District Attorney's Office is requesting that items be tested for prohibited levels of tetra, tetra, tetracabinal, tetracabinal?
 Above the allowable limits and now authorized by statute for the hemp industry Please consider the necessary request to ensure a differential the other in quantitation testing of hemp marijuana and cannabinoids Focusing on the latter two. Please keep in mind that changing formulation formulations of products that are showing in El Paso via interstate transit is
 While we are focusing the request on the quantitative value with a necessary uncertainty of measurement information of THC and delta-9-THC, there are additional substances that may come into play, such as delta-8-THC components that are not fully identified under the CSA.
 And it says, you don't mind, please keep us informed on the expected cost per test per drug. Though we are not successful in all cases, some of the cases dispositions allowed for testing cost recovery at case disposition. Thank you for your consideration sincerely. And it's signed, Yvonne Rosales. Oh, I'm sorry, Douglas Tieman, ADA Intake Division, which is for works with Mr. Rosales.
 thank you sir with that we'll take the question there you didn't hit your button yes ma'am this is funny but um miss neiman would you mind translating that letter for us what that means and just very um simple terms if you could also help understand the context of that letter because i have no idea why that letter was sent to represent rivera not to the body why it just
 Do what? Mayor Potem. Yeah, but from May 20th, May 10th. Mayor Potem, excuse me, she had the floor. I'm speaking, sorry. Thank you. So Representative, if I could please obtain a copy of the letter because I've heard a lot about this letter, but I don't. I'm sorry, my email's a little slow this morning. Okay, so I'm reading letter written by the DA, Yvonne Ronsales dated May 10th, right? This is the same letter?
 It's written to the tenant surface obviously at the crime scene unit. So there was a change according to what has happened in the state level and Representative Hernandez alluded to this earlier in her presentation. There are allowable limits that are authorized by state statute for the hemp industry which is where you have heard repeatedly that there's an allowable use of hemp that is when the
 an officer is out on the field, they are required to be able to differentiate between whether the person that has been detained or pulled over has possession of hemp versus the illegal substance that we know as marijuana or THC. So there needs to be a differentiation between those two and that's what she's stating at the end of that second paragraph. Please consider the necessary request to ensure differentiation and quantification testing of hemp.
 marijuana and cannabinoids focusing on a lot or two. So they are, she's asking that they focus on the marijuana and cannabis prosecution or differentiation of those substances.
 And the city observes that cost, right? Right. So what she's telling the department or lieutenant service at this time is she's asking for information in terms of the amount of testing that it's going to cost per drug. So they have to have the ability to test the substance for the various different substances that a person can possess.
 And then the department has to make the decision as to which one is gonna be brought forward obviously. If you're in possession of a substance that is not illegal, then those charges are dropped. And then subsequently, if you are found in possession of a certain amount over what is illegal, then you are prosecuted. Irrespective what the question that you all are grappling with and the department is grappling with is how much is it going to cost to conduct the testing period?
 Does that help? It does help, but I think it also kind of brings more questions. I think for sure I'd wanna know, I think that people, well we passed already as far as people not being prosecuted for small amounts. I think it would be, my logic tells me that it would be in their best interest for us to be able to test whatever it is that they have so that they're not being arrested and they're not being prosecuted for something that they're not doing is illegal.
 I mean, yes, you're right. That's also part of what the due process is afforded to a person who is arrested at the time that they are arrested, right? That they are ensured that what they're being prosecuted for we have the evidence to substantiate or not. So, I mean, I'm just having, I guess, that misconnection trying to understand how,
 tying our officers hands basically to not test it how this is beneficial to anyone Including you know people and I'm not and I really do think that that this is a fight that needs to be taken all the Way to the state level I agree with my colleagues that you know all the states surrounding us have it legalized But I don't think that Us here, and I'm very and I don't know if you all have noticed this about me I'm very against breaking laws, and I think that essentially that is a law of the land right now and and
 tying our officers hands further is only going to hinder the community because we don't know who is breaking the law and who isn't So I think that you know this amendment. I don't know much about it I don't know how would work or how would hold up? So it's just a very difficult decision as far as supporting this amendment and that is all thank you. Thank you. I
 and with that miss prime sorry a point of clarification because um uh representative do me a favor for you uh your question to speak please yes sir i mean go ahead now but so point of clarification um site and release is not about the prosecution of low-level marijuana's as uh marijuana as representative rodriguez just asked our city attorney is it about the it's about the arrest so i just think that should be very clear we're not talking about the prosecution we're talking about the arrest of the individual
 Thank you with that we will not have any other questions. We're gonna take the question now my just a clip I also point of clarification the thing is that the thing is that if the test if the officers do the test before and
 Before they even they even are taken into custody on the field. They're not arrested That's what the testing is the testing takes weeks to get back. It's not an immediate test on site Okay, if that was possible, I think it's a very different conversation doing mayor. I think the discussion has gone Some members have already spoken twice. Let's take the question, please. I
 Okay, thank you. So there is a motion and a second to approve that the $72,000 funding requested by the El Paso Police Department to test marijuana, cannabis, THC is not used to test for low level possession cases that qualify as a misdemeanor. Call for the vote. It didn't let you, sir. You don't have, thank you. In the voting session and the motion fails. That's actually not accurate. Was it a tie? There can only be eight people that vote.
 The mayor broke the tie. The mayor broke the tie. I'm sorry, I didn't know that. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. My apologies, Mayor. No, you're fine. Thank you, Council. Any other motion for the budget? Point of clarification for the city attorney or the city clerk. So with this new voting mechanism, usually in the past,
 Only the eight members of council vote and if there is a tie then it's then it's declared verbally that there is a tie and the mayor then votes. So I'm trying to understand procedurally what just occurred. There was a tie mayor Tim Schwartzbein there was a tie and the mayor broke the tie. I did not verbalize it which I should have and I apologize for that.
 but the mayor did break the tie so i'm just saying in terms of robert's rules and orders and our own city charter it seems that it would have to be clearly communicated verbally that there was a tie and then the mayor would then go and play his place and lay his vote but the mayor can also vote electronically as he did in this instance he broke the tie
 so there isn't any impropriety with simply uh i'm not suggesting that there's a priority miss prime simply just not advising council that there was a time that the mayor was being asked to break a tie so for purposes of the process moving forward she will notify the council when there's a tie and then the mayor can cast his vote thank you we have a motion to approve the budget laura can you bring up the results of that vote one more time i can i'm not sure i t if
 they'll display but i can tell you that mayor pro tem shortsvine anelo hernandez lizada voted aye and representatives molinar salsido rodriguez rivera voted nay and the mayor broke the tie by voting me there was not an abstention then so i moved to approve item six you have a motion from the budget move to approve is there a second thank you
 So there's a motion and a second to approve the budget on item number six. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Mayor at this time would you like to move to call to the public? Yes ma'am please. Okay so we'll now go to call to the public the El Paso City Council is a local
 Government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas open meetings act Public comment is on accommodation and not a requirement of City Council all persons in attendance are expected to display Civility and decor that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting profane threatening or abusive language
 public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning please note that during call to the public the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda however council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda
 This afternoon, we do not have anyone that signed up to speak. If there's anyone present or in the queue that would like to speak, please come forward. If you're in the queue, star six to unmute your telephone. This is called to the public for items not on the city council agenda today. Mayor, I do not see anyone coming forward. So that ends the call to the public portion of the meeting. Thank you. I'm going to request for a 30-minute recess to reset the system.
 May we have a motion to recess? All right second second there's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting for 30 minutes all in favor Anyone opposed and the City Council meeting is in recess at 1245 and will be convened at 1 15 p.m We're on item number seven
 item number seven is discussion and action to ratify the property tax rate increase reflected in the annual budget for fy 2021 fy 2022 for the city of el paso there's no presentation on on this item or the next item these two items are basically just uh reiterating what you all just approved by adopting the budget so this item is a ratification of the property tax rate increase and then item number eight is the actual approval of the tax rate ordinance thank you you have a motion
 Are we taking them separately? Take them separately. Let's take them separately because item 8 has specific language that city clerk needs to read into the record. We'll take them separate. So there is a motion by Representative Rivera seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session.
 and the motion passes with seven affirmative votes representative molinar voting nay the remainder of Council voting aye the motion passes we now go to item number eight item number eight is discussion and action on the ordinance living FY 2021 2022 taxes and so just for clarification before City Clerk reads this item into the agenda the motion so this calculation that's done you have the ordinance that's posted as backup
 And so in their references, a 3.13% increase, that's over the no new revenue tax rate, but just for the maintenance and operation component, that's the cap, 3.5% cap. We are below that. The increase that Laura's going to read into the record is a 4.2%. And on IT, if you'll bring up that presentation again for item number six, this calculation is done on the tax rate as a whole, which includes not only the maintenance and operations, but also the debt service component of the rate.
 and so it's a difference between the new revenue overall rate 87 cents compared to our proposed rate which is being adopted today at 90.7 cents and so with that laura prine has language that she needs to read into the record so this is going to be the motion council we need a motion to move that the property tax rate be increased by the adoption of a tax rate of 0.907301 which is effectively a 4.23 percent increase in the tax rate is there a motion no trooper
 there's a motion by representative hernandez seconded by representative mizarraga to approve on that motion call for the vote mayor proto sorry i was trying to get uh they didn't fix it no it's not fixed i think friday they said um so corinne's can you again as simple as possible communicate
 Um, what exactly we're looking at in terms of what is being described as an increase, but we're keeping the tax rate the same again to so that the public understands that in fact our tax rate is the same as last year. So essentially the difference is that the no new revenue rate takes into account property value increases. And so as I presented back on July 27th, we did see a 4.23% increase in our property values. And so what it does is it takes into account your property value growth.
 And so we are again, maintaining the same property tax rate for the third consecutive year. So no increase over the last two. IT, if you bring up that presentation. So again, I showed you this slide. So again, the overall rate is remaining the same again. So that bottom line there, total rate, 90.7 cents. Again, no increase in the overall property tax rate. What this item is doing is what we have to read into the record according to the Texas tax code is that we are required to do different calculations according to the truth in taxation.
 And so the rate that is calculated from those worksheets, the known revenue rate is at 87 cents. But again, overall, our 90.7 cents is remaining the same as what's been approved in the last two years. So our tax rate is not increasing? Tax rate is staying the same. Yes, ma'am. Representative Danilo.
 sorry hit the wrong button Robert can you also clarify I got a lot of questions from individuals saying that because the property tax rate was increasing we were going to hit the 3.5 cap I know you explained this a few council meetings back but just again since we're on the record clarifying things if you could discuss how that valuation increase does not or how it impacts a 3.5
 Correct and so again this is looking at the overall rates the three and a half percent cap only applies to the maintenance and operation Component of the rate so you see the O&M there at the top are sixty two point one cents And we are below the voter approval rate the voter approval rate is sixty two point I don't have the exact number for me, but sixty two point two roughly And so we're still below that three and a half percent cap. That's again was passed by the state in 2019. Thank you Thank you Voting session is open
 in the voting session and the motion passes with seven affirmative votes representative molinar voting nay the motion does pass we now move to item number nine item number nine is presentation discussion and action on a comprehensive update of the city's capital improvement plan before sam gets started sam's gonna go through a presentation here and then we're gonna move into the actual ordinance approval i just want to let you all know remind you all that we've been talking about these ordinances going back
 several months now. I know I started presenting on this going back to May. Interest rate environment is very favorable right now. And so we were able to, with this last refunding and this last issuance, lock in that 2.58% interest rate, again, to save on overall cost of these projects. And so again, we've been presenting on this for several months. Sam's gonna go through the actual project description again to let everybody know what projects are going to be included. And then we have the two ordinances to be approved after that. And then what you're going to see, the two ordinances that you're gonna be voting on,
 That issuance is already included as built in the estimated impact into the tax rate that you all just adopted. So that's already factored in. Again, a very, very minimal increase in that debt rate, but again, still well below where we were in 2020. So what you're going to see now is the $180 million of total between the GOs and COs. And again, that's already been factored into the tax rate that was just approved and adopted. IT, if you can bring up the presentation, please. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council.
 This is a very similar presentation, same presentation that we provided when we introduced the notice of publication for the insurance of bonds. Next slide please. We're looking to, the presentation that I'm going to give is going to give you an update on all the various programs that we have active to include the public safety bond, the various capital plans that are allocating additional funding as part of this issuance.
 Back in February, City Council approved additional issuance of $141 million that was focused on public safety and streets. Again, that allowed us to continue and to restart our capital program from the deferment that was caused by COVID-19.
 As part of this next issuance, we're looking to complete and recalibrate the capital plans as well as proceed with some of the major projects in the public safety bond that I'm going to share with you in a minute. We're also dealing with, from an industry-wide perspective, an increase in construction costs across the board, whether it's horizontal, vertical, the wood is a great example. We've been given quotes of various projects.
 where wood material, plastic materials are two, three times, four or five times more expensive than pre-COVID pricing. So it's definitely challenging times. I think we're looking for this market to level off and to come down a little bit, but not to levels that we saw pre-COVID is what we're seeing from an industry-wide perspective. Next slide.
 We have a $1.4 billion program, $850 million of which is focused on streets, public safety, basic services. $473 million is based on the quality of life bond, of which we borrowed $345 million and we spent $224 million of that. We still have $587 million that remains to be issued that's authorized, that includes the capital plans
 $129 million of that, of which we're asking approval today for $180 million of this 587. Next slide. This is a really great table that shows you the breakdown of the various plans. So looking at the quality of life, we're not looking to borrow any funds at this time. The only remaining money to be borrowed is for the MPC project, and as you all know,
 The 2012 Street CIP program is pretty much well underway to completion towards the end of 2022. And we're tracking on a $50 million savings on that program. And that, again, we're not asking to borrow any money there today. Then you've got the capital funds. We're looking to complete the 2017, the Eastside Sports Complex.
 as well as the 2020 capital plan because it has some pretty urgent needs on that particular plan. And then $84 million of this is also going to the public safety bond. Next slide.
 Just to give you a general perspective of the issuance, about 72% of what was being proposed today is scheduled to go to public safety, street safety, street improvements and public health. This includes the animal shelter improvements that includes the quarantine area as well as the additional canine kennels for additional capacity.
 We're also looking to do 2% for IT and 2% for the arts as well. We're also leveraging federal funds, 8% of that, about $13.7 million.
 We have facility repairs and services. This includes things like, we did remove a bunch of sports field lighting, as an example, that were rusted and were a safety issue to our residents. So we removed those. Part of the funds today is going to replace some of those sports field lighting.
 as well. We're looking at the Eastside Regional Park Phase 2. That includes the flat field areas of this project, as well as the Mexican-American Cultural Center and being able to move that project forward. Next slide. This is a very general description of the projects, but I'm going to go into each program specifically in the following slides. Next slide. Under the Public Safety Bond, again, we're asking for $84.1 million on this issuance. Next slide.
 So we've started, Fire Station 36 is actually scheduled to open bids tomorrow. So that, along with the Eastside Regional Command Center, are scheduled to start construction. And if you remember, part of the $141 million that was borrowed in February is scheduled to go to mainly to fund these two projects, in addition to the remodel of fire stations, of which we have five under design right now, that are scheduled to start construction early next year.
 We've also completed the acquisition of the PD Academy. You proved that action a couple of council meetings ago. And today we're looking to move forward with the PD headquarters, as well as the design of the academy, Fire Station 38, as well as the special units facility in downtown. Next slide.
 The $84.1 million is scheduled to go into the PD headquarters to proceed with that. We're scheduled to start the design build process middle of next year, as well as the police department academy. And then fire station 38, we're scheduled to start construction later, design, I'm sorry, designed later this year. Next slide. This is a similar slice looking at the cashflow and what's anticipated to be needed over the next two, three years. Next slide. This is for PD and this is for fire.
 Next slide. On the 2012 Street CIP program, again, we're cracking for a projected program savings of $15 million. And so once we get these final projects under contract, we'll be bringing that action forward to reduce the overall program to effectuate that savings. Next slide.
 On the 2012 quality of life, we're proceeding with Prop 1 that includes the park and the zoo. We're tracking $183 million of expended amounts, and we borrowed $245 million of that, and we're proceeding with the balance of those projects. Next slide.
 The capital plans. These are the capital plans that were approved in 2017 through 2019. It included various aspects to include street improvements as part of the Top 25 arterial that you'll see here in a minute. It included reconstruction of roadways such as Hawkins and Schuster, as well as additional improvements
 various facilities, the animal shelters that I mentioned, as well as roof replacements. And then part of the 2017 capital plan included the replacement of the police vehicle fleet to new patrol units as well. Under this program, we still have $128 million that remains to be issued under the previous approved programs. Next slide.
 On the 2017 capital plan, we're looking to borrow $10.5 million on this and this will complete the issuance of this program. Next slide. And the last project that's scheduled to go out the door is the Eastside Regional Park Phase 2. Next slide. We have various active projects still under this program and they're mainly tied to the match dollars for the MPO program as well as two traffic signals on Donovan that we'll be bidding shortly.
 And then of course, depending what will be the Eastside Park. Next slide. And that's the breakdown of the 10.5. Next slide. On the 2018 capital plan, again, we're looking to complete the issuance of, we're looking to get $16.1 million. There remains 23.1 million. Next slide.
 The active projects, again, under this program are mostly are mainly tied to the MPO match dollars, but it also includes some major projects such as the Schuster reconstruction project that's active, Hawkins reconstruction that's active, as well as the IT cybersecurity hardware and the data center upgrades that are scheduled as part of their capital improvement. Next slide.
 This is the breakdown of the $16.1 million. It includes projects, again, MPO match dollars, Castle North to Roundabout, it's under construction. The IT that I mentioned, Bryan-Wright Reconstruction Railroad match dollars, that's scheduled to go into design. We're also looking at Chamisaw Neighborhood Improvements Phase Two, that's wrapping up the IT, as well as CBD-4, that's scheduled to start construction shortly. Next slide. The 2019 capital plan,
 We're looking to issue 35 million. Next slide.
 The active projects in this project include the Children's Museum that's on the right. If you have not driven by that site, you're starting to see the structure come out of the ground already. So they've completed a lot of the foundation work, and they're starting to focus on the structure. So, again, as a reminder, we're capped in this project. The additional $20 million that was approved as part of this plan is a cap on the city side. So any additional cost overruns or whatnot will be covered by the agreement with the nonprofit agency.
 Part of the program includes projects that are under construction in the top 25 arterial. That includes roadways on Pelicano, Railroad, Cotton, Yarborough, George Theatre and Trevino.
 The $35 million that's proposed under this issuance include additional corridors on the top 25, arterial, airport road, Pebble Hills, Vista del Sol, Sunland Park, Shadow Mountain, Westwind, Red Road Phase 2, Executive Center as part of that project. It also includes $10.75 million as part of the Mexican American Cultural Center, as well as additional improvements to the community, Sun City Lights, as well as the
 the wayfinding and additional work on Los Morayama Park. Next slide, please. The 2020 capital plan is looking to complete out the issuance of this program. This is a $31 million component. Next slide.
 The projects underway on here include the animal shelter HVAC improvements. Again, this HVAC upgrades included segregation of the office space from the animal holding areas. That's been one of the issues that's been a part of this facility for quite a while. It also included HVAC improvements that are underway at Chaleo Costa, as well as the City 2 and City 1 improvements that are underway, as well as the roof replacement at the Hawkins Pool facility.
 It also includes additional match dollars for the MPO projects such as Montana RTS project. Next slide. The $31 million, it's proposed to be allocated as shown on the screen. It includes projects, as I mentioned, for the animal shelter. So it includes additional housing and quarantine areas. That's a bulk of about a third of the issuance there.
 the city. We also have a lot of projects for the demolition of various blighted properties throughout the city to include some of the buildings that we have at the Delta Yard as well as the Chelsea pool. That also includes funds for upgrading
 It also includes additional match dollars. The multi-purpose center remodel is included in here. The comprehensive plan update is included as part of his issuance, as well as additional signalized intersections and synchronization at the city of signals. Next slide, please. And then 3.1 minute is proposed to go to the Eastside Sports Complex phase two, and we'll complete out the full issuance of this project. Next slide.
 Again, as a summary, we're looking at this issuance to be incorporated into the fiscal year 22, as Robert stated, just approved as part of that budget, maximizing or taking advantage of the low interest rates and also looking to minimize the impact of construction escalation. Again, we're looking for the market to level out and to come down to some level here over the next several months. But again, it's definitely going to stabilize before it starts to go back up again.
 as well as focusing on public safety and streets. And again, the big focus is on capital plans and getting the bulk of that money and the projects moving forward. Next slide. And with that, this completes this presentation, and the next two items will be Robert's to talk about the actual ordinance. Thank you very much for that presentation. Mr. Rinello, or...
 Yeah, I can wait till we are actually on the ordinance, but for me, you know, there are some projects in here that I don't really support. I think a lot of them are necessary, but I will be making an amendment to remove the Mexican American Cultural Center and the $2.86 million for wayfinding. I don't know if I have a second on that. I don't know if we need to, obviously we're not on the item to vote right now, but that will be my amended motion for that item.
 Thank you, we do have Representative DeLirigas. Thank you, Representative. Oh, you mean Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor. So thank you for the presentation. On the first slide, you showed a breakdown of the allocations on where the dollars are gonna go, and it showed 72% would be going for this issuance, would be going towards public safety, public health, and streets. Is that the way I recall?
 Okay, yeah, there it is. And then a little bit further down, it said leverage street projects for MPO projects. Oh, go back to that, there's a light, please. Okay, right there. So I just wanna verify that over 80% of the funding that we're requesting to include that MPO match dollars because that's where it's going to street and infrastructure, 80% of that would be going to public safety to our streets.
 and to public health. Is that an accurate statement? That's an accurate statement, Representative. Okay, thank you. And then there is this notion that there is new dollars being issued, like compounding on all the other actions we've taken. And so can you just briefly describe what is a capital plan? Okay.
 How we approve them, which is annually and then when the debt is actually issued because it doesn't all happen at the same time. It's like a it's like a step. It's a process and there's this concern from the public that there's just added more and more and more debt, which is not the case. That's correct. Let me take you to the slide that has the capital plans. And so
 You look at the capital plans, they were approved pretty much on a year-over-year basis that look to address
 facilities or look to address services or look to address streets. And typically certificates of obligation are issued for these particular purposes. In this case, in 2017, it was not the city engineer quite yet, but a lot of the projects that are included in here, when you look at this project or this program, it included things like the police department vehicle replacement.
 the signalized intersections at multiple locations throughout the city. And again, these are intersections that are warranted through the traffic engineering process that includes various numbers of accidents to include sometimes fatalities. These are the intersections that require signalization in our areas in our city.
 And so part of that need, these needs are now funded through the operating dollars. They're candidates for a capital plan. And in this case, they were put on the capital plan for CO issuances. And it was approved back in August of 2017. This plan also included...
 the Eastside Regional Park additional funding for this program, for the project. Understanding that there's a big need for recreational facilities, especially flat fields in the east side of the city is a big part of growing part of our city. And so that additional funds were approved to support that need in that part of the area. The 2018 capital plan,
 Again, when you look at that project or that program, it focused a lot on the match dollars that we have. So when you look at these active projects that we have, it's bridge replacement, bicycle connectivity. It also included funds for COIN, the water parks as well, that were recently approved.
 Again, when you looked at what was included in the 2012 quality of life bond, it was to replace rectangular pools at two locations over at Lionel Forti and at Chelsea. And of course that's 1960s aquatics recreation. I think what we have built for our community is something that's definitely state of the art. And that's definitely something that the community is gonna appreciate for many years to come that's gonna take advantage of that. And so this program looked to address and really
 bring to vision, you know, the original intent for quality of life was a $4 million pool replacement. This program brought to life a much newer, much more advanced, if you will, aquatics recreation component. But it also included things like Schuster reconstruction. There was part of the, if some of you may remember, the 2012 street reconstruction program included a list of 55 roadways
 that were removed or not funded, if you will, of that program that was scheduled to be reconstructed. We picked the top five because they were much needed for our community, so we included Hawkins as part of this reconstruction, and included Schuster, a big corridor in the UTEP area, as well as railroad reconstruction project was also included as part of this program.
 And so that, again, it's looking at the community needs at the time and place of what we're, when we were presenting these demands, if you will, and this program was approved by city council at that time. And so the financial model, when we approve these programs, is such that we work very closely with Robert and our financial consultant to understand where the cash flow is gonna be so that we're borrowing the money as the funds are to be needed.
 because if what's been talked about before too is a good example is the MPC facility and how we borrowed X amount of dollars and not sit in the bank for that same reason. We're anticipating to move that project forward, obviously we didn't, and now we're sitting in the bank with that money. With these programs it was the same scenario and we're bringing these approvals as we move, as we're executing the programs
 One, because we're trying to minimize the impact to the tax rate, but also from a logistical standpoint, being able to execute the amount of projects or programs or dollars that are being approved over a year over a year is just not realistic. And so being able to do it in a logical manner where we can model in the cash flow makes better sense and is the best practice across the industry.
 When you look at the 2019 capital plan, and this is where we had the top 25 arterial program that looked to address safety in our corridors throughout the city. And so they included all these corridors throughout. They included George Steeder, they covered pretty much the whole city on this. But it also included the Children's Museum funding. This is additional $20 million that supplemented the 2012 quality of life.
 If you remember, part of that deal structure included that we added additional $20 million. But part of that deal also included that the nonprofit is going to fund the balance of the construction dollars that's estimated to be over $70 million.
 In addition to that, they're going to be funding two-thirds of the operation moving forward, which means the city is going to recoup this $20 million in very short time order in that we're only going to be funding a third of the operation as we push ahead. So it's a really great deal for the city.
 The other quality of life component is the Mexican American Cultural Center. What was included in the 2012 quality of life was just over $5 million to build the Mexican American Cultural Center and through the process and public outreach, the subcommittee that was approved by or commissioned by the city council as part of that process, they determined
 that was just not going to be able to be built with that amount of money. And so this additional $10.75 million is critical for us to really fulfill the vision of what was envisioned, if you will, for the center and what was programmed into the facility by the public input as part of that process.
 And then the last one that was approved, which is the 2020 capital plan that was approved in December of 2019. This is two, three months prior to the pandemic. It included basically additional funds for the MPO match dollars. But it also included, again, traffic signalization at various locations throughout the city. It included signal synchronization that helps with our mobility, our air quality.
 It also included the animal services improvements. If some of you may remember back in 2019, we actually proposed or brought to council a package that we're gonna put that out to bid as part of a big bond package. And that ultimately was decided that we would not push that to the public, that it was a public safety issue to address our animal services. And so this was brought as a capital plan for approval back in 2019.
 It also included roofs. Look at all our existing facilities that we keep talking about because our facilities continue to age, if you will. So you look at things like Nation Stovins got a roof on the pool, on the sports center. It also has the Hawkins pool, as I mentioned before, and as part of the presentation, the sports field lighting,
 We did a full assessment on all our parks because we had a couple of those lights topple over. Luckily, nobody was hurt, but we did a full assessment and determined which ones were in jeopardy of coming down, and we proactively took those down. Now we have fields that are not able to be programmed after dark unless we do the light replacement on these parks as well.
 It also included the planning documents. So things like the comp plan, and things like the corridor plans, the small area plans for five points, downtown and uptown, all part of that 2020 capital plan. Again, these are needs that were presented, that were approved, and that ultimately, we're pushing ahead and developing the projects. And now we're ready to receive the cash so that we can keep the projects moving forward.
 Hopefully that answers your question. Thank you, Sam. Always very thorough. Go ahead, Robert. I'd add that when I went through the presentation earlier in the budget and the tax rate, I pointed out how overall our debt service rate is essentially still flat from the current year, what we're projected for next year, what we have built in for next year. And then you compare that to where we were in fiscal year 2020. We are still 1.1 cents below on the debt service rate where we were two years ago.
 and that doesn't happen by accident that happens by the city manager myself working very closely together not only with sam but working very closely to monitor the markets building these
 When we go out to sell these bonds, there's a lot of work that goes into structuring these bonds to build in callable options so that down the road you can take advantage of refinancing, whether it's seven, ten years down the road, but building these things in to provide yourself flexibility. And so there's a lot of behind-the-scenes work between the city manager, myself, our comptroller's office, our budget office, to ensure that not only do we complete these projects, but we're completing them at the most cost-efficient manner possible.
 And so we demonstrated that with, I think, the most recent, and we've done multiple refinancings over the last several years, but then also locking in and taking advantage of those very, very low interest rates. And what that does is it obviously brings down, and we've done the debt modeling, we showed you all what that's gonna look like over the next several years, and I went back and I don't have it in front of you, but I went back and looked at what we were projecting and what we're showing with the public safety bond that passed back in 2019.
 And so there's a lot of assumptions, a lot of variables that go into that. You're looking at property value growth, you're estimating future interest rates. There's a lot of things that are factored into that. But at that time, back in July of 2019, we were estimating that in fiscal year 2022 that we were going to be at over 33 cents on the debt service rate. So there's just a little over two years ago that we were projecting that. Well, we're only at, we're under 29, we're at 28.6 cents on the debt service rate. And so we're well below what we had been estimating, and again, that's a result of
 The refinancing that we've taken advantage of, again, the very, very low interest rates, 2.58% on the interest rate that we got back in April when we issued those bonds, very favorable. But the other key part of it also is that working very, very closely with Sam Rodriguez and his team over in the capital improvement department, because we don't want to have huge spikes in the debt service rate. And so it's a matter of timing these projects to ensure that we're only issuing the money as we need it.
 so that we're able to do that we're able to to smooth out how much money we're going to need every year in order to get these projects finished i think one of the things that's important is sam went through 32 slides really really quickly one of the big things is that and he's got a slide that i actually used a little bit of a format but very similar information is that with those various capital improvement plans that have been approved going back to 2017 is that now a lot of those projects are completed and so with this issuance that's scheduled to be approved today
 There's, I believe, $33 million remaining in the CO projects and two of the capital improvement plans. So a lot of these projects, you're seeing a lot of these results being completed. And as a result of us on the financial side, but then also on the operational side with Sam getting these projects done in a very quick manner. So. All right, thank you for that. And I think Sam did the presentation twice very quickly, but regarding the way the debt is being structured and what's being proposed on this item,
 That is already factored into the upcoming debt service rate that you're proposing? Yes, it is. Okay. So my second question is more of a like, can you verify that this statement is true? And you just said it. We were able to, this administration is proposing this new debt to be issued without your taxes being raised.
 Without increasing the tax without increasing the tax rate, correct? In fact you decreased it compared to two years ago the debt service rate by 1.1 cents We're below exactly where we were two years ago So a statement that the issuance of new debt is increasing your tax rate is false Okay, so I don't want to clarify that because we get we hear a lot of that from the public so I just want to reassure you that not only is your debt service rate decreasing and
 due to financial models and to fiscal responsibility and the savings and refinancing but your council is going to approve these projects without increasing your tax rate stabilizing that that rate and still addressing the needs of this community that's accurate and so i'm going to take that a step further in that we have shown though in the past and we've shown this in various budget updates over the last several months is that
 Rydyn ni wedi bod yn bwysig ar gynyddu'r cyfrif gwasanaethau a chyflenwch. Ac rydych chi'n ddysgu'r model sydd wedi'i dangos o ran y cymaint o ran y pethau sydd ar gael ar y safon cyhoeddus mewn rhai o'r prosiectau gwella cyfrif gwasanaethau, ac rydym wedi bod yn bwysig ar gynyddu'r cyfrif gwasanaethau. Rydyn ni wedi bod yn ddysgu'n brosedig ac wedi bod yn edrych yn ffordd i fynd a sut rydyn ni'n seilio'r cwmni.
 i allu lleihau'r effaith ar y cyfrif gwasanaethau. Fodd bynnag, nid ydym yn gallu sicrhau bod ymlaen i'r cyfan yma a'r gwaith arall i gynnal y cyfnodion sy'n gadael. Yn amlwg, byddwn yn gweithio'n ddilydol iawn i wneud hynny. Fodd bynnag, roedd y flwyddyn hwn yn y canlyniad. Ac eto, mae'r cyfnod hwn yn farchnad sy'n hyfryd iawn ar hyn o bryd ar gyfer cyfrif gwasanaeth, felly bydd yn dod i ddod â'r gwaith sy'n cael ei ddatblygu, ac roeddem wedi ystyried cyfrif
 felly mae gen i'r perymeriadau ym mhrofiad ymlaen, rwy'n credu y gallaf fynd drwy hynny fel y gallwch chi ddod â phwynau a dealltwriaeth. Dyma'r isiwn y perymeriadau a beth yw'r perymeriadau sy'n gysylltiedig â'r ddwy adroddiadau. Diolch yn fawr i chi am eich cwestiynau. Diolch Mr. Cortinas. Fe fyddwch chi'n dod â'r prezentadwch ar gyfer arbennig 10 a 11.
 item nr 10 yw cyfweliad cyhoeddus ar awdurdod o ddatganiad y isiwns o ddynion valpasol texas o ffynion cymorth cyffredinol 2021 b item 11 yw cyfweliad cyhoeddus ar awdurdod o ddatganiad y isiwns o dynion valpasol texas o ffynion cymorth cymorth a thagwyddoedd o ffynion cyffredin 2021 c
 Gwnaeth i ddweud ymddygiad, Laura, a fydd fy nghymryd arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol arbenigol
 a'r cyngor cyllid, Paul Brady gyda Norton Rose Fulbright. Nid ydym wedi cyseleu ein cymrydwyr ar gyfer y tîm hwnnw hyd yn oed. Byddwn yn gwneud hynny yn y dyfodol. Yn gyntaf, fel y dywedais yn gynharach, mae'r cyfnod o ddod i'r ffordd yma yn ystod ychydig munud yn ddiweddaraf yn gynnwys 180 miliwn o arian o gyllid prosiect cyfrifol. Yn gyntaf, bydd hyn yn cyflwyno nid dim ond 84 miliwn, fel y dywedodd Sam, ar gyfer y prosiectau cyllid cyhoeddus cyhoeddus a gafodd eu gwerthu
 ond hefyd am y prosiectau gwahanol sydd wedi cael eu cynnydd gan y Cyngor yn ôl i 2017. Ac fel y dywedodd, mae'r cyflwyniadau'r farchnad yn dal i fod yn hyfryd iawn ar hyn o bryd i'w ddewis. Yn ôl, fe ddywedodd Sam am y CIP Stryd 2012. Gwaith da iawn gan Sam a'i tîm, a'r Rheolwr y dyn, yn gwneud cymorth i, a'r Cyngor hefyd, i gyflawni'r prosiectau hynny i gael eu cyflawni, ac nid yn unig eu cyflawni, ond eu cyflawni gan 15 miliwn o ddodd ar y cyllideb o'r cy
 Ac yna rwyf wedi siarad am y 21 miliwn o ddolr sydd wedi cael ei gael yn gael yn ôl yn Fawrth. Dyma'r sleid y gwnaethom ei ddangos yn gynharach. Mae'n ffordd gwahanol. Dyma'r graff sy'n dangos y cyfrif gwasanaethau dros y 3 mlynedd diwethaf. Rydych chi'n gweld 2020. Os ydym yn mynd i 2020, rydym ni ar 29.7 cwm. Ac yna rydych chi'n gweld sut y gallwn ni ei gynnal i lawr yn 2021 ac yna yn addas i gael hi yn llaw i 2022.
 Felly, gallwch chi gael cymryd y cyfnod y llynedd yn y flwyddyn diwethaf a'r hyn rydych chi i gyd wedi'i gyfrif. O'n i, doedd dim arian prosiect cyfrifol yn canolbwyntio yn y budjet. Nid oeddem yn bwriadu mynd allan i mewn i ffyniad o'r ffyniad yn y flwyddyn ffysg 2021. Fodd bynnag, gyda'r marg a'r cyfrifion, gyda'r ffyniad a allwn ni ei gynnwys, gyda'r cyllid i ffynu amrywiaeth o ffyniadau oedl, i allu cyfrifio'r haseg honno,
 yn ein gallu symud ymlaen â'r prosiectau cyfrifol yma yn y flwyddyn diwethaf, yn ôl yr hyn rydych chi i gyd wedi'i gyfrif yn Ebrill. Ac nid yn unig hynny, oherwydd y ffordd rydyn ni wedi treulio'r gwasanaethau wrth symud i'r flwyddyn ffiscaol 2022, yn gyfleu i ni gadw'r cyfrif honno yn ystodol, ac yn parhau i symud ymlaen â'r mater hwn, sydd gennych chi heddiw. Felly, eto, nid drwy achos, ond drwy llawer o waith anodd rhwng y rheolwr ddinasol a'r tîm ariannol,
 ac yn ffynnu cyfrif gwerth i gael y prosiectau hyn wedi'u gwneud i'r cymuned. Felly eto, dim ond ychydig o adborth am broses ysgrifennu. Felly yn ôl yn ddawel, ar ddawel 6, roeddech chi i gyd wedi cyfrif y nodwch o ddychmygu i ni ddewis y COs. Roeddem wedi gwneud y cyhoedd, ac mewn gwirionedd, mae'n mynd yn ôl i'r blaen. Felly rydym wedi bod yn siarad am yr ysgrifennu penodol hwnnw wrth fynd yn ôl i ddawel cyn yr un y byddwch chi i gyd wedi'i gyfrifio. Felly roeddem wedi
 er mwyn, eto, gael yr amser tax arall gyda'r un fath, ond eto, beth fyddai'r amser dollar yn gallu symud ymlaen heb effaith yr amser tax, ond hefyd beth fyddai'r amser dollar Sam yn gallu ei ddefnyddio yn realistig dros y 12 i 18 mis nesaf. Felly roedd y gwaith hynny'n cael ei wneud yn ystod y cyfnod ddawel, a dyna'r sylw ar gyfer y cyflwyniad gan y Cyngor y 6 mlynedd. Rydym yn gwneud ddysgu, a wnaethom ddysgu dau ddysgu yn y Pazl Times i'w gwybod i'r cyhoedd. Ym mis Mlynedd 8, roeddem
 a'i gwybod ar wefan y ddynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y dynion y
 a'r cyngor cyngor yw'r cyngor cyflogwyr cyntaf i'r Cyfrifwr y duedd a fi. Ac gallwn ni, a byddaf am ddangos y perymeroedd yma ar y sleid nesaf, ond gallwn ni symud ymlaen gyda'r deal os yw'r perymeroedd wedi'u cymryd. Felly dyma'r pwyntiau par i beidio, y costau o gwerth a'r datau maturi. Felly eto, y pwyntiau par i beidio ar y GEOs, yna'r prosiectau cyllid cyhoeddus 2019, 84 miliwn. Rwy'n gwybod bod y costau o gwerth yn 4% a datau maturi o August 2047.
 ar y CEOau, nid yw'n cyflawni 96 miliwn, y cyfan cyfan o fuddsoddiad cywir o 4% a dyddiad ymddygiad. Y peth y byddaf yn ei ddweud yma yw bod y fuddsoddiad cyfan cywir o 4%, eto, mae cyfranau'r farchnad yn newid bob dydd. Rydyn ni eisiau sicrhau ein bod yn darparu rhywfaint o ddiffygolwch os bydd pethau'n newid rhwng nawr a'r amser ein bod yn mynd allan i'r prisaeth, ond i roi'r cyfan mewn cyfran ac i roi enghraifft arbennig, felly yn ôl pan roeddech chi i gyd yn cael ei gyf
 ar ein gweithrediadau mwyaf, roedden ni ganddo cyfraniad o 3.75% o'r cyfraniadau o'r cyfraniadau mwyaf. Felly roeddech chi i gyd wedi dweud, na allwn ni fynd ymlaen neu symud ymlaen gyda'r ardal, os na allwn ni gael cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o'r cyfraniad o
 Roedd gen i ychydig o drafodaeth gyda'r Prif Weinidog yn gwneud adroddiad ar gyfer y cyllid o ddynion. Rwyf wedi bod yn cysylltiedig ag y cyngor ariannol a oeddwn yn ei gynnal drwy'r farchnad bob dydd. Rydyn ni'n disgwyl bod yn dda o dan hynny. Rwy'n hoffi rhoi niferoedd allan oherwydd gall pethau newid yn y 30 munudau nesaf, ac yn y mis nesaf. Rydyn ni'n ymddygiadol y byddwn yn dda o dan y 4% ac os nad ydym ni, y byddwn ni ddim yn symud ymlaen gyda'r arian.
 Ac yna, dyma'r sleid y oeddwn i'n ei ddangos, roedd Sam yn dangos i chi yr un gwybodaeth. Felly mae hyn yn dangos i chi'r holl blynyddoedd cynnyrchu cyfrifol ein cynlluniau. Felly mae gennym ni, yn ôl i'r 2012, yn dangos i chi'r holl amrywiaethau sydd wedi cael eu canolbwyntio. Mae'n dangos i chi'r amrywiaeth sydd ar gael i'w canolbwyntio ar y cyfnod o bywyd, ac eto, mae hynny'n ar gyfer, mewn broses 2, y prosiect MPC. Gyda'r isiwni, neu dwi'n siwr, mae'r 2012 wedi cael ei gyflawni.
 y cymaint sydd ei angen ar gyfer y cynlluniau cynllun ymlaen 2017. Felly bydd y cynllun ymlaen yn cael ei gyflawni, neu'r isiwans ar gyfer y cymaint sydd ei angen ar gyfer y cynlluniau hynny. Y cynllun ymlaen 2018, gyda'r hyn sydd wedi'i gynnwys yn y cynllun hwn, bydd yn gadael 7 miliwn. O'r 91 miliwn sydd wedi'i gynnwys, felly ychydigach na 8%. Yn ymlaen 2019, bydd gennym ni ymddiogiaeth cyhoeddus, byddwn ni'n dal i gael 245.8 miliwn. Felly eto, bydd hynny ddim
 Mae'r prosiectau hynny'n cael eu cynnig dros y 6-7 mlynedd nesaf. Ac eto, mae llawer o hynny'n mynd i fod yn seiliedig ar y timing o gynhyrchu'r prosiectau hynny, a phan fyddwn ni'n mynd i angen y cyllid. Ac os ydym yn edrych ar y cynllun cyfrif 2019 eto, mae yna tua 25.8 miliwn yn aros. Ac roedd Sam yn cyfeirio beth yw'r prosiectau hynny sy'n aros i gael eu cyflawni yn y dyfodol. Ac yna byddai'r cynllun cyfrif 2020 hwn yn casglu.
 Felly, yr unig sylfaen arall o gael ei gael i'w gael yw o 2018 a'r cynllun cyfrif 2019, tua 33 miliwn o ddolr. Felly, mae gennym ddau eitemau. Eitem 10 yw'r ymgyrch ar gyfer y cyllid geo. Eitem 11 yw'r ymgyrch ar gyfer y cyllid CEO. Dwi ddim yn cael cwestiynau. Yr unig ddau. Yr unig ddau. Yr arweinydd, Phil Zegars, yn ymwneud â'r arweinydd, Molyneur.
 Diolch, Prif Weinidog. Yr wythnos hon yw'r cyfnod cyflym. Felly, ym mis y flwyddyn yn unig, rydym yn isio'n am 189 o dolygon o COs. Sut yw'n bosibl nad yw'r cyllid yn effeithio ar y cyflogwyr? Dwi'n gofyn, ar ryw bwynt mae'n rhaid i'w effeithio, yn gywir? Wel, felly efallai yn y dyfodol gyda'r prosiectau ffynciau diogelu cyhoeddus. Felly, fel y dywedais, 21 miliwn o dolygon y gallwn ni ei ddiogelu gan y cyllid, ac yna, ynghyd â'r cynyddu gwerth bryderol a
 ond mae'n ymwneud â, un, y cyllid a ddwy, y cyfrifoldebau oherwydd bod y cyfrifoldebau oherwydd y cyfrifoldebau yn mor law yn lleihau'r costau o'r prosiectau o'r cyfnod cyffredinol yr ydym yn ei ddod yn ôl ar y ffondiau hynny ac felly rydym wedi gallu seilio ac felly dyna pam rydym wedi gweithio'n gwaith iawn ar beth oedd y cyfrifoldebau cyfnodol y gallwn ei gynnal y flwyddyn hwn yn y flwyddyn ffysg 2022 ac yn dal i gyd yn y cyfrifoldebau hynny felly y 180 miliwn yr ydym wedi'i bwriadu yn ein
 yn ystod y 4-5 mlynedd nesaf, fel y bydd hynny'n llwyr y cyflog cyfan a'r rhaid i ni symud ymlaen â phrosiectau cyfnodol. Yn gyntaf, mae llawer sy'n mynd i mewn i'r ffordd y mae'r diwethaf hyn yn cael ei gynllunio. Mae'r cyflog cyfnodol yn gyffredinol, oherwydd dyna'r hyn sy'n ein gallu ein symud ymlaen a'i ddefnyddio i ddechrau ariannu i symud y prosiectau cyfnodol yma ymlaen. Diolch. Diolch, Rep. Linard.
 thank you mayor good job mr cortina so a couple of questions first so i know i believe it was july the 25th that the central appraisal district delivered the property value valuations to us is there any valuations that are still outstanding
 I haven't looked I don't believe we received an update I believe whenever represent vanilla asked that question I I looked at the report and about 99% of those property values were settled there was only about 1% of the total 38 billion plus outstanding to be settled 38 million dollars 38 billion is our total thirty point seven billion is the total property taxable property values you know that it was less than 1% that was still remaining to be settled
 That 1% would that change anything in the tax rate later on? No If anything we've seen in the last few years that what CAD what central appraisal district does is they apply what's called at least less likely render the value and so there are praising properties and they're Lowering the actual value of certain properties particularly on the commercial side because they know that those properties whenever they go through litigation or they go through the process that they may come in lower and
 And so they're not providing us a certified value at 100% in all cases. They're providing us a report that says this is what we think those values are going to settle at when all is said and done. So I know you're not the central appraisal district and no one here, but would you say they've met their obligation?
 I don't think that's up for me to determine. I know that they have annual reviews by the state and they've got certain expectations, but. Thank you, appreciate that. So back in April, there was a $93 million that was passed. How does that impact our tax rate? So I had the slide. So we were able to do that, and it wasn't 93 million, it was a total of 141 million. We're able to actually move forward with the $141 million issuance without impacting the tax rate at all.
 Again, it was because of the way that we structured those deals because there was multiple deals. We had a geo We had a CEO We had a refinancing of CEOs and GOS and then a refinancing of the ballpark debt as well And so the way that we structured those deals was it generated savings that we needed to be able to make our debt payment The half-year debt payment for this current fiscal year But what it also did was because if we don't get all that savings in one year the 21 million dollars of savings is over the life of the bonds and so what we do is we structured that savings and
 We put some of it up front within the next three to four years so that we're able to move forward with this $180 million issuance that we have. So I mean there's again, the structuring piece of these deals is a critical component to be able to move forward with these capital projects.
 Towards the end of your presentation, I'm not sure the exact slide You had mentioned there's an interest rate of 4% 4% there. So in the middle where it says maximum true interest cost so if You are not purchased those bonds the GOS and the CEOs and they at the rate like you said it could change in the next 30 minutes So let's just say I went to four point one five what would happen then we would not be able to move forward with the issuance so the statement is included in the actual ordinances and
 y pwynt diweddaraf yma sy'n dweud, mae'r swyddogion prysu, sef y rheolwr y dyn, yn gallu symud ymlaen os yw'r holl fyrddau yn cael eu cymryd. Ac yn ymwneud â'r cyfrifiadau y byddwch chi'n eu cyfrifio, yw'r wybodaeth hwn. Iawn. Diolch, Sir. Rwy'n gwerthfawrogi. Diolch, Rep. Muller. Mae gennym Rep. Nello. Oes yna Swartzen? Brotem? Diolch, Prif Weinidog. Ychydig mwy am ble rydyn ni ar hyn o bryd o ran cyfrifion arian nawr.
 i edrych ar y cyflogwyr o'r cyllid hon ar hyn o bryd. Felly byddaf yn rhoi'r enghraifft i chi o'r hyn a wnaethom yn ôl yn Ebrill gyda'r cyflogwyr hwn yn benodol. Felly bydd hwn yn enghraifft gwych arall. Felly rwyf wedi siarad am yn hanesol, pan wnaeth y ddyddiau'n cyflogwyr, yn ystod Covid, roeddwn ni'n gweld drosglwyddoedd yn llwyddo, ond yn ystod Covid, yn hanesol, byddwn yn cael cyflogwyr ar y cyflogwyr o 4%. Yn ystod Ebrill, roeddem yn derbyn 2.58 ar un
 2 ar y llaw. Nid yw'n ymddangos yn llawer, mae'n ymddangos fel amrywiaeth bach, ond y 1 neu 2% sy'n cymryd i, dros bywyd y bondiau, rhwng 4% a 2.58%, mae'n cymryd i dros 30 miliwn o gwerthu dros bywyd y bondiau hynny. Felly mae'n gwerthu'n sylweddol, mae'n gwerthu'n sylweddol dros cymryd cymorth o'r cyfrifion cyflym iawn hyn. Ac mae hynny'n cynnwys gwerthu oherwydd, wedi'i adeiladu i'n gynllunio,
 Rydyn ni'n gwybod bod prosiectau bond diogelu cyhoeddus yn dal i'w haenu dros y flwyddyn nesaf. Mae'n dal i fod ychydig o fach ar rhai o'r cynlluniau CIP a siaradwn amdano. Ond byddwn ni ddim yn mynd allan i gael bod yn gadael bondiau os nad ydym yn gallu eu gwerthu o ran amser sylweddol. Rwy'n credu bod hynny'n rhan bwysig ac rwyf wedi gweithio'n dda iawn gyda Sam, y Cyfrifwr y du, fi a'n gweithiwr cyfrifiadur, i sicrhau ein bod yn gallu gwneud y gwirioneddol o amser i gwerthu'r bondiau hyn.
 nid yw'r cyfarfod yn gyfrifol i ni y ddynion i fynd allan a chyflwyno cyllid a chadw ar brosesau cyllid sy'n bodoli yn y banc am 3-4 mlynedd ac felly rwyf wedi gweithio'n dda iawn gyda Sam i sicrhau bod y arian yr ydym yn ei gwasgaru yn mynd i'w ddefnyddio mewn cyfnod o amser. Felly gyda hynny, mae'n mynd yn ôl i 141 miliwn. Mae prosiectau cyfrifol mawr yn y cyllid diogelwch cyhoeddus sy'n symud yn gyflym iawn iawn.
 y rhanbarth, rhai o'r pethau y dywedodd Sam amdano, bydd yn rhaid i ni gael llawer o arian ar gyfer y prosiectau cymdeithasol Cymru. Felly eto, gallu parhau i symud ymlaen gyda'r prosiectau hynny heb effaith yn yr amser cyfan a chyfarwyddo'r gweithredu cyhoeddus. Mae Sam wedi rhestru 40 o brosiectau gwahanol sy'n mynd i gael eu cyflawni ar y safle y CYC, yn unig gyda'r un iswant honno.
 Yn ogystal, rwy'n credu y bydd y cymuned yn gweld y fanteision ac mae wedi gweld y fanteision a'r canlyniadau o'r ffordd, a yw ar wahanol strydau, a yw ar wahanol prosiectau amgylcheddol, a chymorthu'r holl arian ariannol. Felly mae'r ddyn yn rhoi 20% i'r ddyn ac yn derbyn y porsiwn 80% o'r prosiect. Felly eto, rwy'n chymorthu ein arian a'i gynnyddio i'r arian sydd gennym i gael y prosiectau hyn i lawr i'r cymuned. Rwy'n ymwneud â hynny. Mae fy mynydd wedi gwneud amgyl
 Mae'r prosiect ffyniad yw'r prosiect ffyniad sy'n gysylltu â'r clywodraethau.
 is part of the strategy that's been talked about, the ecotourism, the heritage tourism in the city, and really providing the points of interest within our community. It's really the enhanced, it's a way finding to the points of interest throughout our city to include ecotourism amenities as well as heritage and tourist destinations in our community.
 When you look at tourism in general as a whole, that's one of the areas that I think we can capitalize as we move forward and working closely with Brian and his team to really develop a way of finding that you find in other cities that have tourism as a part of their active economy. A way of finding sign program is critical to that. And so that was presented as part of the capital plan. And obviously, it's not as a high priority as a roof, if you will.
 But it's something that pushes ahead with the strategic plan and what the city wants to accomplish moving forward. What is the anticipated cost for the wayfinding project? What was budgeted out was, I think what's pending is $2.9 or $2.3 million. It's $2.86. And it's for across the city focusing on heritage tourism as well as ecotourism and other destinations as well. Okay. It's in our strategic plan as well that the council approved. I heard about that strategic plan.
 can't see the smile under my mask can you so y'all can't see my smile nor can you hear my voice it's uh it's definitely a post-lunch budget meeting at this point isn't it um the mexican american cultural centers or currently are they currently doing work on the downtown library as part of this overall project at this point sam yes um so we are um been working closely with the main library staff and uh you know we've been working closely with the
 getting ready for construction. We are currently negotiating the guaranteed maximum price that we're scheduled to bring to council relatively soon. As you know, we have a construction manager at risk. So design is done. We're scheduled to bring in a big presentation to you all as well as part of the approval to begin construction. And part of that,
 Guaranteed maximum price for the Mexican American Cultural Center includes the remodel of the main library as well. It's a very exciting project again, one that we've, it's been very publicly vetted for many years now that we're pretty much ready to start construction should these funds go through. Yeah, no, I mean I think it's a real important project and I think, you know, part of the history with this is that there was never enough funding
 As part of the first 2012 bond, $5 million was never enough, whether it was co-located or a stand-alone project. And time and time again, we have people that are not involved in cultural production that are constantly telling us what needs to be done, but if you talk to cultural makers, you talk to artists,
 in this community and others that would want to see not just their work but would want to see a space for art production for celebration of culture they've been very much in support of this project with the museum of history right next door having put in the first
 Latina director of the Museum of History in our community, I think it's very important that we recognize that this site is one of the best sites that we can have that's located directly in the middle of our statewide designated arts district.
 and really showcases the culture and history and identity of our community, front and center in the middle of our community with the current site that was there, one that was vetted by
 um different subgroups and subcommittees as well the fact that there's already work being done in this site the fact that you have had artists and other cultural makers be very much in support of this project at the site that it is i think it's very important to send the right message and to make sure that we honor the promise to the voters in this community to bring a state-of-the-art facility
 at the current location in the downtown arts district and i'm confident that your team and working with the different subcommittees working with the different um working with the different excuse me okay working with the different the numerous public um subcommittees
 outreach that was there people are very excited about this project and they're very very excited about this site specifically because it is so front-facing towards the rest of this district this is not something that is tucked away at another part of the city it's located front and center in the middle of our downtown arts district in the middle of our downtown located around some of the most important cultural sites that we have in our community such as
 the Museum of History, the Museum of Art, our downtown library, which also has our Boarded Heritage Research Center, as well as the Holocaust Museum and other sites as well. And so I do think that it's important to support these projects.
 I also very much respect my colleagues who are having a different opinion than that. If we all have the same opinion, what kind of country would we have? And so I do thank Representative Anello for bringing up this amendment, but I do think it's important that we continue to follow through with the promise to our voters and to our artists in this community. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Anello. Next is Representative Anello, followed by Representative Molinaud. Thank you, Representative Anello. Next is Representative Anello, followed by Representative Molinaud. Thank you, Representative Anello. Next is Representative Anello. Next is Representative Anello.
 Thank you, Mayor. So I just wanted to respond to some of those. I'm excited. Sam, I can't see you. I don't know if you can see me. I'm just talking to a wall. I apologize if I'm not looking. I can see Sam. Okay. You know, I think the wayfinding's great. I'm excited to hear that it now is about heritage and ecotourism. I remember that wasn't part of the original presentation when we showed, were shown the examples.
 you know, if they are part of our strategic plan, I think they're great. I don't think they're appropriate for a certificate of obligation funding, and that's why, you know, I brought that up in that capital plan, so I am doing so again. In regards to the Mexican-American Cultural Center, I mean, I'll take this chance to congratulate Erica Marin since you brought her up. We're very excited that she is now the director of the History Museum, but not part of the conversation, and I think, you know, we talked about how this
 project was vetted publicly and you had large opposition who are still trying to voice their concern and being ignored and you have a lot of local artists making actual posters and flyers not in support of this project and so I'm here to be their voice as I was elected to do so and that is why I proposed this amendment thank you thank you up so no no no no no no no
 thank you mayor um mr cortinas as the part of the city's chief financial officer i'm sure you have a lot of contacts by any chance do you know or have any knowledge of when or even if we may be receiving the second tranche from the american rescue plan act of 2021. so according to what was put out we should be receiving it in by the end of april next year
 next year 2022 it's in two charges so we received the first allocation i believe april 13th of this year so within a year from that time period it's more expected to receive the second charge okay so um 2022 could be you know it's 12 months but um depending on when we receive it that's and i understand there's parameters to that we'll take that once once we receive it we'll look at that money and see where we need to apply it correct
 so the city manager myself have already briefed a couple of council members we're going to brief each of the members of council over the next couple of weeks and then bring back forth the recommendation on what the plan is for the 154 million we received thank you very much mr cortez appreciate it thank you with that we uh have a we have a motion there was a motion by representative hernandez we're on item number 10 if you want to take them separately we'll take item 10 first yeah please okay item number 10
 representative and on this i have okay there is a second by representative and on the second it by representative lizada is it for item number nine yeah that was nine her amendment was we're on item 10 10 is the ordinance for the geos yeah that was i just made the motion
 your motion is for item 11 it's my understanding it's showing up as 10. i'll withdraw it but we're on item 10 right now item 11 is the ceo ordinance i understand that but it's not so we you should see item 10 is activated please please i move to approve so there is a motion by representative hernandez seconded by representative lizada to adopt the ordinance on item 10 call for the vote in the voting session
 And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Anello, now we're on item 11, if you'd like to make your motion. My amendment, sorry, motion to amend item 11 to remove funding for wayfinding at $2.86 million and to remove the Mexican American Cultural Center at $10.75 million. Second. So there's a motion by Representative Anello
 so that we're clear so the parameters within the orders that you're approving instead of the 96 million we'll lower it down and we'll round to 82.4 not to exceed 82.4 million all right yes sir point of clarification are we voting on the amendment on the amendment first yes thank you
 So there is a motion by Representative Manalo, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, to amend the ordinance to remove $10.75 million from the Mexican American Cultural Center and to remove $2.86 million for the El Paso Citywide Wayfinding. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion fails with representatives
 Anelo Rodriguez voting aye. Representative Shortsvine, Hernandez Molina, Salcido Rivera, Lizárraga voting nay. The motion fails. I move to approve. We have a motion for item 11. Now we have a motion to adopt the ordinance on item 11. There's a motion by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Lizárraga to adopt. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes with Representative Shortsvine, Anelo Hernandez,
 So I see though, Rivera, Lizardo voting. I representative Smolin, Rodriguez voting name. The motion passes. We now move to item number 12. Yes, item number nine was Mr. Rodriguez presentation. There was no action on that item. Yes, sir. Item number 12 is discussion and action on a resolution to accept the annual review of the service and assessment plan for the El Paso Public Improvement District number two Eastside Sports Complex approved on October 17th, 2017.
 So members of council this is a resolution we're required to do this by the state There's no changes to the service plan or the assessments, but we're required to bring it before you all for approval again No changes to the service plan or the assessments on this pit There's a motion by representative Nanda seconded by representative Rivera to approve the resolution call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously and
 that brings us to the end of the agenda is there a motion to adjourn move to adjourn second there's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting all in favor aye yes anyone opposed and the regular city council meeting for tuesday august 24 2021 is adjourned at 2 27 p.m thank you council thank you thank you city manager and mr cortinas