Good morning, Ms. Crane. Good morning, Mayor. We do have a quorum. Yes, sir. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, August 23, 2022. Present in council chambers is Mayor Leaser, along with Representative Hernandez, Representative Molinar, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Lizárraga. Representative Rivera is running a few minutes late this morning. It is now 9.01 a.m.
 And now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police Chapman Robert Hemphill, Jr. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Council Members and dignitaries. Please bow your heads at this time. Holy and loving God, the Prince of Peace, in order to assist the Mayor and Council Members in addressing their agenda items and making difficult decisions that will result in positive incomes and outcomes,
 I come to you this morning and ask for your blessings, your wisdom, and spiritual direction. Father, please help us to function as a cohesive unit. Show us the joyous and enthusiastic way to carry out our work. And as you lead our mayor and city representatives in this meeting today, let your presence be recognized.
 Please lead us so we can do something. We appreciate you. Father, since we are aware that you are always there for us and your people, in your name we ask this. Amen. Chief Rodriguez, can you lead us in the pledge, please? Thank you, Chief.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Good morning. For the record, also in council chambers are Representative Anello and Representative Salcido. Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine is also running a few minutes late this morning. Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine is also present in council chambers. Good morning, sir. Are you ready to begin?
 Yes sir, we do have a quorum that brings us. Mayor, I made a request to speak. Go ahead, ma'am. Representative Hernandez was requesting to speak. No, that's okay. I did wanna make a motion to bring item eight to the forefront, if that's okay with the rest of council. And I heard a second over here with Mr. Molinar. There is a motion and a second to move item eight to the forefront of the agenda, all in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? The motion carries. Item number eight.
 Is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign the articles of agreement between the City of El Paso and the Local 51 International Association of Firefighters for the contract period covering September 1, 2022 through August 31, 2026? Mr. Cortines? We have a lot of chiefs here, huh? Good morning. Mayor and Council, Jorge Rodriguez, El Paso Fire.
 So as part of this new contract, we want to congratulate and thank our city manager, the negotiating team, and of course, all of our members of the El Paso Fire Department. This new contract is gonna offer a 3% annual increase in pay for all of our members. Also gonna be expanding vacation slots as the department has grown over the years. This is gonna keep up with that.
 Additionally, we have incentive pays for our specialized teams and also additional incentive pays for higher education for all of our members. So again, we want to thank our student management, council, and Local 51 for getting us to this point. Thank you, Chief. How many firefighters are currently on the fire department? We're at 940, 943. And what's our goal?
 Pardon me our goals to get to above a thousand. Okay, thank you Over to local 51 president Paul Thompson. Thank you. Good morning. Sure. Good morning mayor and council I'll keep this short Paul Thompson president local 51. Good morning mayor and council We have been preparing for this day for over a year we did a survey last year to identify the priorities of El Paso firefighters and
 We then formed five working committees to narrow down those priorities. As you may know already, El Paso firefighters voted last month and this month and approved the contract with 600 yes votes and 50 no votes, a ratio of 12 to 1. I can't remember a time when a contract passed without much support. Neither side got everything that they wanted, but that is the nature of negotiations.
 I WANT TO THANK THE COMMITTEE CHAIRS, DEPUTY CHIEF FRANK REYNOLDS, BATTALION CHIEF GEORGE CORTEZ, BATTALION CHIEF DANIEL ROY, CAPTAIN HECTOR SANTIAGO, AND FST DANIEL MENDOZA. I ALSO WANT TO GIVE A THANK YOU TO FIRE CHIEF KILLINGS AND HIS TEAM FOR ALWAYS GETTING US THE INFO THAT WE NEEDED WHEN ASKED. I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE CITY MANAGER AND HIS TEAM, ESPECIALLY
 Finance Officer Robert Cortines, Deputy City Manager Mario D'Agostino, Deputy City Manager Dion Mack, Nicole Cote with OMB, the HR Director, especially Assistant Director Mary Michelle, and especially, especially, especially Monica Ontiveros and her team at the Fire Department. This truly was a team effort and I can't, I would be remiss without thanking my executive board who worked
 long and hard on this effort. It was a monumental effort. With that being said, we stand here before you and we ask you to approve the contract between the City of El Paso and Local 51, thank you.
 Thank you very much, sir. And you know the numbers you just showed us is you know It's a unity and that's really important and the leadership that we have Within the city and also within the fire department to see those type of numbers over 600 to 50 is great great leadership and I want to congratulate you all in your leadership and and that the fire department feels so comfortable in continuing to
 With its with the leadership in the new contract. So congratulations mayor moved to approve representative Adnandas. Thank you mayor so what would a change and difference from when I first came to office and unfortunately the two parties were unable to come to an agreement we're in an impasse and
 Fast forward several years and thanks to our administration and your leadership, under your leadership Mr. Thompson, I think that we have a great resolved resolution that's going to support our El Paso firefighters. So I want to first thank you.
 and your negotiating team for being prepared and for also having that open door policy with members of council. So we really appreciate all the work that you're doing, saving taxpayer money so that we can negotiate here as the state constitution allows.
 So thank you, firefighters, for your sacrifice. We know that the work that you're doing is a love of labor, and you all are there 24-7. And so the pandemic has demonstrated that you all were invaluable to fighting this virus. And so we're thankful for all of the work you did during the pandemic. So with that said, I do have a couple questions for our finance team really quickly as it relates to the budget. Mr. Cortinas. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Cortina's. So as part of the agreement if this action passes today When would this go into effect their current contract expires the end of this month? And so we'll go into effect from the date that is signed to become effective. So no later than September 1st. I
 Right and so as part of collective bargaining if it's going to go into effect September 1 has this been factored into the upcoming? Budget that we're getting ready to approve today. Yes, it has so it's factoring in all the salaries for our firefighters Yes, it has so we've been negotiating now for quite a while with the fire union City manager kicked off negotiations very very early in the budget process to ensure that We had an agreement were able to negotiate something before we finalize the budget So yes all of the increases
 what we've been presenting all the way back to April and May, what you saw at the end of June when we did budget presentations, all of that accounted for the increases not only for the pay but the incentives and the health care as well. That's included in the agreement.
 And you mentioned the incentive in health care so so everything that was voter approved for the benefits That's also been included in the upcoming budget Everything that we negotiated as far as the pay and the incentives and the health care is included in the agreement is included in the budget for next year How many academies do we have in the upcoming? Budget as well to fire academies to police academy scheduled and so as we presented I have it in the presentation a little bit later this morning
 But we've talked about with not only on the police staffing plan for the new police stations that we have coming online in the near Future we also have one of the big ones very exciting a brand new fire station for the first time in quite a while Fire station 36 over on the west side of town And again as part of that we're gonna be very proactive as far as the number of staffing number of firefighters that we have on Board and continue to increase through doing those multiple academies to add over 100 net increase of over 100 firefighters over the next few years
 So I can confidently say that this body and city council and the mayor that we're listening to the public concerns, we're funding priorities, we're funding public safety, we're ensuring that not only are your wages competitive, but we're taking care of our public safety officers. And so I just wanted to congratulate the whole team. I know it took a lot of work.
 but I want to be clear to the public that our budget is reflective of ensuring that El Paso's streets and Neighborhoods are safer having our firefighters and police officers There and taking care of them. So congratulations to all who put the hard work in. Thank you. Thank you representative Nundas Mayor Pro Tem followed by representative Mullen art
 Thanks mayor and thank you for everybody that that did this I think it's clear that when it comes towards our priorities as a community and especially our obligations responsibilities as a council public safety is Consistently the most important thing we can do a vibrant community wonderful neighborhoods wonderful parks none of that happens if our citizens aren't safe and
 if people don't feel safe being in their homes and going to work. And that comes down to the responsibilities and the service of our firefighters and our police officers. And no more do we see this importance than reflected in our budget here today.
 And I'm very excited to see that working with the union, working with the firefighters, and working with city management, we're able to come to an agreement. Like you said, not everybody got what they wanted, but everybody feels that they were heard and are able to move forward together.
 And this to me shows also an example of how we can work together and how others in our community can work together to make a better El Paso as well. It is no loss to me how successful this truly is. When I came into office in 2015, and I think there's a few of us in this room that remember what that was like, there's actually a voter referendum for the firefighters, right?
 And that was not an easy process for anybody. It wasn't enjoyable. I don't think it was enjoyable for the officers, I mean, for the officers, for the firefighters, for the union and for the city as well, not to make mention of that council at the time. I wasn't on the council. I was asking people for their support as a very, very fresh,
 elected official to be, but it was very clear at that point how passionate people were in supporting our firefighters and supporting keeping a safe and healthy community. And so to see where we are today from where we were in 2015 is nothing short of remarkable. And so again, I want to thank everybody that had a chance to work on this.
 Let's hope that was we move forward with our other Public safety entities as well that we're able to come up with a resolution again to honor our obligation Responsibility as a City Council to keep our community the community safe through our firefighters and police officers And again, thank you everybody for working together in such good faith. Thank you Thank you very much mayor
 Cannot begin to thank all of you gentlemen and your sisters who are not here as well. I know Negotiations aren't always the nicest road to go down under that's a lot of work a lot of commitment a lot of pride and responsibility That goes with that. I want to say thank you very much from the bottom of my heart I can tell you that much having been a city representative now for a while. I can tell you that I
 I've been treated by the utmost respect by each and every one of you wearing that badge and that uniform. I've been to two graduations now, and one went down, and I'll continue to support that in other ways as well. But it means a lot, I can tell you that much. Having been a police officer and working many times with so many other firefighters, it's a difference to see what you do on the line.
 Not just at the house, but in the line, how you save lives, how you save property, how you change lives for the better. And so it's heartwarming and it's a very proud moment here that I can say yes and you'll have my vote and my support. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Mugunot. Representative Rivera, followed by Representative Rodriguez. Thank you, Mayor. I guess everything's pretty much done.
 has been said, I believe Representative Fernandez has brought up most of the questions that interest not only council but our public, and it shows again how fantastic the city and our public safety work together to negotiate to come to a conclusion.
 and uh that that benefits all to be honest with you and and of course not everybody can get what they want but you guys saw through that your your staff mr thompson has been magnificent in in the treatment of of council and uh i too have been to some of your graduations for which has been fantastic and of course mr cortinas always has the right numbers
 along with his staff and makes everything possible for us, for the community as well. Since the beginning of my stint here at the council, I have seen the fire department grow into something that is magnificent. You accepted the drones with much pleasure. You use those effectively. You make our community that much safer. And so everything,
 that you do is going in the right direction. I understand that with those and with the recent equipment that you have, you've gained a little more notoriety throughout the state, which is great for El Paso. It speaks volumes for not only the city, but also for our fire department. Our police department is next, hopefully.
 Want to thank you all for your hard work your dedication and most of all your courage to be out there at all hours of The day putting out fires and saving lives. Thank you so much. Thank you, man Thank you and good morning, I just want to say that I'm also very proud to be part of this council to be able to support you all whenever I see your men out on the streets and
 You know, even though they're attending to an emergency, it brings comfort to me to know that you all are there. I see you all on the freeway coming into work because it never happens. There's some sort of accident on the freeway. And again, it brings me comfort knowing that you all are there to attend to whomever is in that accident. Just to share something personal when during COVID, you know, the fire department came to my home because my husband couldn't breathe. And it was...
 I was so grateful for you all to be there. You were there in seconds, in minutes, I'm sorry, and you were able to attend to him. And just like my story, I'm sure there's plenty of other families that have very similar stories and so forth. We're all very grateful that you're able to provide those first responder services. And, you know, my husband is fine now, thankfully, and part of it has to do with what you all did today.
 So thank you. Of course, I'm going to support this. You know, anything else that the fire department needs moving forward, you know, we're here to help you all. We want you all to succeed. And we know that it takes a huge team to make this effort happen.
 successful and with your leadership, I know that we will continue to be successful for many years to come. We will continue to be an example, not only to the state, but to the rest of the country. Because can you elaborate on that, on the recognition that you all are receiving from the state levels and the federal levels?
 So I don't have the name of all the awards memorized, but I will tell you this. We have received numerous awards at the state level, at the national level. I just attended a firefighter conference. 1900 firefighters from across the US and Canada attended.
 And I can tell you this that when when I tell them about our department and what we're doing they're amazed and Blown away at what we've done what we've accomplished and what we're can work what we're doing So I just want to say one thing. I know you guys have a long day and the meeting I'll keep this short, but for the record Representative Swartz Brian brought it up. So I just want to make make it clear for the record that I
 Our current city manager, he came in in 2014. The process for contract negotiations had already started. I want to commend the mayor and city council for trusting him and his staff. You know, prior to that, the previous city manager would spend a lot of money on outside council to bargain, I would say to battle.
 to put it lightly and our current city manager And his team have been excellent and that's been proven by the last two contracts. So I
 Thank you so much. Thank you. And I just wanted to speak from experience. Thank you so much. Thank you, so yeah, so that's absolutely impressive and that's testimony that the investment that we're making into your department is proving to be successful. So again, thank you all, you all truly deserve this. All the fire department deserves this and I look forward to approving this for you all. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Representative Osito. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you again.
 to you all and everything that you do for our community to keep us safe and healthy but it is a testament here that the negotiations have been blissful in a sense it shows that this council is willing to work that we're here to work together like you mentioned you didn't get everything that you wanted and neither did a boy but it was the best compromise for us to be able to work together and really serve the community so i just want to say thank you and i absolutely support this thank you
 Thank you. And I do want to, you know, everything we've talked about, everything goes to one thing, commitment. You know, when you walk out of your home every morning to go to work, you're committed to your community. Whether it's Ebola, monkeypox, COVID, a fire, an accident.
 You don't think twice about being out there. And, you know, we do talk about that the number one thing is public safety, but our number one thing is public safety, but also your own safety. So we thank you for what you do, and congratulations again on a great team. And I know, Chief DiAgostino, I know you just retired and you're a big part of this, so thank you and congratulations, sir. And with that, we do have a motion and a second.
 Yes, sir. There's a motion made by representative Molina seconded by representative Rodriguez to approve the resolution on that motion call for the vote Roll call for me Representative Manalo. Aye. Thank you Representative Hernandez. Yes. Thank you Representative Salcido. Thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously Thank you. That brings us to the consent agenda. I
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda when the vote has been taken. If an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Is there a motion to approve the consent agenda?
 There is a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve the consent agenda. On that motion, call for the vote. It's on there. Consent agenda. Representative. Sure. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number three on the agenda, and this is presentation, discussion, and action on the proposed FY 2022-2023 budget.
 If IT will please bring up the presentation. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, members of Council. Good morning. Managing Director. This morning we have a presentation for you regarding our workforce updates. It'll be a brief presentation, but we'll highlight all of the work being done across our organization to really improve our services to our employees internally. If IT could please make it full screen. Thank you.
 So as we look at our leadership system plan, we look at how we develop and deploy all of our systems and people are really the core of how we're able to do any of our leadership system planning and achieving our goals. So this morning we will be covering our recruitment and retention tools. I'll be going briefly over that. Ms. Mack will be covering some stories and some spotlights and we will also turn it over to Mr. Cortines. He'll be talking about some key investment strategies for our workforce.
 So when we talk about our key recruitment and retention tools, we're looking at how we can engage our employees and our workforce and make sure that they're involved in the process. So we go through different process improvements and we have a lot of projects that are ongoing. In the coming months, you'll be seeing a lot of those being highlighted and they will be coming to you from the employees, the voice of our workforce.
 We also look at our hybrid workplace. We continue to utilize that as a tool to retain and encourage individuals to apply at a professional career with the city when it's available, and also our hiring incentives that are continuing to be given out. Our partnership approach, we've been working with the Workforce Solutions Borderplex to really engage and see all those individuals that are currently looking for employment and making sure that we are able to work in tandem with them to fill positions that are difficult to fill here at the city.
 And then lastly, our learning and development, we have our tuition assistance program, which has been modified, and it is now including our part-time employees. This morning, you will be hearing from some of our workforce, really engaging in those stories and listening to the impactful way that the tuition assistance program has helped them really develop and really continue their professional education.
 So just briefly, we're taking a look at where we were, where we are, and where we're moving towards into the future. As I mentioned earlier, we will be coming back in the coming months to really highlight a lot of the process improvements. A lot of the manual processes or processes that hadn't been updated in quite some time had been reviewed and really taken a look at through our employees. They're leading these projects through our performance office.
 really highlighting what it is that needs to be updated and listening to our workforce to make sure that we're updating these projects. So you will hear a lot of the detail upcoming, but I really wanna just take the time to say that a lot of this is really due to the fact that we have a great training and learning development team that has really done wonders with a lot of the programs that they now highlight to make it available to our employees. So I'll go ahead and turn it over to Ms. Mack. She has some stories to spotlight for you in our workforce. Good morning, good morning. Dionne Mack, Deputy City Manager, Quality of Life.
 Good morning, ma'am. As Ms. Guerrero mentioned, we value listening to our workforce. Our compensation and benefits evaluations have been driven not only by the formal compensation study we completed a few years ago, but also through feedback received directly from our staff. The city manager hosts town hall meetings and sends regular communications to the leadership team.
 As the city manager mentioned a few weeks ago, the leadership team is empowered to study and implement required compensation adjustments. The performance office innovation team has developed a set of systematic approaches to help us really look at improvements throughout the organization.
 My Lean Six Sigma project focused on quality of life hiring, and one of the things that we utilized as a strategy was focus groups with our team. I received over 160 points of data and feedback from that team in terms of ways that we can improve our aquatics hiring and retention strategies.
 And I'm happy to report that the recommended improvements will be implemented at the end of the week within this FY22 budget parameters. This is just one of the examples of how we approach finding solutions to fill hard-to-fill positions.
 It is my pleasure to introduce two of our Quality of Life team members who will be sharing some insight with you. And I just want to take a moment to acknowledge my Aquatics and Zoo team who are with us. I'm so proud of that team and all the work that they do every day.
 and we will continue to ensure that we are fulfilling our mission by listening to our staff, by providing them the tools they need to carry out our mission of being exceptional in terms of delivering service to our community. And with that, I want to introduce Mr. Jesus Abelard. Come on. Hi, good morning.
 Hi, so I'm Jesus Avila. I'm the Aquatic Supervisor for the Westside Auditorium. So I'm here to tell you my story and my background. So since 2009, I've worked as a lifeguard, head lifeguard, swimming instructor trainer, lifeguard instructor trainer, and also supervisor for the city of El Paso and Fort Bliss. However, I wanted to work more for the city of El Paso as more opportunities presented and send me on the path to advancement.
 But in order to continue to grow, I am currently taking benefit of the Tuition Assistance Program. This program has encouraged me to grow personally and professionally, while also becoming a better asset to the city of El Paso. Despite all these opportunities, not many people have had the opportunity to benefit from this program, as our organization is currently facing workforce capacity challenges, such as lifeguards.
 This challenge was and currently presented to the Aquatics Division during pre- and post-pandemic period. Some possible solutions that I researched that can improve our lifeguard shortage is the following. Better compensation, retention program, incentives, increase of training, and also continued career advancement.
 In essence, if we pursue these solutions together, I'm confident that our organization will no longer face a lifeguard staffing shortage and will continue to take pride and joy in the ways we leave behind as we develop a skilled workforce. Thank you.
 Thank you so much, Jesus. As I mentioned, he was in our focus group, and many of the things that I mentioned are going to be our strategies in terms of improving that service. It's my pleasure to introduce Rocio, who's from our zoo department. I just wanted to take a moment to...
 explain how this particular issue came to the table. The city manager sends out a note to our management group periodically, and a member of the team from Mizzou reached out to the city manager and expressed some issues and concerns that he had with retention as well as recruitment. We then had Mr. Cortines and Ms. Guerrero go out to visit,
 and the solutions that we will be presenting later on in the presentation came to us through that process. So it's not only the budget process that we look at in terms of improvement, but it's really listening to our staff in terms of their recommendations. And if I may just add a comment to that. When she says management, she's referring to the middle management, the 500, that really are the supervisors that lead our team.
 of 6,000 plus employees. So that's the communication that takes place on a regular basis, and we get feedback from them periodically. Okay. And with that, I want to introduce Rosalyn. Good morning. Good morning. So I've been working with the city since 2017. I started with the Department of the Water as a customer service rep. I later moved into the Municipal Court at the Community Court
 And in June of 2019, I got the opportunity to join the staff over at the El Paso Zoo. I was very excited to be working at a location that focuses on animal conservation and preservation. The city has constantly demonstrated that it cares for and invests on the development of their staff, and it was through the Tuition Assistance Program that I was able to obtain my Master's in Public Administration this last December. This was a big dream for me. I know I would have never been able to accomplish it without the Tuition Assistance Program.
 Due to the pandemic, the zoo, like several other departments, had to close. My entire team was furloughed at that time, and I was very honored that a few chose to return. Our biggest challenge since then has been to restaff, to hire and retain valuable people in this challenging works for market.
 Although we have since reopened and are operational, our limitation on our staff means that we have to limit the amenities available for our guests. In order for us to deliver in our mission and vision, we have to hire the right personnel and be able to keep them. The city and the zoo have demonstrated their willingness to listen to staff concerns and find viable solutions towards a win-win for our community, our guests, and our staff.
 I do think the new hire initiative is great, but let's not forget about everybody who shows up day in and day out to keep those services available for our community. My staff in particularly shows up every weekend. We give up our weekends and our holidays to support the community and have our zoo open
 Everybody in the customer service relations has a passion for customer service, but in this landscape right now There's a lot of opportunity So I I applaud them for sticking with the city and staying with with our department at the quality of life So I do think it's very important for them to feel appreciated as they show up every day for our community Thank you for your time. And with that I turn it over to mr. Cortez. Good morning again. Good morning. I
 Before I go through my slides, I just want to thank Jesus and Rocio for having the courage to stand up in front of you all and share a little bit about their stories. Again, these are just two examples of the many employees we have working for the city of El Paso that do this on a day-in, day-out basis. So thank you for being here and sharing your story. FIT will bring up that presentation again, please. So as you heard discussed in a little bit of their stories of these two individuals, these two employees, really what is it that they're looking for? And so it's really about gathering that feedback from our employees, and we're going to
 And you've heard us talk over and over again about how we gather that feedback through our employee surveys, all of our cross-functional teams, they identify issues. We allow them to participate on different teams to get them involved. And so it's not just always about pay. Pay is very, very important obviously, but you heard for example Jesus mentioned it's about the pay. It's about different incentives. It's about the professional development, giving them the opportunity to take advantage of the tuition assistance program.
 to prepare them to be able to advance not only in their current position but continue to advance throughout the organization and that's been the approach over the last eight years and so again focusing on different wages different incentives which we've built into the budget over the last several years and we have a couple of new ones that we're recommending today that's built into the budget resolution for next year as well uh continuing to reward those employees that have been with the city for an extended period of time through our service time incentives that we have
 of something that's new, our performance pay, again, listening to the feedback of our employees by providing them an additional lump sum amount as a result of their performance evaluation. Focusing on the benefits, again, if we want to be competitive as an organization, pay yes is important, but it's also about what benefits you provide to your employees and to your workforce. We had the fire union here today, and that's just one example of what we've gone about doing to address.
 their specific needs and the things that they're looking for in those agreements and so our city employees what we've done with health care so the last four years now of not passing on those health care cost increases to our employees and instead the city picking up those increases providing the ability to take advantage of different wellness initiatives whether to shape it up taking advantage of our wellness clinics which are free to utilize taking advantage of our city gyms again to encourage physical activity for them to take care of themselves
 The professional development, again, the strategies that we've implemented, the tuition assistance program, you heard out of Sully, you talked a little about that. One of the great things we did, again, this year, we revamped that process to make it easier for employees to be able to take advantage of that. And so now, not being so strict in how we go about letting people qualify, making it much easier, providing it to part-time employees, making some eligible costs that previously were not able to be eligible, such as books and different things that are required for their classes are now eligible.
 a rhoi cyfle i nhw ddefnyddio hyfforddiant datblygu proffesiynol gwahanol trwy ein Llinthyn Library sydd ganddynt am gael mynediad i'n ffwrdd o gyfrif. Mae cysylltiadau llengwaith, tîmau cydweithredol, a llawer o gyfleoedd sydd ddim yn ystod yma, yn ein darparu i'n gweithwyr, i allu dod yn y arbenigedd, nid yn unig yn eu sefyllfaoedd cyffredinol, ond eto, i allu cynhyrchu a chymryd ymlaen drwy gydol yr sefydliad, oherwydd maen nhw'n arweinydd dyfodol o'r sefydliad.
 byddwn ni'n parhau i fuddsoddi ac nid yw'n cyd-destunol ar y pwysau ond byddwn ni'n parhau i fuddsoddi yn ein gweithle arbennig hefyd ac felly rwyf wedi siarad am hynna'n llawer o ran hyn. Yn gyntaf, dyma rai o'r enghreifftiau yr ydym wedi siarad am rai o'r pethau rydyn ni wedi'u gwneud eto. Rydym wedi bod yn gwneud hyn, byddwn ni'n parhau i adael a chyflawni, i fynd yn well, i ddatblygu syniadau newydd, syniadau newydd i'n gweithwyr i fod yn gallu parhau i fod
 Felly pan ydym yn edrych ar fwydau a'r hyn rydym yn ei argymell, mae yna ddewiswch ychydig sydd gennym yn y Resolwyd y Budged, a byddwn ni'n cymerio'r rhain yn ystod ychydig o amser. Felly roedd yna ddewiswch yn ystod ychydig o blynedd yn ôl sy'n ein hangen i edrych ar fywyd cyffredinol a'n safonau gwasanaethau animal. Rydym wedi gwneud hynny. Wnaethoch chi glywed Dion siarad ychydig am rhai o'r gwaith sydd wedi ei wneud gyda'i prosiect Lean Six Sigma a chyfathrebu lle mae'r angen
 Rydych chi wedi clywed am y materion gwasanaethol gyda'r staff yno, felly beth rydym yn ei gynghori, beth rydym yn ei adeiladu i'r flwyddyn nesaf, rydym yn gwneud adeiladau cyflog yn y flwyddyn cyffredinol y mae Dion wedi siarad amdano. Yn adeiladu, yn y pwynt ddwylo ar y dde, fel yr hyn rydym wedi'i wneud gyda'n cyllid CDL, fe wnaethon ni hynny ychydig blynedd yn ôl ar gyfer y sefydliadau sy'n gofyn ar gyfer arbenigwr gyrfa gwych fel rhan o'u swydd. Rydym yn adeiladu i'r adeiladu
 ar gyfer y sefydliadau sy'n gofyn am immuniaethau i'r iechyd a'r diogelu, nid yn unig i'r gweithiwr ond i'r anifeiliaid. Felly bydd hyn yn ymwneud â'r gweithwyr gwasanaethau anifeiliaid yn ogystal â'r gweithwyr zoo. Felly bydd hyn yn gweithiwr addas ar gyfer y cyllideb ar y gorau, ar gyfer y cynyddu o'r cyllideb sydd wedi'i adeiladu i'r cyllideb i'r flwyddyn nesaf. Felly gyda'r newidiadau hynny a'r hyn sy'n cael ei gyfrif ar y cyflawniadau cyflogol ar
 ychydig o ddau o'r 15 dolar ar yr awr a fydd yn ym mis Mawrth 2023 pan fydd y ffazen ddwy o'r cynydd o'r pwysau yn cymryd effaith ac eto mae hyn yn ymwneud â addasu'r ardal y byddwn yn gweld y rhan fwyaf angen i'w gael y rhan fwyaf o ffacansi rwy'n credu bod y nifer diwethaf rwy'n ei weld yn rhyw 73% o ffacansi yn ein gwrtaith ac eto mae'n effeithio yn ein bod yn gallu agor llawer o'n cyfleoedd i'n cymuned gymryd cymorth rydyn ni'n credu, wrth wrando ar ein gweithwyr
 gwrando ar y syniadau a'r cynghorau y maen nhw wedi eu cynnwys a'u cynnwys yn y buddsoddi ar gyfer y flwyddyn nesaf rwy'n gwybod y bydd y gweithwyr yn fawr iawn a'r gweithwyr dyfodol sydd eisiau cwrdd â'r ddinas hefyd fydd yn hapus iawn i'w clywed yn adnoddol i'r cyflwyniad y buddsoddi hefyd rydw i wedi siarad am hyn ond er mwyn bod hynny'n glir wedi'i gweithio yn y cymysgedd ar y cyflwyniad y buddsoddi yw'r cyflawniad o'r cyllideb cyfeiriadau $1,000 i d
 Mae wedi helpu, felly rydyn ni eisiau parhau i wneud y rhaglen hwnnw ar gyfer swyddogion newydd sydd eisiau dod i weithio yn y ddinas El Paso. Felly dyma nesaf rhai o'r cyllid sydd wedi'u gwella sydd wedi'u gynnal i'r cyllid ymlaen y flwyddyn nesaf, rhai o'r adnoddau newydd, y pethau sy'n parhau, a rhai o'r gweithdai eraill sy'n cael eu cynnig hefyd. Roeddwn i eisiau cyhoeddi'r sleid hwn, oherwydd mae'r sleid hwn yn siarad â pob ffordd o'r cyllid, pob cyllid, po
 to be able to attract new talent to the organization, to be able to retain our existing workforce. And so this is a list of those various items. And when you add all of these different items up, it's very, very substantial in the offering financially. These are financial incentives that the city provides, again, to be able to be competitive with all of the other agencies, all of the other employers in the area. And so with the wages that we have built in for next fiscal year, again, the $1 increase to the minimum wage,
 Building on the 75 cents we did this year again about a 17% increase in the minimum wage in less than one year The performance evaluation lump sum payment, which is new again listening to the voice of our customers or our employees in this Situation continuing to shape it up employees can take advantage of that again $1,800 of a financial incentive That's not $1,800 discount on their wellness that's $1,800 that they receive every paycheck up to $150 on their paycheck and
 in the form of an incentive. Continuing the HSA again when I talked about healthcare, not only not increasing the healthcare, but providing them the health spending account to be able to offset if they need to utilize their healthcare benefits. The tuition assistance program, which is a very, very beneficial program, not only for the city of El Paso, but one of our, part of our vision statement is providing exceptional recreational, cultural, and educational opportunities.
 It's in your vision statement City Council. So continue to invest in that tuition assistance program We have about a two hundred thousand dollar increase in the budget for next year I expect we're probably going to blow that away when employees start taking advantage of the tuition assistance program So city manager and I will figure out how we're gonna be able to fund those That budget because I anticipate that we're gonna need to probably increase that budget throughout the year which is a good thing whether it's employees that are taking advantage of that to stay with the city of El Paso or
 even if they go on to work for a different employer we educated with what we provide those employees and hopefully to be able to keep them within within a parcel and not move away and so i won't go through all of these but again as you read through all of these different incentives that we provide again very very attractive and very very competitive obviously we still know we have a long way to go with the overall wages that we provide to our city employees but making tremendous progress and that's what it's been about over the last eight years is continue to make progress
 with our workforce with our investment in public safety with our investments in the streets with our investments in our parks museums libraries and our zoo all of these different areas continue to make progress and move the city forward and so with that we will be happy to answer any questions out of sully moscato ms mack or myself would be happy to answer any questions so members of council i asked the staff to put this together to show the council not only uh the
 a recap of what you've already have approved and what's in next year's budget, but also show you that we have really underscored the importance of those specific positions to open up those areas where we need them the most. And so that was the intention of this presentation and also to show how committed we are to the training, development, and then also the formal education of our employees.
 and to his point you know if we run out of the money in the budget we're gonna put more in we're very committed to the educational component of higher education and we're gonna be coming back with future presentations to show how many employees have been positively impacted by that it's only going to make us better to train and educate our folks
 because they're the ones that are executing the strategic plan that is part of your vision and part of the values that you aspire to and what you do on a daily basis and that's what we do in return. We make sure that that's being executed and that you see that execution and that sense of urgency that we have, as do you, for these specific facilities that we wanna open up back in 22 and 23.
 thank you mr gonzalez and i and i can tell you that the emails and letters and the people i've met with that is one of the most important things that we've been talking about whether it's a swimming community or you know other entities that the um the amenities continue to open and we continue to reopen so thank you for that
 representative an ello followed by representative at Nundas Thank You mayor Thank You Robert for the presentation I'm glad to hear that there have been further investments made on workforce but I wanted to know if you could elaborate so you mentioned that after the conversation and the agenda item that I had placed was it last council meeting some council meeting ago you've actually been able to adjust some of that pay and can I don't know if you have specifics on what those positions are
 what that percentage increases, what you're basing that on, what it was before, I guess generally break it down for us so we have full understanding. So I'll start, and then I'm going to let Ms. Mack actually come up and finish, because it was part of one of her projects that she was working on prior to actually the item that you all put on the agenda on August 2nd. And so really looking at animal services, something Chief D'Agostino's been working on for quite a while, looking at the pay for those areas as well, the zoo. We have several individuals who...
 Constantly email say, you know continue to look at our pay. We think that we should be treated similarly to animal services We deal with animals, you know, we're exposed to you know, similar type of situations So we had been working on those things prior to the agenda item. We don't have unfortunately right now We don't have the time to meet the requirements that you all put on the agenda to be able to get that wage analysis done but we do know that these are critical areas that we do have high number of vacancies in right now with animal services and aquatics and at the zoo
 And so what's built into the recommendation is one for the aquatics. We'll take them first is wage adjustments that we're incorporating. Essentially we'll do wage adjustments to bring them up to a little over $13 an hour. If IT can bring that slide up, I actually have it there just so you can read off of it. Thank you. So the wage adjustments, so increase in their base pay. They will receive the additional dollar increase over two phases again.
 We have built in also not just increasing their base pay, but then also any compression type issues where if we're increasing lifeguards, we need to increase the head lifeguards so that we don't have any compression issues with those supervisors. So that's one, is adjusting the wages for our lifeguards, again, with the intent to get to that $15 an hour. On the animal services and the zoo employees, so we're also doing, we'll be doing wage adjustments for animal services, again, very similar to what we're doing with the aquatics.
 However, with the animal services and the zoo, we have the additional $90 per pay period incentive, which is consistent with what we provided for the CDL, the commercial driver's license incentive that we started a few years ago. So between the wage adjustments, the additional incentive, that will put animal services employees up to at least $15 an hour, again, by March of 2023, when that second phase of the pay increase kicks in. And so it's a large number of employees, and so these wage adjustments just increase.
 Real quick one more point is these wage adjustments that we've done are not just for these Individual groups these particular groups. These are groups that we've been working on over the last several months now We're working on right now reviewing our fleet mechanics, for example Which is an area we continue to see high number vacancies in and so Ellen miss my it's been working very closely with Miss Gata myself to look at adjusting the wages for them we've done different wage adjustments for various ESD groups and
 We've done wage adjustments for some Metro bus drivers, wage adjustments for our sanitation drivers. And so we continue to evaluate potentially future wage adjustments just based on the need and based on the number of vacancies throughout the organization. Dion, is there anything else you want to add on the lifeguards?
 Yeah, I mean, I just, I had a technical question, but I'd love to, you know, and I feel like there was a missed opportunity, right? This is a conversation I'd been having publicly for a while, put this item up. Would have loved to have had, you know, sit down with you all to kind of understand the work that you were doing on, because, you know, it's great to know now that this was happening, and would have loved to have been a part of that conversation before. And so I guess just asking that moving forward, right, if we're...
 We're voicing a concern. Y'all are doing the work. Let's sit down and have that conversation together. But yeah, I'd love just some feedback from you as well. I think I mentioned when I did my budget presentation, I was beginning my Lean Six Sigma project. And so we were able to put this in place within 60 days. And I'd just come to the portfolio. And we began to dig deep into the numbers and understood some of the challenges with certification and other issues.
 and understood that we needed a different strategy from our aquatics versus our recreation side of the house. And so we continue to look at these things as we move forward. We look at the numbers. Although the resolution that came forth was about quality of life in total, I look at what our highest attrition rates and vacancy rates are, and we really honed in on those pieces.
 As Robert talked about, we had a 73% vacancy rate. In the aquatics, we were down 120 lifeguards. We were already open for the season. It is about certification. It's very different than just the entry-level positions. And so on the recreation side, our strategy was to partner with the workforce and others to help us to be able to fill some of the positions that were entry-level. And then the strategy on the aquatic side was to really look deeply at what we had seen historically as some challenges in that area.
 addition to what was mentioned we're also implementing a shift differential policy that came out of discussions with staff my hardest filled position is at five o'clock in the morning so it's really thinking about what is the staff telling us what are those challenges that we see and so it's not about just this moment of trying to restaff but really being an employee employer of choice and so we're not having these conversations continuously as we move forward in future years I was a part of the
 the compensation study that we did. I had HR in my portfolio at that time. Some of the issues and concerns that we're dealing with were not right sized by that, so you have to have a whole set of tools in your toolkit to be able to continue to evaluate that process and just for the record, that took about 24 months at least from the time we issued the RFP. There's lots of interviews, there's lots of other things that happens.
 So I think continuing to utilize all the tool sets to make sure we're addressing the issues as quickly as possible are gonna be important. The things that we talked about today are gonna be in people's paychecks beginning this Saturday. So I can start to advertise and ensure that I can start to move forward in these areas. I have a 31% vacancy rate at the zoo. We have a 58% vacancy rate in parks and recreation. MCAT and libraries are less of a concern for me right now because they're at about 10%. They're doing well. They're fully open, fully functional.
 So we really use the data to help us understand where we need to focus and put extra effort. And I'm very proud of all the teams that came together to help put this in place and help us move towards this for our teams. Thank you, Ms. Mack. And so, Robert, I just have one technical question. So there's an additional $90 per pay period for animal services and zoo. But how does that impact hourly employees?
 Is that also hourly employees or just salary employees? So it'll apply to anybody whose job requires they have those immunizations in their job specification. Okay. And so whether you're hourly salary, it doesn't matter. You will receive the $90 per pay period incentive. Okay. And what job positions have those immunizations? Just about all of them at the animal services and the zoo have that requirement. Okay, great. And I don't know if the council's aware.
 The day that we had the conversation and the next day, other cities in Texas took up employee workforce. I know Austin increased their employee minimum wage to $20, I believe that same night. Waco looked at $17 an hour, a small city like Waco. So we're not the only ones having this conversation where this is not a unique situation to El Paso. But it does seem like we're a little bit behind and or we're doing it.
 the right way right we're looking at these wages the right way um but i i am still uh i do still want to sit down with ms mack if possible and really understand some of the things that you're talking about um you know me i love to know every little detail of something for no reason but also you know i'm excited for this quarter and looking at that competitive wage study and what y'all can pull together in addition to this so thank you robert i really appreciate the work that you did on this
 Right and so it's all about making progress right this point I just made it's about continue to make progress in this council within the last Years again increase the minimum wage by 17% And so while yes We know we still have a long way to go to get to $12 and 11 cents by March of 2023 a significant progress In a very very short amount of time and continue to increase the wages for employees to be competitive It doesn't come cheap though and so when we talk about again 75% of our budget is our employees four thousand civilians two thousand uniform employees and
 When you apply these type of increases, the $1 per hour, for example, $1 per hour doesn't sound like much. It's a 9% increase in the minimum wage, but it's about a $7 million annual impact.
 So that one dollar again is very expensive, but we will continue to Build upon what we've done over the last two years continue to build upon what this council's approved in the last several budgets Again to be competitive with down in the wages But all the other incentives and the benefits that go along with it as well and and then just counsel just To follow up to what Robert is saying We identify concerns or complaints or issues whether it's through the CR system or through the resident surveys And we we are constantly assigning
 those problematic areas to lean Six Sigma green belt candidates and black belt candidates and in this particular case miss Mac had already been working on that for quite some time because it was assigned out quite a while back we look at weaknesses in order to improve service delivery
 And we also look at areas where we can segregate based on specific duties because one of the things that was budget's concern was that, look, if we do these across the board, we're going to see these increases in the future. So the other thing I've asked Robert to do and Nicole Cody is to look at the future budgets and forecast those budgets because when we're back at full staffing, that $7 million he's referring to would be on top.
 of being to full staffing. So we are planning for that as well so that we don't run into a roadblock in the future by not having thought of that. Thank you, Representative Nundas, followed by Mayor Pro Temp.
 Thank you, Mayor. I did want to say thank you to Jesus and Rocio for sharing your stories and having courage to do that It's so intimidating to come to council and congratulations for your Your future and your Denver's with your educational attainment I too was a recipient of the tuition assistance program with the city of El Paso working for previous City Council members and so the program is working and I'm proud that the city of El Paso is a
 making sure that our employees have every opportunity that other employers are providing for their employees. Mr. Gonzalez, we're what, the fourth largest employer? That's correct, in the city of Lopasa, in the entire community.
 we're the fourth largest employer and so it's important that we lead the way in wages and we lead the way in providing exceptional services and benefits to our employees and i think this budget is reflective of that it's no secret we have more to do but i think this is a concerted effort and we have strategies in place that we can increase wages not only for city employees but for all el pasoans and so proud to be part of that progress i know that this item is related to
 the budget but there's other items can you talk me through what are the actions for this item so there's no actions in this my my budget presentation i'm going to go through here in just a minute no action required of this so what we did with the changes is it's all incorporated in the budget resolution which i mentioned so it's the new incentive for animal services and zoo employees so those jobs requiring the immunizations so that's new in the budget resolution and then the continuation of the 1 000 sign-on incentive that we started back in so that will be the the
 The action is already a budget resolution which would be a so that will be an action precipitated by what they've already shared with you Okay, so it can come at the next item. So I saw the budget resolution in the next item So I I didn't want to speak to but since you mentioned it This is one more point my apologies for interrupting you is that this is in direct response It's a lot of what council had said was a priority has been saying for quite some time we didn't just start working on it this month, I mean we've been working on it for months and
 because they have to vet it not only with HR, with the workforce relations, but also in the finance department and also with the city attorney's office. So it has to go through a litany of scrutiny before we execute it.
 okay no i appreciate that you all know how i feel about indiscriminately choosing departments i think every department deserves competitive wages but you know there's going to be some pressure points to the budget so we need to have an honest conversation about what that means for your tax rate but i did want to just touch on the thousand dollar sign-on bonus i saw that it's in the budget resolution through the entire fiscal year 2023
 I saw one line item that shows for uniform or excuse me non-uniform In one paragraph but not in the next paragraph So I just want to ensure that this is also for uniform officers for trainees trainees for trainees, correct Okay, so are they not consistent if you're an academy? Are you not? Yeah, and they get it right before they graduate. Okay, so they so it does it does apply Yes, so they do get it when they get on and then when they finish the training They'll get the other 500 before they get commissioned. I
 Okay. That was just my only concern as it relates to our workforce. I'll wait to ask other questions about the budget resolution. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Nunn. I think this is also a direct response to creating jobs within our community and creating good-paying jobs. And we have to keep up with the companies that are coming in.
 to our community that we've had the opportunity to bring in that are willing to pay, you know, $15, $16, $17 an hour, and for us to continue to keep up and pay livable wages based on
 thing that we committed to the community and one of the other things mayor to that point that we want to be even more aggressive with is to point out those additional benefits that the employee gets that they possibly don't get at that competing company to your point and that sometimes they don't see that and that's reason Robert had that slide that 15,000 of potential additional benefits that they could derive from being involved in those programs that's a that's a very good point you know
 You know, and it's a great point because at the end of the day, you use the same wallet day in and day out to pay your expenses. So these benefits are really, really important to our team members. Thank you for that. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. I was happy to see that the percentage, I said 10% is the, at this point, the vacancy left for libraries.
 Yeah, libraries currently have 13 vacancies. They're fully open. All their hours and their programming has been restored. And so that's pretty much the rate that we see average and it's not the same 13 vacancies. Are the libraries open on Sundays right now? The libraries have not been open on Sundays. Main library was our Sunday location. They're currently under construction. And for Saturday, what hours do we have? We have our normal restored pre-pandemic, 10 to six. 10 to six.
 And then do we have an idea with the rec centers what the vacancy are are with them. So our we had 43 vacancies with rec centers and we're supposed to be opening next are Miho, Don Haskins and Seville. Unfortunately what happened with that is that we had a
 civil service concern there was someone processes to the hiring list and so once that gets through civil service and we can sort that we can install those three leaders and those will be our next series the hiring bonus has helped us as well as our partnership with workforce development so that line in the line item in the
 resolution is very important for us in addition we will be actually advertising at that new increase rate once that that first half of that one dollar goes in do you have an idea when we might see those those I don't have the timeline for civil service I don't know when that next meeting is I'm just concerned September 8th because Don Haskins is the only community center that we rec center that we have in district one so
 I just want to make sure that that is there. So. Correct. I know we were talking about Don Haskins. I know we also talked about some of senior services at Seville and I know that Mr. Fipe has been in communications with you all regarding these pieces. I do think that once we get those leadership pieces resolved
 will continue to flow into getting the rest of our centers open and our hope is to continue to be very aggressive with the strategy for both aquatics and our recreation centers through the end of the year so that we're really coming into our busy seasons fully staffed. And then I guess this question is for you Mr. Cortina's is what trends do you see with with adequately staffing and with wages for our employees in the future budgets?
 I didn't hear you. Future trends future trends you anticipate to see as relates towards wages and towards our employees. I believe with what we have built into the budget for next year it's going to make a tremendous impact a positive impact on the hiring of being able to hire individuals. As I mentioned we've done several different wage adjustments we'll continue to make wage adjustments where necessary. I've gone through and I'll say it again with what's built in for next year so again
 increase in the minimum wage equates to a 9% increase in the minimum wage continue to increase our service time which is a key component because we want to make sure that we're not only attracting new employees but that we're keeping our long-term employees that have been city for a long time we know we're gonna continue to need to look at I mentioned the fleet mechanics is an area that we're looking at now that's one of the areas that work limit might that we need to continue to evaluate one of the big areas that we're probably going to continue looking at is our streets and maintenance department
 And so again, that's something that we'll continue to look at, continue to evaluate every area where we're seeing, you know, hard to fill, specialized positions, electricians, plumbers, those type of positions are getting a little bit harder to fill. But it's really just across the board right now. Unfortunately, just the labor challenge that every employer is facing right now, it's hard to find not only skilled labor, but then also your entry level, whether they're lifeguards or recreation center employees. Yeah.
 So I mean as far as transit it's really across the border and I think you know kovat we talked about this uncertainty It's really throwing sort of a wrench into not only the house damp stamp point, but also the financial the operational as well Thank you, sir. Thank you represent Molina followed by representative
 Hernandez Thank You mayor so good morning mr. Martinez I know you started your presentation you're talking something about the pay Well, you know people do need to buy food pay their bills put gas in their car and all kinds of other stuff Those are all very important items to people the employees their families and I understand that correctly We're always trying to do
 Great things for them trying to move forward for them, but I will tell you as a former city employee I think we haven't mentioned the word pride, you know I can tell you I was very proud to be a city employee for so long and I know there's others on this dice that our former city employees as well. I know I had a very very
 Served under different mayors different chiefs of police and it was always a great day to put on that uniform and to go out there and try and do the best as possible and Working with once again like the fire department and others whether it was the zoo the parks the libraries, whatever You know just seeing the pride that people do work for the city that they feel that sense of pride So that's an intangible that you cannot put on paper. That's an intangible that we heard right now from two other
 I'm gonna call them young city employees. Mr. Avila and Miss Nevarez and whoever else might be in the red shirts there, but You know, it's a sense of pride period, you know when you get up in the morning Or if you got to go to work at 10 o'clock at night or whatever it is You know, it's a sense of pride that you hey I can work for the city I'm working for the city and the opportunities to promote and
 Within the city that's good. I can tell you I'm also the recipient of the tuition reimbursement program back then what they call it So it's a it's a different world. I understand now. We're still living kind of post kovat I noticed those two barriers are down which is a good sign and things like that. So let's continue moving forward. Thank you, sir And that's an excellent point. It is the pride but it's also city manager shares the story a lot when he does his town halls It was one group a while back
 and it was a very simple question and they asked him i hope you don't mind me sharing the story sir but they asked him do you care a very simple question do you care and so looking at what you all approve every year with the budget and where those dollars are going continue to go back into these employees whether it's the tuition assistance whether it's additional incentives don't say it do it and you all have done it you all have invested in the workforce thank you and i think shaymander
 Chief D'Agostino yesterday and I talked about we're really not post-COVID. We still have a lot of things that we have to deal with today, and as we move forward with the budget and things, how we roll out the programs, COVID's still here, and we still need to be very cognizant of that. And we still have city departments that are being impacted with employees being out right now, which...
 Yes, sir Just a quick question regarding schedule be the staffing table It states all funds FTE 7295 employees. Can you clarify if that also includes enterprise funds and the El Paso water? It does not include El Paso water does not so it does include some metro all to do bridges Airport. Okay, so we have
 7,295 employees and can you tell me what the Percentage of our budget with all funds in mind What is the percentage of all of our city employees of our budget in terms of like what is the cost? It's about three quarters. It's about 75% of the overall cost are related to employees And so that's FTEs that you're looking at that's not actual number of people of employees. That's FTEs that we have time Yeah, well full-time at part-time. So it's FTEs and
 So right now we did mention that we do still have a large number of vacancies and so those vacancies are included in that number That you just referenced. Okay, I see what you're saying So we are funding all of these positions with the assumption that we're full capacity and there's no vacancies. That's okay That's the goal. Okay, that's cool. It's still a very significant number So we're prepared to hire
 people apply and hopefully we can get quality candidates to come in. My hope is that you all are being aggressive with hiring fairs, working with workforce solutions, because I'm very concerned about the vacancy rates that I've heard today. Is that a true statement? As are we. So we are working very aggressively to identify new partnerships, get creative on the job fairs, attracting different pools of talent, retirees, utilizing volunteers. I mean, a lot of departments rely upon volunteers to help
 address some issues and so yes So we are working with Workforce Solutions border plex we did sign an agreement initially it was just for a couple of departments So we've expanded that agreement to cover all of those departments We're working on some hiring fairs that are upcoming in the following month in September We haven't finalized those details yet But we will be advertising that and then we will also be coming back in September to really talk about our volunteer and Internship program and the growth that we're working on. So
 And Ms. Guerra, if you could make sure you send council updates on that so that if it's in their district, they'll send out a newsletter and get people out there and they might even want to participate. Absolutely. Thank you, Araceli. I'm really excited to hear about that partnership. And then my final point about the budget. So it's three quarters of the budget. So if there's any efforts to continue to cut the budget, is it going to be for personnel to save money?
 We would not recommend making any changes or reductions to the workforce and the things that we have built into the budget for next Year, okay. Thank you And the reason for it it would be counterintuitive to what the council has directed us to do I
 In terms of open up these services that are of high priority in nature for you and for the community And not only do we have a few employees here with us today in person But we have a lot of employees that are very involved. They watch all of the City Council meetings. They know what's going on They know that today the budgets being adopted. And so again when we talk about, you know, the investment that we've made Again, they're watching Followed by representatives
 thank you mayor actually my question is for miss Mac miss Mac based on the conversation that in the questions that representative Schwartzbein was asking I was wondering if you could get us kind of a schedule for the reopening of rec centers I know currently now in the south-central part of district 2 there are no rec centers open in the north part of district 2 only one rec center is not permanently well I guess
 Permanently closed is not the correct. There are some that are permanently closed because of disrepair and then there are some that are in construction But at this moment, there are no rec centers open in district 2 But actually know that because trying to schedule meetings Staff has allowed us to use senior centers after hours because there are no actual other city facilities available So just and I understand right we've had a whole conversation now for over an hour about why that is so I'm not I
 I'm not complaining about that, but just would love to understand kind of while that staffing gets up, what is the plan, which facilities will be open? So if you can get us that list and schedule. So the question really is the order and not necessarily the date because what is also happening is we have to temper the –
 You know, we're moving people around to make sure we can provide coverage. And so there are some unknowns in terms of having solid numbers for staff. But we do have a strategy in terms of how we intend to get these open and what we hope that that will look like in terms of those staff. Yeah, that's, and I apologize for the incorrect terminology, just understanding kind of what that plan is. And I also, I guess, just want to say that we could still go through this entire budget year and still not be fully open.
 might because it's contingent on being able to hire which is only
 I would love to see that plan. That's how that conversation. But realistically, I mean, it could be out of everyone's hands and that could happen. And so would love to also see if there's a plan for are there alternate programs that we can be doing in areas where the rec center is closed. Ray Gilmore is closed because the foundation has – I'm sorry, not Ray Gilmore –
 Leona Ford Washington because the foundation has collapsed right that we don't have the dollars to fix that facility and you have a facility that was very heavily used but there is a park there can we be holding events and you know basketball tournaments or something in that park to be giving the youth in that area
 a space that they no longer have because we don't have the funds to fix that facility. So that's something else that I would love to work with you with over the year as it starts to cool down a little bit. Okay. That also will require hiring, so we'll just go with that. That's also fair. Over promise on behalf of my team.
 But we will definitely help you to understand our strategy in terms of how we're approaching this. You know, it is data driven in terms of, you know, usage, making sure that we have some spread across the city, you know, walkability for people and things like that. We'll get that to you. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Thank you, Mayor. So, Robert, my question is, earlier this year you were proposing an amendment to our charter to help, I guess, with the hiring process.
 Would that be another strategy to help fill some of these positions? It's definitely a strategy so that will help. If you heard Ms. Mack make the comment right now about when we go out to hire civil service, people who are not qualified or disqualified for one reason or another have the ability to appeal to civil service right that they have to appeal which slows that process down. And so Civil Service Commission only meets once a month.
 Sometimes that they don't meet quorum those meetings get delayed maybe multiple months and so it does slow down the hiring process It does impact the opening of those facilities that we just talked about So these are things that we have talked about not only with this get up but also with obviously miss Neiman because it's right now Currently in the charter with what's allowed what's allowed right now in the Charter? Well, I'm on your question there I'm talking about the appeal process is one of the things that does slow us down quite a bit again We want to make sure that we have
 review we're giving everybody the ample opportunity right but right now it's it's a very lengthy process it can very add weeks or maybe even months to the hiring process and if we were to amend that that part of the charter how would it speed up the process I mean we would have to revise our process to allow for some form of appeal whether it be done through our workforce relations to have the managers actually do the review and review the appeal
 I mean, there's multiple things that Ms. Gatter and her team have been working on as far as recommendations of what we're gonna bring forth as part of the charter amendment. It's just about working again with the Civil Service Commission,
 Getting their feedback also working with our employee unions who are regular members of participants of those meetings as well To show that they don't get the feeling that we're trying to do something sneaky or that's not in the best interest for employees That's never our intention. And in fact, it's the opposite everything We do is for the best intention of all of our city employees And so there are some opportunities there that will continue to explore to help expedite those processes that right now we're facing
 Yeah, so I understand that that was a part of the amendment that wasn't passed by by council Either way, we're not gonna see any charter amendments till potentially next May But I think that that that strategy right there was a really good opportunity For us to be able to fill a lot of these empty positions and so, you know, I would encourage y'all to continue getting creative on how we could and
 Philly's positions. I know you all are working really hard including increasing pay and hosting the different the workforce the My train of thought here the Mean you're touching on key points of things that we've been working on to get creative and how job fairs How do we speed these things up because it's it's not a common now where an employee applies we do our civil service processes that we need to make sure you go through qualify the list and
 bydd y prifysgolion yn barod i gyfweliadu a chael offer, bydd y person sy'n ddiddordeb yn dweud, dwi ddim yn ddiddordeb i gael offer ar waith, dwi'n mynd i ddechrau y flwyddyn nesaf neu lle bynnag. Felly, rydyn ni wedi gwella, ond mae gennym ni rhai materion sydd angen i ni weithio o ran
 a rhai o'r brosesau arall sy'n effeithio ar hynny. Ie, ac rwy'n dweud, oherwydd rwy'n clywed gan lawer o bobl gwahanol sy'n ymgysylltu â'r ddinas, maen nhw eisiau bod yn rhan o'n tîm. Maen nhw'n dweud, fel yr ydych chi'n ei ddweud, bod y broses yn mynd yn llawer yn hir neu am ryw fath o ran, dydyn nhw ddim yn cael y swydd. Felly, dwi ddim yn gwybod beth sydd angen i'w ysbrydoli yno, lle mae'r sefyllfa, nid yw pobl yn cael y sefyllfa ond mae'r sefyllfa
 a'r strategaethau eraill y gallech chi gael? Mae'r tîm yn gweithio arni. Mae'r broses y mae'n ei ymwneud â'r hyn sydd arnom yn ei ofyn. Mae hynny wedi cael ei roi ar gyfer sefydliad gwahanol. Felly mae'n rhywbeth sy'n amser.
 y pethau rydyn ni wedi'u rhoi i mewn lle i ddilysu ar gyfer cyflogwyr a'r math o systemau o adborth, y llwybrau adborth rydyn ni'n eu cael, yn ddiweddar iawn ac mae rhai ohonynt yn llifio. Yn nhermau'r cynyddiau cyflog, a phwy ydych yn edrych ar adegau penodol, mae hynny'n seiliedig ar ddarparu gwasanaeth a'r metrigau ar y rhai sy'n llythio'r mwyaf, yn fawr, felly rydym yn trefnu'r holl rhaglen yma er mwyn atal y problem er mwyn cael y math o canlyniad rydych chi ar ei ôl.
 Felly, rwy'n meddwl y bydd fy ngwneud olaf neu gwestiwn yw, a ydym yn edrych ar, a ydym yn cael model sy'n edrych ar gweithio yn y mewn? Felly, edrych ar ein gweithwyr ar gael ac yn gofyn i ni, rwy'n meddwl, eu hysbysebu o'r sefyllfa mwyaf sylfaenol a'u tyfu i mewn i'r
 sefydliadau rheol. Mae wedi bod yn ddiddorol iawn gyda hynny. Fe wna i roi'r cwbl i Robert, os ydw i'n gallu, ond pan fydd yn siarad amdano, ac rwy'n siarad am cynllunio, rydyn ni'n ei alw fel cynllunio gweithredu oherwydd mae gennym amrywiol enghreifftiau o hynny.
 Mae un enghraifft yn ystod y cyflwyniadau rheolaidd, mae gennym ychydig yn fwy na 60 o ddynion sydd wedi cael eu cymryd i mewn i'r cyflwyniadau hynny. Mae gennym ni llwyth o gyflwyniadau dros y blynyddoedd o ran cyflwyniadau mewnol. Felly mae'r math o hyfforddiant y byddwn yn ei roi mewn lle i ddatblygu ein arweinwyr.
 Mae'r rheoli ymlaen yn enw 500 ac felly pan fyddai'r Gweinidog Mac a'r Gweinidog Cortinas yn siarad am fy nghyfraith gyda nhw, rwy'n eu hysgrifennu yn amserol trwy e-bost ar gyfer gwahanol bethau, i gadw'r cysylltiad â nhw.
 employee surveys and get that feedback for them, we find out what their interests are, some who want to promote, some who don't want to promote, want to just get better at what they're doing, some that want to know more about other departments, that's where Lean Six Sigma training comes into play, that's where cross-functional teams comes into play, and that might motivate them or inspire them to want to do more things and be involved in other departments.
 So everything we put in place is for the development of our employee in order to become a leader, not a manager. We say often we want leaders, we don't want managers. We want people that are gonna innovate and we say we're a learning organization, that's why we're committed to the training and also the formal education that Robert talked about in our tuition assistance program. So Robert, you can add whatever you think I may have left off.
 we do it every day and that's what we do is every day identifying getting creative on how we go about assigning new roles responsibilities to employees changing titles giving them opportunities to move into a higher level position taking on more and more but obviously that creates a trickle down effect where you know if somebody moves up and promotes it obviously you're freeing up another position down below them but again getting very creative and maybe we only need one person to to do that function and we don't need that additional position
 So it's a combination. I mean, it's really about promoting it Encouraging our employees to take advantage of all the opportunities to continue to promote in advance Not only at the senior leadership level but all throughout the organization I see it on a daily basis because the workforce relations department reports directly to me so I get to see a lot of those requests that come through by departments to try to get creative and Really about addressing the needs within their particular departments to assure that services aren't being impacted
 And so my final question is I know that we are you mentioned number four as far as the largest Hire employer in the city. Do you happen to know who one two and three are? You're gonna put me on the spot. I believe it's Fort Bliss one of the school districts I don't know at the top of my head. Okay, but we are number four and I believe it's Fort Bliss El Paso Independent School District in Socorro
 Then we're for I think those are the three ahead of us and that's one of the points that I've been making Over the last several weeks with the media just all the different meetings that we've done So imagine makes the same point is that I don't think a lot of people realize how large of an organization we are represent for an address 7,200 positions when they all get filled a very large 1.2 billion dollar Organization that has a significant impact on this community over 7,000 positions when they're filled and
 RELY UPON THEIR EMPLOYMENT WITH STABLE PASSES TO PROVIDE FOR THEIR FAMILIES. I DON'T THINK THAT COULD BE UNDERSTATED ENOUGH OF THE IMPORTANCE OF WHAT WE DO WHEN WE DEVELOP THESE BUDGETS TO TAKE CARE OF OUR WORKFORCE. JUST TO TIE BACK, PREVIOUS PRESENTATIONS WE MADE TO THE COUNCIL, WE'VE SHOWN YOU AS A RESULT OF OUR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS DIVISION.
 We have supported over 42,000 jobs with regard to our capital improvements projects. We've said that we've got almost a thousand projects that we've completed since the strategic plan has been put in place in streets, almost 500 there, and then almost 500 general capital projects that are done throughout the city that have been put in place. And as you all know and can attest to, we still are far behind. We're far behind because of years and years, decades,
 of just a lack of investment and just ignoring, like for example the Eastside that was growing exponentially and they didn't have the public amenities. Whether it was the,
 the way I describe how you have to continue to pay for things that are in existence. And I make comparisons to like when you have horses and you have skinny horses and you buy new horses and you want to feed the new ones. We have a lot of skinny horses that haven't been fed, some that are dying on the vine.
 I'm cross-purposing with analogies here with the Dine on the Vine part, but that's what staff's referring to. That lack of investment has been there over years, and now we've invested in streets, we've invested in police and fire in terms of the personnel, and also equipment replacement. So those have been really the top priorities. The council has placed the top priority to museums, to libraries, to parks.
 But as you again can all attest to, we're way behind in the parks area. There's a master list of an inventory of all city facilities that I asked for back in 15. It took staff about 15 to 16 months to get that completed. And that has a list of red items. The red items were the things that were in dire need. And the whole thing's red.
 and so now it's probably a different color if you can get more, you know, a different color other than red in terms of a higher need. But a lot of those things that y'all talk to, talk about rather, we don't disagree with you. It's just a matter of doing a funding source. So that's why we had the discussion and the dialogue with council about coming back with a quality of life
 package in 2024, one of which not only looks at all of this maintenance that's been left behind in terms of that hasn't gotten the attention, but also looking at some of the new things that some of you have brought up, some of you have visioned with some of your districts. And so those kinds of things are things we have to talk about because those are things that are still required. Now, I also understand the balance with limiting the tax rate, and in this year, we did reduce the tax rate. I know there's been a lot of discussion about that,
 line, the tax rate is going down from 90.7 to 86.2. That is a fact. It's also a fact that values are still there. So they are going to be paying a little bit more than what they paid last year because of the values.
 So those two things are facts, and they relate to one another. We just had a presentation to a large group on the east side, and we made all these points with them in terms of educating them of the type of things that the budget has and what the budget doesn't have and what's still in store in terms of the needs in the future as we look at still maintaining a very large city that's over 250 square miles. It's a very large city with a lot of needs.
 and a lot of things that haven't been put in place to fund them properly. So when we talk about having money in the fund balance, we talk about having our finances in order, that's the reason that's critical so that a lot of these things that the council wants and when I say the council, that the community wants and a lot of...
 ways needs them. It's not just a want those things we need to work towards in order to fund them so that we can make them more perpetual so that this is not just something that's a happenstance or something. We're trying to stop from bleeding. We need to we need to fix the patient and we need to get them up and running again. And in a lot of cases you have that in your districts.
 Thank you, and I know that I said that that was my last question, but I was looking at the pie chart that you have here On slide 18 and my question here. It says 72.9 percent are personal services of those personal services. How many are public safety police and fire It's about one third of the total so our total employees about one third are uniform employees of that amount I I don't know the exact split but I
 I mean public safety when you break it down the other way like the other charter the other table we have in there public safety is 60% of our budget. Largest investment every year largest cost driver every year. Police supplier. Not only because of collective bargaining which you had an item on the agenda today for the fire we have police coming up but also the investment in the equipment which we talked about investment in the facilities which the voters approved back in November 2019 and so we have additional costs coming on the.
 and it's one of the things that we have a couple of slides in the presentation coming up that you're referencing we're going to have a future presentation again because we need to continue to not remind the council but remind the community as well that's what we've been doing with the media but what those future costs look like what is it that what's the city's plan what is your strategic plan one of the number one things is the investment in police and fire not only through staffing so again i'm jumping ahead here but when you look at the future staffing for our police department we've added
 About 173 new officers, net increase of 173. But over the next 10 years, over 500 new officers that are planned right now to be hired. So when we open up that Far East Regional Command, we're obviously going to need new officers to be able to staff so that we're able to adequately staff these regional commands when they do the realignment.
 Not only police but fire as well fires growing we have mentioned the new fire station open on the west side Another fire station on the east side will be opening in the near future So the same thing with them we need to continue to grow the staffing levels in both of those departments And if I may it's very important to add this piece to it Robert's right. We have 173 net new officers in terms of the net increase I should say but
 but how many officers to get to 173 takes about 500 because of the attrition. So training is vital and we need to include training in our portfolio, in our packages, in our budget for police and fire, especially when you're getting a lot of new, particularly in police, a lot of new officers
 Because that translates into risk and if you don't have these folks trained properly then we have failed not them They need to have the right training and we have to pay for that training so that they're in the best possible Position when they face whatever that it is that they face that they don't that they're walking into so that that's critical So those are other costs
 that people don't see. It's not just a new 173. Those are net new. We have almost 500 new officers that we have to train, and we have to outfit, and we have to have vehicles and things of that nature that, again, we weren't keeping up with in the past. And I know this year in the budget we increased that in order to have enough money to pay for the true capital equipment replacement because the costs have gone up in that area as well.
 Okay. And that staffing again just another point it's in the slide and I see some of the media here that I've met with over the last several weeks that's coming off the heels of that decline in the number of officers between 2008 2016 where the number of officers actually decreased by 118.
 Okay, so the investment the plan that's been put in place has been working but with that comes cost increases Okay, so I'm out of time But I just wanted to I guess clarify because I know we're constantly seeing that 60% of our budget Goes towards public safety and in this pie chart reflects seventy two point nine goes to personnel Services, so I guess if later on you said that it'll you'll clarify that further, right? I'll ask the budget staff if they can pull the break out of the personal cost by police and fire the rest of the departments
 Thank you. So what you're looking at is by expenditure category is one the 73% is by category and the other one is by department Essentially, so please Thank you. Miss Pryor So I'm going to recommend because I know we have some members of the audience here who are waiting on the mass transit agenda We have that scheduled at 10 o'clock. We're gonna be adoption of the mass transit budget. I don't believe there's any Issues with that so I'd recommend we take that item. Absolutely. I there's our motion the recess in the mass transit
 There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting is in recess at 1034 a.m. Mayor, may we convene the mass transit meeting? Please. Thank you. Good morning. This is a...
 Yeah, can we do one public comment first? I don't think we have public comment. We do have call to the public. We have a motion to reconvene the regular city council. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. We'll do that. Anyone opposed? Second.
 The meeting is back in session at 1221 p.m. Mayor, may we move to call to the public? Yeah, we have one. Yes, sir. Thank you. The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city, and these meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council.
 All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that it be considered.
 that a topic brought forward be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have one member of the public that signed up to speak. This is Miss Sylvia Carrion, and Miss Carrion's topic is volunteer work. Good afternoon, Miss Carrion. You have three minutes, ma'am. Thank you. Volunteer work, that's my topic. Good afternoon, Miss Carrion. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council.
 Sylvia Carrion, President of the Mission Valley Civic Association, President of the Loma Land Neighborhood Association, Executive Director of the Longhorn Youth Program, a 501c non-profit, Board Member for Project Bravo, Board Member for Mission Trail Association. I'm currently serving on the Citizens Advisory Board for SubMetro. I'm a member of the El Paso Neighborhood Coalition,
 member of the Campus Educational Improvement Council for Bel Air Middle School and Loma Terras Elementary, member of the League of Women Voters, and I served eight years for the city's Park Advisory Board, and currently a member of the security group for Cristo Rey Catholic Church. The internet says volunteering is described as an unpaid activity where someone gives their time to help not-for-profit organizations
 or an individual that they are not related to. One of the better known benefits of volunteering is the impact on the community. Unpaid volunteers are often the glue to hold communities together. The benefits of volunteer work, according to Google, they connect you to others within your neighborhood. Volunteering is good for your mind and body and bring fulfillment into your life.
 Provides you with a sense of purpose and counteract the efforts of stress and anxiety. Allows you to overcome challenges and helps you stay physically healthy. Gives you a sense of achievement and purpose. Helps you feel better about yourself by improving your self esteem and confidence. Helps you to share your talents with others and also learn new skills. You help combat loneliness, social isolation, and depression. The top characteristics that are
 Mentioned in the pieces of patience one, motivation, bravery, steps out of their comfort zones, humility, compassion, creativity, flexibility because you must adjust to a schedule, independence, most have to have time to complete a task, cooperative and leadership. I think leadership is what I feel strong. You know,
 I do a lot of the volunteer work for the Mission Valley, for the Loma Land, for so many other things. And I bring forward a lot of programs that the city offers and trying to stay focused on the plan. Sometimes it fails, but we'll continue on hard working. We don't give up. Thank you very much. Thank you for what you do, Ms. Carreon. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Motion to recess.
 There's a motion and a second to recess, and this is for how long? Until 1 o'clock. Until 1 o'clock. All in favor? Aye. We'll probably do five minutes to one so we can start at one. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1226 and will reconvene at 1 o'clock p.m. Thank you. Is there a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 101 p.m. We're on item number four.
 Mr. Cortinas and this is a public hearing on the proposed FY 2022-2023 property tax rate of 0.862398 No one has signed up to speak. So we'll open it and close it. Okay, the public hearing is open at 102 So Robert, this is the presentation attached to number five. I believe it's attached to number three I'll go through this one and then we'll go through the slides on the tax rate on the next presentation. I
 We've already covered a lot of this information, but I still wanted to take the time to go through it again just for anybody that may be watching or listening. And again, just as a reminder, I think it's important to go through these items because this budget really contains a lot of the key things that are identified in the strategic plan and a lot of the key things that are going to continue to push the city forward. Again, not only for the upcoming fiscal year, but you hear us talk a lot about the long-term financial sustainability of the organization financially and operationally. So if IT would bring up that presentation for me, please. Thank you.
 So again, when we went about developing the budget, going all the way back to February and March when we start doing, when we do it year-round, but we really started getting into discussions about the five-year forecast. The council had a couple of items throughout the year wanting to see a budget developed with the no tax rate increase and actually minimizing or lowering the tax rate, and this budget does that. This budget also focuses on providing tax relief for seniors and disabled and our military disabled veterans as well.
 Continue to provide savings from our utilities continues to provide additional property tax revenue from the economic incentives So it really encompasses that financial relief is not just the property tax rate There are many many things that are incorporated into that that statement The second part that went into developing the budget was continued to really complete out those priorities Finishing those quite a life bond projects moving forward on the public safety bond projects continue to invest in our streets And this budget does that?
 The third point there, again, we had a lot of discussion this morning with the presentation that we did about the workforce and the important role that they play in producing the results that we've seen on a day-to-day basis and what we've seen over the last eight years with the incorporation or the approval of the current strategic plan. And then finally, the fourth point there as far as the budget development process was really just having to deal with what everybody's dealing with right now, and that's the impact that we're seeing with inflation and increased costs, not only in materials and supplies and contracts.
 labor costs which we've talked about in order to be competitive there's some other fixed cost increases as well the November election being one of the larger items that's about a 1.7 million dollar impact and then also now with the May election which came about just here recently which is not again that 1.5 million roughly cost for the May Charter election is not currently built into the budget and so we will need to identify how we go about funding that election when we get a little bit closer at that time
 So again, as we again develop the budget again, the key word catchphrase there, the uncertainty related to COVID and the impact it's had not only on the health standpoint, but the financial and operational again. Again, ensuring that we're being conservative, that we're being realistic with future impacts related to not only COVID on the health standpoint and potential future financial impacts, but also just the health.
 a'r materion eraill sydd wedi dod o hyd i'r sefyllfa economaidd diwethaf, cyflwyno, heriau gwaith, y cwestiynau additiaethau hynny, a fydd yn parhau i'w ddelio. Yn ôl, nid yn unig ar gyfer ymlaen yma, ond wrth edrych i'r dyfodol hefyd. Felly mae'r Cyngor hwn yn bodoli'n hyderus iawn i sicrhau ein bod yn cadw'n stabil ffiniaeth wrth i ni ddal at rhai o'r penderfyniadau anodd.
 yn ôl i fwrdd ym mis Mawrth 2020 ac yn ymwneud â'r hyn rydyn ni wedi'i wneud ers hynny. Yn ogystal ag ymlaen, byddwn yn dal i ddewis y llinell ar y cyfrif a yna gyda'r budged hon yn llai'r cyfrif gan y 4.5 penni o 90 i 86.2 cwntiau ac yn yr un pryd yn gwneud cynyddu'r llwyth cyfrif i'n ymdrinion a'u gwasgarwyr ar yr un pryd. Mae'r sleid yn bwysig iawn ac felly byddwn i'n mynd i'w hwyl ychydig yn ystod y munud yma oherwydd wrth i ni siarad am y budged mae'n bw
 y strategaeth neu'r ffordd mae'r rheolwr y dynion y dynion eisiau datblygu'r budged nid yn unig yn ymwneud â'r flwyddyn ffysgol honno. Mae gennym bwriad strategol ar gyfer bwrpas ac nid yw'r bwriad strategol yn ymwneud â'i gweithredu yn un flwyddyn. Mae'n gwneud gwylio amser hir o'r hyn rydych chi eisiau ei fod yn sefydliad. Felly wrth edrych at y dyfodol, roeddem wedi cael rhai o'r sgwysion eto y bore yma gyda'r CBA Cymru. Nid yw'r costau hynny'n mynd i lawr. Mae'
 Mae'r costau ar gyfer swyddogion yn dod yn ddi-nod. Bydd y costau hynny'n parhau i fynd i fynd eto oherwydd y cynyddu arian i fod yn gyfartalol. Yn ogystal, bydd y costau hynny'n parhau i fynd i fynd i fynd i fynd o'r ddau o'r cytunoion hynny. Yn adnoddol, mae'r staff addasol, fel y dywedom yn ôl y bore yma, yn rhaid i ni agor y stafion poliwyr newydd, yn rhaid i ni agor y stafion ffyrdd newydd. Rydym yn cael y academiadau hynny nawr, fel ein bod ni'n barod pan fydd y pryd yn dod i fod yn gallu agor
 Felly, y cynllun NET 300 a wnaethon ni ei ddefnyddio yn ystod 2015 i'r Gwasanaethau Gwleidyddol. Yr hyn rydyn ni'n ei wneud nawr gyda'r cyfathrebu 911, yr hyn rydyn ni'n ei wneud gyda'r ffyrdd o'r ffurfiadau. Bydd y costau hyn yn parhau i fyny i'r dyfodol. Ond mae'n mynd ymlaen i'r Gwasanaethau Gwleidyddol a'r ffurfiad. Mae'n mynd i fyny i'n gweithle. Rhaid i ni ddysgu i fod yn gyfartalol yn y dyfodol. Rhaid i ni ddysgu i ddysgu am wahanolwyr
 Mae'r ddyniaeth wedi parhau i ddod â'r cynyddion hynny ers y 4 flwyddyn diwethaf er mwyn i ni ddim roi'r cynyddion hynny i'n gweithwyr. Felly pan ddywedwn ein bod yn rhoi cynyddion i fod yn gyfadrydol, mae'r gweithwyr yn gwneud hynny ac yn cael eu cynyddion ac nid yw'n mynd at gynyddu eu gofal iechyd. Rwy'n gwybod bod entiti leol eraill sydd ddim yn gwneud yr un peth ac sy'n cynyddu'r gofal iechyd i'w gweithwyr. Ond nid yw hynny'n ymwneud â'r hyn y mae'
 Mae'r costau gweithredu bod yn gweithredu ar gyfer cymdeithas cyhoeddus, fe ydym wedi sôn am y gwasanaeth, bydd yn y ffordd yn y drwyadwr penodol, ond mae'n ymwneud â chostau gweithredu eraill yn ymwneud â'r prosiectau hynny. Mae'r gwasanaethau gweithredu ar gael yn ystod y prosiectau sydd wedi'u gynnal. Mae'r amgueddfa dynol wedi'u cynnal yn ystod y flwyddyn nesaf, ond mae hynny'n gweithredu, oherwydd nad yw'n agor ar gyfer y flwyddyn ffisgol cyfan. Felly, y flwyddyn
 Ffacilitiaethau, ffocwllau a phwysigrwydd. Rydym yn dweud rhywbeth yn ôl ar 1 August, pan roeddech chi i gyd wedi cyfrannu addasau i'r cyllideb yma. Mae'n ardal rydyn ni wedi siarad amdano. Roedd y rheolwr y ddinas yma yn ei gyfathrebu y bore yma gyda'r ffacilitiaeth a ddaethom ni amdano ychydig o flynyddoedd yn ôl, ac mae angen i ni symud ymlaen. Pan rydyn ni'n siarad am y cyllideb a gafodd ei gyfrannu gan y Cyngor y ddinas, rydyn ni'n siarad am 10 miliwn o ddolion ar
 We've put dollars here and there where we can towards facilities and other equipment for city departments and park amenities. However, we need to get on that PAYGO system similar to what we've done with those other areas. And so the adjustment, again, that you all approved back on August 1st includes, so the budget now includes $3 million for those items. So $1 million for vehicle equipment replacement, $1 million for park amenities, so whether it's shade canopies, benches, playgrounds, and the other million for facility improvements.
 Again, we talked a lot about making progress. Are we at the level of funding that we need? No, we know we're not, but we're going to continue to make progress and build upon what you all have approved as part of the annual budget. Streets is an issue that we've had a lot of discussion about, not only with what's incorporated as far as the PAYGO funding, but with the November 2022 bond election, of which 90% of that funding will go towards more street projects. We need to continue to build upon, again, the momentum and the progress that you all have approved.
 Taking care of the city streets. It's something we hear about loud and clear. We're hearing about it now I'm sure you are with the recent rain and the impact it's having on on our city streets So this is an area that we need to continue to to push forward on and continue to build upon the progress that has been Made and so I've done a lot of interviews The city manager has done a lot of interviews a lot of different association meetings and so what I've been saying when I'm speaking to these groups and the city manager says the same thing is when you ask the media and
 You say if you were to ask us a question seven years ago How much money did the city have in the annual operating budget? To do street projects or to buy police cars or to buy fire trucks and I said don't laugh But the city had zero dollars to do those things Prior to seven years ago zero dollars to do street projects to buy police cars to buy fire trucks to put a new roof on a city facility the zero city had zero dollars to do those things and
 Instead the city's past practice was to debt finance everything when I say everything. I mean literally everything we're talking facility improvements police cars fire trucks ambulances Playgrounds everything was debt financed this council has listened to the recommendations We brought forward has approved the recommendations. We brought forward and
 and again not about necessarily the short term but it's about the long-term financial and operational sustainability of the organization because you all won't be in office forever city manager and i miss neiman we won't be here forever but we're all in this community and so the recommendations again are all about the long term and that's why this slide is very very important we'll continue to provide more information the city manager's asked that we put together a more detailed presentation which will be coming forward before the end of the calendar year
 to discuss what these future costs look like because it's us to be proactive and to make sure that we're making recommendations in order to offset these future impacts from these costs that we know are coming down the line. So I love this slide. Thanks to Ms. Cruz Acosta and her staff for actually making it look a little bit pretty with trying to make it more of an infographic. But when you look at this slide, again, this sort of reiterates the point that I just made about from 2008 to 2015, the city saw a decrease of 118 officers.
 So how does that happen by not properly investing and doing your multiple academies every year not taking into account future growth of the city? And again really having a short-term vision and not again looking at long term of what it is We're trying to accomplish as a city. So in the summer of 2015 with the council's approval We did implement the net 300 staffing plan We have been doing two police academies every year and so when constituents ask where my tax dollars going I have a couple of slides and we had a question earlier that I'm gonna answer and
 about the percentage of the personnel costs that go to police and fire. But these are the two big drivers, police and fire. I also mentioned earlier this morning about what the future staffing for the police department is going to look like. As we begin to open up that Far East Regional Command, which will open in the next couple of years, we need to ensure we have the adequate number of police staffing available to be able to open up and to allow for the police department to realign those command stations to the,
 uh the best possible out outcome because they will need to be able to again provide that service to the entire community and so between 2022 and 2032 so over the next 10 years over 500 additional new officers are planned that's double what we've been doing we've been doing a net increase of 30 every year starting next year we're planning to do net increase of 60 every year so really becoming more and more aggressive on the police force so that we do have again the adequate number of staff
 to be able to patrol and keep our neighborhoods safe. So this was the slide we showed back in February again, and I already talked about what a lot of those costs are going to look like or what those costs are going to be. And so these numbers are again, what we presented back in February, the FY2023 numbers. But again, really just to highlight and point out that that orange line is our projected expenses over the next five years, and the blue line is our revenues projected for the next five years.
 Again, there are a lot of assumptions built into these numbers. People ask, well, how are you going to close that deficit? And that's the city manager's job. That's my job. That's all of our jobs. All the department has a job to be creative, come up with new ways to deliver service, to come up with identifying how we can generate new revenue to be able to close that deficit and still provide the high level of service for the community.
 And so this is again, going back to what I just mentioned, this is what we're gonna spend more time on over the next year, really highlighting and showing the council what those future costs are, where those tax dollars are going, and showing again that it's not just about what's in the budget for this coming year, which is important, but it's about how are we positioning ourselves again for the long term. So I mentioned earlier about the strategic economic recovery, not just focusing on property taxes or the property tax rate,
 But looking at, again, the tax relief that's provided for 53,000 homesteads that have either the senior or the disabled exemption. 53,000, that's 40% of our total homesteads that benefit from a $42,500 discount off the value of their home when calculating their tax bill. The city council last year increased that. So not only did the city council last year hold the line on the tax rate, but you also provided more tax relief. This year providing tax relief to everybody by lowering the tax rate to 4.5 pennies.
 Miss Neiman and her staff in the city attorney's office again at the council's direction Holding the utilities accountable whether it's the a pass electric rate case the Texas gas Issue that we have with winter storm Uri and though really wanting to push those costs on to El Paso ratepayers Which we were not impacted so there was no reason for why those costs should have been passed on to us And so we were able to generate a substantial amount of savings so that those costs were not passed on to our utility ratepayers whether electric or gas and
 Talk a lot about economic incentives. Again, it's a continuation that we need to continue doing on educating the public on the benefit of those incentive agreements and how they benefit all of the taxing entities. Not just the city of El Paso as a taxing entity, but the other four taxing entities as well that benefit from that new property tax revenue. So again, the school districts with the 43% that they make up the county, the UMC and El Paso Community College that are benefiting from all of the new revenue being generated from those incentive agreements that the city's taking the initiative on.
 And then finally, again, being very strategic with what we're able to do of providing rental and utility assistance, really leveraging our federal dollars to help our most vulnerable members and throughout the community. So this is what the tax rate looks like. And so, again, we originally presented and projected at the end of June a three-quarters of a penny tax rate decrease. When we came back and presented on August 1st, the council introduced a tax rate at just over 86.2 cents, representing the overall 4.5 penny decrease on the property tax rate.
 And so I talked a little bit about this and when you put some numbers to it when you look at for example the over 65 and disabled again 53,000 homesteads that have that benefit. Equates to $18.2 million of property tax relief that this council is approving with this budget for those individuals in our community. Another $5.4 million for the homestead exemption and then the state exemption for disabled veterans almost $13 million of property tax revenue.
 for those individuals about 8 000 individuals that have that exemption which again varies depending upon their disability ranking so overall 36.4 million dollars of property tax relief for these members of the community so what's in the budget again some of the key highlights we've talked a lot about this we had a question this morning again two police academies two fire academies
 The budget includes $7 million for police and fire capital replacement. So that's police cars, fire trucks, and ambulances, which, again, back on August 1st, one of the adjustments that the council approved was adding an additional $1 million for this because of the increased cost that we've had for fire trucks and police cars and such. And so now we're up to $7 million, again, $7 million of set-aside funds in the annual operating budget that we have to go out and do that, to purchase these items. Thank you.
 That means that $7 million that we don't have to go out and bond finance and pay back over a long period of time And instead be more fiscally responsible for how we're developing the budget and how we're going about procuring these items Ten million dollars for street projects again This continues to be in the budget that we've had over the last several years now Doing the residential and the collector roads the traffic safety programs almost 1.8 million dollars for our vision zero traffic safety program which was kicked off in the last year and a half or so and
 Continuing to fund the NTMP again the neighborhood traffic management program half a million dollars in that program We know we have a lot of demand a lot of requests for that program again That's another program that prior to two years ago was bond financed The NTMP originally was financed through the 2012 Street CEO package and instead again now we've shifted away from that Practice and have now built those costs into the annual operating budget again. We have funding for street striping you heard Richard Bristol I
 Four or five months ago give a presentation. We've purchased new street stripers and again in order to keep our community safe Not only for motorists but for pedestrians as well and then the traffic lighting program that we have on the quite of life site again We've talked about again very exciting projects and the downtown is part of the 2012 quite a life bond package the completion of the Children Museum Which is going up very very quickly the Mexican American Cultural Center and the main library renovations that are ongoing and
 the exhibits at the zoo, the Joy Baras and Vino Regional Park, just to name a few of the projects that are opening next year, which, again, those things require operating dollars. And so the 2012 Quadrant of Life Bond is for the construction, capital cost, and now as we build these annual operating budgets, building in the costs that go along with all of the staffing required, all of the materials, all of the supplies that go along with these facilities, and doing so at a high level. The community-approved projects,
 473 miliwn o ddolwg ar gyfer y prosiectau hyn. Mae'n bwysig i ni sicrhau ein bod yn adeiladu'r costau gwaith yn ddiogel, fel nad ydym yn mynd i mewn i ffyrdd yma 5 neu 10 mlynedd yn ôl, lle mae'r sefydliadau hyn yn angen gweithredu yn sydyn neu'n cael problemau sylweddol. Felly mae'n bwysig ein bod yn adeiladu'r costau hyn i'r cyllid gweithredol. Ac yna, yn olaf, rwyf wedi siarad am hyn yn barod, ond rydych chi'n gweld ar y cyngor y Cyngor, mae'n ymddangos bod yna bob cyfarfod nawr
 Rydyn ni ddim yn gallu cynnig y lefel o gwasanaeth rydyn ni'n ei gyfrifol i sydd yn y contract oherwydd mae gennym costau cynyddu hefyd. Rydyn ni'n rhaid i ni ddod a chael mwy o bobl. Felly rydyn ni'n cael ein bod yn cael cyflawni'r contractiau hynny, mynd allan i ffwrdd, ac mewn y mwyaf o ffyrdd, gael gwerth i'r un arfer ond ar costau llawer gwych. Felly rydym wedi gweld contractau genitoriol, contractau sicrwydd, contractau technoleg gwybodaeth a gafodd ychydig miliwn o ddolur yn y flwyddyn ymlaen ymlaen.
 Mae ein defnyddioddau yn ystod cyfnod o ddau miliwn o ddau miliwn o ddigwydd y flwyddyn nesaf. Rydym yn ddefnyddio llawer o aelodau, gyda'n holl sefydliadau y dde, a'r holl ffynion stryd. Rydym yn ddefnyddio llawer o ddŵr, felly mae'r ddewr o El Paso ynghylch 200 o farchnau sydd angen eu cynnal, a'r holl ffyrdd chwarae. Felly, nid ydym yn ddiogel o'r defnyddioddau pan maen nhw'n cael cynydd o ddeg. Pan mae El Paso Electric yn cael cynydd o ddeg, neu mae
 ar gyfer y flwyddyn nesaf hefyd. Yn ogystal, rydyn ni wedi siarad am ein gweithle a'r hyn rydyn ni wedi'i wneud dros y llynedd, nid yn unig y llynedd ond hefyd yn edrych ar hyn yn hanesol dros y llynedd o'r 8 mlynedd neu so. Yn ogystal, rydyn ni'n canolbwyntio ar gyfranogiad, rydyn ni'n canolbwyntio ar y cyfleoedd, y cyllid, a'r cyfleoedd datblygu proffesiynol rydyn ni'n darparu i swyddi ein gweithwyr. Felly mae'r graffic ar y dde yna yn yr hyn rydyn ni wedi'i w
 Felly gallwch weld ar gyfer cyfnod, mae ein gweithwyr GS ar ystod y diwrnod, sy'n bron 90% o'n swyddi nond-uniform, yn cyd-destun â chynydd o gydag 14% o'u cymorth. Yn llai na flwyddyn, cynydd o 14% yn llai na flwyddyn yw'n gyffredinol. Ar gyfer ein grwpiau rheoli arweinyddiaid, mae'n cyfrifo cynydd o gydag 8%. Yn olaf, mae angen i ni ddod yn gyfaddol. Rydych chi i gyd wedi cyfrifo.
 nid yn unig gyda'r hyn a ddod yn y cyflwyniad y flwyddyn diwethaf, y cynyddion cyflwyniadau a wnaethom, ond hefyd er mwyn bod yn fwy cyd-draethol, wnaethon ni gynyddion cyflwyniadau mawr. Wnaethon ni'r cyfrifoldeb ar y sylfaen, eto, i sicrhau ein bod yn cyd-draethol wrth ddod â'r nifer mawr o arosau sydd gennym. Felly mae llawer o arian ychwanegol sydd wedi'i adeiladu i'r gweithdaraeth y flwyddyn nesaf hefyd, nid dim ond y cyfrifoldeb cyfnodol, on
 Mae llawer o weithwyr y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddynion y ddyn
 cyfrifol iawn ar gyfer ein cyflogwyr y dynion. Felly, gyda'r hyn sydd gennym yn y cyflog ar gyfer y flwyddyn nesaf, yn ogystal ag y cynyddu o ddolar yn y cyflog, mae'n cynrychioli 9% o'n cynydd yn ein amser gwasanaethol. Felly, bob 5 mlynedd o wasanaeth ar gyfer ein cyflogwyr y dynion, mae'n cynyddu'r cyfnodau hynny y mae'r cyflogwyr yn eu cyrraedd. Roeddem wedi clywed, wrth i ni ddatblygu ein broses o adlewyrchu perfformiad, bod ein cyflogwyr eisiau cael rhyw fath o gyfnod o gyf
 for them once we complete their performance evaluation, which we do annually. And then the tuition assistance program. And so the changes we've made with that program, and we talked about that again this morning, increasing the budget by about $200,000 next year, which I'm not sure is gonna be enough. As more and more people hear about how easy it is and how lenient we have become in providing that benefit to our employees, but it's a good problem to have. Educating the workforce is a good problem to have, and we will find a way to fund that program and make sure we meet the demand.
 So overall breakdown of the city budget you can see here broken down by the different types of funds you see the general fund there at five hundred and twelve point seven million You follow along there and that's our different types of funds that we have the CDBG is our community development block grant federal funding Our debt service our capital projects special revenue enterprise and internal service. So all of those non general funds are Restricted special purpose type revenues that are dedicated for those particular departments or particular functions
 So overall city budget coming in next year at just over 1.17 billion. When we look at the general fund, the property or the general fund revenue, you see property taxes there makes up about 40% of our revenue, followed by sales taxes, which we've talked a lot about sales tax and the performance that we've seen not only in the current year at almost 14% higher compared to the prior year, but just in general the last couple of years with COVID, it's sort of surprisingly to see
 How will sales taxes perform that's really helped the budget for next year as well providing? Additional revenue to be able to fund a lot of things that are in the budget you can see there for next year We're projecting six point eight million dollars of additional revenue on sales tax to put that into perspective Typically on an average year We would be lucky on average to get about three to three and a half million dollars of new revenue from sales taxes So this budget next year again almost doubles that amount again in order to fund a lot of things that we've talked about and
 And so if you look at the top slide there, or the top line there, property taxes, $15.3 million. This is something else that I've been pointing out quite a bit because, again, when the community asks, where are my tax dollars going, we point to the 60% as police and fire. We talk about 75% as our employees. This slide here, if you follow, the property taxes revenue, the additional revenue, second column from the right, $15.3 million of additional revenue to the general fund from property tax revenue, so $15.3 million.
 additional revenue when you look at this slide and you go down to public safety and you look it's about three rows down four rows down our police and fire departments are increasing in budget next year by fifteen point one million so fifteen point three million of new revenue from property taxes fifteen point one million of increased cost just from two city departments and so when it comes down to when we get the question where my tax dollars going is going to
 keep our community safe to hire more officers to hire more police fire more police officers more firefighters more 911 communicators to purchase the vehicles and equipment that they need to provide the services to getting us prepared to open up brand new fire stations to police stations that's where a large majority of the tax increases is going towards so when we go back to this slide again this is what we talked about earlier the pie chart 72.9 so almost 73 percent almost three quarters of the budget goes to personal services which is
 Salaries, benefits and taxes for all of our city employees. So of that amount, so of that 72.9, if you break it out, 71% of that is police and fire. So 71% of that blue portion of this pie chart is police and fire salaries and benefits and taxes. The remaining 29% is all of our non-uniform employees. And so when we break down those, I know it's a lot of percentages,
 ond os oes gennych chi'r 73% o'r cyfnod, yw 71% yn ffyrdd polis a chyfnod, sy'n fawr, sydd ddim yn ddiddorol pan fyddwn yn siarad am y ffyrdd polis a chyfnod cyffredinol yn gwneud gwaith i'r fawrth fawr o'r cyllideb cyfan. Felly, eto, dyma ffordd ymlaen y cyllideb ar gyfer y Ffyn Genedlaethol ar gyfer y flwyddyn nesaf, yn cyfathrebu o'r flwyddyn bryd hyn i'r flwyddyn nesaf. Yn olaf, gwasanaethau personol, sy'n cyfnod, cyfrifoedd, a ffyniadau,
 yr holl staff cynyddol ar gyfer lleoli a phrofi, yr holl cynyddion cyfranogol ar y cyllid, yr holl fuddsoddiadau rydyn ni'n eu darparu, yr holl ffynciau, yr holl swyddi newydd sy'n dod ar ddwylliant gyda'r costau gweithredu o'r prosiectau rydyn ni wedi siarad amdano. 26 o 36 miliwn ar gyfer ein gweithle. Felly eto, mae'r math yn weithio'n aml. Mae'n ychydig, rwy'n meddwl, yn ymwneud â 70% o'r cynyddion yn ein gweithle yn y cyflwr ar gyfer y flwyddyn nesaf. Felly, fe siaradais
 Yn nesaf, mae'r cynydd mwyaf yn ymwneud â'r Cwadrwyd, sy'n ymwneud â'r parciau, ymwneud â'r amgueddfeydd, a'r ysgol. Yn gyntaf, mae'n hynod o ddifrifol o ran nifer o FTEs, nifer o gweithwyr sydd gennym yn y diwydiant hyn, ac yn agor y prosiect Cwadrwyd a siaradais amdano, ymwneud â'r amgueddfeydd newydd, y Amgueddfa Chilio, y Cwarchod Cwarchod Cymreig, y argyfwngau ym Mhrydain, a chyflawni'r costau gweithredu. Ac yn gy
 Mae'n cynrychioli ambell 67 miliwn o ddiddordeb. Ac eto, mae'r rhan fawr o'r arian nond-gynharol, fel y dywedais yn gynharach, yn cynrychioli'r holl arian sydd wedi'i gyflawni. Felly, p'un a yw'r arian fyd-eang, arian ystod y cyfan, arian ar ddiddordeb sy'n cael ei ddedig ar gyfer ddiddordebau penodol, arian ar gyfer gweithrediadau, sy'n gweithredu blynyddol sy'n parhau o fewn y diwydiant hynny. Felly, Gwasanaethau Gwyddonol, ein haroedd, roeddem yn trafod rhyw
 Dyna beth sy'n cael ei gydgrifio yma yn y ffyniad nid-general hwnnw o'r cyllid y ddynion. Felly gyda hynny, mae hynny'n cyflawni'r cyflwyniad ac gallaf fynd drwy'r... Oherwydd rydyn ni ar y cyfarfod cyhoeddus, mae'n cyflwyniad cyflym. Rwy'n mynd i... Rwy'n cael cwestiwn i chi yn gyflym iawn ar y slid nifer 6. Roedd yna ddyniaeth sylweddol am sut rydyn ni'n cynyddu'r Gweithleol. Y cwestiwn unig rwy'n ei gael yw, beth... I'r nifer hynny, beth ydych chi
 a beth wnaethoch chi ei ddefnyddio? Rwy'n gwybod pan fydd gennym academi, y byddem yn hoffi gweld i sicrhau bod 100% o'n cadwraethau yn graddedig, ond rydyn ni'n gwybod bod cyfnod o'r cyfnod wedi'i wneud. Felly beth cyfnod o hynny ydym yn ei ddefnyddio i gyflawni'r nifer hwnnw? Rydym wedi dangos y wybodaeth hwnnw yn y cyflwyniad yn Ffebrwyrol. Gallaf ddod â hynny i chi. Yn amlwg, mae'n rhwng 50. Rydym wedi gweld nifer ychydig mwy hir y flwyddyn hwnnw o
 Rydw i eisiau sicrhau ein bod ni wedi defnyddio hynny ar y nifer hwn. Rydw i'n hoffi'r sgail. Ydym yn cyfrifol am ymdrinwyr ymdrinol. Rydyn ni'n gorfod mynd yn ôl ac yn dechrau argyfwngu o ran yr hyn rydym yn ei weld dros y diwrnod diwethaf. Rydyn ni'n gweithio'n ddiddorol iawn. Mae'r rheolwr yn dweud wrthym, maen nhw'n cael problemau â chyfyngiadau. Felly, er enghraifft, maen nhw'n diwedd yn y cyfyngiad, yn ystod y cyfnod arall. Os nad ydyn nhw
 Yn y bwysig, rydyn ni'n gwneud hynny i ddod i'r nifer hwn. Mae'r nod i'r academi nesaf yw i ddod i'r nifer hwn. Rydyn ni'n gwneud hynny i ddod i'r nifer hwn. Mae'n nifer rydyn ni angen ei fod yn. Fel y drafodom yn gynharach gyda'r Adran Gwyddo, mae'r diogelu cyhoeddus yn ein prifysgol nifer un. I'ch bwynt, mae'r peth arall rydym yn edrych ar ei wneud yw dod yn ôl gyda ffyrdd eraill sydd ddim yn digwydd heddiw. Rwy'n gwybod bod gennym y rhaglen droi
 to be able to be competitive because as he mentioned this year we're thinking that or this year or last year the number was higher than 50 50 has been the standard number but you know it has reached over 60 at some point so i think that that's a concern of ours and we think we need to go back and revamp that forward drop program thank you thank you for that sir thank you yes sir representative no
 Thanks, Mary. I just wanted to ask some clarifying questions based on some things you said was a little bit confusing. I know you said you're preparing for collective bargaining, right? But just want to clarify that the current collective bargaining agreement does not expire until August 2023. Correct. Okay. And we did in that –
 in the previous collective bargaining agreement we did add pay like a scale and increases for uniformed police officers to kind of I guess lessen the impact of collective bargaining correct so that they would be getting yearly but were if bonuses more than once a year they would be on a scale there would be I guess more of an organized pay increase for uniform
 Correct. And so what we did, what you're referencing is the prior collective bargaining agreement for the police department was we would do a seven city wage comparison. So you never knew what on top of their steps, what type of increase they were going to get. There were years where they got zero additional increases, but there were some years where they got 3% on top of it. And so in order to alleviate that and allow us to be able to project out in the future what those costs are going to be and to ensure that they were gonna receive something,
 We did that flat percentage amount built into the current. Yeah, and I just wanted to clarify that because if you didn't have that information based on things you were saying, it could seem like, well, collective bargaining is coming up in the next three months, and there's going to be a huge increase to wages because we haven't done that. But, well, we have done work over the years to make sure that it will not be, I mean, with the exception of the additional officers that we're going to need and equipment. But then my last question in regards to that is just for clarification. So 911 communication employees are non-uniform employees.
 Correct. And so they're not impacted by collective bargaining? No, they're not. Okay. Just one more clarification. Thank you, Robert. Thank you, Representative Hernandez, followed by Representative Fosita. Thank you, Mr. Cortinez. We're nearing the end, and I just wanted to thank you for all your hard work with this budget. We started early in the year, and I appreciate all of the updates.
 on how we got here today. I wanted to ask if you can give a brief overview of any major changes that are significant of noting today as it relates to the Schedule C. And something that's on my mind is the new fee. I mean, not the new fee, but the residency requirement. Correct, and so the changes that we have are in the Parks Department, the Library Department, and it's related to the county resident fee.
 And so there is a slight increase compared to a city resident fee in order to recoup or recapture some of the additional revenue from county residents who are taking advantage of city services. There's also some planning and inspection fees, again, related to cost of service. They have several fees that haven't been updated in 30 years. And so they're going back and not going back to 100% full cost recovery. They're going to do it over a four to five year time period of increasing those gradually over time. Nicole, is there anything else?
 Nicole Cody interim managing director of OMB and purchasing. So we also want to make sure we note the zoo fees are going up. So we will be increasing the zoo fees as well. And that's the gate ticket price. And we did discuss it during the budget workshop but it's important to note that the public is aware.
 Yeah and I'm okay with that. Could you reference the membership? Is that the membership fees increasing or is it just the daily fees? It's just the the gate ticket prices at this point. I mean I have a big family. I go to the zoo a lot and so the membership is really the way to go if you're trying to save money because just one trip to the zoo for my five children and our parents.
 Would be like over $100. So just with that one visit I could pay for a membership So I recognize that you can achieve savings that way But it does it does The county related requirements for residency. I just want to understand In the event that someone is unable to present an identification because they don't have one What would be the response from city employees? Are they prepared to?
 Are they trained? Are they ready to communicate to the public that this is a new requirement? So this is something we're gonna have to address as we begin to run in those type of situations. I know that we tried this a while back doing the county resident and it's always one of the reasons why we haven't or implemented up until this point for example at the different facilities we have because it is hard to ask for that identification or to prove that you live within the city limits.
 But there's things that we can do. I know there's talk of looking at another type of identification card potentially down the road as part of a discussion to be able to provide some.
 some form of people to be able to identify where they live in their residence. Robert, if I may interject, my apologies for interrupting. Ms. Hernandez, I've asked staff to, we have an internal cross-functional team to look at exactly what Robert said about looking at a ID that would just be for city services and studying that and determining how best to go about doing that without making it an issue with the state.
 or any other entity because there's a lot of folks that might get caught in that vacuum. And so yeah, we've already started looking at that differently than what we have in the past. And again, just doing it for our services and really making sure that there's no one
 That's that's being left out of the mix for whatever reason because we also have homeless people in that in that boat as well And transient folks as well and we want to make sure we account for that So we're looking at it a little bit differently this go-around than we did five or six years ago And we'll continue also the city manager The mayor have meetings with the county on I think a monthly basis and so we had met with them Maybe two years ago we talked about having some form of agreement where the county would actually put up some additional dollars to fund and
 Having their residents be able to take advantage of some of the different services we provide whether it's the libraries or collection stations And of course you would say anybody gain traction on those agreements, but it's something that I'm sure will continue to have discussions with
 I APPRECIATE THAT. I KNOW THIS HAS BEEN UNDERWAY. I REALLY APPRECIATE THE OPEN LINES OF COMMUNICATION. IT IS CRITICAL. I ENDORSE THAT EFFORT. SO I'M EXCITED TO HEAR THAT THERE'S SOME PLANNING UNDERWAY ON THAT. NOW, I WOULD ENCOURAGE AND RECOMMEND SOME FORM OF INTERNAL PROCEDURE OR POLICY FOR STAFF.
 You know, as maybe Ellen Smyth can tell you, or Mr. Ben Fife with Parks and Rec, you will see some form of grievance or process for appeals on these type of situations, and so let's be prepared to respond to the public. So thank you for that.
 I've been hearing some concerns about budget resolution and some authorizations. I know exactly how this works, but just for purposes of sharing that information and educating the public and members of council. On the budget resolution for item number six, it states the city manager or his or her designee is hereby authorized to make budget transfers between departments and or non-enterprise funds or reprogram funds within an enterprise department.
 not to exceed 100,000 to the extent permitted by law. Budget transfers between departments and or non-enterprise department funds exceeding 100,000 shall require city council approval. Can you explain in what situations the city manager would have this authorization? So that one is not as common. I think the one you're referring to is the capital projects. So we do typically do budget transfers, but 99.9% of the budget transfers we process are within one department.
 I talked about, for example, the tuition assistance program right now. We added $200,000 to that program, so I think we're at about $508,000 roughly total. It may not be enough, and so the workforce relations department is going to have to do an allocation or a budget transfer throughout the year to move money from one account to the other. Not typical for us to do between departments. Very rare that we do that. The capital project budget transfer item, something to count. This has been around for 12 years at least since I've been with the city.
 maybe longer. And so what this allows for is our engineering department. You all know they're executing a very very large capital project portfolio right now a lot of projects ongoing. This allows them the flexibility and the capacity to be able to get these projects done on time without having to come back to council or have to go back out and rebid certain projects. All of the budget transfers related to capital projects are provided to council so the quarterly updates the reports that I do.
 The backup there's always the listing of the budget transfers that were done for every capital project. So it's posted on the website It's there's backup Provided again If anybody has any questions about where those dollars are going or being moved from or to all of the information is readily available And so that was added and so though that million dollar limit is for existing capital projects and so everything that's been approved by the City Council as far as those project lists and
 And that was my next question. How does the capital project list get approved? That's developed by the capital improvement engineering department. It comes to council council approves The budget the projects for every engineering project on that list. So it's not manufactured By mr. Gonzalez or the city manager of the role. It's already approved by council and
 This authorization is for capital projects only that have already been previously authorized by the City Council. Is that a true statement? That's correct. And it's also and it's also so if you think about it also So the other measure the other item to contend with or to take into account is you will approve every contract for these capital projects So those contracted amounts for these projects have limits there's caps on them this does not allow us to go above and beyond those contracted amounts and
 So far as long as there has been a council manager form of government and a city manager This has been as far as I can authorization and I built the city for 15 years as far as I can remember This has been in the budget resolution and that and that I look in that authorization Authority is a million dollars by the city manager. Yes. Okay. I don't have any other questions other than to I saw mr Rodriguez did you have something you want to say?
 I just wanted to confirm that's correct. It's been in the resolution since I've been with the city for 16 years. And again, it allows us to...
 continue to move projects along. We we close our projects and we have project savings that we move into what we call a PCP balance or a balance that then we draw from to keep projects moving that are over and within the authority of city manager we keep able to push those along. And those that are not that are over a million we do bring those to council typically as part of a construction award.
 We'll bring those items to council as we did as an example with the water parks and whatnot. We bring those to council as Robert stated. Those are also reported on a quarterly basis. I do want to point out that I think under the resolution the city manager is authorized to begin a new capital project under half a million dollars and this is to address emergency situations or emerging things that are capital that's a capital expense that require
 capital dollars he's able to begin those up to half a million dollars and obviously those get reported as well as part of the budget transfers because there's a budget transfer involved with that as well. Great thank you for that clarification. It's important to remind the public and continue to have these discussions. I'm going to switch over just really quickly to a conversation about TERS. Are there any changes to any of
 within the budget resolution or is that like future council actions so that we can transfer those TERS funds to the general fund so that would be a future council action there's no changes right now to any of the TERSes okay and then but we are looking at that we're looking at where we can capture some of that and put back into the general fund in order for us to utilize that on the general fund side ledger
 Okay. And then for Parks and Recreation, I just want to stress when we are modifying schedules during the summer, when you open and close centers, the backlash to members of council without any proper notice, and I understand and I recognize the labor issues.
 I just want to make sure that there's continuity in our service hours for our rec centers for our community community centers Because when we change those I'm having to go to every Center to meet with Folks who are frustrated because they want their gyms open. So I just wanted to make sure that We're we're not adjusting hours
 midpoint and that we're keeping our hours consistent are there any efforts within this budget to to modify the schedules in the summer because Dion I know you're this is new to your portfolio this happened this summer and
 We were all frustrated, not necessarily blindsided because we recognize the challenges. I just want to make sure there's continuity in the time services that we're providing. This is new to her portfolio, but she's done this before, as you all know. And this is just part of our training and development in that Dionne probably held every area except for finance and budgeting. I don't know that she wants you to do that to her, but she can speak to the questions that you've had. Absolutely, we'll be working to communicate with you in terms of the work that we will
 be rolling out we clearly understand that right now even though we're open in certain facilities we're just open basically at basic service levels and so our goal is to ensure that not only during summer programs that we're able to re-establish club rec
 that we're able to have those evening hours, that we're able to accommodate our seniors who are looking to work out in the morning. We've heard those concerns, we have those listed. When we're thinking about full service, we're thinking about the things that people have come to expect from us in terms of high quality of service for quality of life.
 so as we continue to roll those out and get these facilities open we will make sure we coordinate with you so you can continue to help us to let people know that we are expanding those services and they continue to be or will are re-established as we restaff our organization moving forward great and just you know when cdbg funds are reprogrammed re allocated it would be helpful to know what kind of city services will be impacted as a
 I mean, there's so many different allocations, and so so many departments are relying on that. And so you don't hear about the changes until right before the new budget adoption. And so I think where we can strengthen our budget sessions is when we make a change to any allocations and it impacts our operations to the public
 then we need to understand, well, this is the decision and here are the unintended consequences and this is how we're gonna make up for it. That could be a process improvement recommendation on how we publicize that, not only to council but to the public, because I recognize that this year
 I was a little frustrated but I recognize that city management is looking for funding to make sure that persons with disability, seniors are never impacted and they are our priority. Exactly. And you, I think you posed a question to us last week and so what we'll be able to do is share with all of council the policy that allows us to provide a waiver.
 that's already in place. And if you look at Schedule C closely, there's already funding that allows financial support for that. And so we will get that out to you and to everyone else to ensure that people are not coming in and are surprised or feeling like they don't have an option to really participate fully.
 right and my shameless plug the multi-purpose center um we the public is is dying for their warm pool um on by count and um it is so critical so i just want to make sure that i use this platform today uh to advocate on behalf of my constituents who are desperately not only not only in district three throughout the entire city they're looking for that therapeutic pool which is the only one in our inventory um and so i should have mentioned that earlier when we had here but
 It's critical and we don't stop hearing about it every single day And then I do want to know other questions of our about parks and rec Or about finances at this time if something comes up, I'll reconnect. But thank you. Mr. Cortez. Thank you question I do have I know that we We did the budget. We always talked about that. It wasn't about dollars and cents about staffing it was due to I
 you know, we couldn't, we didn't have the manpower. And then in our budget we did today, we've actually allocated for additional funding. So the question would be is if we've allocated for funding, we've raised the taxes to the taxpayers, why are we raising fees to the amenities when we have actually incorporated everything into our budget today?
 Which fees are you referencing, Mayor? You know, you're talking about the fees for the zoo, the fees for the parks. Why are they going up if we've incorporated? What reasoning do we have for going up if we've incorporated everything into our budget today, which is additional funding? The fees for the parks are not going up. For the zoo it is. You said it was. For the zoo it is. And so the purpose behind that is that building in the operating dollars, the operating dollars paid for. The general fund portion of the zoo pays for personnel.
 The zoo utilizes their collection revenue that they collect to pay for all the operating costs. I talked about not only the penguin exhibit, I believe there's another exhibit that's going to be opening next year as well. So they have an increase in the operating costs on the zoo side. So it's a new amenity, it's a new exhibit, it's new attractions.
 They need to be able to fund the ongoing operating costs associated with that. So you're saying that's not in the budget today? It is in the budget. That's what I thought. That's what I'm saying. If it's in the budget today, why is the gate cost going up? To fund the increase in the operating costs. And so separate personnel from the operating. Personnel is in the general fund. No, I heard that. That's what I'm saying. So is that part not in the budget? It is in the budget. It is in the budget.
 Okay, so that's why I'm trying to figure out why the gate fee is going up if it is in the budget I know that the gate fee additional fee will fund the increase in the operating cost so but that's so if we didn't Increase the gate fee that would not be in the budget today to operate
 I'm not following your question, Mayor. What he's asking, you're saying it's in the budget because it's being covered by the fees. What he's asking is it's not in the budget covered by the general fund. Correct. Yeah. So the additional dollars that are required to cover the related expenses for those projects are going to be covered by the additional gate? Yes.
 fee that is being included within the budget. So what we're saying is that we're keeping the zoo whole in terms of its required funding that includes that fee as well as covering all the staffing that's required on the general fund side. So we're not keeping them whole, we're actually increasing the gate cost to keep it whole and it's not in the budget?
 It is in the budget in terms of what they intend to earn Through the gate charge that is being increased in the fee schedule So I don't believe it's in the budget then if we're increasing the budget we're increasing the gate fee to cover it That's just I mean, I don't see that if it was in there. We wouldn't increase the gate. I
 It's covered. It would be covered. It's covered by the additional revenue expected to be generated by the additional fee charge. So it's not in the budget. It's in the budget to increase the gate fee to cover it. The increase in the operating cost is in the budget for next year. I don't agree with that. If it's in the budget, it should be in the budget. Okay.
 And now we're increasing the gate fee and increasing You know to the taxpayers the additional cost related to operating the zone. I got it No, I understand it. So that's I'm saying so I do understand it But I don't see it in the budget if we're increasing the gate fee to cover the shortfall of what it's going to cost us it
 It's a combination of the two. It's the increase in the general fund portion and an increase in the revenue being generated. How much are we thinking based on the increase will it generate? We've added in on the expense side $600,000 that would be covered by the expected $600,000 increase in revenue. So we're adding roughly, we're hoping that by gate fees we'll add an additional $600,000 to operate.
 Whatever it's going to cover The increase on the general fund side as mr. Cortina said is for salaries and benefits so the general fund Increased I understand all that. I want to know what the additional charge on the gate be what's that going to cover? I
 It's going to cover the operating costs specifically for the food and utilities and normal operating costs to support the new exhibits. Okay, so now I'll go back to the question I asked a minute ago. How much additional funding will that be based on the increase on the gate fee?
 Mayor, and since the discussion has switched to the budget, I'm going to read item five into the record, which is discussion and action on a resolution that the proposed budget as amended for the city of El Paso, followed by the city manager with a city clerk on July 14th, 2022, is hereby approved and adopted by the city council as the annual budget for the fiscal year 2022 to 2023, which begins on September 1st, 2022, and ends on August 31st, 2023. Thank you.
 mayor we'll get your response to that question i don't know if you want to go on to any other questions that i'm sorry we'll go to representative salcido and then the representative thank you thank you thank you mayor and thank you city manager and staff for all your hard work that in preparing this budget today so over the last few months i have heard constituents concerns loud and clear and i will do all my part to alleviate their burdens as we know the budget is a working item
 as we continue to hear the constituents needs and comments. So today I stand up for the taxpayers of El Paso and the struggling families who have been negatively impacted by the record inflation and the ever increasing cost of living. These have not been ordinary times for us. El Paso has been tidying up their budgets and city of El Paso must do the same. We must adopt a policy of reducing spending with the economic realities leaves us no choice and this is where we're at today.
 We must adopt a policy that helps the community. In a city council meeting a few weeks ago, an agenda item that I posted along three of my colleagues and was passed unanimously also directed the staff to further adjust the budget to reduce the tax rate. Yes, the proposed tax rate has already decreased significantly, and it has been the largest tax rate reduction in more than 35 years.
 because of the high certified property values that came into from the central preso district and i welcome that decrease but i think that we can still do further towards what we asked for in this agenda item with the new proposed rate we are close about to four pennies and above the new revenue rate that equates to about 16.9 million dollars and we're hovering just below the voter approved rate i think we owe it to the taxpayers to provide even more relief
 in the upcoming fiscal years. And I do have a motion and a few questions, but I am open to feedback from my colleagues and staff on this. And with that, I do want to motion to adopt the no new revenue rate for the FY 2023. If I have a second. Thank you. Yeah, what? That's all, okay, thank you. So I do have some questions. I don't hear a second, but I do have some questions. Mr. Cortines.
 Is there something that we could explore to look further on that? I know that we, to revisit that sales tax surplus that we talked about last meeting and being able not to affect the pension and the stabilization fund, but where we can get that, those funds to cover to get us to the normal revenue rate? So as I mentioned during that same meeting several times, is I would not recommend and I do not believe it to be fiscally responsible to use one-time additional revenue.
 to fund ongoing expenditures. It's not a responsible way to operate, and I don't think the city manager would recommend that, nor would I recommend doing that. And also, I know that it was talked about TERS, and there's some surplus there, and that will be moved to the general funds. Do you know that amount, and would that be something that we could be used to lower? It's something that the city attorney's office and myself has been working on for quite a while, unfortunately, because there's bond issuances tied to the TRZs. We're working right now with,
 Ms. Neiman and Snapper right now to try to help us expedite that. We need to go back to the SIV, which is where we, State Infrastructure Bank, which is where the loans were issued through.
 Make some amendments to the ordinances that were passed when those were created we're working on that It just takes a little bit of time for us to be able to do that I asked the staff to do that in order to look at other sources of revenues to Accommodate the general fund and its rising expenses with all the items that we listed whether it be streets police fire equipment replacement for those departments and obviously the needs assessment list that we shared earlier that is a very
 litany of items in the parks department and also we had a discussion earlier about maybe the general fund taking on more
 cost increases in enterprise funds and things of that nature that is a policy decision one of which we wouldn't necessarily recommend but one that we have to plan for we also talked about the additional costs of these incentives for staff that when we do get to fully staff that would be an additional and minimum set of minimum of seven million dollars more on top of these additional things we're looking at with the collective bargaining agreements with police and fire
 Thank you. And on another question, is there any fund that you think that we could, you know, be able to accomplish this goal without, of course, touching the pension funds? So we provided information to all of the members of council about two weeks ago, I believe. The budget, as you said, 4.5 penny tax rate decrease, the largest in over 35 years, an additional 4 penny decrease bringing the total 8.5 cent would require another $17 million reduction.
 The budget staff, myself, Mitchell Gonzalez, we've developed a budget that we're recommending without impacting services or impacting competitive wages for our employees. I mean, we've talked a lot about what is the budget made up of? Almost 75% of it is our employees. And if you're cutting other services or if you're cutting other operating costs at that point, then why do you have employees coming to work if they don't have the tools and resources that they need in order to do their job?
 Thank you for answering all my questions. Thank you. Mr. Cornelius back to your question mayor So they just and I believe we have Joe Montezano the zoo director on the line as well on page 589 of the Proposed budget which is posted has been posted on the city website for almost two and a half months now additional revenue for the zoo is 504 thousand two hundred ninety seven dollars as a result of the one dollar increase Okay, so we'll figure that that's gonna overcome the short based on electricity food and whatever other items you are
 Those are not included in the budget.
 for the year mayor just to answer your question in line of questioning that you're asking these are for the new exhibits and it is in the budget I think if you seem to be having some concerns about the 600,000 the general fund would be the only thing that would be able to absorb that and we would have to cut something else out of what we have listed already so that that would be a way where that would not be an impact to the to the users it's a user fee
 and the taxpayer would have to pick up the rest of that.
 and then take something off the list that we've shown y'all that we've used with those dollars. So I hope that answers your question because I think you've asked it, it's not in the budget. It is on the budget on the revenue side and expense side and it covers those new exhibits. It's no different than the MAC or the Children's Museum that's coming online that we have to pay for those expenses. As you know, we did negotiate a different situation with the Children's Museum where we only pay 1 3rd
 But Mayor, to answer your question, it is in the budget and it is a 600,000 as Robert said. And so if you're,
 suggesting or insinuating with your comments that you'd want the general fund to absorb that that would have to be something that's taken up by all of you and then look at that list that the council has been briefed on and determine which ones are those things we would remove and make up for that six hundred thousand that way so I hope that answer your question sir it did but I still don't disagree but you did answer the question thank you representative Vanilla
 Yeah, thanks. I feel like I've lost my train of thought again. Quick comment about a conversation I've had with Representative Hernandez on the budget transfer that has been around for 12 years. I don't know what the context of the conversation is, but I do know that in 2017 we did increase that right from $500,000 to a million. So I don't, I was just...
 I don't know why I felt like pointing that out. I was just saying it to remind everyone. In the same line of questioning that the mayor had on the zoo fees, so y'all are saying you are now increasing the fee for non-city residents at libraries. You're increasing it. Okay, so what is that increase going to be for?
 There's no change to the libraries. Okay, because Robert said we're increasing it. There's only the zoo and the parks, and so libraries was our historical. So parks, we're now doing it as well? Yes. Okay, and so what is that increase going to be used for? It's actually different per actual function. Let me pull up the schedule.
 Yeah, I mean, I get what the mayor is saying. I don't think that he's suggesting that you take money, defund something else in the general fund and fund this. I think he's saying that in transparency on how this budget is being balanced, right, there are deficits that are now being covered by increased fees. So to say that we've balanced out the budget totally, that's not entirely true, right, because a lot of this is contingent on, right, let's use the example of the zoo.
 projecting six hundred thousand dollars from that increase if you don't get that six hundred thousand dollars you're going to have to make up what was projected somewhere else potentially right and so just understanding how you're balancing this budget right and and so what you're saying Dion is each park is differently you're going to use the funds for this increase for County users and so understanding what that is would be a full understanding of the budget and this is the first time we're having the conversation
 And so I don't know I don't want to speak for you mayor, but I don't feel like you were saying that you wanted to Take money from the general fund It's just the way that we're talking about the balancing of the budget the way they were talking about funding of departments It's not a clean flush and a lot of this is dependent on revenue from these fees the zoo operates as an enterprise fund So so the zoo has a fund balance we monitor the zoo just like every city department to ensure they stay within the allocated amount and
 They generate revenue not only through their fees and charges, but the general fund subsidizes a large portion of the expenses related to the zoo. But the zoo operates as an enterprise fund, which means all of the revenue they generate has to fully fund all of their operating costs, excluding their employees. The general fund covers that. Okay. Okay.
 Yeah, so I don't need that now, but if that could, we could just have an understanding of what that fee, you don't have to do that right now, Dion. It's going to be minimal. The parks generates minimal revenue. The additional revenue generated from this will be minimal. It's not going to be.
 We just want to remind council and I apologize didn't have the date We did present on June 27 the fees that were related to the zoo as well as the detail of what was going to be increased by at the Parks and Recreation line item. Yeah, I know what she was asking. I miss my recall. You're right, but doesn't mean we agreed on it. I
 but you're right you did discuss it yeah we didn't vote on we do still have the right to disagree and say we did we don't agree with the charge and i don't need that now but i do think it is a conversation with have we talked about we didn't understand what exactly those those line item funding would be um so last question robert um a few months ago when we i was going to say when we started the budget conversations but i think back in march we talked about
 looking at fees for short-term rental. We were told that was being worked on, hoping it would be done for this budget, but haven't had any update on that. We've made a lot of progress. There's a lot that goes into that. Actually, Ms. Cody has done a fantastic job on getting that program up and running. We have a cross-functional team that's tackling that. You'll be something, BC, and I believe her timeline is scheduled to come back in September to present something to you all. Okay, will that need to be a budget amendment, or...?
 So the hotel like 50 tax is dedicated to purposes There would be additional revenue projected to be generated for as a result of the permits that would be required And at that time we can have discussions about what that would go to fund We have obviously recommendations. We're being forward as far as funding additional staff to monitor compliance and some other things and
 plan to utilize a third party to help administer the program so we'll bring all that forward it just takes a little bit of time unfortunately to get everything squared away and then again the cost functional team's been working on that for four or five months now thank you as we plant the plan is to have that implemented before or by January of next year
 And actually, this is Ben Fike, Managing Director of Cultural Affairs and Recreation. If I may, I would just like to jump in to address some of those questions, Representative Anello. I would remind the Council that during strategic planning sessions last November, we did talk about the fact that, you know, the city
 City residents actually subsidize a lot of these services through their property taxes. They are paying on the bond debts. County users are putting wear and tear in facilities, take space in programs without having
 having actually paid for that subsidy. And so the increase in fees is really to just sort of even that out and allows us to plan properly and accordingly. Thanks, Mr. Feif. I would also say I think some of us still feel like we didn't finish that strategic plan session by going through each category. And as someone who's very openly doesn't believe that we should be charging for educational and physical fitness,
 to county residents. That was a conversation I would have liked to have continued, but we didn't do that extra day for strategic planning, but I appreciate the reminder.
 Council also I know that there's been questions by a lot of you about what's covered what's not covered We we present the the budget items on a yearly basis throughout the entire year And so we have talked before about things like the Terzis and how we can utilize that revenue I think several of you have mentioned that I know like the Airbnb item that was brought up Because we were having complaints in the CR process. I know miss I
 and on this I brought that up and one in which you know we were following up with her on that and with the council and I know that's been brought up several times so I just want to make sure that
 you hear that we hear you loud and clear and those those two opportunities to get more revenue and and or take care of a citizen concern in the Airbnb because that's how that came about and if you recall we said we had been looking at that for quite some time it wasn't something that just came up on us just kind of like the the pay increases to be more competitive with the workforce this isn't the first year we've done it
 This will be the fourth and fifth time we increase the minimum wage, and it's something we've been looking at for years, and things we've been working on for years. So that's the reason why today, whenever they presented that aspect of it, they were able to present that in such a way that they had been doing their homework for quite some time. It was even a Lean Six Sigma project for her Greenbelt certification for Dion Mack. So a lot of these things that are being brought up, we've worked on them, we continue to work on them. It's because we listen to you.
 I know this is the final throws of the budget and so things come up, but in terms of this being a budget that you've put a lot of thought into, you've given a lot of direction on, the fact that it does reduce the budget 90.7 cents to 86.2. And as I said earlier,
 That is the value increase, a lot of it's value increase. We've had some savings as well. Some of the value that has still is an increase on the 86.2. That's going to go towards paying for all these things that we've talked about. I won't repeat all of those, but you know the top three are police, fire, streets. Obviously, parks still needs a lot of work, and we've talked about that. The equipment replacement in a lot of those departments is absolutely vital.
 So again, we're listening to your constituents that you are the voice of. We've heard this not only through resident surveys but also through the CR process. These things need attention and y'all made a huge effort to give these things attention and to make these things happen. So y'all have been in a very aggressive council to really make up for a lot of those things that haven't been done over the years.
 And so now we still have more catch up to do. And this budget not only fulfills some of that, but it takes on some of the new things that you have wanted, the communities wanted, that we're having to pay for, and we're doing it as best we can by also balancing the needs and the concerns that we've heard today and that we've heard throughout the year. Thank you for that. Yes, sir. And with that, we have Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you mayor and again, thank you to staff for your careful Careful process that you all have gone through the budgeting process You know, I've also been listening a lot to my constituents and I know that you know this Although we're giving them some relief in the form of tax reduction on the tax rate it still doesn't offset what's happening with the property values and that of course is through no falls of the city and
 But I do feel that we have to do something better and I want to actually second Representative Salcido's motion for the no new tax revenue. Thank you. Go ahead Representative. I had to turn down Representative Hernandez. Thank you. I know there's a motion for an amendment but I also I'm not sure if there's a separate motion.
 That's already been Presented mrs. Prine if you can verify how many motions are on the floor. We need to actually close the public hearing We're still on item number. Yeah on item four. We need to close a public hearing. Okay, so You but you read into the record item five. Yes, correct. Okay, so My first motion and then mayor I would like an opportunity to speak on the motion on the floor My first motion would be to close the public hearing second. Okay
 okay and this is for item number four there's a motion made by representative hernandez second you'll still have the floor by representative rivera to close the public hearing on the proposed fy 2022-2023 property tax rate of 0.862398 there was no one signed up to speak and no one in chambers or in the queue to speak on this item on that motion call for the vote representative hernandez yes thank you in the voting session
 The motion passes five affirmative votes representative Salcido Rodriguez voting nay representative Molinar not present. So for for my motion for item five would be to approve the the budget as proposed and We can look at the discussion in action for the for item number six and and so while I appreciate their their desire to further provide relief and
 for the taxpayer. I feel strongly that this budget is funding priorities. This budget is reflective of what I would consider to be life or death.
 priorities for our public safety departments. It is unacceptable that you can wait for priority one calls. This percentage may be different today, but it's unacceptable that if you have priority one calls and you call the police department, that you can expect to wait up to 17 minutes. And that is just on average.
 We need more police officers. We need more public safety officers because there has been a significant increase in crime, gun incident rates, and we are waiting to hear from our public safety officers. We all have an obligation today to ensure that our citizens are protected.
 Now, while I recognize that there is a sense of urgency to reduce further the taxes, I don't feel comfortable doing that today because I do gravely feel that these are life and death decisions that we're making today for the citizens of El Paso. And so I would strongly urge members of council to support the budget as is. I will second that. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Representative Rivera.
 We heard loud and clear for you, Mr. Cortina's that the majority 75% is going to our personnel of that 75% 71%. I'm a good student. 71% is going to police and fire. We don't have any room to adjust without impacting our city employees in our workforce as one of the largest employers in the city of El Paso.
 We need to not only lead the way with increased wages, increased labor, be climate ready, ensure that our mass transit is up to date. We're providing basic services, making sure that we are stabilizing our budget, increasing our revenues, increasing our reserves. So we are, in my opinion, being incredibly fiscally responsible with half of what other larger cities are doing. We are so efficient,
 that we have half of the revenues from your other larger cities across Texas, but we are providing the same services for half of what they have. So while I recognize Opasans are suffering, I also want to ensure that there's no more suffrage
 with not having the appropriate funding for public safety. So I hope that council will support the existing budget as proposed. Thank you. And that number, if I'm not mistaken, 72.9% is personnel and 71% is police and fire. Yes. Just want to make sure we have the right number. Right now, nearly 75%. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Nearly is the key word here. Thank you, Mayor.
 I again want to echo my colleague Representative Hernandez and the urgency and necessity to approve this budget as is with the high percentages that we have heard relating to public safety towards fire and police officers this budget is a public safety budget.
 I will not go on the record with my last vote not supporting our police officers and to vote for a no no new revenue tax rate is to defund our police officers and our firefighters. That is what is at stake here today. We talk about keeping our community safe. We talk about obligations and responsibilities that this council has to this city.
 that this council has to this community. The first responsibility, the most important responsibility we have to the taxpayers of El Paso is to keep them safe. To not support this budget as it is, is to defund our police, is to defund our firefighters, is to put our communities, our neighborhoods, our parks, our families in danger. And I will not allow that to happen here.
 So we have seen a budget that our city manager that our city management and that our staff has looked to tighten the belt and then tighten it again to have one of the largest property tax rate decreases that we have seen in decades in this community while still being able to provide the necessities of public safety of funding our police officers of funding our firefighters. That is what this budget is here today.
 When folks are complaining and saying that they don't want to see their taxes going up, we understand the concerns. We understand the very real concerns that families across the city are dealing with. But at this point, to go to a no new revenue tax rate would be to be cutting into bone. It would be to cancel police officer academies that we have. And how many academies do we have paid for with the upcoming budget? Two police academies and two fire academies.
 I'm not willing to do that. I'm not willing to do that here today. So again, I urge my colleagues, while I understand the concerns that we have, and I understand the concerns of the families that we have here, they would wanna make sure that we are providing the right amount of funds
 for our police officers, for our firefighters. And when we have a budget that is over almost 70% responsible due to public safety towards funding our police officers, towards funding our firefighters, this budget is a public safety budget. And we need to make sure that we pass it to keep our community safe. Thank you. And I just wanna make sure that the item on the agenda is not to cut any particular item, is that correct?
 okay i just want to make sure you didn't okay i just want to make sure that wasn't the item that you would require going to the noni revenue rate would require a reduction of almost something i know that i'm just saying but that's not that's the direction is to reduce the budget by 17 years sir i agree uh representative anello followed by representative oh no she spoke you haven't spoke you're right thank you very much thank you mayor yes sir i'll
 I can't echo enough what Representative Hernandez and Mayor Pro Tem have said. This is very important to the community. We're not just throwing dollars at our public safety. This is what they want. This is what they want to have. They want to equip both departments with the best equipment possible, as was stated earlier. The fire department along with police department have national recognition on this, and it's
 from that we we participated in I'm sorry and so uh I do believe that any cut here will will impact another need for the city and so I do also urge you all to support this budget as I will thank you so much thank you sir Representative Vanilla
 yeah i mean i think it's being a little dramatic and disrespectful to the council members to suggest that they would be trying to defund the police um by going to a no revenue however i also don't support that amendment for several reasons and robert i have a question for you so um this year we are needing to reduce our general fund to make up for an increase in debt based on the state legislation that passed in 2021
 2020 where you're referring to the property tax cap. Yes, that's that then included 2019 Well, then there was an amendment in 21 to add debt into that correct No, it is not included in the calculation of the no new of the no new revenue or the voter approval That is not included Okay But we are having to decrease our general fund and increase in our debt increases that model is increasing We are approximately one penny below the maximum voter approval rate allowed. So we are we
 not right at it and that's somebody I don't know which council member made the comment we're approximately one penny below okay which is about 4.2 million dollars of revenue that is not included and what was the tax rate so the tax rate in 22 was 0.907 and the tax rate this year is 0.86 862 862 so we have lowered the tax rate the debt it has increased
 But, and so the tax impact is not, you know, where there's still a bit of a tax impact because of that, but we have lowered the tax rate. By 4.5 cents compared to. Yeah, and so when we're talking about, okay, so this has gotten confusing in the media. When we're talking about the tax impact,
 we're not seeing that much of an impact because of the debt, but we have lowered our tax rate, so I'm not entirely sure what the council members are asking for. And I'm also not supportive of this because we have been actively working. We've been discussing the budget for a year, but we've been actively working on this budget for four months now, right? Right.
 The council members that have made the motion and seconded the motion have also put up two different items to address the tax rate. I'm going to support this budget, I don't like this budget. There are many things in this budget I don't agree with, and I'm not happy to put my name on.
 worked and asked a lot of questions and met with staff many times and you guys have answered them right we've had a lot of conversation back and forth about this budget and I think if if I hadn't done that and then I showed up today and said well I'm not gonna approve this budget because I want to see it differently that would be disrespectful for you as staff it would be irresponsible in my role as a City Council member to show up in the 100th hour
 At the very last minute and say well, I'm not going to approve this budget because of X Y & Z No, I have asked every question I could ask I have made all the suggestions I can wait I've lost some of them I've won some of them but I put the work in and that's what my constituent constituents vote for me to do And so I am gonna I'm not going to support the amendment I am gonna support the budget today and I would just ask my council members to remember that staff and council have put a lot of work into this and
 And to show up at the very last minute to say, no, we don't approve of this is just disrespectful to this community and to everyone here today. So thank you. Thank you, Representative Nello. And I think, as you said, we are a penny below. But if we had taken the four and a half pennies and not cut the four and a half pennies, we'd have to go to the voters to ratify the budget because we'd been over the allowed budget, correct? Correct.
 We would have been. I know we've had this discussion. The current tax rate is above the voter approval rate. The current tax rate. The tax rate that's been introduced, that council introduced on August 1st. No, that's what I'm saying. The current tax rate is a penny below. If we'd not cut it four and a half, we'd have been three and a half over, and then we'd have to go to the taxpayers. So we had to cut it based on the evaluation of the properties. The current tax rate is 90.7. Yes, sir. The voter approval is 87.2. Yes, sir. Yes. Thank you, Representative Olinar. The voter approval.
 Thank You mayor Miss Neiman correct me if I'm wrong here, but please We as a City Council need to pass a budget for operations Everything else for the city of El Paso honor before August 31st of this year Okay, what would happen if This budget did not pass today
 So at the next council meeting we would Staff would come back with a new recommendation or we would have to pass a resolution to continue the operations of the organization So we would have one more try which would be seven days from now August 30th, I
 Okay, all right. And Mr. Gonzalez, thank you very much for everything you do for us. I've told you this publicly, and I continue to tell you publicly, you know, our budget is very important to everybody. The workforce, they need to feed families, they need to pay groceries, buy gas, everything else. And so when you say that you're gonna, we talk about the budget year long, we do.
 And just like Representative Nello said, if she asks questions, sometimes she gets the good answer, sometimes maybe not the right answer she wants. But, I mean, we're having a conversation, right? You're listening. Yes, we are. You're providing some feedback. You're answering our questions. And that's what we expect. That's what we need here to make hard decisions.
 I do believe that our city, our citizens, our community need a fully functioning city that is cognizant of what they need to keep them safe, that when they call 911 at 2 o'clock in the morning that there's a response time that's good, that is quality, that the officers that they're getting is top-notch, they're trained, they're willing to go for that fight. Our firefighters...
 Everybody that's going to be on that line fighting that fire are call takers If you never listen to some of those 9-1-1 tapes You really need to do it and how they stressful they are and how they can impact on their on their personal well-being And besides all that let's flip that coin just a little bit and say hey, you know, I want to take my kids I want to take my grandkids to the zoo. I want to take my kids to a museum and
 I want to take my family out to a city park. I want to make sure that those people are getting their money's worth, their taxpayer money. We have a lot of people, and yes, I know we've done great things for our senior citizens and disabled citizens and things like that. We have a significant veterans population, and so yes, we're doing good things for them. But there's also others that do not qualify. They're not veterans. They live paycheck to paycheck.
 and we cannot forget about those people as well. So I just want to make sure everybody understands here and this dies and whoever's listening in the public is that we are trying and we are listening. I know I have my community meetings and I get ripped many times. Mr. Gonzalez, you've been there before. We just had the gentleman, Mr. Alvarado from code enforcement. I think his hair turned a little gray that day, but either way.
 Just want to make sure that what we're doing is the right thing the best thing possible for our community I would ask our council to think twice make sure that we're doing the right thing I would hate for us to send a wrong message to our community. So thank you Yes mayor their motion was made by representative son Cito seconded by representative Rodriguez I
 And this is to amend the budget resolution to it by adopting the no new revenue tax rate. On that motion call for the vote. Representative Hernandez. My apologies it doesn't show. This is the amendment? This is the amendment. Okay. My response is no. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. And the voting session and the motion fails 6-2. Representatives Salcido Rodriguez voting aye, the remainder of council voting nay. The motion does fail. Now we have a motion for the budget. Yes, the motion was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera, and this is to approve the budget resolution as proposed. On that motion, call for the vote.
 And the motion passes 6-2. Representatives Shortspine, Anelo, Hernandez, Molinar, Rivera, Lizarraga voting aye. Representatives Salcido, Rodriguez voting nay. The motion does pass. Thank you, Mr. Cortines. We have two more items. Oh, we know that. Thank you.
 That brings us to item number six and this is discussion in action to ratify the property tax increase reflected in the annual budget for FY 2022 2023 for the city of El Paso motion to approve there's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Lizarra to approve item number six on that motion call for the vote. I
 The voting session and the motion passes 6 to 2 representatives shorts fine. I know it's not this morning I River and he's out of a voting I representatives South Cito Rodriguez voting a the motion passes That brings us to item number 7 and this is discussion in action on an ordinance living FY 2022 2023 taxes we have a motion by mayor portent that needs to be read into the record. I
 All right, this is the language required in the motion setting this year's tax rate This year's proposed tax rate it sees the no new revenue tax rate the vote on the ordinance Resolution order of the setting the tax rate must be a record vote and 60% of the governing body Most vote in favor of the adoption of the tax rate a motion adopt the ordinance resolution order must be made in the following form And I will now make that motion. I move that the property tax rate be increased by the adoption of a tax rate of a
 0.86 to 398 which is effectively a four point seven eight percent increase in the tax rate second second The motion was made and read into the record by mayor pro tem Schwartzbein seconded by representative Rivera to approve to adopt the ordinance living the taxes on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 The motion passes 6-2. Representative Shortzbein, Anelo Hernandez, Molinar, Rivera, Lizárraga voting aye. Representative Salcido-Rodríguez voting nay. The motion passes. Move to retire an executive. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551 Subchapter D to discuss Executive Session Item 1, Consultation with Lawyer Regarding City Manager and City Attorney Employment Agreements, Matter Number 22-1043-831 under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney. It is 2.36 p.m. Session.
 We have a motion and a second to come out of executive session Yes, there's a motion and a second to come out of executive session all in favor Anyone opposed and the City Council meeting is back in session at 3 31 p.m. Mayor Pro Tem We're on ax1. You don't have this in paper Motion is made seconded and carried
 That the mayor is authorized to execute the first amendment to the city attorney employment agreement dated for the employment of Carla M. Neiman as the city attorney of the city dated effective December 11, 2018 to include the following terms that the employment agreement one that the employment agreement be extended until December 10th, 2029 and two.
 that the attorney shall be eligible for an annual merit increase equal to three percent of the attorney's annual base salary instead of two percent if the attorney receives a rating equal to or above a meets standard rating subject to the limitations described in paragraph four below
 And three, that in the event that the city provide any other new type of benefit applied across the board to its other administrative non-collective bargaining employees of the city, the city attorney shall be also eligible to receive such benefit in the same manner subject to the limitations described in paragraph four below. And four, that the city shall annually know later than January 31st of each year of the employment agreement.
 conduct a market-based review of the base salary of the city attorneys in the eight comparison cities, and in the event that after adding a merit increase, if any, is earned, the attorney's base salary is lower than the average base salary of the city attorney. In the eight comparison cities, the attorney's base salary shall be increased to the average of the city attorneys of the comparison cities. Further, if after adding a merit increase...
 If any is earned or any other salary increased to the attorney's base salary, the average base salary of the city attorney in the comparison city is about $350,000. The attorney shall receive an increase of up to the $350,000 unless the average base salary to the three highest salaries of the city attorney in the comparison cities.
 is greater than the $350,000, in which case the attorney's base salary would be increased to the lesser of, 1. the base salary with a merit increase or other increases, or 2. the base salary of the average of the three high city attorney base salaries of the current cities. If the attorney's base salary is eligible for adjustment based upon the market-based review, such adjustment will take effect at the start of the pay period following the market-based review or at the start of the fiscal year immediately following the market-based review, whichever occurs first, and 5. that the city will reimburse the attorney for the cost.
 of a $1 million term life insurance policy instead of current provisions reimbursing an attorney for life and or disability of insurance up to $3,000 as provided in the current agreement. Any such reimbursement will be subject to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. And six, that the city attorney at 20 hours of vacation and 20 hours of sick leave to the city attorney's leave banks each fiscal year beginning 2023 provide that the city attorney receives a rating at or above meet standards.
 Parties acknowledge that the 20 hours of vacation and 20 hours of sick leave is a set static amount, which a city attorney will be eligible if she receives the specified rating. And seven, that the city attorney's auto allowance increased from $196.15 to $300 per pay period. And eight, in the event that the severance provision of the employment agreement are triggered, the parties agree to enter in a mutually acceptable separation agreement that includes a full raise by each party of the other party.
 and other standard provisions. And nine, if the city terminates the employment agreement with cause, the parties agree that such termination is subject to review by an arbitrator using the American Arbitration Association service and that the arbitration request shall be made within 45 days of separation of employment and final decision within 90 days thereafter. The parties agree that the arbitration shall be the exclusive means of seeking a review of termination for cause or breach of the employment agreement agreement that the attorney will not be continuing her employment during the above arbitration time periods.
 10, the city shall amend the provision in the city's 457B deferred compensation plan to permit the city to make contributions of the 457B plan for the benefit of the attorney. The city shall make an annual lump sum contribution in the maximum amount allowable by law to the 457B plan beginning upon the immediate next pay period following the amendment of the city's 457B plan and that thereafter in January of each successive year that this agreement is in effect.
 11. If any provision of the Charter are amended to substantially change the form of government included but not limited to, moving away from the Councilman or form of government, or any other Charter amendments, and materially changes the role, powers, duties, authorities, responsibilities of the attorney's position, the attorney shall have the right to declare that such amendments constitute a termination without cause. Pass and approve this 23rd day of August 2022. Second. Second. Second.
 Motion in a second. Yes, there's a motion made by mayor pro Tim Schwarzwein and read into the record seconded by representative And on this this is an executive session item one regarding the city attorney Employment agreement on that motion call for the vote in the voting session the motion passes with six affirmative votes representatives short swine and on this Rodriguez Rivera Lizardo voting aye representatives an LL only not voting nay the motion does pass and
 Mayor Pro Tem. Sorry. Motions made, seconded, and carried that the Mayor is authorized to execute the second amendment to the amended and restated employment agreement between the City of El Paso and Tomas Gonzalez as amended in the first amendment to include the following terms. One, the City Manager's base salary should not increase above $450,000 unless the average base salary of the three highest comparison cities under the employment agreement is above $450,000, known as a salary cap.
 In which case the managers base salary would be increased to the lesser of one the base salary with the merit or other increases under the employment agreement. Or two the base salary of the average of the three highest comparison cities. If the city manager's base salary shall be is adjusted above $450,000 as a result of this analysis. The new adjusted base salary should be the new salary cap for future analysis and two that the city shall allocate any excess above the salary gap.
 for which the city manager is not eligible to the city's street department for use in street improvements and three that when the city manager's service is activated under the employment agreement city shall base the city manager's base salary for such evidence on the amount the city manager would have received for the year in which this severance
 4. That the city will pay the city manager's service time pay increases in accordance with the applicable city payroll policy beginning at the anniversary of his employment with the city in 2024. Which service time shall be paid annually each year thereafter as a lump sum shall not alter the city manager's base salary. And 5. That the city will seek to amend the city's pension plan to pay the employee's portion of the contribution under the city's pension plan up to the maximum extent allowed by law in accordance with the city's pension plan.
 With the terms of the city's pension plan, the employment contribution paid by the city shall begin upon the next pay period following the execution by the city and the city manager of the Second Amendment provided. However, the city will reimburse the city manager or on an annual basis for any employee contributions to the pension plan that the city manager has made following execution of the Second Amendment until the city has amended the pension plan as provided herein and commences making the employee's contribution to the pension plan in six.
 that the city will amend the provisions of the city's 457 deferred compensation plan to permit the city to make the contribution to the 457b plan for the benefit of the manager the city will make the contribution under 457 deferred compensation plan up to the maximum amount allowable under 457b beginning in 2022 and thereafter in january of each successive year unless the city is enabled to do so and in such case then the city shall pay such amounts directly to the city manager and that seven that the city will pay the premium
 for the health, hospitalization, vision, dental, and comprehensive medical insurance for the city manager and his family, collectively health insurance. And eight, that the city will reimburse the city manager for all applicable taxes, if any, attributable to the city's payment of the life insurance premium provided for in paragraph 3.5 of the employment agreement. And nine, that the city will pay the cost of the core components of the executive health exam for the city manager at the Cooper Clinic.
 for preventative medicine in Dallas, Texas, on an annual basis to contribute to the city manager's health savings account under the city's 125 cafeteria plan.
 on an after-tax basis for expenses incurred for any medically indicated follow-up treatment, procedures or prescriptions, etc., that are not covered by the City's health insurance in an amount up to $5,500 annually, three paid travel accommodation expenses for the annual exam in Dallas, and any follow-up travel accommodations cost in an amount not to exceed $5,000 annually, and four
 up to three days of leave used by the city manager handling for the exam shall be considered official leave and not counted against the city manager's sick leave bank 10. That the city will reimburse all reasonable and necessary legal costs and expenses incurred by the city manager in connection with discussions, advice, document, preparation, and other legal services applied by the city manager's attorney to the city manager, laying to the First and Second Amendment to the city manager's employment agreement any such reimbursement
 will be structured to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and 11. In the event that the severance provisions of the employment agreement are triggered, the parties agree to enter into a mutually acceptable separation agreement that includes a full release for each party of the other party and other standard provisions, and 12. Any reimbursement to the city manager will be structured to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, passed and approved this August 23, 2022.
 There's a motion second by Representative Lizardga. Yes, sir, the motion was made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine and read into the record, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Lizardga, and this is regarding the City Manager's Employment Agreement on that motion. Mine's not coming up. Okay, let me. Well, I have to say, I was very impressed as she signed everything there, our sign interpreter. Our sign interpreter signed it, the employment agreement. In the voting session?
 And the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine and Representative Hernandez-Salcido-Rodriguez-Ripera-Lizarga vote aye. Representatives Anello, Molinar vote nay. The motion does pass. And I want to thank Council. I know you worked really hard. I don't support the item, but I do thank you all for the hard work that you did in moving forward. And with that, do we have a motion to adjourn the meeting? Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye.
 Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, August 23, 2022 is adjourned at 3.49 p.m. Thank you.