Council for Tuesday, August 31st, 2021. It is 9 o'clock AM. Due to the pandemic, the Texas governor has temporarily suspended specified provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act to allow video conference or telephonic meetings in order to avoid congregate settings. Mayor Lee Sir is present and presiding and we begin this meeting with roll call. Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine? Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine? Representative Anello? Present. Hernandez? Here. Molinar? Present.
 Salcido? Rodriguez? Rivera? Lizárraga? Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein? Good morning, President. Thank you. We now move to the invocation delivered this morning by Chaplain Robert Hemphill. Good morning, Chaplain. Good morning. Good morning, Chaplain. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Councilmembers and all department heads. We'd like to take this time to bow our heads so we can have a moment of prayer.
 Gracious God, we thank you for this opportunity to conduct the business for the city of El Paso. And we thank you for each and every representative who is present today. Heavenly Father, in our hearts, we plan our course, but we pray that you establish our steps. And I pray that we seek you for advice.
 Let us not make decisions based on what we know, but let us act based upon your wisdom. Please guide us, Lord. We place this meeting in your hands. We place our hearts and our minds in your hands so that you may direct us. This we ask in your precious name. Amen.
 Thank you. And now to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance are students from Mr. Hugo Hernandez's class at J.M. Whitaker Elementary School. This is at the invitation of Representative Joe Molinar. This morning we have Jorge Chavez, Isabella Maestas, Abby Ramirez, Yaretzi Robles, Andrea Vasquez. To the Flatter States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands.
 Thank you very much. That was really, really great. We really appreciate you all taking your time to come see us today on such an important day for us and I know for you. So thank you and may God bless every one of you. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Hunger Action Month. Thank you.
 Whereas Hunger Action Month was established by Feeding America in 2008 in order to bring the nationwide issues of hunger and food insecurity to light, struggling with hunger threatens the physical and cognitive health of everyone from children to seniors and everyone in between. And whereas poor nutrition limits the ability for children to succeed in school and negatively impacts their growth and development in adults.
 Poor nutrition increased the risk of health-related illnesses such as heart disease, diabetes, osteoporosis, and others. Also negatively affecting their cognitive health, leading to more common occurrences of depression and lower cognitive health.
 And whereas this year more than 42 million people, including 13 children, are food insecure in the United States. Adding to these existing hardships, now millions of people across the nation are experiencing food insecurity for the first time as a result of job loss and illness due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 And whereas the El Paso community has seen the number of individuals and families struggling with food insecurity increase dramatically due to the negative economic efforts of the pandemic.
 Poverty, underemployment, and lack of health insurance coverage only serve to exaggerate these challenges and, whereas this year, El Paso and Fighting Hunger Food Bank has already distributed over 80 million pounds of food to those in need across the borderline and continues to respond to the pandemic crisis while also working with community partners towards the collective goal to improve food access, promote healthy living, and end hunger.
 And now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of September shall be known as Hunger Action Month. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. And the next proclamation is Israel Rodriguez-Vertorelli and Julia Chavez Recognition Day.
 Thank you, Ms. Prime. So, whereas it has been brought to the attention of the City of El Paso that Israel Rodriguez-Ubertorelli and Julia Chavez, native El Pasoans, have exhibited outstanding abilities in acting which have earned their movie and author of film, Exhibitions at Prestigious.
 began his performing career in El Paso, when he was five years old, and is extremely grateful to the multiple educators, artists who have helped him develop his craft. And whereas Israel is an amazing older brother to two younger sisters and a little brother, and in his spare time enjoys playing piano, guitar, sculpting clay figures, and creating animated series with his friends. And he hopes to inspire other kids with his work and be a positive agent for change in the world.
 And whereas Julia Chavez is a born and raised El Pasoan and single mother of three, and her first experience with acting was on the set of El Otro Tom, and her main occupation is working in central El Paso as a licensed massage therapist.
 And whereas Julia enjoys practicing bhakti yoga, martial arts, raising her children, and she looks forward to future acting opportunities and feels fortunate for having such success in her first movie project. And whereas Israel's and Julia's first film stop is at the Venice Film Festival, and they are looking to represent the great city of El Paso through their talent and will be representing the best of us.
 whereas Israel and Julia exemplify the standards of hard work and dedication that El Pasoans exhibit on a daily basis. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and City Council of the City of El Paso that August 31st 2020 shall be known as Israel Rodriguez Bertorelli and Julia Chavez recognition day. So congratulations to you both and we're all wishing you the best of luck. Thank you Representative Nilla.
 Thank you. Council, please remember to keep your cameras on at all times so we can ensure a quorum is maintained. If you need technical assistance, please notify me. If you would like to speak, please notify the mayor. Per Robert's rules, once you obtain the floor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. Staff, please turn on your cameras when presenting or speaking. Everyone else, please mute your cameras.
 Microphones to reduce any background noise that brings us to the consent agenda All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless Separate discussion is requested by council members prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda When the vote has been taken if an item has not been called out for separate discussion The item has been approved council may however reconsider any item at any time during the meeting we're protein
 You're on mute. Oh, I was unmuted. I got muted and now I'm unmuted again. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Good morning council So we have the proposed revisions Uh for the august 31st 2021 city council meeting as of 8 30 a.m This day page 6 item 14 Delete per capital improvement and purchasing and strategic sourcing page 19 item 41 delete per city manager's office
 And those are the revisions that I have at this time. Are there any other revisions, council? Okay. Second. Mayor, we do have one member of the public that signed up to speak on item number six of the consent agenda. If we could do that now, please. Thank you. Ms. Sylvia Carrion. Ms. Carrion, you'll press star six. You can unmute your telephone. Good morning, Ms. Carrion. You have three minutes. Yes, I understand. I'm no longer muted. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you.
 My name is Julia Carriona. I am executive director of the Longhorn Youth Program, which is a 501c3 organization here in El Paso. Our mission statement is as follows. To improve the quality of life in individuals through physical and civic activities and work with the community to improve their neighborhoods. Let each individual value the true meaning of boardmanship, honesty, respect for one another, and develop good character.
 with the purpose of striving for excellence in education work with community leaders to encourage pride and awareness of their needs in their community their neighborhood association physical and civic activity teaches live lessons that will help individuals succeed in life and learn to care for their own communities i submitted uh
 the name of david ransom to rename the gymnasium at the center at the syria academy this young man started playing basketball with the longhorn youth program when he was in elementary school and became such a great player he was named the city's mvp in 1986 87 seasons
 while at Bel Air. His family were my neighbors and every evening after David got home from basketball practice he would go home, eat dinner and go outside his basketball practice seeing his skills. This was every night and weekend. David always had an honest love for the game and played basketball during his entire life with his work, friends and others.
 Officer, who you could tell taught David discipline with his family, the most important, his respect for others, and on and off the basketball court. Because David became police officer in the city of El Paso where he served the citizens of El Paso. His biography was... Ms. Carrion, you're on mute, ma'am. Ms. Carrion, you're on mute, ma'am. Star six, please. Come here, I wouldn't...
 I'm going to finish by reading the last paragraph of a letter that was on a support from a lieutenant from Assistant Chief Basias.
 As follows, Lieutenant David Ransom's character, leadership, discipline, initiative, and presence of mind embody the finest traditions of the El Paso Police Department. Therefore, it is a privilege to me to recommend that the gymnasium be named after Lieutenant Ransom, especially in the neighborhood that David grew up in and developed his work ethics, character, and lessons of sacrifice at Stand Valley Basketball during his formative years.
 His example would be a positive role model to emulate for future generations who will have the opportunity to use a gymnasium named after David Ransom. He is worthy of this honor. I thank you all very much for listening to my comments, and hopefully we'll get through this. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Cario. And now we have Representative Nundis.
 Good morning. Question regarding, I just have a clarified question regarding item number, sorry I lost item 8, the rules of order. Is that going to apply for both work sessions and City Council meetings because it doesn't clarify in the Exhibit B? Yes, ma'am. It will apply to both work sessions and regular meetings. Okay, thank you. That was my only question. Thanks.
 Thank you. And with that, we do have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor, we do have a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. You're on mute, sir. Mayor Pro Tem. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Salcido. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga. Good morning. Aye. Sorry. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you. That motion passes unanimously. We now turn to page 9 to item number 18. This is discussion in action to overwrite the Mayor's veto of the resolution adopting the FY 2021-2022 budget and or the property tax rate ordinance.
 And I know that we did not submit an override or a veto of that item. So I will, before we get to item 18 and 19, I do ask council and the public to please stay respectful and, you know, make sure that you treat people the way you want to be treated because it's going to be important that we all act in proper form. With that, Mayor Pro Tem.
 I didn't know if Representative Hernandez had anything she wanted to address about item 18. I also think that we should be taking both of those items separately, so I just reserved some questions till after if Representative Hernandez has anything she wants to state. I was gonna ask if we can take 19 first and then if we have any if I have any questions we can go back to 18.
 Hold on, Mayor Pro Tem, excuse me, I'll go ahead and run the meeting. So you want to make a recommendation to move item 19 before 18 and if you still have questions we can take 18, if not we'll move forward? Sure, I mean. Okay, let's do that. I heard Mayor Pro Tem say he had a question. Are you good, Mayor Pro Tem? Okay. I just had one question, yeah, if I could ask it because the budget relates to the overall tax rate.
 So I'm just curious, I guess this is for the city manager or for our city manager or for our CFO. If there were any actions to occur during this council meeting in terms of removal of the certificates of obligation issuance, would that affect our tax rate that we approved in this budget for this year?
 No, the way it's structured right now, it does not impact it. And if you didn't pass it, it wouldn't impact it either. So regardless, if the veto were to be, if the veto were to stand, it still wouldn't lower taxes or it still wouldn't lower the tax rate for residents of our districts and our city? Correct. Correct. Okay. Thank you, sir. With that, Ms. Prine, we do have three questions.
 People from the public that signed up for 18 if we can move them to 19 and have them all together since uh, We're going to do move item 19. I'd appreciate it. Okay, so at this time council wants to table item 18 And is that correct? May we have a motion? move to table There's a motion and a second to table item number 18 all in favor Anyone opposed I'll take a roll call
 This is to table item number 18. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Nay. Salcido. Rodriguez. No. Rivera. Yes. Lizárraga.
 And the motion passes with six affirmative votes. We now move to item number 19. This is discussion in action to override the mayor's veto of the ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas combination tax and revenue certificates of obligation series 2021C. Okay, thank you. And I will lead that in the...
 Think that when y'all receive my veto and you know, some people ask me this says, you know, where did it come from? We hadn't talked about it. I've talked about it since I've been elected that we need to hold the line on taxes and I know Mr. Gonzalez and I have had many conversations I'm mr. Cortina's and they've been very cordial and and bringing a lot of information to me so
 I honestly believe that being the largest city in the state of Texas with certificate of obligations and adding additional obligation to the taxpayers that they're going to have to pay back sooner or later is going to be tough for our city and our taxpayers. I know that...
 I commend the county for not only rolling back the tax rate but also holding the line on taxes. And this is my attempt to try to make sure that we represent the taxpayers we're elected to do. And I know that there's a lot of great projects on here, and I read every one of them. And I didn't take this lightly, and I can tell you that I support every project.
 and i want to make sure that we move forward with these projects and find alternative savings and money to be able to do that as we did yesterday for 42 million dollars through bridges and that was something a very important project and a great way of coming up with 42 million dollars that didn't impact the taxpayers and item 40 which we're going to do 4.5 million to improve the ballpark
 was also money that was taken that is from savings and other areas that will not impact the taxpayer and that's how I want to move forward with a lot of these things. One of the things that I did see on there that I do have a question on is the Eastside Regional Park that's in a PID and we're issuing
 CEOs in a PID where it's a PID is an entity taxing entity in itself And they can act and it actually can do its own bonds and repay its own bonds And that's why I was set up to be able to do that. I
 Mr. Cortinas, I was looking at it and I did a lot of research on that and it shows that that's why it's set up. So it just originally was set up and every definition says that side actually works. That was set up for a couple of reasons. So one of the reasons was it's cheaper to issue CEOs as opposed to doing a revenue-backed bond. If you use revenue-backed bonds, you have to have a debt service reserve fund.
 There's some other costs that go along with that if you do revenue back bond. So it was cheaper for those individuals that are going to be paying this if we did the CO. We are utilizing the revenue being generated from both the PID and the TERS to pay their portion of the CO. Another reason why is obviously that was a brand new
 piece of land. There was no properties built on that land. And so when it was presented and approved by the City Council, it was very clear that it was going to take a few years in order for that revenue to begin being generated for both the PID and the TERS to cover that portion of the debt payment. In this coming fiscal year, we are finally at the point where the revenue generated from those that have already paid the PID and are now contributing into the TERS with the incremental value
 It will fully fund that debt service payment and begin to refund the amount that has been subsidized by the debt service fund. So, I mean, it was very clear whenever that was presented, it was obviously going to take time for those homes to be built in that area. And so, again, a couple of reasons why it was done that way was, one, the CO was a cheaper alternative, and then, two, allowing time for those properties to be built in order to fully fund the payment required.
 that profit over that project but the pit could actually get actually borrow the money and do they the certificates or however they get a loan and pay it back within the generated funds within the pit that would not affect the rest of the taxpayers based on the definition of a pit yes but you would have had to maintain a reserve fund yes sir part of that revenue back bonds and at the time there was no funds available to fund that reserve fund it would have been a much more expensive option
 Yes, sir. Mayor, just to clarify, you mentioned the Eastside Regional Park. It's actually the Eastside Sports Complex. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Because there's the Eastside Regional Park Phase 2 as part of the project list. Yes, sir. Thank you. And we've already issued on that project about $11 million. There's only about $3 million left in this remaining issuance. There's public comment. I'm ready to listen to public comment if folks want to listen as well. Mr. Kline, how many we have signed up for it?
 13 people signed up to speak on this item here. Let's take the public comment now, please. Yes, sir. We'll begin with Ms. Cynthia Renteria. She will be followed by Scott Lynch, Brian Kennedy, Juan Benitez. Ms. Cynthia Renteria, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Good morning. I am part of the 30-something age range generation of El Pasoans and younger generations that will inherit not just this certificate of obligation, but all the previous ones as well. I also live and grew up in a neighborhood south of I-10, and I have seen not just over years but over decades
 the disinvestment and neglect of Central and South Central communities. The CO and the veto and this process that you're entertaining today will remove funding in these and other neighborhoods, in the Chelsea area, in the Chamisal neighborhood, and in the neighborhood around Modesto Park. Modesto Park has been in disrepair since my mother, who is now 75, was in elementary school at Burleson Elementary.
 That park was built on top of a city dump and it wasn't compacted like other former city dumps on the east side that have been compacted and cleared out for new development. This park was just built on top. It has been sinking for years. There is an odor that emanates and money for this project is in the CO, in the certificate of obligation.
 This is an incredibly unjust process that money for neighborhoods, for our original neighborhoods are being negotiated in certificates of obligation.
 that is a take it or leave it scenario. When we need the investments in these neighborhoods and we don't need to burden our future generations with $96 million in debt, and there is another option. You have 152 million still in reserve for a sports arena that nobody wants. That's more enough to reallocate and fund the project and the COs, but you are choosing not to do that.
 We have spent the last month talking about unity and being El Paso strong, but this very flawed process hits the needs of low-income neighbors
 primarily neighborhoods primarily living south of the freeway and in the central area who pay their fair share of taxes it pits them against those who are against increasing debt and i will tell you that those of us living in these neighborhoods that need this investment are also against increasing debt so i'm very disappointed that it is these neighborhoods and these projects that you choose to negotiate and politicize
 Over an issue of certificates of obligations and tax rates when you continuously neglect these neighborhoods I'm calling to express my utter disappointment in this process and that these are the only thank you miss Renteria Thank you, ma'am you you've reached the three minutes. Thank you ma'am The next speaker is mr. Scott Lynch. He will be followed by mr. Brian Kennedy. Good morning. Mr. Lynch. You have three minutes. I
 star six please to unmute your telephone city council and director of the el paso apartment association
 who's calling to express the um i guess views of our members so we do support the projects uh that are being proposed we just oppose the method that is being funded so we're opposed to non-voter approved debt i do understand your intentions that it is a cost-saving measure as opposed to to regular bonds but uh as the mayor already stated el paso tops the list in texas with the highest amounts of certificates of obligation and our primary objection is just
 If we're going to go into further debt, we think that should be a decision left to the voters and not something issued by a certificate of obligation. So that is our main objection is the method. We understand your intentions, but we're not supporting not taking this to the public and to the vote. That is the end of my comments. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Mr. Brian Kennedy. He will be followed by Juan Benitez. Good morning, Mr. Kennedy.
 Oh, thank you. Yeah, I had a couple of questions. First of all, I am an attorney here in El Paso speaking as a private citizen. And my question is a couple of things to the legality of the items. Items are supposed to be placed by noon on Wednesday, and neither a veto for the budget nor the COs had taken place. In fact, there never was a veto for a budget, so I don't know how you can even discuss.
 Overturning a veto that never happened on item 18 and an item 19 What is the legality of asking for an action on something that hadn't even happened yet trying to turn it over? I would also say there's supposed to be Significant backup and adequate backup including agenda summaries, which is not attached to it nor is the veto attached to it, which it couldn't be because it hadn't happened yet and
 and that's that is a concern uh the other thing is i think the item may be even written incorrectly because to overturn the veto is not the action the action is to re-approve the item which if it's re-approved by three quarters then it is an override of the veto there's not a motion made to override the veto there's a motion made to approve the item so i wonder about the legality of it and i think you ought to put it on hold so you can figure out if you're allowed to put items on the agenda before the action even happened as far
 As far as the item itself, I think that every one of those projects is valuable. I think that the funding doesn't make sense, and I say that as an actual and authentic El Pasoan, by the way. My concern is that people may be trying to buy their way into future elections. There may be a potential mayoral candidate there and a potential commissioner candidate, and they're just going to keep spending. My issue is, let's have some impulse control right here.
 I know that there's a rush going on to beat it because the House regulation that goes into effect at midnight tonight that severely curtails certificates of obligation is about to hit. But rather than do this, when you see something nice and shiny, you don't get to just take it from the store. I mean, at that point, you need to find out how you're going to pay for it, and we can't keep putting money on the credit card and hoping someday we can pay the debt.
 That's an incorrect methodology to work. I think the projects are great. I think that the city manager and the CFO could absolutely find the savings to make it work. And I thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Juan Benitez. He will be followed by Mr. Joe Guttenrath. Mr. Juan Benitez? Yes, hi. Good morning. Excuse me? Good morning.
 Yes, hi. I'm calling about we have a Chelsea Park that's been deferred for 10 years. Nothing has been done to the park. We were supposed to get funding last year, but of course COVID happened. And so my question is, if...
 If these projects get delayed, we are still paying taxes for like every other person. Why can't we get the services that we were fighting for? It just seems unfair for,
 maybe the mayor to veto something that is desperately needed. We have a lot of deferred projects, a lot of even still now in Central, we have a Boy Scout program,
 where it was deferred for who knows how many years. A lot of weeds growing in there. It just doesn't make sense for all these projects that the city owns that don't get funded. It seems counterproductive. Thank you and have a good day. Thank you, the next speaker is Mr. Joe Guttenrath. He will be followed by Mr. Kenneth Bell. Good morning, Mr. Guttenrath.
 good morning good morning mayor city council city manager and staff my name is joe gutenrath and i'm the executive director of the el paso downtown management district because of our long-standing support of the mexican-american cultural center i'm here to request this veto be overridden
 In spring of last year, upon the onset of the pandemic, if you recall, I came before you supportive of pausing implementation of downtown projects due to the unknown path ahead of us. While there's still some uncertainty in our future, our recovery is well underway, thanks to a lot of your efforts. Now it is time to deliver on the Mexican American Cultural Center, if not it being way overdue.
 You are well aware that the Mexican American Cultural Center is not just a project. It's part of our long-standing vision and plan for the revitalization of our downtown. It's part of a plan that is working.
 That plan is attracting private investment and increasing the value of our downtown to the benefit of taxpayers across the city and county. In fact, the certified value of the DMD has increased almost 30% since 2014 when the ballpark opened, and has even increased by 7% from last year during one of the most challenging economic years in our city and country's history.
 Now is the time to regain our momentum and move forward with this important project, and we request that funding be reinstated for this project. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Kenneth Bell. Mr. Kenneth Bell, star 6, please. Good morning.
 Hi, my name is Kenneth Bell. I'm a resident of District 3, and I'm calling to express my opposition to the $96 million in additional certificates of obligations, and I want to thank Mayor Liza for vetoing the COs, and I hope that City Council will uphold this veto. We're being told that projects like our streetlights and our roads will not be...
 repaired or maintained without these certificates of obligation the real problem is that these projects are not prioritized by city council that's why they're not being fully funded in the budget you know one of the projects that the mexican american cultural center is supposedly funded by the 2012 quality of life bond that people voted for almost 10 years ago the problem is that that money is being held hostage for a sports arena that's
 that nobody voted for that was that we were all deceived about that you want to fund the mac you know stop this arena project that's hemorrhaging money and then the mexican-american culture center be fully funded as far as street lights and roads you know that's part of public safety so the problem is that
 Our public safety budget is over bloated. They're taking so much of our general fund. We need to reallocate some of those resources for street life, for the streets, and that's how we're going to fund those projects. The issue is not that we need certificates of obligation. The issue is that...
 you know people our city council representatives are not prioritizing what's important and instead they're doing pet projects for their developing friends and i know some of y'all don't really care about what i have to say but for those of you who are up for re-election next year or running for mayor or running for a county commissioner um your voters are going to be re-watching this right now so i'm sure you all believe in self-preservation so you know what support the veto and then your political careers will will carry on remarks
 Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Mr. Rick Bonart. Mr. Rick Bonart, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor and Council. First, I want to say I really appreciate Mayor Leeser vetoing this item, and I support your position, Mayor. It's reasonable and it's correct.
 As the last speaker said, in 2012, the voters approved a quality of life number of bonds, in other words, debt. And it wasn't with a blind eye that they chose this. They understood there was a list of projects and a price tag that went along with it.
 they did not say oh if necessary go ahead and sell more bonds to incur more debt they expected those projects to be delivered on time and on budget
 Just like us, we cannot overspend. And I want to steal something from someone else. They said a long time ago, when you find yourself in a hole, the first thing you do is stop digging. And that's what you need to do now. We need to bring these projects in.
 at the price that was advertised. And I want to thank again the mayor for being brave enough to step up and do this, and I think it's the right thing to do. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Sharon Bonert. Good morning, ma'am. Good morning. And I want to also thank our mayor for keeping the line on our budgets. The line of
 of money for our city weighs on each household. There are families, many of us, who have to make that decision as to whether we pay for our housing, or we buy food, or we get our medication.
 We have to make those decisions for our essentials of everyday life, just as the city has to make the decisions for the city's essentials for everyday living. And our mayor has said that there's ways of finding money for our essentials, and I agree with him and I support his move. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Gregory Bing.
 or Mr. Michael Perez, Russell Hansen, Thomas Handy, Ana Reza, M.J. Tagney. If any of these callers are in the queue, star six, Mr. Gregory Bain, Mr. Michael Perez, Mr. Russell Hansen, Mr. Thomas Handy, Ms. Ana Reza, Ms. M.J. Tagney, Mr. Kirino Villa, Mr. Max Grossman. Once again, Mr. Kirino Villa, Mr. Max Grossman.
 Mr. Gregory Bain, Mr. Michael Perez, Mr. Russell Hansen, Mr. Thomas Handy, Miss Anna Ressa, Miss MJ Tangney, if any of you are in the queue, star six, please. Mayor, I don't see anyone else coming forward. If we can close public comment. Thank you. Yes, sir. That'll conclude public comment on this item. And I'll go back to Representative Hernandez.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you to all the speakers for speaking today. You know, really controversial issues. I do have several questions for staff. And I also want to thank Mr. Cortina's who I spoke to yesterday and I know he's on vacation. And I'm sorry that you have to come back to council on this issue that's already been decided one time before.
 But I have a question related to the actual certificate obligation so there's this concern that the CEOs are increasing our taxes and we were talking about some of the the
 statistics over the past five years about what the actual impact has been to your debt service rate as it relates to certificates of obligation and how we're seeing that projection over the next five years compared to last five years. Can you talk a little bit about what impact there is on these CEOs? Sure. So whenever the council adopted the property tax rate back on last week,
 We really highlighted where we stand as far as the debt service component part of the property tax rate. I showed you all that back in 2020 where we stood was at $0.286 or I'm sorry at $0.297 and how it now we're at $0.286. And so really looking at again take advantage of the refinancing and the low interest rate cost to bring those cost of the projects down. Even if you go back to fiscal year 2017 and you look at the property tax rate and look at the debt service component back then,
 The debt service rate in FY 2017 was at 28 cents. And again, with the budget that was adopted and the property tax rate that was just adopted, we're at 28.6. So we're looking at just barely over half of a penny of an increase on the property tax rate related to the debt service component. And so again, that's a result of multiple things. So it's again, only issuing these bonds as we need them to construct these projects. So I've worked very closely again with the engineering department.
 I know there's been some questions about why do we see projects on the list back in April and see them again on the list That was approved recently and that's again because these projects enter different phases And so we don't enter the total amount needed for a project because these projects take Certainly some time all these projects won't be completed necessarily within You know three six some even a 12 month time period and so working very closely again to only issue the bonds that we need Taking advantage of the low interest rate, which I talked about in
 back in april with the bonds that we refunded not only that savings but then also getting that 2.5 interest rate compared to a four percent interest rate saving about 30 million dollars over life with bonds on the cost of what these projects would be so there's a lot that that goes into executing the projects that have been approved previously by the city council work a city manager and myself work very closely together to make sure we're being very strategic looking ahead of the future something we've talked a lot about
 Again, in order to minimize the impact on the taxpayers, but at the same time, get the projects that have been approved by the council completed in the most cost efficient manner possible. So Robert, let's let's try to translate that to, you know, to the folks who are who don't necessarily follow debt service rates and tax rates. So over the past essentially since 2015, there has been prior to that. So when I worked for city council, there has been multiple issuance of certificate obligations.
 a tool that the state law allows governments to use for infrastructure and for parks and facilities. So there's this concern that there's too much debt, and as a consequence, the tax rate is going up because of the debt. So what you've described, that there's been less than half a penny over all of the debt that we've issued that has increased since 2015. Is that correct? Since 2017. Okay.
 Since 2017. The last five years. Okay, since 2017, excuse me. But in 2015, the debt service was at 28 cents or was that 2017? In fiscal year 2017. Okay, yeah, I wrote that wrong, I'm sorry. Okay, so, okay, that makes me feel a lot more comfortable because when we speak to our constituents, I think it's really critical for us as council members.
 that we convey to them that the projects that we're issuing are not only critical for our infrastructure, but they are not increasing their tax rate. Where are the drivers on the tax rate? Is that on the side of the operations and maintenance? So for example police and fire is that where the drivers are coming from? It is. So if you look at that same time period and go back to 2017 the operations and maintenance component of the tax rate which is the general fund portion was at 52 cents.
 And so with the budget that was just adopted, we're at 62 cents. So when we talk about the cost drivers and looking at those future costs and the slides that we've shown several times over the last six months plus now, of looking at what those future costs are going to be, I read an article or saw something in the media the other day about the quite a blithe bond projects and that the future cost and that one of the things that we're not addressing is the operating costs.
 And that's absolutely not true. That's one of the reasons why the budget has gone up over the last several years is because we are building in the operating costs associated with these projects when they're completed. So whether it's adding on more parks, more acreage, more water involved, open up new facilities. So for example, the new recreation, the senior center combos that we just opened, three of those, the aquatic facilities, all of the various things that have been completed from that quarter of life bond projects that were approved in 2012.
 there's operating costs associated with those projects. And so we talked a lot about what those projects are, what the costs are. There's still some projects that are yet to be completed, and so that will be a future cost driver. But the biggest one is on public safety. So we talked a lot about this, both police and fire, with not only the collective bargaining agreements that we have and the pay raises that are associated with those two unions that we have, both police and fire, but also I continue to build up the police staffing and our fire staffing
 and so we've shown that slide again over the last five years of where we were on the police force and how we had seen a significant decrease in that over a couple about 15 20 years we are just now back to where we were over 20 years ago as far as our police staffing level so that's been a concerted effort by the city council is to uh we brought forth the recommendation the city manager did back in summer of 2015 to begin that 10-year plan to add a net increase of 300 officers
 And so we're about halfway through that plan. We've added about 150 net increase of new officers to the police force, which are going to be necessary and are going to be required as we begin to open up some of the new facilities as part of the public safety bond projects. And so having these new command centers and new fire stations obviously requires staffing to go along with them. And so the city and the city council, what you all have approved, again, particularly with the budget for this coming year, really being driven by the investment in public safety.
 Also some of the other cost drivers that we've talked about some of the things this council has approved is building in those set-aside funds Something that you were having a discussion about CEOs today and something that you know going back several years ago now Almost four years where this city council took action on creating those set-aside funds so that we have a dedicated revenue source to begin To fund street projects for example, and so again it sounds silly, but the city prior to you know, five years ago never had set-aside funds and
 And the annual budget to go out and do a street resurfacing project. Everything was being financed. And so this city council, again, looking at that long-term financial sustainability that we've been talking about, it's not financially sustainable to continue to fund and finance every single street project. And so whether it's the $10 million for the street projects, which is now in the budget for next year with what you all approved, up to $20 million to begin to address some of the deferred projects,
 whether it's eight million dollars for the police cars and the fire trucks against set aside funds that's in the annual budget now next year that's again going back you know prior to seven years ago that eight million dollars would have been financed a fire truck needed to be purchased police cars which in 2016 we did the 300 police cars which was something that we're dealing with now and you know we have that set aside funds now to get us on that regular replacement cycle
 But again, shifting away from that practice of financing all of those type of purchases and having those areas built in on an annual basis. This is something that the City Council again has been proactive in doing. As far as other cost drivers, our workforce. We talked a lot about our workforce. Continuing to invest not only on the compensation but looking at healthcare. And so the last two years now the City has taken on the increase in healthcare costs in order to not impact our City employees, the 6,000 plus employees that work for the City.
 And so again, the city employees make up almost three quarters of our budget. So we had this discussion at the last meeting. So those three areas are the primary drivers. The capital projects is something that it is an impact, but it's something that we've been very proactive in addressing in order to minimize the impact on the taxpayers, but at the same time getting all those previously approved projects by this council completed again in the most cost-efficient manner possible.
 So the takeaway here is the cost driver for the both parts with the exception of the set of side funds is
 is people. The people who work at the City of El Paso to staff our parks, to staff our water parks, to staff our quality of life voter approved new initiatives. So it's people that is driving the tax rate. So um but but thank you for that. So so the first the first concern is the debt that we're issuing is at very low historically low rates.
 that we're taking advantage of. And so the last certificate of obligation that this same administration approved, when did that take place? That was it April or May? The last CO that we approved. You're on mute, Robert. Sorry, April 13th of 2021, prior to the one that was just approved, August 24th, April 13th of 2021. April 13th, what was the interest rate that we took advantage then?
 We received a 2.58% interest rate on the COs. 2.58. Is that typically the interest rate that we've seen in the past, or is this lower? No, typically on average we receive about a 4% interest rate.
 Right, so just we understand if anybody's ever purchased, you know, a mortgage or a vehicle, just a half percent of an interest rate could amount to thousands of dollars for us personally. But in this case, it will amount to millions of dollars. So do we anticipate for that same interest rate to be applied for this certificate of obligation? Yes.
 Yes, we do. Right now the market is again very favorable. We're looking at, you all approved back on August 24th, not to exceed 4%. So again, we always build in about 100 basis points onto what we're expecting just due to any fluctuation potentially in the market. So we're anticipating to get again an interest rate below 3%. Okay, that's wonderful. So over the lifespan of the bonds, what would be the total savings
 for the debt that we approved last Tuesday. Representative Hernandez, can you wrap up the questioning please? And we thank you for all, they were all great questions. We thank you for that. So with the April amount, that difference from 2.58 to 4%, that seems small but that percentage difference equated to about $30 million of savings on the cost of those projects over the life of the bonds. $30 billion of total savings for the lifespan of these bonds, okay.
 And then there was a report that I saw in the news that said that the debt that we're issuing with that city council is just trying to circumvent a new state law. Could you or Carla talk about what this new state law is and how these certificate of obligations that we approved on Tuesday and in April of this year, how it complies with the new state law? I'm going to let Carla chime in, but real quickly.
 We obviously pay very close attention. You all get a lot of updates from our group at Quayar who is doing all the work over at the state legislation right now. And so obviously we're paying very close attention to that bill. Again, Carla and I worked very closely. All the projects that are included in this package fall within the allowable uses of that bill. We worked very closely working with our bond council. Again, he reviewed the projects and said yes, they would all fall within the allowable uses.
 I think we're going to have a couple of areas that obviously we need to pay close attention to going forward. But again, I saw some questions about we're trying to circumvent and I think somebody made a reference to that earlier about trying to circumvent because it takes effect September 1. The item was set up and we've been talking about this issue and it's going back to the beginning of May when I was presenting on this particular issuance that you all approved August 24th. And that item was on the August 24th agenda because that's the date that you all adopted the budget.
 And so we've had a lot of discussions, and it only makes sense that when you're approving the budget and the tax rate that you're approving at the same time capital project funding that goes along with the budget and the tax rate that's being adopted. So the September 1 effective date of that bill has no impact on these projects. Again going forward, there's a couple of things that we need to keep an eye on, but like I
 the bill itself does not impact on the project. So Carla do you want to add anything. Mayor Lee sir this is Representative Molina. Point of order. Pardon me. Yeah. Point of order. I'll come back around to. Yeah Rep. Hernandez we can come back to you in a few minutes. We got. If City Attorney Neiman could just finish answering the question. But we will come back to you. That was that was your question Rep Hernandez part of your question. So yes. Yes sir. Absolutely. I don't know if Miss Neiman.
 I concur with everything that Robert just stated. The purpose of the act as as will go into effect starting tomorrow
 is not a prohibition on the issuance of COs. That change in the tax code does not prohibit the issuance of certificates of occupancy by this body or anybody. What it does do is it redefines the type of debt that can still be serviced with the interest and debt service side of the tax rate. Specifically, the list of projects that were on that act and that are in our
 the CO package that you are considering today are permissible. They're allowed under state law and will continue to be allowed after September 1st of this year. Thank you, Ms. Neiman. With that, we go to Mayor Pro Tem, I think, followed by Representative Anello. No, I'm sorry, followed by Representative LaSardiga, then Anello. Mayor, I haven't made a request to speak on this item. Okay, then we have, let me make sure I had your name on there.
 Representative Lasarga followed by Representative Nunez. Thank you Mayor Lee, sir. Robert, I guess this question is for you. So can you just tell me what this decision would cost us if the Mayor's veto isn't overridden? Do we have a figure for that? Senator Rodriguez has a brief presentation to talk about some of that because there are some items in there. For example, the MPO match that we have
 The other thing that needs to be pointed out is that some of these projects, as I mentioned, we are only issuing these bonds as we need the money. Some of these projects have already begun with the design of the initial stages of these projects. The funding that's being requested is to, in essence, complete a lot of the projects that have already been started. There are some projects, and again, Sam has it in his presentation, that have not started yet, but this funding, again, would allow us to get started on beginning those projects.
 Sam, I don't know if you want to chime in and talk about the MPO match because on the MPO match, for example, when those projects are approved, there's actually a resolution that the council approves for how to move forward with those and that is essentially guaranteeing that we will fund the city match for those projects.
 Yeah, Mayor, um, Robert, Sam, Roliga City Engineer. So under the proposed issues about over $4 million is scheduled to be used as MPO match for four program projects, two program projects in the Northeast, Sean Haggerty and the Railroad project that are scheduled to bring in $30 million of federal funds to the city. So that's $30 million. In addition to that, there's also
 just over $71 million worth of projects that were shelved, if you will, deferred due to COVID-19.
 that if we hold off or don't fund those projects, and we come back and build them later, say in two or three years or two years, you're looking at an increase of $12 million on those $71 million. So potentially deleting those projects that have not started construction, as well as the impact to the MPO funds that were scheduled to get, you're potentially looking at $42 million representative.
 So did you say $12 million because of inflation would be? Correct. If we push them back? Yeah, if we push them back two years, you're looking at $12 million inflation on those $71 million. And $30 million we would lose if we don't have the matching NPO funds, is that correct? Correct.
 And so the presentation that Robert references, if this veto is upheld, it looks at what we would do, and I can present that, Mayor, if you choose. But what we recommend as a result of that is we will prioritize projects that are in construction and bring back recommendations on capital plan amendments.
 that would look to use the existing funds that have already been borrowed to meet the contractual obligations and potentially as well allocate funds so that we don't lose federal funding as well. As Robert stated, we have presented the NPO with resolutions of committing local match dollars for these projects, so it's important that we uphold those contractual obligations as well.
 Deputy Pro Tem Nazaragat, before anyone says that we're just simply throwing that out as a tactic, that's been a longstanding practice for the city of El Paso for quite some time where they've used COs to mask the NPO dollars. And the reason for that is because we haven't been able to...
 come up with set aside funds or pay as you go funds for every single thing. We've been able to do that for streets. We've been able to do that for police and fire equipment replacement. And we've been able to start doing it for some of the park maintenance. So we've done a lot of that, but it's taken a lot of time because the city never did that in the past.
 So just wanted to make that point clear that because the dollars sometimes fluctuate, sometimes it might be $10 million that you need to come up with for an MPO match. The city made a decision long ago, I mean decades ago, and we've been doing that since I've been here just because of the number. And it just so happens this number is a little bit over $4 million, but in some cases it might be $7 million, it might be $10 million. It just depends on how much money we're going after.
 Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Thank you, Sam and Robert. And then I just have one last question. Laura, or maybe the city attorney, how much taxpayer money does it cost for the city to hold a bond election in an off year when there is not already an election scheduled? Representative Lizarraga, if we were to call for an election, a bond election would be a general election, and last year, I'm pulling up the number. Let me see.
 I'm pulling up the costs. You're looking at about $715,000. Now if we do that on a regular election, it would just be added to it or would it still be additional funds? If you did it during a scheduled general election, the cost would be lower because we would be sharing in the cost with other entities. But if the city were to hold a standalone election,
 Would cost more because of course the city would bear the full cost of the election sure So if we did another election it would be based on what other election would be based based on on the last election the last November election was three hundred and thirty two thousand dollars and then the standalone was seven hundred and Twelve thousand dollars. Thank you for that Thank You. Miss prime Thank You mayor. Thank you, ma'am. I
 Thank you for your questions. Now we have Representative Vanello followed by Representative Rodriguez. Mayor, I don't have any questions. I was just going to make a statement, so if you prefer, I can wait until everyone has asked their questions, but I'll leave that up to you. Oh, thank you, ma'am. Mayor, is there a way we can see that presentation that Sam referenced? Let me allow the City Council members that do want to make a comment, and then we can do that, sir.
 We have representatives Rodriguez, Molinar, and Salcido, and then we'll do the presentation, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Just a couple of quick questions before I make a statement. I guess I don't know if this is for Robert or for Sam, but could we use the money that we have remaining, the $180 million, I believe that you all said, towards the map? No, without going back to the voters. Okay. And...
 Also, this one I believe is for you, Mr. Borguinez. How much do we spend annually on operating costs for quality of life projects specifically? So, okay. I believe over the last five years, we've added almost $20 million of total operating costs related to the quality of life bond projects from the 2012 package. So annually we're spending...
 Over the last five years, we've added in, correct, about $20 million total operating cost. Okay, so this money, basically, it's not being spread out throughout five years. This is an annual occurrence. That's the cumulative amount of what's been added over the last five years. Some years it's been higher, some years it's been lower. This past couple of years it was higher, obviously, with the three new recreation centers that opened. Okay, so...
 Another question. If the certificates of obligation are such a great option, then why aren't other Texas cities doing it? So I've done a lot of presentations. When you look at cities and doing comparisons of El Paso compared to other cities, one is something I'll go back to right away, and something that City Manager talks about is that sales tax that the county has, that half a cent, that over $50 million a year,
 that the city does not have access to to utilize for whether it's and those sales tax again could be used for dedicated street projects it can be used for crime control districts it can go towards economic development projects it can go to property tax relief so there's multiple things if the city had access to it which we don't that that additional half a cent could have gone towards so that's that's one that's obviously a big hit that we're trying to deal with
 Additionally, we would like to adjust the revenue that the city has available to us in order to provide all the services and the capital projects at the same time. I was reading an article the other day, and I've talked about this in the past, the city of San Antonio has utility-owned companies. So for example, the CPS Energy does a transfer from CPS Energy to the general fund for the city of San Antonio. That transfer alone is $350 million a year.
 $350 million a year from CPS Energy to the City of San Antonio's General Fund. To put that into perspective, that's $350 million. Our General Fund budget alone of what was just approved is $476 million. So, again, that's a large revenue source that we don't have access to. So there's a couple of other examples like that as far as energy-owned utilities that Austin has. There's street maintenance fees that other cities have that are dedicated towards street projects.
 which the city although we do have our dedicated 10 million dollars a year that comes from the franchise fees we don't have a street maintenance fee which generates it would a street maintenance fee would actually generate a lot more revenue however it comes with the impact of primarily on the commercial side because the commercial businesses usually end up paying a higher fee just based on how those are calculated so when we look at what again the revenue that's available to the city and what we're trying to manage and deal with
 Again, we're at a little bit of a disadvantage because we don't have access to some of those things that other cities do. One of the other ones which this council talked about, we actually talked about it a few years ago, I believe before Mayor Leaser left office back in 2016, is something as simple as the city of El Paso does not charge sales tax on residential electricity and gas. We're one of the very, very few cities in the state of Texas that does not charge sales tax on residential electricity or gas.
 And that alone back in five years ago when I did the estimate would equate to about $3.2 million a year in revenue that we're not tapping into. So there's a lot of differences between Texas cities. I know a lot of people like to make a comparison of just looking at the tax rate, but there's a lot more that goes into it when you're trying to make these apples to apples comparisons. It's not...
 that every single city is the same. Other cities utilize other avenues. I mean, some cities could utilize revenue bonds or utilize, again, other sources of revenue to fund some of their capital projects. And again, we're dealing and making the best of what revenue that we have. And at the same time, in the last seven years, you know, we've talked about all the different transformations and all the improvements that we've made, again, to address not only the things that have been deferred and neglected, but also again, the long-term financial sustainability of, you know, creating these set-aside funds
 again, to begin to minimize the use of debt that we need to do in street projects and public safety capital replacement, some of the other areas that we've been addressing over the last few years. Okay, so I think that you just answered this question in the best possible manner that I could think of.
 There are other options. We've been asking, is there other options? And I think you just mentioned, you didn't hit the nail on the head in saying yes, there is absolutely other options. And I think that the goal for this council should not be, should be actually, hey, let's go aggressively for these other options and not the automatic answer of let's just issue certificates of obligation. I think the public said it best when they said, you know, we understand the need, we want these projects,
 but we need to find other ways to allocate the money. I think that for the public, the optics of 90 million plus dollars on this certificate of obligation is really bad. And then when you put the debt together of certificates of obligations that we've collected over the years, we're nearing a billion dollars. Those optics are terrible.
 And so I absolutely do agree that we need to ask the public, you know, general bonds, and we have a responsibility to come out with those, whatever it is that the general bonds are asking for. And we're asking the public, and they're saying, yes, we want these projects, no, but we're leaving it up to them to make those decisions. That is all. I can't support in good conscience this discussion.
 This attempt to override the mayor's veto. I know that my constituents are asking me to please say something and to not go for them. I know other constituents of El Paso, the majority of them are saying, you know what, we need to figure out other ways because the optics of nearing a billion dollars and to say it's not adding to the tax rate is really, I mean, they don't go hand in hand. So for that, you know.
 I understand you guys are put in a hard situation of finding the money for this, but you just mentioned other options that we can aggressively go after. So thank you. That is all. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Representative Molinar. Mayor Leaser, thank you very much for this opportunity to speak. To my fellow citizens of El Paso, I believe that we as a city council have a fiduciary responsibility with your taxpayer money.
 That's the bottom line. We have to do better. So we have almost $180 million in certificates of obligation for this year, 2021 alone. Even at 2.85% interest,
 This isn't a car loan or truck loan for $35,000. This is millions of dollars It's gonna cost us a lot of money just in the interest alone and for how long the term And then what else is going to be happening again? We just need to be frugal. We need to be cognizant and responsible with what we're doing. So
 So I voted against the issuance of certificates of obligation back on August the 24th. I support the mayor's veto this today, and that's what I have to say. This is not our money. It's taxpayer money, and we have a fiduciary responsibility to do well with it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Salcido? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, ma'am.
 I think this item is very important to talk about so I want a motion to suspend the rules. I think a lot of council members have a lot of questions. I know that I do so I motion to suspend the rules for us to be able to speak. Second. There is a motion and a second to suspend the rules of order on item number 19. On that motion Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Thank you Representative Salcedo, yes. Molinar.
 Nay. Salsido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga. Aye. And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Thank you. Thank you so much to my colleagues for supporting this. I think we all have a lot of questions and I don't think 10, well, a total of 20 minutes is enough time. I would like to see the presentation that Peter mentioned or referenced earlier. Sam?
 Let me share my screen. Sam Rodriguez, City Engineer. Thank you. In looking at the breakdown of the proposed certificates of obligation that's before you today, broke down the different categories of funding associated as an action plan should the veto be upheld. And so one of the things that we're looking at is the different categories of funding
 One of the priorities that we would have as a city is to meet the contractual obligations. So we have 21 projects that are currently under construction where construction contracts have been awarded. Materials have been ordered. That's about $15.2 million that is included in this bond package.
 We also have the MPO, I'm missing the M there, MPO match dollars where we're looking to leverage $30 million on the federal side, primarily for two projects, the Sean Haggerty extension, as well as the railroad project that are scheduled to start design relatively soon. That's total of $4.2 million.
 In addition, we also have IT infrastructure as well that we're going to need to look for funding for these aspects of our communication, hardware, software, cybersecurity. We got five projects in the works totaling $2.2 million, one of which is included an antenna for P25 communication for emergency services. And then after that, you have projects that were deferred as a result of the pandemic.
 that total about 71 plus million dollars that are broken down by streets, animal shelter, infrastructure, lighting improvements, park improvement and cultural facility as well as the TERS funded which is the Eastside Sports Complex facility. Further breakdown in the project so the projects that are under construction again if this the bonds or the funds do not come in we're going to be looking at
 looking at to reallocate some of the cash that we do have already in place that were borrowed as late as April this year to really look at
 fulfilling the contractual requirements because I think terminating for convenience in some of these projects that are underway will definitely cost the city additional dollars. And we have a potential also to leave blight in neighborhoods, which is not something that we would recommend. So we would come back and look to consolidate capital programs in order to meet those contractual obligations and complete the construction on these projects.
 And this is the list of the projects that was presented last week as part of the approval. That's just put them all together from all the capital plans that include the projects that are under construction.
 The contractual obligations, as I stated, Sean Haggerty is scheduled to get approximately $70 million in federal funds for the extension. This is a project that is much needed for emergency access to the neighborhood in the Northeast that will connect and provide for additional development in this area. Railroad is also scheduled to receive an estimated $13 million of federal funds. This is a segment that is currently two-lane. We're filling out the four-lane highway
 Highway in the Northeast and provided that critical connectivity for the part of the city. The IT infrastructure, as I stated, there's five projects for 2.2 million, and that includes a P25 antenna, cybersecurity and hardware and network upgrades are also included in this.
 And then we have projects in design. We have 43 projects that we completed design and we'll put on the shelf. I provided here a CBI increase or inflation cost, if you will. Right now, our costs have been increasing pretty regularly as far as the percentage of construction costs, material costs, labor costs on construction projects.
 So if we factor in an 8% increase year over year, if the project's delayed two years, as an example, if these projects were put on a 2022 ballot for the voters, that means we would start construction in 2023 sometime. And that would mean a potential increase of $12 million if we were to start construction in fiscal year 2023.
 If these projects do stop, obviously we will bring back amendments to City Council to amend the capital plans and remove those projects from our plans until the such time that we identify a funding source to bring those back into the execution site of the construction. Also keeping in mind that in some of these projects that have code,
 included into them, such as the Mexican American Cultural Center is a good example. If we go to code upgrades, whether it's building code, fire code, all those design documents that we have just completed would need to be updated as well to make sure that we meet all the code requirements at the time that we begin construction.
 Within those $71 million, we do have 27 that are street-related projects. These are the reconstruction of Ted Houghton. It also includes the Top 25 Arterial Program.
 of the various corridors that you see in here, Sunland Park, Shadow Mountain, Airport, Pebble Hills, Vista del Sol. It also includes the signalization of 18 interceptions that are needed and have been warranted and that are scheduled to go out to bid, as well as the traffic signal synchronization that's a critical part of our transportation mobility, air quality, and getting traffic moving in our city.
 part of the 71 million dollars is also the animal shelter improvements this is the quarantine area the quarantine building as well as the expansion of the kennel spaces at animal shelter this is part of their strategic plan and it was something that was brought up to council in 2019 uh when we were discussing the public safety bond that whether we would include these projects into the bond program at the time for voter approved the decision was made
 to not push those on to the voters, given how critical, and from a public safety standpoint, the animal shelter is for the city to be able to put those on the capital plan and fund these through certificates of obligation. We also have the infrastructure and lighting improvements. This is where we have the demo of the facilities of the blighted properties in and around our city. Sun City Lights, the way finding signage program as well is included in this category.
 And then we also have the park improvements as well as the cultural facility construction. This is where we have the Eastside Regional Park Phase 2, and that's the urban, the Beast Urban Park where we're scheduled to build our facilities, flat fields, the playground, basketball courts, outdoor facilities, the Mexican American Cultural Center. We have the Chelsea Park, Chelsea Pool Demo and Pocket Park.
 as well as the multi-purpose center instructional pool is scheduled to get upgrades that are required as part of the 2020 capital plan. And as discussed earlier, the Eastside Sports Complex includes the $3.1 million that is funded through the Public Improvement District for payback.
 From a summary standpoint, again, the debt was modeled into the fiscal year 22 budget. We are looking at a $42 million impact if we delayed the projects that had been designed already. If we move those two years out, anticipating the 2022 bond election. So that would be a $12 million impact. We also have the public outreach impact.
 These projects have been vetted, some of these for a very long time, and the expectation in a lot of these communities is that these projects are coming as well. So we would need to engage from a public outreach standpoint to make sure that the community understands that these projects are not coming relatively within the short time frame, that we're looking at a longer time frame on these projects.
 as well as potential impact to additional projects that I have not referenced here. As I stated, our recommendation is to bring back amendments to the capital plans to where we utilize the cash that's in the bank already that has been borrowed to include the funds that were borrowed in April to make sure that we're meeting the contractual obligations, whether it's projects that are under construction or under the NPO and looking at the resolutions that were previously
 passed by the City Council to match the federal dollars will be the priority to bring back for approval and modification. And that's the end of the presentation Representative. DIRECTOR HERSEY- Thank you for that presentation sir.
 Thank you, Sam. So I have some questions. I did see there on the presentation for the terse and that project's in my district. So just I want to be able to explain it to my constituents. Well, how does a terse play a part in it and how do the CEOs play a part in it? I received a lot of emails after this veto and they want to know where's their park. And so I want to be able to explain to them what could happen. So can you kind of walk me through that? Robert, do you want to
 Explain that. Yeah, so as Sam just showed, or as we've talked about, there's about 3.1 million of steel remaining to be issued for the Eastside Sports Complex, the Phase 2, the additional sports parks, sports fields. So although we do have the 11 million plus, it's not enough to complete the project. And so what we'd have to do, if this retail stands, is that if the project's going to be completed, we would have to identify another way to fund it. So now that there are homes that have been paying the PID, we do have incremental value in the TERS.
 That would be an option, but we would just have to wait until we have enough incremental revenue to be able to fund the remaining amount for that debt service on that $3.1 million. And I don't have a timeframe on what that would be. Okay, thank you. And to better understand that the – you mentioned TxDOT. How many projects is TxDOT funding? Okay.
 So as you know, the MPO program is ongoing. And right now we're working with the MPO to put the funding in place or to put the tip, the next four-year tip in place. And so the MPO dollars, when we submit a project, when they do a call for projects, we bring those to council and we ask council to approve a resolution that basically commits the local match dollars for those projects. We have...
 a series of projects that are scheduled to come online that are not currently funded within this program. If you remember the last capital plan that we included MPO match dollars into 2020, and the projects that we have referenced in there are the projects that we're looking to fund with this today. So the MPO match dollars is gonna be an ongoing need, if you will, for us to be able to leverage those federal dollars. As of today, all the federal projects that are referenced that are under construction under the federal program are already underway.
 The two that have not started the schedule to start that where we're looking to get the cash for is the Sean Haggerty extension as well as the railroad project in the northeast.
 But there will be additional requests coming in fiscal years 22-23 as we get the new TIP in place at the NPO. I know we have the Transportation Management Center that manages all traffic signals throughout the city. That's scheduled to be funded in the upcoming TIP. And so we'll be requesting additional dollars for that in a future cap or plan or as part of the operating dollars, just to give you an example.
 Okay. And on this, I think it was like slide three. Can you show me that? I just wanted to see what was it funding on your presentation. It's like three, I believe. Is that the only two projects that the tech dollars are being funded?
 So this list, Representative, is a list of most of these projects that are under construction. When you look at Paso de Norte Roundabout, that's the roundabout there on 6th Street, and South El Paso is federally funded. We're matching that with $1.2 million. Chamisaw Neighborhood Pedestrian Enhancement Phase 1 and Phase 2 are federal funded. But these projects are already underway and have...
 already under construction. And this is part of the construction or the city's commitment, if you will, contractual obligations that we will need to meet. And so this is where we will continue to fund these in Orange. Again, just because the projects have to be completed in construction. I don't see an option for us not to. The projects that have not started construction in the MPO that we've asked for money is these two projects, the Sean Haggerty extension, as well as the railroad project.
 Okay. And those two projects are in the northeast, right? District 4? Correct. Correct. Okay. So what happens if, I know that MPO dollars are very competitive. So walk me through the process. So they basically got awarded. What happens if you go for them again? Do other projects exceed the list? Can you walk me through that process?
 Yes, definitely. So part of the coordination that we do on a quarterly basis with the NPO is that we have to update what they call the project readiness report that gets presented to the Transition Policy Board. As part of that, we're continuously updating the NPO and the board on our progress that we're making on these projects because the financial commitment is there for us to proceed with those.
 If for whatever reason we're going to come up short on the local match dollars, we would notify the MPO that we are not going to be able to come up with the local dollars, at which time they would release those funds to other program needs that they have. If you know the MPO has a list, if you will, a long-range plan that has eligible projects, that they would move those funds into some of those projects, or some of them may be active as well for other agencies,
 or for us as well in other projects if we have the local funds at that time. Now, to bring back those dollars, it is a very competitive process. And so our recommendation would not be to release those commitments from the NPO side. I think we would, as I stated, we would look at the cash that we do have on hand and figure out a way to come back to you all
 to make plan modifications so that we meet those contractual obligations and leverage those federal dollars. These projects are regionally significant enough to get federal funds from a transportation network standpoint that it makes sense for us to continue to prioritize those and make sure that we meet those commitments. Wow, so that's $30 million right there, right? Yes, that's right.
 I grew up in the Northeast. So yeah, I, I, um, these areas is, um, it's addressing what railroad railroad, which is much needed. What else?
 And this is Sean Haggerty Extension. This is the Angora Loop Sean Haggerty connection over the Greenway in the Northeast. A lot of discussion from the community up there to be able to provide connectivity into the neighborhood for public safety to get kids to school. Right now they're having to go around up to 54 or come back south to get around and connect to the other side of that Greenway.
 Okay. Okay, great. Yeah, my mom lives by railroad. So I think that this was a crucial project that I mean, that has not been done. So thank you so much for sharing that. I do have one last question, and it's more in regards to the process of the budget. I know that we've been talking about this budget for the last five months.
 And so at the point where the budget has been accepted or voted for, is that always done in that manner? Is this something that has changed in prior councils? Can you all walk me through that process a little bit? Nothing has changed as far as the overall budget process. I mean, we've done this over the last seven years now where we do budget updates at every council meeting. This year we started a little bit sooner with providing more of the information, the detailed information that we have in the past.
 just so that council had as much information as possible, as early as possible as well. So we did that five-year forecast back in February, and if you look at that budget that we showed back in February, which was, again, very preliminary numbers that we had at the time, we had estimated a budget of $473 million for fiscal year 2022, which begins tomorrow, and we actually finished at $476 million. And again, that $30 million was the additional property value that came in that was put towards street projects. So we did that. We did the...
 We did the one on one briefings with all the members of council just like we've done in the past. We did the overview presentation a month sooner. We do that in June as opposed to July again just to make sure that all of the information was available so that there's any discussion or any potential changes in the way that we're moving forward. We talked a lot about going back to February again the the phased in approach of not going back to 100% in some of the areas and so we talked a lot about that over the last several months.
 But as far as the overall budget development process, I mean, we follow the same pattern. It's something that we've integrated into our cycle over the last six plus years now, and it's worked extremely well. So I can get a better idea. So basically, if you ever wanna propose anything and possibly find a solution, you would address it when? The day of the vote of the budget or weeks before? I mean, kind of what would be the most appropriate?
 It would just depend upon the member of council. We've seen it every which way. And so there's the ability to make changes all the way up until the day the budget's adopted. So after the budget has been adopted, basically you cannot find solutions. Is that correct? I'm not sure what you're asking on that question. Let's say the budget has been adopted and then I want to change something about it.
 Would it be appropriate for me to be sharing my concerns the day that the budget will be accepted or should I be sharing it after the budget? Where can I be effective with what I want to do? Well, with this item in particular, the veto of the CEOs, what would happen is if the veto is not overridden, we've already, the council has already adopted the budget and the tax rate. You've already adopted a debt service rate.
 And so what would happen is if we did not move forward with the issuance of those COs, obviously that would create a little bit of savings. However, that savings, since this is part of the debt rate that was adopted, would go into our debt service fund. And then that debt service fund amount would be used towards funding future debt, future payments that we have. But it would not lower the budget for next year. Thanks.
 Thank you. That does answer all my questions, but I do. I know this is a very contentious or very, very, um, sensitive topic that we're talking about. But I do. I respect every of my colleagues, their opinions, their views on this item. However, I do want to share my concern when it's more like constructive criticism, um, of how the author of this item has decided to approach this. I don't feel the process was transparent.
 I'm understanding that if you want to make a change or find another solution, you would have had to do that the day that we were voting.
 on this budget. So that would have been the last council meeting to share any concern. So that way we can find solutions of the issues. And so we could address them as well. So I think it's not fair. It's not respectful to the voters. I don't think it's fair, respectful to this body. I don't think it's fair and respectful to the staff. We've been talking about this budget for five months now.
 And so we've had plenty and ample time to raise our concerns, find solutions if that was our goal. So for those reasons, I just wanted to share that with you all. And that would be it. Thank you so much, Mayor. So to that point, Representative Salcedo, so the state requires a lot whenever you can issue certificates of obligation. And so if you all recall back on July 6th, you all approved, the members of council approved the notice of intent, the publication that's required.
 And so that was done and approved on July the 6th. We did that publication in the newspaper. You're required to do it once a week for two consecutive weeks. We did that as well prior to the meeting on August 24th. Again, we're required by the state to post another publication in the newspaper notifying the public that there's going to be a public hearing and the adoption of certificates of obligation. And so that was done as well
 We have the notice of intent also published on the city's website for more than 45 days. So I'll be back to July 6th We've run it on city TV again advising and notifying the public that that I'd would be up for discussion in action on August 24 So yes, there's a lot of state requirements that go along with Moving forward with the initial and such a tip its obligation and as we presented back on August 24th when the ordinance was approved well, I highlighted and showed you all the dates and
 of when all of those items were conducted and took place. Okay. No, no. I thank you so much. And I know that you all have worked really hard. And so, you know, vetoing a budget, I think that it is unfair and disrespectful not to have those conversations before something can be done. So I just wanted to say that. Thank you so much.
 thank you representative and i just want to make sure that we do understand that since the day i took office i've opposed a lot of things and i've made it clear that i've posted and uh and i thank mr cortinas mr um
 Gonzales says we've had meetings and we've talked about it and then every meeting and every time we talked I talked that I needed to Try to find some savings. So over the budget season We have talked about it probably every day since we've had that meeting and I bring it up and I go for total transparency I just want to make you know
 that I like to see some savings. And I know that Mr. Cortina's, like I said, and Mr. Gonzalez have met with me and gone over a lot of the items. But you can veto an item until it's been completely voted on and accepted and moved forward. So I just make sure that, Robert, I do have a small question because we've been talking about savings and what it's gonna cost. What is the total cost of, it's a 25-year bond, correct?
 So if we went out the whole 25 years, what would it be the total payout? I think you had told us in our last council you expected it at around three and a half percent And if it was over four you wouldn't do it. Right so the permit of those approved by council is not to exceed four percent Yes, sir So we are estimating right now of about so on the hundred and eighty million dollar issuance Over the life of the bonds principal and interest to be about 305 almost 306 million total. So 305 million. I
 So it kind of would triple the amount so we borrowed 96 million roughly Yes, sir, okay. Thank you for that almost double, okay, thank you for that though, I appreciate that and Now I just want to make sure because we keep talking about that if we don't do this We wouldn't be able to do any of these projects. I
 I'm in favor of these projects and I'm in favor of doing the things just finding working together as a council working together to find alternative financing and save hundreds of millions of dollars in and finance and interest and issuance cost and so there is I do want to know that
 You know we were able to find four and a half million dollars for the ballpark and not cost not raise the rate not Finance it we found 42 million yesterday for bridges with for the same thing So there's ways of doing it and and I think you guys did a good job of bringing those forward and with that I think we have representative There's the Chelsea Pool Park and
 project, the Modesto Gomez Park, the Liz Marialma Park, the remaining funds for that, railroad reconstruction, the Chamasol and Delta Street at the Playa Drain. Let's be honest those are low income neighborhoods that very rarely get funding.
 You know Mayor I heard your response to Representative Salcedo and I absolutely respect that and you and I had a conversation about this the other day. Since March you have definitely been saying that you've had concerns with the rates. We've heard you and since March I have every meeting almost begged to have the conversation to cut these dollars. Almost begged privately and publicly and there's never been a conversation about it. There has never been this conversation.
 Even last Tuesday, I removed items that I did not agree with. I do not support the Mexican American Cultural Center. But you heard from my constituents today, and these are the only responses that I'm getting, with the exception of two, one phone call and one email, saying why are our neighborhoods being put on the line? Why are our projects being put on the line? Because these conversations weren't had in the last six months. There are other ways to fund these. We didn't want to raise taxes, so we didn't talk about it during the budget.
 If you were presenting to me right now a proposal of other options to fund these projects in the future, I would absolutely support your veto.
 but these low-income communities who have not seen funding for three to four decades are the ones who are not going to get their money that this council made a decision to change the direction that the city has been going at and look at these communities that need it look at these communities whose property taxes are not so high because there's never been investment put into them
 I have been the voice of those people for four and a half years, and I'm going to continue to do so. This is not a great decision to make. I feel like, and I've told you this personally, I am in a really bad position with this vote. I am, because they don't support the Mexican American Cultural Center, and when I brought it up to be removed from the package, it was almost silent from council. There was no support other than Representative Schwartzbein, who made comments about how he didn't agree. There was no other conversation.
 And so here I am having to put my values and my community on the line and make a very hard decision. But I want everyone to know right now that I am looking at these communities that are in despair, that have been begging for attention, that have been begging for these amenities. And for the first time in a very long time in the city's histories, I'm going to choose these people who live in disenfranchised communities and allow them to get what they deserve.
 So I thank you all for speaking and I thank everybody who has made their comments before. Thank you very much and I know you and I talked about it even yesterday and you know one of your projects was from 2017 and I asked you why it hadn't been funded and you told me you didn't know.
 And they needed to be funded. They needed to be funded. Most of these projects, if you look at them, are 17, 18, 18, 18. Most of them are 2018. And they should have been funded long before 2021. We do understand that COVID happened in 2020, which was two years after all these projects had been brought forward. So we did have that conversation. You also asked me why I didn't veto the Mexican American Center and COVID.
 and the Wayfarer, and I cannot veto any negative outcome. I can only veto anything that is approved, and that's part of the charter that if it's declined by council, I cannot veto it. If it is approved, then I can go ahead and do that. So we did have a conversation. We've had many conversations. We've got a very open dialogue, and I do appreciate that with you. So thank you, Representative Vanilla. And with that, we have Representative Molinaud.
 Thank you, Mayor. Once again, this is Sam Rodriguez. If you can bring up slide five, please, on your presentation. We would appreciate that very much. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Okay, so reading that person, Sean Haggerty Extension is scheduled to receive estimated $17 million of federal funds. Is that correct? That's correct.
 Okay. Let's go back to my very, very, very first City Council meeting dated January the 5th, 2021. Item number 11 had nothing to do with federal funds. And so the state of Texas, we received money in the terms of $3,399,532. The city's obligation was a cash match of $241,435.
 that the city was going to pay to the state. And this is back in January of this year, 2021. Tomorrow is September, roughly eight months ago. In that presentation back, there was nothing about any type of federal money that I recall coming out there. So where do we get this $17 million? Because the $17 million with the $3 million from the state, that's 20, and then with the cash grants, you're talking about 20 million 500, roughly, approximately.
 So can you elaborate on that please. FRED PODESTA Yeah and we can provide you the full detail of the MPO funding program. And so if my memory and I'm going off the top of my head representative but I believe what we approved and generated was related to this project correct.
 It was what, Nassar? It was related to this project. Yes, Sean Haggerty Extension. Yes. And so that looked at that particular agreement, which was the text argument, was for the design portion of the project.
 where we got to where we're scheduled to begin to design textile is actually going to be designing the project for the city. And so that agreement is what made the commitment for it to begin the design process. The $17 million is what follows with the construction of the facility.
 Representative Lonnar. Okay, thank you for that clarification. So regardless, and I believe I can unfortunately think of her last name, somebody named Yvette. But so there's a little less than a mile. And of course, going two ways, it's a
 either way it's the bridge and the pedestrian access and things like that. So this $17 million is going to cover that for the construction and that's correct? That's correct. If I remember correctly, the estimate for the project was around $22 million, $22-$28 million, full complete budget. That's in the books, but we'll provide you the full
 that's included from the MPO. So you can see the funding allocation that we're getting from the federal side. But the item that was approved earlier this year was specifically for the design because the design was scheduled to begin when we took that agreement with TxDOT. Okay, so has the design started? Because I can tell you our office receives emails on this all the time. Get calls and questions from my constituents. Has the design started? Has the environmental study started? Where are we at with that?
 The agreement has been approved with TxDOT, and as I stated, TxDOT will be designing the facility for the city. It's a structured facility, and so what I will do is I will get you an update on where the design is from TxDOT because I don't have it up with me right now. All right. Thank you. The agreement to begin the design has been executed already. Thank you, sir. I appreciate your answer. Thank you.
 Thank you, and I know that council members all want to speak and continue to speak on this item as representatives. I'll see though talked about the importance of this item and I need to allow the
 and i and i should have um not had representative molinar next i need a lot of people that have not had an opportunity to speak and then i'll come back to everyone else and that's where it gets out of sequence here so i'm going to go to representative um schwartzbein and then representative um roe veda who have not had an opportunity to speak at this point thank you thank you mayor thank you sir you have the opportunity to uh to ask some questions
 And thank you again, Representative Salcido for suspending the rules as well, which I think gives us the flexibility to be able to do the kind of questions that we are, since we're evidently all in this position. I was curious. I know that we have a shorter list of all the projects that are issued from 22, but I'm wondering,
 I'm not sure how much of a weekend other people had here, but spent a lot of time looking at historically our certificates of obligation, as well as some of the veto actions as well. I'm wondering, staff, are you able to bring up the issuance that we had from April of this year?
 Are you talking the presentation that covered the projects, Mayor Pro Tem, or what specifically? I guess the spreadsheet or something of the list of projects that were there from the issuance from April, right? Because this would be the second certificates obligation that we would be that we have approved as a body as this year. Let me bring the presentation up, Representative.
 So this is the presentation. It was item number 36 back on April 13th of this year, and it was a companion item to the ordinance that was approved to follow with both COs and GOs for the public safety bond. The highlights, and I went through the whole presentation, but I'm going to go back to the top here, that looked at the...
 different programs and what was being proposed at that time that looked at 141 million dollars projecting in 22 170 at that time obviously we were at 180 as to what was approved this past week the projects that were presented at that time from the capital plan side looked at projects um
 Schuster, Leo Council Area, IT Infrastructure, Ted Houghton, and Tom Lee, and some of the projects that were going to be funded with the funds that we received in April. And as a reminder, we're borrowing dollars as the projects were completed. So looking at a cash flow need from that perspective. The NPO match dollars from the 2017 capital plan. The...
 2019 Capital Plan included seven corridors that are under construction as we had those commitments as well. We had seven projects that were under design. Again those are the projects that that we're that we're looking to fund today or within $95 million dollars. That's the seven quarters that presented earlier. The Children's Museum is under construction the MAC. We're looking to defer that for fiscal year 22.
 as well as federal funding that were underway. And then the 2020 capital plan projects that are underway, the HVAC at City 1, City 2 was out to bid. We're also scheduled to begin construction at the roof at Chaleo Costa, the HVAC, the roof at Nation's Tobin, as well as the pool roof there as well. Do you have like a general sense of kind of what the breakdown was for that COs from April?
 And so I have different spreadsheets representative Mayor Pro Tem. Mayor Pro Tem. I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of what we approved in April and how that compares to to what we've what we approved last week finalized that list. And so the list doesn't change. So I'm going to give you an example if you will. So this is the 2020 2019 capital plan.
 And so we look at projects as they're proceeding. And I'm going to give you an example of this as well. Let me look at this.
 2018 plan as an example. So when you look at what was issued in April of this year for the 2018 capital plan, we received $20 million of the funding for this program. And so with that available money, we look at the funds that have been under contract and the available budget to proceed with certain projects and
 as an example, the Montana RTS is a good example of that. That project is in construction in April already. So we received an allocated 1.98 million in that in that issuance. We still have a balance of 1.3 million that's scheduled to be issued with a proposed $95 million today. So it's in essence a lot of the projects that were under construction or are scheduled to go out to construction are
 very similar or same projects if you will just from a cash flow perspective the program values and the project values don't change in that we were borrowing the funds as we needed with the proposed $95 million capital plans 2017 18 19 and 20 there's going to be only about 33 million dollars in
 $32, $33 million that will be remaining to be issued. And that's the phase three that I referenced of top 25 material program. And the Tom Lee slope stabilization project will be the only two that will remain unfunded with no cash that would be a future project. With that, with the $95 million, we're basically funding the balance of the projects of the three capital or the four capital programs.
 I hope that answers that question. I don't have a specific list to your point that I have in this presentation because it was not presented that way in April. Mr. Okay. Yeah, I guess my context is sort of how the projects are different from this issuance that we're discussing today versus what we already approved from April. That was kind of the intent. I'm curious, this is for Mr. Kourtinas. What are the current interest rates that we're seeing right now?
 So the not to exceed amount again was what the council approved, that 4%. I can't give you an amount on what we're going to lock in again because we're not going to price these bonds. We have up to six months of what was approved in the parameters to actually go out and price the bonds. We'll more than likely do it before the end of the calendar year. But right now we're projecting to get an interest rate below 3%. So we've seen a little bit of an increase but not a lot? And again, I don't want to give you a number and hold myself to it because things can change quickly. So, I mean, I don't like to...
 make a promise that I can't keep. But right now, based on what we're seeing, is right now below 3% is what, if we were to go out today, what we would get. And it would probably be even lower than that. I have a question, Mayor, respectfully, if I can address to you if that's okay, sir. Absolutely, sir.
 Okay, so this body approved in April an issuance of $93 million in bonds, which was not vetoed by you, even though you've stated that you've had numerous conversations and have stated that you are against certificates of obligation and non-voter-approved debt. So I'm trying to understand why you didn't veto that issuance of COs back in April this year
 yet you're telling this current issuance and that's a great question and I thank you for the opportunity to answer that because mr. Kourtney Ness will remember and mr. Gonzalez I remember that we had this conversation and I actually finally got the spread of the projects at about 830 9 o'clock on a Friday night and I've been trying to get it and come to find out a lot of these projects were already started completed or part of
 long before I was here and we went over the projects and I worked with them to continue working, but I'm not going to continue to do that. So Mr. Cortina's will remember and I can probably pull the email out and I think it came at 930 at night on a Friday night Because I was very concerned and I did talk about that. I didn't feel it was proper so I do appreciate the opportunity because I
 I'm not going to continue just like a credit card just because you have it You don't need to continue to charge on it sooner or later that credit cards going to blow up on you And this is no different. So we did have that discussion. I did have discussion with the city staff and You know, and they've been very cordial and Always worked with me. Mr. Mr. Cortina's mr. Gonzalez and I can tell you that moving forward. We're not going to have this discussion because I'm not going to approve these items. I
 I guess I'm confused. What is, Robert, what is the list that was, was that just sent to, was that sent to all of us? Or do you know, I guess I'm trying to understand how this issuance is different from what we approved on April. It's not. So the list of projects...
 or is what Sam just referenced, of what was funded back with the issuance back in April. But the members of council are well aware that the projects that are being funded with the certificates of obligations are projects that have been approved all the way back through 2017. And so we're still in the process of completing those projects of what's been previously approved. We've talked a lot about this, that we don't go out and issue all of the amounts for the various capital improvement plans. We issue the money as we need it.
 And so as we presented back on August 24th and presented multiple times prior to that, we're just now with this issuance finishing out the 2017 CIP and Sam, I believe it's the 2019 CIP as well as the other one that we're finishing out with this issuance. And so these projects are being completed. We do still have some outstanding amounts, as Sam mentioned, to be issued.
 about 33 million or so roughly for more street projects that again have been approved from this body from the members of council in previously approved capital improvement project plans. And so that coming from the 2018 and the 2020 capital improvement plan. So those are the projects the mayor asked for. I don't recall exactly when he asked for that information, but as soon as he asked, I know we got that to him as soon as possible. But again, those projects that are being funded are again projects that have been previously approved by the members of council.
 Are these projects as part of the CO list any fundamentally different than how those previous projects were approved? So I have the list of, it's essentially a summary and for the most part it's pretty much the same. It's street, street lights, MPO match. With the April issuance there was some funding for the health lab, some funding for the Eastside Sports Complex which is finishing out with this issuance, and then there was also funding for the Leo Consolari pool and the children's museum.
 so some additional funding for some of those larger projects and again on that children museum you all recall and i want to continue to answer your question mayor pro tem so what you're trying to ask me is if we've done them before we should continue to do them from now on forever and we should not come up and say okay enough we've had enough we're not going to do any more and we're going to find a way of of financing so you're telling me as we've done them before why are you speaking today well i'm speaking today because i can tell you that
 Enough is enough and I think we can find money to be able to do these projects and continue to work together as a body And we've done a really good job as a body working together And I look forward to continuing to have a great working relationship with you all
 to find different ways of financing. So I guess for me, I guess the thing is, I don't disagree with you with the sentiment that enough is enough. I just wish that this body, this council, actually heard those words from your mouth three months ago at the beginning of this budget season.
 three days after we approved this budget and approved these certificates of obligation. Based upon your previous actions this year of not vetoing those certificates of obligation, I'm not really sure it was that clear how much that sentiment was something that you felt or it was just kind of coming from a campaign promise that you had or whatever because those vetoes, that veto was never done for that initial issuance of certificates of obligation.
 And so I think that it was,
 A little bit a little bit hard to to sort of see that I mean I can You know no and I understand and I can appreciate that and I think I even talked a little bit about the census And you told me not to because I didn't have the proper backup and it wouldn't be correct to talk about that And I think you remember that last time we talked about that. So I had the opportunity to watch former state rep Joe Joe Pickett and I
 CEO of El Paso matters and former editor of the El Paso Times talk about what's happening within our community and I think it's important that the debt has a lot to do with it and they talked about the 4% increase in population in the last three to four years El Paso has lost citizens where areas around the city like horizon in the last ten years has gained 30%
 they also talked about that if you move outside the city depending where you move outside the city a hundred and fifty thousand dollar home will be between a hundred and two hundred dollars less per month and
 I have the show, I have it on my email and I can forward it to everyone because these are things that are important to our community and these are things that they're talking about and trying to, and this is not me giving you these stats. This is not coming out of my mouth. This is coming out of what I was able to read and see and I think we all saw it on El Paso Matters. So, you know, if you want to talk.
 I think respectfully what I was saying when I brought that up was was not Discrediting the fact that the data that the date the census data showed that we have a decrease my issue was coming to the conclusion that that's because of our tax rate and
 as opposed to us not being as competitive as we can be in attracting a highly educated mobile workforce, when we see people of my generation and younger who leave El Paso and don't come back because of a lack of opportunities and a lack of amenities and a lack of building an economic environment and an economic ecosystem that is globally competitive.
 So that was where we differed was saying that that population decreases because of the tax rate of 26%, 26% of the tax dollar of your El Paso citizen, El Paso resident, right? 26% is what we're talking about. I think it's a little higher than that now. School district.
 I think it's gotten a little higher. 28% is from the county, right? So we're talking about 26%. And to go and say that 26% of our tax rate is the reason why the population has been leaving in droves over the last 10 years, I mean, again, it's something that I think we'd have to have a little bit more of a conversation with and discuss.
 and I'm not sure that the data conclusively shows that. I mean, I think if anything, you could probably look at college educated El Pasoans and see how many are there and get a sense of how competitive we are in terms of attracting and retaining a educated mobile workforce. I just had a couple other sort of questions.
 I want to be respectful. Let me go ahead and answer you. I'm sure you get the El Paso Times or have the opportunity to read it. In the front page of the El Paso Times, it said sky high, and it talked about our tax rate, and we're the second highest in the 50 large states in the U.S.,
 So, and again, that wasn't me, had nothing to do with me. It was in the El Paso Times. And like I said, so these are things that we look at, these are things that we read, and this is things that people see as they look to where they're gonna make their home, where they're gonna invest.
 And I know that going around the country for economic development, we have to defend ourselves a lot based on things that they see and they read. Because for them to invest, they look at what's the best return on investment based on the full picture. And we have to do a really good job of building a full picture because of the workforce, because of our people. And that's what we do every day. So headlines like this don't help us at all.
 And I think also too respectfully how this council and body work together or don't work together is also something that many businesses see. And when businesses, investors look at a community investment and they see $95 million being held hostage,
 without a real in-depth conversation by this body I think it also brings a lot of pause to potential further economic development. I think we're having that conversation and I ask you to stay respectful and that's you're starting to try to pick something and you know what you told me you didn't like the way you were treated by the prior administration and I ask you to continue to treat me with respect and I'll do the same to you please. Robert you had a statement sir?
 I had a couple more. Go ahead, sir. Really quick before I go back to the road for this time. Robert? I just wanted to state something. So Mayor Luecher just brought up that article, and I spent a lot of time with the reporter for that article.
 That same article because there's statements that keep coming out referencing the second highest tax rate from that study. And that same study, if you look at the table that's being referenced in that study, it also shows that the tax bill, of the wet people paying taxes, that the El Paso were ranked number 22. Which- Can you break that down? Help us understand that. Well, so if you look at what people are actually paying in taxes, if you look at the tax bill according to that study, that keeps being referenced.
 El Paso is ranked number 22 on that same study on the tax bill of what people are actually paying in taxes. So why is it that people have the impression that we're the second highest tax community in the United States? So that article, I made it very clear to the reporter. We spent some time talking about that study. I referenced that table, and I asked her that if she would please, in her article, make sure that she included that, and she did.
 because it's one point to say, yes, second highest tax rate, but it's another to say what if people actually paid in taxes. So when you look at that again, what passed on that same study is rate number 22. Okay.
 You know, the thing that I think we all recognize is that there's a lot of need in our community. We're still in the midst of this pandemic and families in our communities are still going through a lot. You know, we've heard and seen the news about volunteer gaps at the El Paso and Fighting Hunger Food Bank to the condition of our streets to funding our police department and public health. We all recognize that there's much need in our community. And like a lot of others that were brought up today, I look at some of these projects in the parts of town that are addressed
 And, you know, with all due respect, there's probably not a lot towards District 1 within this. And to me, it's never been about one district over the other, but our community. And I can't help but think that looking at the Northeast, that some of these projects have been long, long overdue and very much needed. I think about the railroad reconstruction and particularly the Sean Haggerty Boulevard extension, a project that we were made aware of with the city.
 the previous city council and others. A project that we've learned has been an ongoing issue for decades that has never been addressed by previous city councils or previous city representatives up until very recently. So I'm trying to understand in terms of these projects that are directly addressing underserved parts of our community what happens if this veto stands today. What happens to the railroad reconstruction.
 I don't know if you can talk about this. I'm just trying to understand. I mean, we can go into different facts and figures and this and that, but I'm just trying to understand, like, this veto stands today. How are we going to reconstruct railroad? How are we going to do that Sean Haggerty extension that nobody else has actually addressed in decades?
 DIRECTOR HERSEY- Mayor Perz . Mayor Perz. So what the if we told us not overwritten what we are going to do is as I said in my presentation we're going to go back and recalibrate the capital plans in looking at different funding categories again we want to make sure that we meet the contractual obligations projects that are under construction they have started construction we will need to make sure that we have the cash for that and bring back a plan for you all to do that. And then we're going to go back and recalibrate the capital plans and looking at different funding categories again we want to make sure that we meet the contractual obligations projects that are under construction that have started construction we will need to make sure that we have the cash for that and bring back a plan for you all to do that. And then we're going to go back and recalibrate the capital plans and looking at different funding categories again we want to make sure that we meet the contractual obligations projects that are under construction they have started construction we will need to make
 The contracts with the MPO, the budget resolution, the budgets that the resolutions that were passed when we submitted the projects for funding to the MPO, basically committing the city as well for the local match dollars will also take priority in the funding that we bring back as a recalibrated capital plans.
 And it could involve some projects that have been previously funded as well that would need to be defunded if we have not started construction. And so it's going to be a recalibration of the capital plans that we will bring back for your review and approval to make sure that we're prioritizing the funds, the limited funds that we would have and meet the contractual obligations first. Who would be defunding and taking? I'm sorry. What he's saying is that y'all would have to approve a different plan.
 in order for that to be approved. He's not trying to say that they wouldn't be funded, but that could be a possibility depending on how the council voted. But the resolution that you passed before did have that in there, and the council is well aware that the matching funds for the MPO has always been done with COs. It's not something that started when I got here.
 not something that started when any of you got here it's something that's been done for a long time because there hasn't been revenue set aside as a representative vanilla pointed out there has been revenue set aside to match this these funds and so the city council several city councils before this council before the council before this before the council before that one council members going to be against this yield so who knows what's going to happen there for all the unfinished projects that's what they're actually talking about right now we have a hot mic hot mic
 Um, no, I mean, you can actually see since 2009, um, that we have used certificates of obligation, uh, for public transportation. We've used certificates of obligation, uh, for matches for the MPO, which again is, is why I'm so concerned by this, this sort of regular action here. Um, the other question that I had was relating towards, um, the animal shelter, um,
 What happened? I mean, can you talk a little bit more, Sam, or somebody else about what's being proposed to be funded by these certificates of obligation for the animal shelter? Yes, part of our strategic plan was to get to no-kill shelter, 90% of the intakes to the shelter.
 And that strategy included the addition of a quarantine facility that would allow the animal shelter to quarantine sick animals in a way that would allow them to heal and bring it back to the general population. It also discussed the need for additional capacity for animals that come into the shelter.
 They've been very successful obviously with some of the programs that they've instituted where you find a pet, you keep it until we find the owner. Those kind of programs have been very successful to support their operation. But this capacity increase for large dogs is something that's been master planned into the strategic plan.
 and it's something that's been documented as a need for their operation again, and keeping in mind and in line with the city's strategic plan to get to a 90% life release rate. Yeah, I mean, I think we hear about it almost every week from concerns relating towards the animal rescue community about what we're doing or what we're not doing. And so, um, I have a really hard time sort of putting that project up into jeopardy again, because we're keeping the promises from previous councils into this public.
 Um, you know, you plan to fail or you fail to plan it. And I do believe that this budget in these projects, the City Council passed last week are reasonable, lean and a common sense approach towards providing services for our community. Um, you know, our and quite frankly, do providing services for our community during very trying times.
 This mayor and our city council have been discussing deliberating on this budget in earnest for almost four months. Numerous city council meetings and presentations have addressed this budget as well as ample public meeting and feedback opportunities such as chime in, if you all remember that. I believe that this budget reflects the community's input and addresses those priorities defined by the residents, not just of my district but El Paso as a whole. And I'm just concerned that
 to reject this budget is a pretty inappropriate action and it rejects the actual and authentic voices of El Pasoans that we hear from throughout all of our districts throughout the year. And those are people and those are voices that we as a body represent.
 I think at its core, this budget focuses on the core needs of this community and not the wants. And our budget does this without an increase to the tax rate. We do recognize, I think we all do, that there are still positions unfilled within the city and programming and projects are still being phased in and not fully at 100%. But I believe that we have been listening to our constituents, to our residents, and focusing on the needs of our community. And I do believe that this budget and these council actions reflect that.
 I do have some other statements, but I would like to be respectful and act in a respectful manner respectfully to other members of this body, such as the respectful representative. So, Mayor, thank you again for.
 allowing me to ask those questions and get a better sense of what we're talking about today. And I thank you, and I think it's something important to do. I have over 6,000 followers on Facebook. I didn't post this on Facebook because I didn't want to make it political, and I would have had the support of all 6,000 likes that I have, but I didn't want to do that. And any time I post anything on there, I get thousands of likes.
 But I didn't do that because that's not what it's about. I didn't want to make it political. I wanted to make it that we can have this discussion and have a discussion that's very, very civil. And moving forward, I can tell you that...
 A lot of the stations a lot of in some members of council did put it on there and It looks like there might have been some of the rock comments because there's comments missing on some of the Facebook pages But you know, it's not about politics. Like I said, I did not put it on there I didn't want to make it that type of issue and I did that purposely so
 And I want to make sure you guys know it's not about the budget. So the budget is at Stanton. It's the budget that was presented by Mr. Cortina's, Mr. Gonzalez and his team. That budget will move forward. I guess, Mayor, it's kind of hard to see.
 and how this is a productive conversation and how it's not sort of political when we've had months to talk about what you would have liked to see removed or changed or altered with these projects. And you know what, that's a great question because we do have a city manager and he has his staff and a lot of deputy city managers that need to bring that forward. So when I asked that question, I would hope that would come back forward. When I met with him privately,
 and because I do get the opportunity to be briefed without not being an open meeting violation or anything like that. They couldn't come up with one thing and I asked for some cancellations of some memberships, some travels, some things that we could bring forward.
 Nothing was brought forward. So I did have some ideas. I did ask for them to bring us some because we're not a strong former mayor We're a strong former city manager and his staff and that's what I would have liked to have seen every time I brought something up But they felt they did a really good job on their budget and that's what mr. Gonzalez and likes it very respectfully Mr. Gonzalez, mr. Cortez and I had a conversation and he explained to me how this budgets not fully funded that were I
 if i'm not mistaken 22 24 million dollars away from funding this budget and that's when you talk about should we issue a 100 million dollars roughly of additional debt when we couldn't fund the budget the senior centers or whatever so i've had great conversations and very respectful conversations with mr gonzalez and his team and that's why the budget it's not being vetoed yes sir mr gonzalez as far as
 The form of government, it's a council form of government. I don't run the city, the council does. I know the council makes all the decisions, not me. I make recommendations to the full body and the council makes those calls. And it's based on recommendations, based on experience. I know people wanna take crack shots
 that are out there. And I think, as you pointed out, in terms of being disrespectful, as far as a lot of snide remarks that are made out there just in the chat box and things like that, to me, I wish we'd go back to the earlier days when people were man enough or woman enough to say something to someone's face.
 instead of just throwing stuff out there on social media. But in any event, with respect to the budget, it's the council's budget. We put it together based on all of their priorities, based on the resident survey, based on the chime-in survey, based on input from the student budget advisory committee that we put together that we work with. It's been based on the fact that we went out to all the district meetings and had feedback, input directly from all the different districts
 of which a lot of things that are on this list addressed a lot of those concerns that the districts have. So with respect to answering questions that any of you have, any one of you, we provided all the information to you. We also were a little...
 locked in to we couldn't say certain things because then it would be come across as though we were trying to Make you know people nervous about this kind of that good. So we were Information that was shared in that individual meeting that was no different than any other meeting we've had with
 any rest of the council one-on-one or in public. So I just wanted to make sure that I have a chance to speak to and characterize what I felt like that meeting was like and how it took place. And you're right, it was cordial. It was very, I thought, helpful to give you a lot of the points that we had already made throughout the year, quite frankly. So it wasn't anything new. We don't want to surprise you or anyone else.
 I remember when I first started here, the council got Brooks, is what I'm told, the day of the budget, and then y'all would parade all the department heads up and down, and it was very unproductive. We now base things on the strategic plan. It's based on all the inputs that I just described, and I think we have better outcomes. I think there's been a lot more results in the last seven years than this community has seen in the last 25 before then.
 And I think that it's a tribute to this council. It's a tribute to the previous council and the council before that. And also to the community stepping up and saying what they want and what they need. And as we pointed out, we have set aside those funds on an annual basis, but we can't do that for every single thing or otherwise the taxes would go up exponentially.
 I'm glad Robert mentioned the fact that we're 22 on that list in terms of the cost of taxes, because we do want to be very competitive when we buy for job opportunities that we've been working on for the last seven years, and I think we've had some production there. We need to have more production there. As you all know, we're working on several job opportunities as well that you are all aware of, and so we need to do more in that area. But I did want to have a chance to speak on that, so thank you for that. No, thank you.
 And to go back to your presentation that we had, you and Mr. Cortina is right. It was exactly what we had gone through during council meetings, and that was my point. So thank you. With that, I'm a little – I'm sorry, I'm going to have to look in – oh, Representative Rivera is next. I know you haven't had the opportunity to speak, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Pretty much has been asked, but first and foremost, I want to thank my colleague, Representative Hernandez, for placing the item on the agenda. Thank you.
 correct order to ensure that we move this community forward i believe that's what we decided upon taking office back in 2017 we've made some bold moves then and i i believe these moves are necessary to continue uh the many uh the many projects that are needed in our community representative manila said it best also as far as the neglected areas of our cities
 Not just mine, not just hers, but all throughout the city have been neglected. And we committed ourselves to making sure that those areas were somehow assisted in some way to make it better for their community. I understand that having grown up around the Modesto Gomez Park area, like I said before, that park is in dire need.
 But then again, the families that surround that area have a hard time using the park due to the fact that it's in poor and terrible condition. The next thing I say is the fact that I'm not giving up on public service, public safety. I'm not giving up on the quality of life projects that have been approved by 72% of the community in the past. And I think we owe it to them because we've become a choosing community
 We choose what the voter wants and what he might and what he wants and between what he wants and what we want to give him. That's not being true representatives to what we are elected to do. I agree with the manager Gonzalez who just said, hey, listen, you asked us to be respectful. Some of those college weren't respectful to us as a body, whether they're...
 coming down here to insult people about running for mayor or commissioner's court that's totally uncalled for second of all we have uh again this council and uh and again we have fortitude to move forward move forward in the fact that we decide to take this job and move this community forward and not
 abandon the neglected areas. And therefore, I'm going to support this. I'm going to support this law. Again, thank you, Rep. Hernandez. Thank you, Rep. Piniello and Mayor Pro Tem. Those were all excellent points. And I recall when, if I'm not mistaken, Sam, I believe he also did a study regarding the Sean Haggerty and the
 The services for police services and EMS services were severely hindered, correct? Correct, Representative. The timeline response times for
 both police and fire to that neighborhood is significantly more with this new structure connection that is scheduled to be built the response time is going to improve tremendously for that neighborhood and that's just the neighborhood that's there now there's many more that's being planned as an extension of that area between railroad and dyer is going to continue to grow
 And I believe Mayor Pro Temp said it best, we didn't find that out until we came on. I didn't travel that area frequent like the previous representative or the current representative do. And I believe that those people are entitled to have some sense of security in the response of their police department and EMS services. I thank the staff.
 because there is no hidden secret that they have made us aware of what's happening throughout the year as soon as the budget this budget is over i and expect that we'll be starting to be taught about next year's budget so it's not a matter of not having been told it's not a matter of not having been had the time to think about this i think we made the right decision and i believe that uh like i said my colleagues
 I think that's a good statement. I think that's a good statement. I think that's a good statement. All of my clients have made a All of my clients have made a good statement and asked some of good statement and asked some of the best questions that we the best questions that we could. I thank you for that. could. I thank you for that. Again, I thank you all for Again, I thank you all for listening here. listening here. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. I thank you, Representative I thank you, Representative Rivera. Rivera. I do agree with you. I do agree with you. All these projects are very, very All these projects are very, very important. important. I do thank the council for this
 I think we have represented none this I'm out of order sir If I miss somebody because they text more than once and it takes you out of order So if I miss you, please let me know please. So we keep in some kind of order Already
 But some of some of your comments, members of Council have kind of struck a chord in my in my heart and not only in my mind. But, you know, I guess the takeaway for me here in this conversation is, you know, there was no intent to politicize this, as Mayor Leeser just said today. But the unfortunate truth is the minute that that press release went out to the 600 plus thousand residents in El Paso,
 That's exactly what it became, and I'm sure you have received the amount of insults and the amount of criticism from members of the public, as I have, which is certainly probably something that was an unintentional consequence, but is in fact the reality of what we are having to face here today.
 So Mayor Leaser has touted El Paso as being one of the most taxed cities in the country. And he also is touting the fact that we are the most indebted in the state. But I have a different perspective, and I hope that members of council will join me in unity to tell a different story. He has made clear that he's going to veto every attempt to issue any debt that's going to support our infrastructure.
 that is going to support communities of color, disenfranchised communities, as well as communities who have low socioeconomic status. So we can expect that moving forward because that's what he said in his comments. So here's the story I would like to tell El Pasoans moving forward.
 We are building back the core of our city the way it should have been done decades ago. We are investing into our community the way it should have been done decades ago. We are seeing a decline in our overall growth in our population. We need to do something about that. We need to do something about...
 paying for the much needed infrastructure. Why not go for a general obligation bond on basic amenities and infrastructure like streets and traffic lights? Well, the reality is, is that someone in the Mission Valley is not going to want to vote to support a traffic light in northeast El Paso or west El Paso. So the reality is, is that that burden is now shifted to us as members of council to fund critical infrastructure projects.
 lighting and landscape and traffic lights are not sexy. Okay, they're not popular, but they are going to improve our overall quality of life, our pedestrian and vehicular improvement of our streets. And so that's just the burden that we have to take on and that's why we were voted into office. So the story here is that you members of council and we are working hard to build our infrastructure, to rebuild it and to do it right.
 And I'm very proud of that. Today I toured the south side of Hawkins Reconstruction, and I thought, wow, I never would have thought it would look this beautiful.
 It's open finally. The street is brand new concrete. It's supporting commerce. You know, there's an industrial park there. There's beautiful landscape and there's beautiful trees with colorful flowers. And that was paid by certificate of obligation. So the notion that certificate of obligations are not here to improve our community is false. It's wrong. We should not be pinning the public against the actions of this council because whether or not that was intentional or not, that's what happened.
 So I respectfully request that members of council vote in favor of overriding this veto because we can expect that this is going to happen again and so we have that responsibility to do what's right to move our city forward. And sometimes GOs don't make sense and sometimes they do. For basic infrastructure like this, that's our responsibility. That is what state law gives us authority to do and that's that's something I expect to do in the future.
 Um, so one other point I wanted to make, uh, the utility sales tax, we don't have that because council voted against it. So so we don't have that additional funds because of that. And then there are several public art projects that have also been jeopardized. One worth noting is the company E Memorial, which is going to be the new public art outside of Cleveland Park, outside of the Mexican American Cultural Center.
 So, you know, I really want to honor those family members and those members of Company E. It's such an important project to us and our constituents. And then not all of the debt in the CEOs are funded by property tax dollars. There are a lot of enterprise funds that are paying directly for some of these CEOs. So when you hear that all of these dollars are going from your property tax dollars, that's not necessarily true.
 But our debt and our budget is incredibly complex. And so that's why we were voted into office so we can figure these things out. And so if certain members of council don't want to use COs well then let us know so that we can take out those projects in your respective districts so that we can put them into communities underserved communities.
 But we could easily say that, but it would be unfair for all of those constituents in those communities. We need to do what's right to fund those projects in the entire city. So I just wanted to leave those comments there and also ask for members of council to please support this item. And I don't think there's a motion on the table, so I'll make a motion to approve the override of the mayor's veto. Second. Second.
 And thank you, Representative Adnandis. And I think you couldn't have been any more wrong of how I care for this city. This is because I care for this city. I don't look at people because of color. I don't look at people because of income. I am probably one of the largest, if not per capita, money I make donator of this community. I give to every charity that I can.
 I have and I'll continue to do that. And you know, for you to insult me and said that I'm disrespecting a part of community is not proper because I can tell you that I do care about this community. I ran for office because I do care.
 I didn't run for office because I don't care. I don't donate and give back to the community because I don't care. I can tell you that I was the sponsor of the symbol for nine years. I gave 25% of the entry fee. I can tell you that I did the parade for the last two years because they didn't have a sponsor, and I paid a lot more money than anyone's ever paid to help them because they had a financial issue. I gave the cameras to the children at the hospital the other day because I do care about children. I didn't care to find out who was getting it.
 For you to have said that I don't care about any part of this community would be a total insult and The end total disrespect and incorrect now do I value your your opinion of? What you're talking about as far as CEOs and GOS you have that opinion and you're right I did get a lot of calls, but probably 95% of them were in support and um, but it's not that I
 It's about the support and not support. I'm doing this because I care about the community. I care about long-term debt. I care that El Paso will continue to grow, flourish, and we don't put in debt the community moving forward. So for your statement to say that I don't care about people of different incomes, I was a janitor.
 I didn't have the opportunity that you and a lot of people had to go to college because I was a janitor I had a family that I had to support My dream was to take care of my mom and dad My dream was to make sure that I provided a home for them because they were minimum wage employees and there was nine of us And you know what even then I gave back to our community So I'm very offended by your remarks but I respect you for running for office and wanting to do the things you do but I
 I will ask you never to please disrespect me again that way. You and I have that agreement and if you want to go this way, we can go this way. But I can tell you that was probably I'm not sure if that's a threat. Mayor Lee. No, no, no. I asked you. No, ma'am, it's not. Interpret that to be an insult. I'm very sorry that you feel disrespected. And I also thank you very much for your philanthropy to this community. What I'm saying is that the message that you have spread throughout the city
 that we are the most taxed the most indebted while we are trying to fix our roads I mean I just I just copied a report that was out there I copied a report that was out there and I put it as a backup I am asking council to change the narrative so that we can have a story about building back our community better yes ma'am and I agree with you we need to continue to build our community better and that was my total intent and I will continue to do that but again I
 I am very insulted and disrespected and I cannot believe you would even make the comment you made because I wouldn't say that to you or anyone else. And with that we'll go to our next speaker and I don't even know who he is and I apologize for that. I think it's either Mayor Pro Tem or Representative Salcido. Representative Mayor Pro Tem go ahead.
 I already went one so it would be Representative Salcedo's turn in terms of Okay go ahead that's what I said it's kind of I've gotten multiple texts and it gets out of Totally get it thank you sir Thank you May I address you Mayor I have a few questions for you I'm sorry I didn't hear you ma'am May I address you Yes ma'am please do Mayor thank you for sharing my these questions
 I just want to get clarity on some of the statements you made earlier when I had a spoke. You mentioned that you've been saying since the beginning that you got elected that you were going to veto the budget or the COs. No. I'm not going to veto the budget. I'm going to veto the COs.
 I've always talked about the debt. I've always talked about moving forward and that I don't, that I will not approve debt. I've always, in every conversation, I would say, being transparent, I will always talk about that I don't approve the debt. Now when I did talk about the veto, which was two weeks ago, you're correct. I said that I would like to see some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some
 some things brought forward so we don't have to veto the budget and after meeting with mr cortina's me and that we're really we're under we're over 20 million dollars to really being able to fund the budget properly i did not veto the budget and um so that was the conversation just ran but i've i've always since day one always always always talked about debt i've always talked about making sure that uh we um we don't get in further debt
 And I hear your concerns and I just I had never heard you say that. So I was confused. I didn't I heard you say that you wanted to be. So I was just trying to get clarity on it in particular. And I know that you also mentioned that the staff, the staff was not providing you with options. Like I know that you mentioned that you had a lot of conversations that you were looking for for solutions. Did the staff provide you with solutions? I don't understand your question, ma'am.
 They've tried to make proposals on how to reduce the budget. Absolutely. I don't have access to a lot of the things they do, so I do rely on the financial team. And like I said, they've done a very good job of meeting with me. We did not come up with any different options, but they've done a really good job of meeting with us. I have to rely on them. That's exactly how the city is set up.
 I just wanted to share with you that moving forward, I am here for us to have conversations, too. Specifically, if you want to...
 work on cutting the budget or whatever it is that you're looking to resolve. So I know that you mentioned the staff, but I mean, this is a, it's a city council manager, city manager form of government. So, I mean, having a conversation with us as council members, we would direct the staff on what direction to take. So I'm just letting you know that I am open doors to hear any suggestion and be able to address
 What's your concerns? The next budget coming up next year. And I appreciate that. And I just want to, I do want to make sure that you are aware I was elected citywide. And so I do have the opportunity to speak with the city manager, but you're right. I do not direct them because that's,
 the that's the job of this body so you're correct but we do have the opportunity to meet with them talk to them and give us options that we may be able to bring to this body to make sure that uh we bring them forward so I you were 100 correct on that thank you ma'am and with that Mayor Potem and then I'm going to take the question after that because this is the here are the final one and then we'll take the question sir
 Yeah, Mayor, you know, the word respect has been thrown around this council sometimes and especially today. To be frank, I'm not sure why referencing Representative Hernandez's education is at all relevant or at all appropriate. Okay, I didn't say that. You know what? You need to stop the episode of the short spine because I will turn off your microphone like they used to do to you. I just said I didn't have that opportunity. Okay.
 And she's the one that said that I was against minorities and people of color, which I'm not. She's a first-generation college student. And I enjoy working with her, and I've complimented her many times for her diligence in the work she does. Yes, sir. So, again, I think the word respect has thrown around some time. And just to be completely honest, I have to say that I feel pretty disrespected and blindsided.
 by these actions which really did not share, have the courtesy to form any members of council, the mayor pro tem of this city, of his unilateral action to veto these projects for our community, nor was there an indication that was there based upon the lack of a veto from the COs that were issued in April of this year. And I think what's so frustrating,
 is that I don't think we needed to be in this position. I think this council had what I thought were good faith efforts to actually work together constructively to shape this budget. Even as recently as last week my colleagues brought ideas and suggestions towards this budget in terms of deleting and unfunding projects which was already represented referenced by Representative Anello. Did I agree with them. I didn't but that doesn't really matter because what we did is we had a dialogue in open and in public as a body.
 And these actions by the mayor respectfully offer no such thing. In fact, the mayor didn't speak out one way or the other last week towards removing or funding any of those items that we already referenced. And in fact, over the almost four months of our budget meetings, there hasn't really been anything concrete proposed except in August 17th, Mayor, when you brought up a request for staff to come back and a 2% cut for departments.
 which wasn't discussed or followed up. I don't recall you, Mayor, bringing that up during our budget meeting yesterday about a follow-up about what that 2% cut in departments, which would have been an appropriate place to have had that discussion about that 2% cut.
 Even on Thursday of last week, less than 12 hours before you vetoed, you said at our State of the City address that, quote, quality of life is what I was talking about when we were talking about prior councils, prior commitments, things that we need to continue. We don't need to take credit for any of these things. We just need to make sure we roll them out.
 End quote. And to jeopardize, delay funding, and complete these projects from this CO issuance is, I believe, fiscally an irresponsible and a haphazard approach towards governance when we could have had these conversations last week, last month, or quite frankly over any time over the past year. In fact, this council mayor passed, again, 93 millions of COs, yet there was no veto. And this, unfortunately, I think really points to a lack of planning
 and leadership. And this, I think, is not something that was, again, based upon what I've created or think about when we talk about leadership, but again, Mayor, by your own words. You had a memo when you vetoed certificates of obligation from March 8, 2017, where you stated, quote,
 in relation towards that $44 million of additional debt. I know council did not commit to issue the debt, however, through the veto I issued yesterday, I was giving advance notice of my intent to veto the debt issuance later in the process. I believe I should advise the council and the staff as early as possible when I have strong feelings and will likely exercise my veto right. Not to do so results in a waste of valuable time and resources.
 end quote. And that was from a statement that you had from 2017. And I think what the frustration is, is that I think it's unfortunate because we were having this conversation and you knew we were having this conversation. And in your own words, this is not productive to have these kind of conversations.
 actions and these certificates of obligation continue what this body has done before and what bodies previously have done for over a decade if not longer. It was certificates of obligation for these kind of projects was not all then but some of them was happening before I was in office or mayor before you were in office during your first term. Yet here we are creating division and politicizing this issue.
 Sure, it's a political sugar rush and creates some great headlines, but this veto doesn't fundamentally benefit or push our community forward by arbitrarily vetoing these projects, which again, would not actually impact our tax rate, as we've heard over and over again, but actually damages the public trust.
 And so with that, I can't support this. I wish that we were having these conversations. I wish I could hear anything of actual substance about which projects that the mayor would like to propose to defund or cut.
 and to hear about concrete solutions towards funding it. I don't hear that right now. And with costs associated towards projects in some of the most vulnerable and neglected parts of our city, I cannot in good conscience as an El Pasoan and as an American possibly see to maintain this veto when it puts in jeopardy so many projects that are important to some of the most underserved parts of our community.
 And with that, I yield my time. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm going to disagree with you because I have great leadership skills, and that's why 80% of the people in El Paso voted for me. And I will continue to have the leadership skills that were provided for me by my parents, my mom and dad that helped me through my years, the tough years of my life,
 So I want to thank you for that though and I can tell you that you would have heard on Thursday if you'd shown up to the Review agenda review this week or the prior weeks that you've not shown up to them because the mayor pro tem and the mayor Have meetings with the city manager and their staff and you were not attended at it and we did have that conversation so I am so I do want to I do want to tell you that I
 I do appreciate everyone's comments. I appreciate the council, and you're right. We need to work together, and we need to move forward. And I will tell you that all the wrongs that have happened over the years, and you're saying it's been going on and on and on, makes it correct today? I don't think so. And with that, Ms. Prine, I'll call the question. Yes, ma'am. Go ahead. You'd like to call the question? Yes, ma'am. So just before calling the question, I'll remind council that,
 Per the charter, to overwrite the mayor's veto, 3 fourths of all representatives must vote in favor of the returned ordinance or resolution in which event the adopted ordinance or resolution shall become law. So 3 fourths of all representatives would be sixth. So there is a motion and a second to overwrite the mayor's veto of the ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas Combination Tax and Revenue Certificates of Obligation Series 2021C.
 On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsman. And to vote yes and affirmative is to override the veto? That is correct, sir. I vote aye. Representative Anello? Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Rodriguez? No. Rivera? Yes. DeZarraga?
 And the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Mayor Pro Tem Shortspine, Representatives Anelo Hernandez-Salcido, Rivera-Lizarraga voting aye, Representatives Molinar-Rodriguez voting nay. The motion does pass. And, Council, I thank you and everyone that called in, but I can tell you that...
 I respect the process and there's no one in this city or in this council that cares more about our community And that's me and I'll continue to do that moving forward and I thank you for allowing the process to go through So thank you all and with that. I think we tabled our item 18 representative on this I just want to delete the item
 Mrs. Prine, could you give me the... May we please have a motion to take item 18 from the table? I need to take that item from the table. Second. There's a motion and a second to remove from the table item number 18. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Okay, we're back on item 18. And this is discussion in action to overwrite the mayor's veto of the resolution adopting the FY 2021-2022 budget.
 Thank you, Mrs. Prine. Based on the information from our city manager and CFO, and those questions have been answered in the previous item, I move to delete item 18. Second. There is a motion and a second to delete item number 18. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Aye. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Liz Arraga.
 Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, may we recess until noon for public comment? It's five minutes from now, so you want to do that? Five minute recess? Yes. Yes, sir. We have a motion to recess for five minutes. Motion to recess. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting for five minutes. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1149 a.m. Thank you. See you all in a week.
 We have a quorum miss prime. Yes, we do cancel me. We have a motion to reconvene. I think I'm on mute Everyone's on mute probably us too. Can you guys hear us? Can you hear us? We can't can we have a motion that come out of? recess There's a motion and a second to reconvene the City Council meeting all in favor. All right anyone opposed
 The city council is back in session at 12.04 p.m. We now go to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is the local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council.
 All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon, we had nine citizens sign up to speak during call to the public. The first person is Ms. Paula Riva-Deneguera.
 and her topic is express appreciation to city council for their support of ramon herrera and el paso animal services whose programs have been a role model for similar programs here in central texas good afternoon ma'am star six to unmute your telephone good afternoon ma'am you have three minutes hello yes ma'am
 Okay, you can hear me. Thank you so much for allowing me to speak today. Like you said, my name is Dr. Paula Rita-Dinera. I'm from Waco, Texas, and I had the pleasure to connect with your animal services team this year, so I just wanted to chat with you about that. As an animal welfare professional, I'm always looking at how other organizations are doing things differently or more efficiently to save more animals' lives.
 So when I learned about the incredible programs in El Paso and what you all have accomplished, I was blown away and I just had to find out more. So I first reached out to your director, Ramon Herrera, to ask about your resource rover program that not only serves foster families, but more importantly, serves parts of the communities that need help but are not necessarily reaching out for assistance. So we know you can offer people services all day long, but if they have to go to those services themselves, they're less likely to take advantage of them.
 So bringing those services to them through ResourceRover is nothing short of brilliant. And Mr. Herrera was very helpful in answering all of my questions so I could propose a similar program in my community. And I was also intrigued by your pet finder map, so I wanted to give kudos to your IT department for collaborating with Animal Services to create this really unique tool that makes finding a loss.
 pet easier for families. I can only imagine the positive impact it's had on your return to owner numbers and the positive effect for families who have lost their pets. So again, Mr. Herrera connected us with El Paso personnel who are able to help us understand how to create a similar map for our community.
 And then most recently, I connected with Mr. Herrera to ask about transporting animals to rescues up north, since he's been incredibly successful with this. And his willingness to share information and his contacts allowed us to send 35 at-risk animals from our shelter to safety.
 So it's not an exaggeration to say that El Paso is saving animals' lives all the way over here in Central Texas. So I really just wanted to say thank you today because this type of genuine collaboration and innovative thinking is not something that's easily accomplished in animal welfare and even less so across cities. El Paso really serves as an example for other cities who want to strive to do better for their animals and their community.
 And it's clear that your leadership at City Council is the reason why El Paso is doing amazing things. So please keep it up. I hope other city councils in Texas will see El Paso for the leader that it is in animal sheltering and that they'll follow suit.
 So you may not have realized it until now, but your support of animal services extends far beyond El Paso. You're helping others across the state and the country to save lives, and I believe you are all quite fortunate to have Mr. Herrera in your corner, and I know I'm really grateful to have him in mine. So thank you again, and please continue to support your animal shelter.
 Thank you. And the next speaker in the queue is Ms. Gloria Calderon. Her topic is animal shelter. Good afternoon, Ms. Calderon. Star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon, Ms. Calderon. Good afternoon. Can you hear me?
 Well, first and foremost, thank you to all of our city council and the mayor for the excellent work you all are doing and the leadership. I have been volunteering with these shelters since 2017, primarily through their foster program, but I have volunteered there in different capacities.
 And as Dr. Paula was saying, the services that the animal shelter has been providing has been helping tremendously. One of the programs that I have participated in repeatedly is the trap and release program. I live behind a shopping center, so there was a time where I was having
 I mean up to 17 stray cats in my front yard. My neighbors even called and complained to the city about all the quote unquote cats I had, which none of which were my cats. So in the effort with the trap and release, it has helped really deter the feral cats in our neighborhood in particular.
 The other thing is having volunteered at the shelter, I have noticed...
 the need for funding there due to just the lack of resources. Imagine going to the doctor and you needing an x-ray, and then the doctor letting you know that they can't do an x-ray because they don't have access to an x-ray machine. And that has happened to some of the animals that I have trapped in the trap and release program.
 before they needed x-rays. And I was very surprised to find out that with the city of our capacity and with the type of leadership, the excellent leadership that we have, to find out that we don't have an x-ray machine at the shelter. And the vet techs then are limited to really their own devices to try to get adequate care for all of these animals.
 The other thing that I would like the City Council to consider when it comes to the funding and resources to the shelter is
 The city provides or the shelter provides us fosters with all of the necessary things needed to foster. For example, right now I'm fostering a mom and her litter of four. So they provide me with the food for the mom, the food for the kittens once the mom is done nursing, and with the cat litter. Okay.
 So right now there's an approximately two months waiting list for these animals to get spayed or neutered, which means they can't get adopted in that time frame. Thank you, Ms. Calderon. All right. Thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three-minute limit. Thank you. We'll move on to Mr. Ken Margario. Thank you. Mr. Ken Margario, star six, please. Mr. Ken Margario, star six, please, to unmute your telephone.
 Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Hello, this is Ken Margerio. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council members. I wanted to talk today on behalf of animal welfare in El Paso and our current situation. I know it's budget time, and I'm also aware that some of the intended improvements
 we hope to make in 2021 and animal services are being considered under certificates of obligation. I certainly understand this is an area where the city should proceed with caution. However, 2020 and 2021 have created some serious strategic as well as management issues in animal welfare. There are new obstacles that we are facing as a community and as a nation.
 Due to the pandemic, pet adoptions are down 20% nationally. People are not adopting as many animals, primarily due to financial concerns, less mobility to go places, and overall health concerns and uncertainty. There are staff shortages in 87% of the shelters across the nation.
 The federal eviction moratorium that was in place with the extension denied by the Supreme Court is also anticipated to unleash unprecedented numbers of animals in many communities. 12% of renters in El Paso will potentially be impacted by this. In short, this equates to over 20,000 animals that could be added to intake.
 Municipal shelters are turning more and more to fosters to take in the overflow, but that's not a permanent or final solution. They're still on the list that needs to be adopted. Less adoptions lead to shelter overcrowding and a greater need for managed intake programs, but this has created some frustration within communities and more animals on the street.
 In August, Animal Services has more aggressively opened up the gates at the shelter, which has increased intake by 16%. The problem is we now have more coming in and no clear way to get them out. Adoptions are down, but intakes are not. Shelter overcrowding always culminates in more euthanasia and disease due to space and overcrowding and consequently lower live release. We need renovations.
 to provide more usable space, equipment, and adequate staff at DAS to manage the current state. And we need better medical equipment options to treat animals. Now is not the time to financially back away from our program. We've come a long way since 2016 at 34% to three years consecutive at 87% live release. We've saved over 100,000 animals in our city shelter.
 Before the pandemic, we were well on our way to no kill. I believe we must continue this battle in spite of some difficult times ahead. Thank you, Mr. Margerio. Thank you, sir. You've reached the three minutes. The next speaker is Ms. Marcela Salido. Ms. Marcela Salido or Leann Wells or Marcia Margerio? Marcela Salido, Leann Wells, Marcia Margerio, Marlo Holguin, Miguel Angel Escoto,
 Carlos Santos if any of you are in the queue star six Marcella Salido Leanne Wells Marsha, Margerio Marlon Me de la Angeles Cotto Carlos Santos if you're in the queue star six place mayor I don't see anyone coming forward and this concludes call to the public Thank you, and I'd like to thank everyone that took their time to call in today and with that we'll conclude it and I
 Go to the agenda. Thank you, sir We're on item on page 9 item number 20 and this is an update on the status of the lost dog and nap Land conservation easement. Good afternoon. This is Janae with the frontera land alliance The lost properties were recently preserved or the conservation easement and
 In order to ensure these properties remain safe for public use and maintain their conservation values, a person will be hired to quickly identify problems and help educate the public about proper trail use and surrounding habitat.
 At this time, at this type of practice has not been implemented in El Paso. The Frontera Land Alliance, the Border Mountain Bike Association, and the Franklin Mountains Wilderness Coalition are in the process to hire with their funds from these three organizations an open space lands manager to help oversee a pilot program for lost dog and NAP land.
 The successful candidate will be supervised by Frontier's executive director. This pilot program will show how such a position can function in El Paso as to help manage dedicated open space lands used for public recreation.
 Overall goals for the new program are to safeguard natural and cultural features, improve wildlife habitat and habitat connectivity, protect the health of our regional watershed, provide well-maintained and safe trails for biking, walking, and running that contribute to the local economy, and educate the community about the value of our desert. A key component of this will be the education effort.
 Frontera will continue to monitor the properties, but we're not able to enforce violations. For this to be successful program, the city will need to provide an avenue through which violators can be cited. But to assist with this, we have gone door to door to neighbors at NAP land and Lost Dog and left a letter sharing with them who the owners of the land are, what Frontera's role is, and if they have an emergency to call 911
 for illegal dumping, they can contact the city at 311 and of course notify Frontera and we will do what we can to assist. We are in the process of creating subcommittees for NAP and Lost Dog. These subcommittees will assist a new hiree that would be coming on in November for the open space lands manager position. We will work with volunteer groups
 to assist with trail work and habitat management and education outreach. We will be present at the trails to help share or reteach people how to pick up after their dog and use them and be courteous. And within six months to a year, we're hoping
 that the city or the El Paso Water would pick up this program and continue with it or would contract with Frontera or a similar nonprofit to manage the position into the future. And the PowerPoint just came up and these are some beautiful pictures, the yellow poppies, that one is at NAPLAND and the one beside it is Lost Dog.
 We are excited to work with the public on this, to work with other agencies to ensure that these beautiful properties that you all worked to protect remain as they are and connect people to nature. As always, standing offer, anybody wants to hike out at these properties, we'd love to take you anytime. And that's the update for right now. So if you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them.
 Thank you for your presentation. There's I don't see any questions. Is there somebody, Mayor Pro Tem? Go ahead. Sorry. No, go ahead. My trigger fingers are a little warm right now. I apologize. It's nice to see you. Janae, how are you? Good. Thank you. I might take you up on one of those offers when it's just a little bit cooler. On one of those guided hikes. It's amazing how green everything is right now.
 especially the mountain. It's just, I don't think I've ever remembered being alive and seeing it this green, especially on the Northeast. So Joe, you have a lot to be proud of. You have the greenest mountains of all of El Paso County. So congratulations in Mazel Tov for that. I did have a question relating towards this position. Why is it that,
 Why is it that Frontera is taking the lead on that? And then, and I don't know if this is a question for you or for staff, but I remember when we placed the conservation easement language,
 there was a conversation about El Paso Water coming back with their open space land management plan. And we did have some conversation in open session about looking at identifying some positions as the dual water, stormwater open space funds is used for maintenance of open space as well. So I'm just kind of curious if you can chime in with a little bit of that and if there's anything from staff as well.
 I'm guessing staff will be better at addressing that. I emailed and talked with Mr. Galoo's attorney, and then he and I shared a couple emails and decided this was a good way to get started and have it started quickly. And then moving forward, we could send...
 the proposed cost if it wishes to stay with Frontera for oversight of the properties in the future. And that's about all I know, but Mr. Blue would be the one I would ask.
 Mayor Pruntemps, Sam Rodriguez, City of Gine. I'm not sure if anybody from El Paso Water is on the call or not, but part of when we got the direction from City Council to proceed for El Paso Water to come back with a management or a plan on how they're gonna manage, Bronteira did step up and I wanna thank Gine and your board as well to provide a sample of what that management could look like to El Paso Water. And this is the presentation that you were able to work together with El Paso Water
 and we'll definitely follow Mayor Fulton with El Paso Water to see where they're at from a long-term management plan perspective. I would give you an emoji of a hand clap right now, Sam and Janae, but I've been told by our city clerk that that is not an appropriate action for council during council meetings. So do you have an idea a little bit more, maybe it's in the presentation, about what this position actually entails and the sort of costs?
 Yes, so I can share that we're anticipating all in the position because Frontier is a nonprofit. We don't offer insurance and insurance.
 medical retirement. I mean, that was in the job announcement that was shared. And so it's about $30,000 total with taxes and fees and everything. The position, the subcommittees I mentioned, they will be the representatives of those two districts. There'll be separate committees. And so they will work with this open space person. And
 identifying signage, looking at trails. Also on that committee will be the landowners, which will be water utilities in the city, and the trail users. There are different users at the different sides of the property, so that's what it will be. And then they will...
 we'll end up walking it at some point and going through, we're gonna look at habitat management, education's a big component. We keep hearing that people are not respecting the trails and staying on their trails and making new ones. And so a lot of that is what they're gonna end up addressing and working with and building better and stronger collaborations between existing groups that do a great job out there already. Do you, is there an education or experience requirement for the position?
 Just environmental would be good. It's pretty broad and so we do have some experts around that can assist in training. The deadline is the end of September and so we wanted to give ample time and we've shared it far and wide across different groups trying to attract a lot of interesting people that may be interested in trail work.
 Yeah, I mean, I think it's for some folks in our community would be nothing less than a dream job to be able to go in there and maintain and observe and help to preserve and really celebrate our mountains and our open spaces. We have the most beautiful part of the Chihuahuan Desert, in my humble opinion. Speaking a little bit about the composition of these NAPLAND and LOSDOG subcommittees, you know, we have a variety of different sort of
 committees that the city has. Some have some sort of professional or personal background, especially with some of the ones related towards construction and that sort of thing. And just kind of curious sort of how you anticipate the breakup, the composition of these subcommittees and
 as well as the sort of city's involvement. Is OSAP gonna be connected, parks and rec, CID departments, that sort of thing.
 Yes, of course. The more the merrier to have the expertise involved and especially being transparent with what's going on out there. We'll make sure the easement terms are being followed. Joe Garaby assisted with writing the open space position. Linda, the president of the Borderland Mountain Biking Association.
 She assisted as well and they're on the hiring committee. So we're involving the people at that level and then it just, the committees will be larger and they'd meet three times a year, maybe four, just depending on what's needed. But yeah, all the expertise are more than welcome. Okay.
 Well, I hope you'll be able to work with Sam or some of the other folks who identify maybe what might make the most sense. And I do think sometimes the best example of leadership is by showing, not saying. And so I think that by showing the example of what this position could look like,
 what it could reflect towards El Paso Water, I think is maybe the best way forward. Again, pilot program that can show what this position could look like both to the community and also El Paso Water, which is tasked
 as per their charter and the definition and usage of the dual water open space storm water funds for management of open spaces. So I really want to thank you again and thank city staff for doing this, and thank you for your leadership on this issue. Thank you. And with that, we have no thank you for the presentation. And I look forward to going out there also.
 With that, we have no other questions. Ms. Prine? Yes, sir, that brings us to the first reading of ordinances beginning on page 10. These are items 21 to 29. May we have a motion on the first reading of ordinances? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 21 to 29. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes.
 Aye. Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizardo? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is on page 13. This is item number 30, and this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-1233 Pavo Real Recreation Center improvements to Grayson Engineering and Construction, Inc. Move to approve.
 There's a motion and a second to approve item number 30. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Representative Anelo? Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, I'm curious, I had a follow up question on item 20, I know that we've sort of gone down. I'm just wondering if we could revisit it really quick.
 If you don't mind, Mayor Pro Tem, if you don't mind texting me, I would appreciate it so I can give you the floor. But, yes, do you have a motion to revisit item 20? Can we make a motion? I'd like to make a motion to revisit item 20. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconsider item number 20 on that motion. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The motion passes. We're back on item number 20, which is an update on the status of the Lost Dog and NAPLAN Conservation East. Mayor Pro Tem?
 Again, my apologies, Mayor. No, go ahead. So I'm just curious, I don't know if this is for Sam, for Ms. Bryan, or for our city attorney. I'm just curious about the language that we had passed back when we finalized the conservation easements for Lostog and NAPLAN, because we did add that language
 for the water utility to return back with their land management plan. And I'm just curious, when did we pass that and how many days did we give the utility to come to return this to Council with an update concerning their land management for open space? Yes, we have to go back and verify, but I believe it was May of this year that we approved the conservation easements and we, based on the motion that was passed,
 It was a 60-day turnaround, so PSB should have come back in July timeframe. The presentation was updated today with Frontier Land Alliance. Is there any ability to inquire when we're going to get that presentation? I don't know if we have... Marilisa, I know that you preside on the PSB board, but this is an important item for our...
 our communities are just kind of wondering you know a little bit probably close to 120 days at this point right Sam yes thank you I appreciate that thanks again thank you representative Molinari I'm sorry go ahead yes sir
 Do we have a motion to approve this item? There's no action on item 20 mayor if we can move on to item 31 on page 14 This is discussion in action on the request that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue a purchase order to texas new mexico newspaper llc el paso times Rep. Melinor. Thank you mayor a couple of questions. Um the contract variance
 Specifically States increase average from two dollars and sixty two cents to four dollars and eighty five cents per line Which represents an eighty five point eleven percent increase for the same services And I understand we're living in a digital world today, but having Sometimes they'll get into hard copy version of the past what times and
 Can Mr. Collins explain, is this for a digital format or is this for the hard copy format? Good afternoon. This is Claudia Garcia with the purchasing and strategic sourcing department. So this is not for the digital version. It is just for the actual newspaper. So we have to comply with the code requirements and this is one of them that we have to advertise on the newspaper.
 Okay. And besides El Paso Times, are we advertising in other publications that are current in the El Paso region? No, this is the only one that meets the requirements under those codes. Okay. And if you could give us just a ballpark figure for a monthly posting, how often does this happen? Twice a week, six times a month or something like that?
 The advertisement of our solicitations, it happens every week. It depends on the solicitations we're advertising. So the cost varies depending on the number of advertisements we are doing in the newspaper. Doing in the newspaper. Okay. Ms. Garcia, last question. What is the, what would you consider to be an average length or width for an average posting for the El Paso Times that we would post? In other words, is it,
 50 lines, 120 lines, or what would you say? If you know. I don't have that information with me right now, but I can give you that information. We do have an average, so I can say it ranges between 500 and 700 per notice. So if we went over that, we would still get charged an additional fee or sum, correct? Yes, because they charge per line.
 All right. Thank you very much. I appreciate your cooperation. That's all, Mayor. Thank you. Do we have a motion on this? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Lizardaga, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve Item 31. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthine. Yep. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Representative Lizardaga?
 Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. We now go to item number 32. This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-1263, 2021 Thermoplastic Striping to Pavement Marking LLC, DBA PMI Pavement Marking LLC. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 32. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine.
 Yeah. Representative Vanello. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 There's a motion made by Representative Lizárraga, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item 33. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Yes. Representative Anello. Aye. Hernandez. Yes. Molinar. Aye. Salcido. Aye. Rodriguez. Yes. Rivera. Yes. Lizárraga. Aye.
 Item number 34 is presentation and discussion by the City Attorney's Office providing information on the Firearm Carry Act of 2021, House Bill number 1927. Good morning members of Council, Carla Niemann for the record. At the request of Council we put together a presentation on the Firearm Carry Act which will be presented by Roberta Brito in my office. Thank you, Roberta. Thank you, Carla.
 Good afternoon, Council. This is Roberta Frito, Assistant City Attorney. Council has requested a municipal overview of Texas House Bill 1927. Next slide. I'd like to start with a quick summary of the current gun licensing requirements. Currently, a license is required to carry handguns. Licensing requires a background check and proof of completion of a gun use and safety class. However, currently, there is no licensing requirement for long guns, which are rifles and shotguns.
 This means that generally long guns can be carried in public without a license. Next slide. So as you know, HB 1927 is titled the Firearm Carry Act of 2021, and it goes into effect tomorrow, September 1st. With the passing of HB 1927, Texas becomes the 21st state to allow permitless carry.
 Basically, 1927 allows most Texans over the age of 21 to carry a handgun, concealed or openly in a holster, without a license. I say most Texans because some people will not be eligible to carry without a license. For example, a person is ineligible if they have been convicted in the last five years of certain crimes. Crimes like assault causing bodily injury, deadly or disorderly conduct involving a firearm, or making terroristic threats.
 The Federal Gun Control Act will also make some people ineligible. Next slide, please. So does HB 1927 abolish license carry? The answer is no. License carry will still exist for reasons of state reciprocity, meaning if you're a Texan and you want to carry your gun in another state, you will most likely need a license. Also, having a license will make it easier to purchase a gun through a licensed dealer.
 At a prior council meeting, there was a question about accessibility to gun safety courses after HB 1927. After 1927, gun safety courses will still exist, both in person and online. And 1927 actually requires the Department of Public Safety to develop an online firearm safety course, which will be accessible and free to the public. Also, background checks will still be required to purchase firearms from licensed dealers. Next slide, please.
 HB 1927 revises multiple existing state laws. As you can see, eight state codes have been affected by 1927. It's a very comprehensive bill with a lot of moving parts. Next slide.
 In response to 1927, the city has reviewed the bill to determine what changes have been made to gun carry laws on municipal property. We have also reviewed city signage to ensure compliance with the new law, taken steps to update the city code, and reviewed city policies to make sure we are in compliance with 1927. Next slide.
 To determine gun carry laws on municipal property post-1927, we looked at the Texas Penal Code Section 4603 and whether there have been any changes. Section 4603 prohibits any firearms, licensed or unlicensed, in the following city facilities. Courts and offices used by the courts, no change under 1927. Secured areas of the airport, no change.
 polling places on election days or during early voting. Again, no change. Next slide. Section 4603 also prohibits firearms in a room where a meeting subject to the Open Meetings Act is occurring. There's no change to this under 1927, but I'd like to point out that the prohibition is against guns in rooms, not guns in buildings. So guns are not permitted in the entire building, just in specific rooms where an open meeting is occurring.
 Also, the city must post certain signage to prohibit licensed guns in open meetings, although no sign is required to prohibit unlicensed guns. Finally, 4603 also prohibits firearms at the school or any place where there is a school-sponsored event.
 As you can see, this is a prohibition addressing schools, not city buildings, but often schools sponsor events at city facilities, for example, at the zoo or the museums. So if a school sponsored event is happening at a city facility, then firearms are not allowed. This is not a change under 1927. Carrying a firearm in violation of 4603 is a third degree felony, punishable by two to ten years, and a fine of up to $10,000.
 Next slide, please. In addition to prohibitions under 4603, the City can also prohibit guns under other laws. For example, the City can prohibit guns in secured, non-public areas of law enforcement facilities. For licensed guns, the Texas Government Code permits cities to prohibit guns at law enforcement facilities by posting a sign and providing a gun locker. This is not a new law. No change.
 For unlicensed guns, the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure permits cities to prohibit guns at law enforcement facilities without a sign as long as a gun locker is provided. This is a change to the law post-1927, and it is a little confusing. The city must post a sign for licensed guns, but the city is not required to post a sign for unlicensed guns.
 Also, under the Texas Government Code, guns can also be prohibited at a place of employment if the employer prohibits guns. This prohibition includes a local government employer. No change here. Next slide, please. We've also reviewed the city signage concerning guns at city facilities. All the existing signage for licensed carry remains the same. It's all still valid because licensed carry still exists.
 For unlicensed carry, signs may be posted stating that firearms are prohibited in certain municipal areas pursuant to 4603. Again, we're talking about courts, TOMA meeting rooms, secured areas of the airport and polling places, and city facilities if a school-sponsored event is happening there. And, of course, we have the sign needed for licensed guns at law enforcement facilities. Next slide, please.
 We are also working on updating the City Code based on HB 1927, specifically Chapter 10 and Chapter 13. And you will be hearing more about these changes after this presentation. Next slide. Regarding City employees, Chapter 411 of the Government Code allows local governments to prohibit employees from having guns at work. And the City's HR policy does that. City employees are expressly prohibited from having guns at work. There's no change here.
 Also, elected officials have no special right to carry guns into open meetings or to any other prohibited place. There's no change here either. Next slide. So earlier in slides 7 and 8, I went over municipal facilities that are prohibited places under Penal Code 4603, namely courts, airport, telemeetings, and polling places. But on the next couple of slides, I've listed all the places, municipal or not, where guns are prohibited under 4603.
 I'd like to run through the list so you can have the information, but I want to be clear that some of the prohibitions have exceptions and some require posting a sign. Under Penal Code 4603, guns are prohibited at a school or any place where school-sponsored activity is occurring, a polling place on election day or during early voting, a court or offices used by the court, a racetrack, a secured area of the airport,
 A thousand feet from the place where next execution is set to occur. A business that derives 51% or more of its income from alcohol sales. Next slide. 4603 also prohibits guns at a place where a high school, collegiate, or professional sporting event or interscholastic event is taking place. A correctional facility, a civil commitment facility,
 Hospitals or nursing homes licensed under the Health and Safety Code. Mental hospitals as defined in the Health and Safety Code. An amusement park, which is very narrowly defined in 4603, and must be in a county with more than a million people and must encompass 75 acres or more. And finally, rooms where Toma meetings are occurring. Next slide. That concludes my presentation. Are there any questions?
 Yes, thank you for the presentation. Very informative. We do have Mayor Pro Tem followed by Representative Molinar.
 Um, first and foremost, I want to, I want to thank Representative Molinar for putting this item up on the agenda, um, and for taking the time and consideration to place this there so that we can get this update, um, and, and make sure that we're well versed, um, in these significant changes to state law. So I do want to thank and applaud Representative Molinar for placing this item on the agenda last week.
 Obviously, I probably have some issues with this as policy, but that doesn't mean or excuse us as a body not doing what we can to educate ourselves and educate the public. So again, thank you, Representative Molinar. If we could go back to slide 14, Ms. Burrito, that to me seems those slides seem to be, when it comes down to it, kind of the meat and potatoes of it all. So help us understand
 public meeting rooms and TOMA. So does that mean that somebody can go to the City Council Chambers with a gun as per the new state law? No, that law has not changed. It's always been, 4603 has always prohibited guns licensed or unlicensed. The way it reads it says firearms. It doesn't make the specification for licensed or unlicensed.
 It just says firearms. So that would include licensed and unlicensed guns. And no, firearms are not allowed in TOMA meetings. That's true for unlicensed guns, whether or not there's a sign. For licensed guns, we do need to post a sign. And how would that be enforced? Absolutely.
 I think that when I think you have to think about council days and also the security in the building, because I don't know for sure, but on council days, we usually have a line at the at the front and people go through a one of those security checkpoints, I guess you'd say. And I think there they check for guns. And also, if that somehow the gun does get by that area,
 and let's say someone has a concealed weapon and goes and sits down in a TOMA meeting, they can be just told that they cannot be in there if they somehow miss the sign. Okay. So help us understand what would be some of these rooms in terms of TOMA if we're meeting with a neighborhood association or representatives from a neighborhood association or meeting in a conference room at City Hall or individual office.
 According to the new state law, are those people allowed to carry firearms, either licensed or unlicensed, inside our offices and conference rooms? The prohibition is only against...
 guns in rooms where there's a TOMA meeting going on. And it says very clearly that there has to be the proper notice for a TOMA meeting. So as you know, that's where, you know, there is the announcement 72 days ahead of time of the meeting and the agenda posted. Yes. So that's the prohibition. Only those rooms. So somebody can show up with a licensed or unlicensed gun.
 in our City Council offices, if we're having a meeting with them? Yes, under 46.03, yes. There's no prohibition. Okay, then this is a question, I don't know if this is PD or I don't know who really, but
 We are alerted when, you know, if there's somebody to come into one of our offices for a meeting and, you know, I'll pretty much take a meeting with anybody that wants to take the time to come to City Hall and schedule a meeting. There's no ability for us to meet with this person. Is there an ability for us to...
 the security check in at the city for them to announce that they have a fire weapon on them and we're able to meet them in public or in the city council chambers, if that's the case, or in a public venue. I'm sorry, Representative, I don't have an answer to that. You might be right that that could be a PD question or whoever- Maybe a security process or policy. I don't know if city manager or who can sort of address that,
 you know, with the sort of language and discourse and rhetoric that we're, you know, all sort of seeing and hearing. And, you know, people from a variety of different backgrounds being relatively...
 Well, it's not going to go into it, but, you know, obviously temperatures arise. So it would be great, City Manager, if we can develop some sort of policy or at least protocol in terms of how security identifies who's coming in for city for city for meetings with our individual city council meetings.
 And I don't know if the law allows them to require to identify if they are carrying a concealed or unconcealed weapon or a licensed or unlicensed weapon. And it would be ideal if there is a situation where a constituent we're meeting with does have a weapon on them, licensed or unlicensed, concealed or unconcealed, that there's some protocol in place where we're able to meet with them in a public space in City Hall with
 I'm just concerned about appropriate security concerns. I know that the Mayor, when he tends to travel sometimes in City Hall, he tends to have, you know, our police officer with him. It's nothing new. Previous Mayors have had that as well.
 you know, with sort of rise in the rhetoric that we see, what there is in place to also look at protecting the body and us being able to fulfill our duty, meeting with the public, meeting with constituents in a way that is safe and responsible for all parties involved. I don't know, City Manager, if there's been any discussions like that so far.
 Yes, sir. And we can get with the city attorney. And if the council wishes, we can come back to the full council like in a work session setting and share with you those kinds of policy adjustments. And we can send that to you ahead of time, too, before that kind of meeting takes place.
 I would also, yeah, I mean, I also think to also be understood a little bit better how that relates towards our community meetings, you know, like, for example, you know, sometimes we have community meetings at the different regional command centers in their public meeting rooms. Sometimes we have it at different restaurants.
 what just understanding what the law actually states and then what we think in terms of policy ideas or suggestions that can make sure that again, not just us are safe, but also those other members of the public who are going to a community meeting at Village Inn
 other village in is leaving um but at a village in or at a community center um knowing that they feel safe as well um as well so just in terms of thinking about things to follow follow up with that could be brought back again i'm only one voice so i'd like to hear from the rest of uh
 the body as well in terms of what direction or ideas that they have as well. I want to just respectfully respond to a couple other questions. The length or distance from a polling place, item 14, how is that sort of defined? I know that there's, for example, there's clear electioneering laws about how many
 hundreds of feet or whatever you can have from a polling entrance so how does the how does the state define that length of distance from a polling place where you can carry a license or unlicensed weapon it's only the building so there are other um
 There was another prohibition that you might have picked up on, which is one for a thousand feet within within a thousand feet of that one for within a thousand feet of where an execution is going to occur. But for polling places, there is not that provision of a thousand feet within the polling place. It's simply the polling place that so that would be the building. So if you're not electioneering, but you're carrying a
 And then on AR 15, you can stand at the doors of a polling location as long as you're not, you don't have a t-shirt on for a candidate or anything as the law currently reads. I'd like to know more about the facts before I say yes, you can. That's fine. I think that would be another thing to get further clarification is polling places. And then the other two is, and it's on slide 14.
 the guns at an establishment that has a 51% sales of alcohol. So essentially what the law states is it still would ban firearms at bars. Yes, that's correct. Okay, I see city attorneys virtual hand being raised. I didn't know Ms. Neiman if you had anything.
 Thank you, Representative Schwartzbein. There is another presentation that you all will be receiving for an amendment to Title 10 that will address some of your questions in regard to putting people on notice when they enter a building if they're carrying a weapon. So some of it is folded in in the other amendments that you will be considering. That will shed further light into how this is going to unfold and be implemented.
 Okay, I think that would be great. And I don't know, just based upon the conversation that we had earlier today, I mean, I've been receiving threats, so it would be ideal to have this conversation sooner than later brought back to council. Thank you. Representative Molinar.
 Thank you, ma'am. I have a little delay there on my speaker. Either way, I'd like to thank, publicly acknowledge, City Attorney Carla Neiman, her staff, Ms. Roberta A. Brito. Thank you for your hard work in this presentation. If you could go back to slide three, I believe it is on the presentation as well. I'm not controlling the presentation, so we could ask IT to go back to slide three.
 Okay, yes, thank you very much. So at the very bottom where it says the Federal Gun Control Act also makes some people ineligible. But then I guess, let's go back to the ineligible if convicted in the last five years. Is that information you received or researched? Is that through the Violence Against Women's Act, the federal law? The Federal Gun Control Act? No, where it says ineligible if convicted in the last five years committing certain crimes, assault, causing bodily injury.
 You know, I'm not sure if it's under the BALA. I always call it BALA or not. I saw that I saw it within the amendment language of HB 1927 itself, just listing HB 1927.
 the different crimes. Right. Okay. Yes, and you're absolutely correct. Everybody calls it VAWA, but for the courtesy of the public, the Violence Against Women's Act, the federal law. And so I know when you're convicted of family violence cases, you're prohibited from carrying a firearm and even ammunition, but it does not list five years. So I was curious to know where the five years came from. Directly from the Act, from HB 1927.
 Well, for this one, directly from HB 1927, it actually says within the five years. Okay. Thank you. And like I said, thank you very much. You're welcome. City Attorney, Assistant City Attorney, Representative Schwarzman, thank you very much for those kind comments. That's all I have. Thank you, Representative Molinar. Representative Rivera? Thank you, Mayor. I, too, have to...
 Thank my colleague, Representative Molinaud, for placing this item on the agenda so that people can be made aware of the Amelis-Gondak. Ms. Brito, I've got a question for you. I know you did your presentation and you just specifically mentioned signage for city facilities and such, but those signages also apply to privately owned businesses as well, don't they? Do they still remain the same or no?
 No, my presentation does not touch on privately owned businesses. And I did focus primarily and almost exclusively on municipal buildings. So I could not speak on private businesses. Okay then, I'll wait for the reserve my question. All right, I can tell you that- Thank you so much though. You're welcome. The 4603 places though, I think that only a couple of them would be
 private the bar for example would be a private place so that we did sort of touch on that and also a racetrack would probably be a private place so as far as those are concerned they would have the same prohibitions under 4603 but wouldn't it also if they walk into the city so they have to identify themselves the fact that they're carrying a weapon and
 I focused on HB 1927 and that language is not under 1927. So I don't have an answer for you on whether a person must reveal that they're carrying a gun when they walk into a municipal building. Okay, thank you. Even when they did the carry, the license permit, lessons carried, they were instructed to do so. But I'll ask Chief Zina's silver button. Thank you so much, ma'am. Sorry. You're welcome.
 Thank you representative Rivera. Thank you mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Miss Brio with them with that. There's no additional questions We'll go to item number 35 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance amending titled 10.12 point zero two zero firearms carrying prohibited Tears from legal
 It's just a one-page presentation. I can explain it to you. IT doesn't have the presentation. It's a companion item to HB 1927. We're amending our municipal code, which already exists under Title 10.12020, which is firearms carrying prohibited, and all we're doing is
 is adding in that the city manager or his designee is going to be authorized to place the permit of signs. We're adding in 4603, which we've already explained to you, and we're adding in the language that the firearm is either concealed or openly carried. Those are the prohibitions that we're adding to the signage for city buildings or city-owned property or anything that's controlled, operated, used, or managed by the city.
 And Mr. Rivera, in response to your question about whether or not they have to make an announcement that they're carrying, I don't have that information from Hospital 1927. We'd have to go back and do a little bit more research on that. Thank you, Madam Mosco, for the privately owned businesses that if we can have that answer. Thank you. Thank you so much. Will do. Never mind that request, sir. Mayor, thank you. All right. And Ben Fife for the record.
 managing director of cultural affairs and recreation. We are also seeking an amendment to title 13 to clarify that the restriction does not apply for a person to carry a handgun who is not otherwise prohibited by law from carrying a handgun in parks and parks facilities. Those were covered during the city attorney's presentation. This of course is prohibited if convicted within the last five years of committing certain crimes or through the federal gun control act.
 Mr. Fife and let me read that item into the record It's item 36 and this is a public public hearing on an ordinance amending title 13 street sidewalks public places City parks and recreation areas to allow a person to carry a handgun who is not otherwise prohibited by law from carrying a handgun My apologies Laura no worries. Is there anyone else wishing to speak mayor on 35 or 36? We do have representative be better and representative Nilla I
 Chief, so by answering my question, sir, thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Representative Nello? Yeah, I just wanted to kind of reiterate what we heard from Representative Schwarzbein. I know we're also learning a little bit about this, so I think that I would support a work session to answer any of the questions brought up and follow up information. So thank you. Thank you. And I do have Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Representative Nello. Thank you.
 I was going to make a motion to return back to the other item, again, just to encourage my colleagues to express their support about a work session item. I do think that this is a pretty substantial change to state law and really towards our public and private spaces here. And I do think a work session would be, again, would be appropriate. So I just wanted to encourage my colleagues to chime in, if you will. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 No other comments, Ms. Prang? Thank you, Mayor. Is there a motion on item 35? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 35 on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzman. Just have a quick point of clarification for our...
 City Attorney, I know that there's a vote, but are we able to, around 35 to 36, make a motion for staff to return with a work session item for further clarification? Yes, that's an option. Just keep in mind that the law will take effect tomorrow. I get it. And then the ordinances would be a little outdated, but would be updated once Council receives additional information. Okay.
 I don't know, Mayor, if you want me to make a motion right now. I know that we have this vote going on right now. I can either do it on this one or I could do it on 36 as well. But I think it might be more appropriate. Yes, sir. Do you want to do it now or do you want to do it on item 36? I could do it now. Who made the motion here? Representative Rivera. Representative Rivera, would you mind, I don't know, just a second of just removing your motion so I can make this? I sure will. Ms. Prime, I'll remove the motion. Thank you, sir.
 So I just would like to make a motion for all appropriate city staff to return to city, to return for a work session relating towards these ordinance amendments and the state law relating to HB 1927, focusing on some of the issues of concerns in both public spaces and private spaces. Second. Yeah. There is a motion.
 by Representative Shorthwine, seconded by Representative Molinar. That staff return to council on a work session to brief council on areas of concern with carrying handguns in public places. Is that correct, sir? Public and private. Public and private places. Thank you. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shorthwine. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera?
 Yes Yes, sir, mr. Gonzalez Correct. Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. Yes, sir. And with that Representative better you want to make your motion against her? We're still on item 35 sir. Yeah, that was the amendment sir. I
 Probably not a serious item. Do you want to go ahead? Move to approve Second there is a motion and a second to approve item number 35 on that motion mayor pro temp shorts way All right representative an L. Hernandez. Yes, well, you know All right, Rodriguez, yes Rivera Yes, Lisa. Sorry. I thank you that motion. Aye
 Passes unanimously. Is there a motion on item 36? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve item number 36. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsline. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizardo?
 And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 37 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for a 55 foot ground mounted personal wireless service facility at 9100 Alameda Avenue. Representative Rodriguez. Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Before we make any motions for this item, I do want to make some statements. So we've been working on this item for a really long time, and I understand, as a community understands, that we absolutely have the need for this cell phone tower. They have really low service, or poor service, I should say, in that area. The thing about this project specifically is that it's a very...
 crappy project for lack of a better word. And please excuse my language. Um, city staff have been working with with the consultants for a really long time trying to get an appropriate design for this project for the cell phone tower. I know that that they've been going back and forth with HLC and basically the the
 The consultant is just resorting to copying and pasting and really not putting any thought into the structure. I want my constituents to have something that they can be proud of, not only that it provides good service, but that it's a landmark and we don't get stuck with the pine looking trees that we have in the past. So.
 For that reason, I don't know if the consultant is on the line. I don't know if he'd be willing to send this back to Verizon and potentially extending the shock time so they can get a licensed architect or a local artist to come up with a better design for the community. Okay. With that said, or without that being said, I should say I'd like to make a motion to deny this item. Representative Rodriguez?
 Yes. This is Carla Nieman. Hi. Can you read the motion that we provided you earlier today to deny the item? Please do, Ms. Nieman. Russell, do you have that pulled up so we can read it into the record, please? I have it right here. Okay. Thank you. Would you like me to put it up on the screen or just read it out? I think Representative Rodriguez is going to read it.
 Okay, so motion made second and carried to deny special permit number P.B.S.T. 21-00008 at 9100 Alameda Avenue. The city, the El Paso City Council has considered the information contained in the application and presented by the applicant. We conclude the application for permit at the proposed historically zoned site is not consistent with the El Paso City Code.
 The application fails to conform the requirements for personal wireless service facilities in section 20.10.455, and fails to conform to the requirements for special permits in section 20.04.320 of the code, as the request fails to follow the minimum requirements necessary to protect the public health, safety and general welfare. The council now makes the following findings in denying this request in order to preserve the general intent
 of personal wireless service facilities in section 20.10.455 and in section 20.04.320 special permits in order to protect the public health, safety and general welfare. The property on which the facility is proposed is to be installed at is located at 9100 Alameda Avenue located in the Isleta Historic District.
 The applicant's proposed designs are generic Southwestern and contribute to creating a false history of the area. The applicant failed to reasonably consider the unique design implications of the building in a local historic district and providing a design appropriate for the Isleta Historic District that incorporates local design concepts and features. Second. Skip. Thank you.
 BEFORE WE MOVE ON THE ITEM, JUST TO MAKE SURE THE ITEM IS ON THE RECORD, CAN WE DO THE PRESENTATION, PLEASE? NEW SPEAKER P. YES. GOOD AFTERNOON, RAY GARCIA. NEW SPEAKER P. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER P. GOOD AFTERNOON, MAYOR AND COUNCIL. I'LL BE SHARING MY SCREEN. OKAY. SO AGAIN, THIS IS ITEM 37, SECOND READING OF A SPECIAL PERMIT REGARDING A 55-FOOT TALL SOUTH TOWER LOCATED AT 9100 ALAMEDA AVENUE.
 This is the area of the property showing the current property where the salt tower will be located. It is an existing parking lot that services an existing restaurant there on that property. This is on the zoning map showing the current zoning, which is C1 commercial with an H overlay, a historic overlay. Surrounding zoning districts do include residential to the east.
 and to the west. To the west is the existing Speaking Rock Entertainment Facility as well as a church. And to the south is, current zoning is C4, the existing administrative offices for the Tijuana Nation. And then to the north, it is commercial C1 also with the H overlay. So again this special permit is being triggered
 Due to additional height being requested, 45 feet could be obtained here by right. However, the proposed 55 feet, those additional 10 feet, is what is triggering this special permit application. This is just the site plan superimposed on the area. This is the site plan showing the proposed setbacks from the adjacent property lines.
 This is the elevation showing the 55-foot tall structure to be camouflaged as a bell tower. So again, in terms of public input, we did not receive any opposition on this item. Again, being that it's an H overlay district, the historic landmark I mentioned did review this submittal and approve it back in February.
 However, in May, City Plan Commission did deny this request based on not fitting in with the character of the area. That concludes my presentation. Thank you very much for that, Ms. Neiman. I see you have your hand up. Sorry, Mayor. No, it was accidental. All right. Thank you very much. So with that, we have a motion and a second. Ms. Pryor? Yes, there is a motion. Oh, I'm sorry. We do have Representative Salcido that had asked to speak. Sorry about that, Representative Salcido.
 Thank you so much, Mayor. I just had a question. I know that, um, I don't know. May I address Rep Rodriguez, Mayor? Yes, ma'am. Oh, I just had a couple questions. She mentioned, uh, you mentioned that, that, um, there's really bad service, um, in either rising committed to a better design. Um, you, you would, um,
 Is that what you said before you read the motion? Yes, that is correct. So if Verizon is willing to commit to either hiring a licensed architect or commission a local artist, we can absolutely move forward with this.
 Yeah, no, I've been in that area and the service is pretty bad. I guess nobody from Verizon is here, but I had a question now for Carla. Is Rep Rodriguez, is there something that we are able to motion what she just basically said so it gives them an opportunity to come and deliver?
 What she's asking for is that not an option or do you tell me kind of how it works? So the recommendation is to either accept the findings that the HLC made, which is to deny the project based on the findings that Representative Rodriguez just made. The only way that you would be able to ask for a postponement of this is that you would need to ask the applicant to waive the
 The shot clock rules, I believe the case is up on the timeline under the federal rules that require us to make a decision. And the only way that you can postpone it past that timeline without making a decision is asking the applicant to waive the shot clock. I don't know if anybody from Verizon is on here to be able to do that. So if they don't, your options are either to recommend denial, as stated on the record and based on the information that the planning department has presented.
 Or also take the position that HLC took. Okay. I just, you know, I heard Representative Rodriguez share her concerns and what can be mindful of her constituents. So I was just trying to propose something, but I don't, I guess Verizon isn't online. So, yes, I just wanted to add that as a perspective. Thank you. Thank you very much, Representative Salcido. May I answer her really quick, Mayor Peek?
 Pardon me? May I just? Yes, ma'am. Absolutely. Just to be clear, we did speak. There was multiple attempts that were made to speak to a consultant to Verizon. I myself tried reaching out to them and, you know,
 It's not, it wasn't working out. And it's a shame really, because you know, they're in the business of building cell phone towers. I'm in the business of representing my constituents. And it's just a shame that it wasn't anything other than, hey, we just want a better design. We want something that the community be proud of and not be like, what the heck is that thing that they stuck there? And so for that reason, that's why we're making this motion.
 Thank you representative. Thank you miss prime with that. We have a motion in a second. Thank you represents. I'll see you also Yes, sir. There was a motion made by Excuse me representative Rodriguez seconded by representative Schwarzwein to deny the special permit has read into the record by representative Rodriguez on that motion to deny mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein
 i just want to commend representative rodriguez i think the idea of having an applicant provide a trained architect or in this case a public artist or a public art component i think is a really great idea so i want to commend you for that and i vote yes to deny thank you sir representative manalo hernandez yes molinar aye sancido aye rodriguez
 Thumbs up? Yes. Representative Rivera? Yes. Liz Arraga? Aye. And the motion to deny passes unanimously. The next item is number 38, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from C4C, commercial conditions, to R3AC, residential conditions, east of Ressler Drive and south of Woodrow Bean Trans Mountain Road. Motion to approve. Second. Do we have a presentation from Mayor Portien?
 Yes, sir. My decision. Oh, God. It's your district. Yes, and I'll be sharing my screen again. Earl Garcia here again with planning inspections. This item, again, is a rezoning for property located east of Ressler and south of Trans Mountain Road to go from R3 residential to C4 commercial.
 This item, again, did go, was presented to the Open Space Committee, which did recommend approval, as well as CPC. CPC did recommend a unanimous approval. This is an area of the property. It's a relatively small, about a third of an acre in size.
 This is the current zoning. It is C4. The proposal is to go to R3 residential, again, just to add some more area to the rear of existing single-family lots to be developed in the future. This is a future land use map, which does depict the current future land use designations. This is the area in yellow that depicts the area to be rezoned, again, just adding area to the rear of existing platted residential lots.
 This is the plat for the residential development. And again, the area in red is the area to be rezoned. This is a current shot of the property. Oh, I'm sorry. I don't see a presentation. Yeah, we lost the presentation, sir. Thank you. Yes. Yes, ma'am. We'll do it again. How's that? Representative Nello, can you see it now? Sir, I can see it right now. Thank you. Go ahead, sir, again.
 Yes, sir. So again, this is a rezoning from R3A residential to C4 commercial. OSAP and City Plan Commission did recommend approval. This is the current area of the property showing it is vacant. Current zoning again going from C4 to R3A just to add area to the rear of existing platted residential lots to be built in the future. This is a current future land use map amendments showing the current designations.
 Again, this is the plotted existing development and the area in yellow is the area to be rezoned. This is the plot for that residential development that has been plotted, it has been recorded and is currently under construction. And again, the area in red is the area being rezoned. This is a shot of the existing subject property and it's shots to the north, east, west and south all vacant
 So with that, staff has not received any opposition on this item. And again, CPC did recommend unanimous approval. That concludes my presentation. Thank you, sir. Ms. Pratt, do we have one? Yes, Mayor. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortspine, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve on that motion. Mayor Pro Tem Shortspine. Before we go, we do have Representative Inello, please.
 Thank you. Thanks, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. You said that you mailed notices 300 feet, but how many property owners live 300 feet from this property? I can look that up for you, ma'am. Yeah, those were the notices that were sent prior to the City Plan Commission. So let me get that here for you. And just while you're looking that up, you said that the adjacent development is currently under construction or it's just plotted?
 That is correct. It is plotted and it is it is currently the improvements, public improvements for the streets. The infrastructure is currently under construction. Yes, ma'am. Thank you. And in terms of the property owners that were to again, this is these lots have not been sold. So there were only two two property owners that were in fact, it was it was just the current property owner in terms of the 300 foot coverage.
 However, as you know, it was part of the publicly posted agenda, which the public can track and comment on any other items on the agenda. Yeah, I mean, I always think that there should be a rule in place when something like that happens. And if there's no one who lives immediately 300 feet, we should expand that. But that is not a policy that has been set yet by this council, but still one I know I've mentioned before that I would like to look at. So thank you. You're welcome. Thank you, Representative Manila.
 With that we have a motion and a second. That's correct There is a motion and a second to approve item number 38 on that motion mayor Pro Tem shorts line I just had a follow-up question marriages texted you really quick. Hey, just got here to Go ahead sir The property in question the the rezoning is for a third of an acre. Can you show that triangle again? Sure. I
 Okay. And so you had one where it showed wrestler really quick. If you can. Yeah. So Plexar is shown at the Plexar is shown there at the top left corner. But I believe that wrestler and Plexar actually run parallel to each other. So what is that property closest to the north? Right under zero zero one five. I believe that's the hospital. The Providence.
 I would have to double check that, sir. It could very well be that if it's close to the intersection of Ressler. And would there be any, this third of an acre, a very small piece, would this add separate plots or would it just add to existing plots? It's going to just add to existing plots. Okay. All right. Yeah.
 It seems that there's, you know, development going in there, and this is a very sort of small adjustment. So I can support this at this time. So, Mayor, we can call the question, or I think the question's already called. Yeah, it's already been called. There is a motion and a second to approve on that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzman. Aye. Representative Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molina? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez?
 You're on mute, ma'am. Rodriguez? Yes. Thank you. Rivera? Yes. Lizada. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 39, and this is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and Rockwood Developers, LLC.
 Mayor, council, leadership, and public, good afternoon. Rafa Liano, Economic Development. How are you, sir? I'd like to see if you could please bring up the presentation for item number 39. So I do see it, but it's very small on my screen. I'm not sure if everyone else sees it that small. Yeah, I see it small also. How about the rest of council? Can you see the presentation? No, I don't see it. No, it's not on any longer, Rafa. Okay, good. I'm glad. I thought it was only my screen. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I think we're off the left. I'm right here, sir. Yes, sir. Just I'll tell you what, if you can't load it, I'll see if I can share my screen. Thank you, sir. Just yes, sir. Go ahead and share my screen, if you all don't mind. I think we see it all. You wouldn't see it? Mr. Rodriguez, yes? Ednundas? IT, will you please show Mr. Arreano's screen on the monitors and chambers? Thank you. I think it's gone again.
 Mr. Arellano, you're on mute, sir. Representatives, do you see the presentation now again or no? No, it's gone. It used to be on there. It's gone now again. I think IT has loaded it on the screen. Mr. Arellano, you're on mute, sir. Okay, I think the presentation is on the screen now. Okay, everyone see it now? Yes, sir. Okay, we lost the connection, so we're going to reestablish the connection. It'll take how long, sir? About two minutes. Please stand by. Thank you.
 Rafa can you hear me? Hello? Can City Council hear me? No, no one can hear us because all right Thank you. Can City Council hear me? It is located to the side of the clubhouse. Excuse me, Rafa But City Council were y'all able to hear him because we couldn't hear him here And he was talking and we didn't see the presentation. We're all able to see it. I
 Yes. Yes. Okay. Keep going, sir. Thank you. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you for letting me know, sir. Um, and finally, for this slide, the development will exceed the city's landscape requirements, which is significant.
 So this is just a set of images to give you a sense of where the property is. On the far left side, you can see that it's located just outside of Route 375 in the Mission Valley. And on the far right side, you can see that the property is still fully vacant. And that's the key takeaway here, that it's vacant. It's been vacant for as long as we've been able to track.
 Here are some closer images of the property facing southwest, northwest and south. And as you can see, it's completely vacant and no permits have been pulled and it's still in these conditions. So the intent of today's request is to provide incentive that will support the redevelopment of this property and have it change from what you see here to activate buildings that appear like this, right? And so these are a couple of images, obviously, from the ground, the renderings to give you a sense of what the...
 The building will look like the buildings. It's seven buildings, six residential. But this is how they'll appear. So it's two- to three-story buildings. And I'll give you a few more shots just a bit down the line of what that looks like. But it really is a great addition to the area. So here is it. Rafa, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but the public couldn't hear. Maybe you want to start your presentation from the beginning. I'm so sorry. No, no problem. Can you all hear me now? Yes, we can.
 Sure, sure. So, Rafa Liano, Economic Development. Good afternoon, everybody. Item 39, it is done as a request to approve a Chapter 3 ADM full incentive agreement between the City of El Paso and Rocker Developers LLC for the redevelopment of property located at 9740 Galilee Drive.
 So the developer, Rockford Developers, is proposing to invest a minimum of $50,285,000 to activate a 140-unit housing development on 9740 Galloway Drive that's currently vacant. And they're going to activate one, two, and three-bedroom options for the community down there. And so, as I mentioned, the land is currently vacant, and construction will include buildings, ponding areas, parking lots, and driveways.
 And the parking will be located to the side of the clubhouse and screened by the landscape buffer along Galloway. And so finally for this slide development will exceed the city's landscape requirements. So again, the images from up in the sky are showing you where the area is generally located. On the far left side you can see it's over in the Mission Valley towards the southeastern edge of our city limits. And on the far right side you can see that it is still fully vacant. So it's basically a dirt lot that's been a dirt lot for as long as we can track.
 So here are some shots of it closer, give you a sense of where the property is located and its current state, right? And so it's completely empty as you can see. And again, there have been no permits pulled for this property. So the intent of the incentive request is to help
 Transform what you see there into a attractive and active housing development that will appear this way. And so will be a number of buildings. But this is how they'll appear. And this is isn't just sort of a hypothetical. This is actually what's on record and what will be required of the applicants. So as you can see, these are two and three story buildings that are going to add greatly to the framing there on Galilee.
 Here are some overhead shots to give you a sense of how the buildings will be laid out. And as I mentioned, there are a total of seven buildings. One is a clubhouse, six are residential. And they are mainly pulled in a way that...
 presents a certain facade appearance to the gallery area. That's very important for the info policy on the right side. We just want to show you a Sort of a simple rendering of what the screening will appear will look like. And so it wanted is there will be screening, but it's not just going to be chain link fence. It's going to be a rock wall with a very specific sort of a A
 artistic kind of appearance. So so that's very important to us. And that's what's going to block the automobile areas. So the principal appearance or impression that pedestrians will have as you walk by here is of the architecture and not so much of the parking area. Now I do want to emphasize leadership that anytime any application comes for and fill incentives,
 They have to go through a pretty rigorous process, right? They have to satisfy requirements that are verified across departments. And so the key ones in terms of designer right here, they have to hit three mandatory design requirements. And this is what you're seeing right here. They absolutely satisfy these requirements.
 And then they also have to satisfy at least four selective design guidelines and they've actually satisfied, three I'm sorry, but they've actually satisfied four. So they've actually technically gone beyond what the policy requires.
 And here again, it's just give you a sense of how our policy serves to encourage better design, right? And just briefly to give you a sense of the other developments that have been supported by this policy. On top you see snap pads on 1964 Murchison. And I do welcome anyone in the public, of course, to drive by any of these spots and see the progress that is occurring in each one of these sites. On the bottom, McCombs Village, 1987. McCombs, you all remember that one. And then a couple more shots of the few other developments that have been supported.
 in Texas on Texas Street right downtown and two other ones that are just northeast of downtown. But going back to this development, it is a planned rehabilitation of the area and you saw this slide already and here are a couple more renderings of how it'll appear when it's fully up and active. So this is really something that's going to help the area. Not only is it going to turn a vacant lot into something that is a tax revenue generator, but it's also providing housing options and attractive housing options to the people in the area and that's well deserved.
 And so, as I mentioned, they fully complied from the very beginning with all the requirements of the info policy and in doing so, they have objectively qualified for the incentives that you see here before you. And again, these are straight out of the city's adopted info policy. So it's a three part incentive. The first part is the incremental property tax rebate.
 which is capped at $329,685. That's across five years, and it scales down at year four, at which point we start recovering 25% of that new revenue. And then at year six, when it's done, we're made whole and recover 100% of that revenue. But again, I do want to emphasize that it's only incremental property tax, so it does not cut into our base nor our budget at all. So that's only money that will be generated by this development, which is being considered for rebate.
 The second part is a construction materials sales tax rebate capped at $76,425 and then a permit through rebate capped at $10,000. So the total proposed incentive as per the info policy is capped total across five years at $416,110. And of course, we always like to show you what your approval will generate for our taxing partners and ourselves.
 So as you can see, within the grant period, we're still adding $38,000 as a city, but we're also helping generate $198,000 for the county, $586,000 for the Eastland Independent School District.
 56,000 for the community college and 108,000 for the MC. So that's a positive net of 989,000 plus. So, so it really is beneficial for the city. And of course, what we do is we not only, you know, generate this kind of tax value, but we're able to transform a vacant lot into
 into something that's really a beautiful addition and that will serve to provide housing options for the area down there. And truthfully, the more density that we can get in terms of residential density, the easier it is to trigger off the commercial aspect. And that's part of the strategy.
 And so at this point, I just want to repeat the request. The request is that the city manager be authorized to execute a Chapter 380 infill incentive agreement in line between the City of El Paso and Rafa Developers LLC for the development of the property located at 9740 Gallilee Drive. And staff absolutely recommends approval. And with that, I'll take any questions you all may have. And before we take questions, I want to add one comment. Can you go back to the previous slide, Rafa? Yes, sir.
 This has been a long-standing policy that's been in place for, I believe, over a decade. And we want to look at it again and come back with some recommendations to council. We think that the strategic planning session might be a good opportunity to do that. As you can see, we're helping a lot of other taxing entities, and we're –
 taking up the lion's share of the incentive. So this is something we need to look at again and come back with some recommendations to the council on this particular policy and see if this is something you'll want to continue, something you want to make adjustments to, and or maybe have others participate more in terms of making these kinds of projects occur. Because as you can see, everyone else is doing really, really well.
 And we're not making a whole lot in the five years, but we are helping other taxing entities. And I think that that gives them the ability to do what they do in terms of providing services. And so these kinds of initiatives, I know this is a small project, but we've done a lot of other big projects where they've gotten a lion's share of the money. And we put in the lion's share of the incentive. Thank you for that, sir. Council, is there any questions? Mayor, can you hear me?
 I can't see who it is. Oh, Representative Rodriguez? Yes, we can hear you. Yes, okay, I'm sorry. I'm having technical issues. I'm not trying to not text or anything like that. So yeah, I think, thank you, Mr. Gonzalez, for bringing up this page because this page to me is actually very shocking to see the amount of money that the city will be receiving versus...
 all the other taxing entities within our community. So I absolutely definitely want to not forget about this picture right here and revisit it, especially for future projects. And earlier when I asked Mr. Cortina, what else can we do to bring in money? How else can we get creative? I mean, it's staring at us in the face right here. So that is the only comment I'd have to make. And I would like to make a motion to approve this. Second.
 There's no other questions, so we have a motion and a second. Yes, so there is a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve Item 39. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortbine. Aye. Representative Anello? No. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizárraga? Aye. The motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Anello voting nay. The motion passes.
 The next item is 40 and this is discussion in action on a resolution approving a list of projects Updating the document known as a five-year capital maintenance improvement plan for the ballpark for fy 2021 through fy 2025 The way we got a presentation. Mr. Rodriguez. Yes It can bring up the presentation Well, that's coming up just background on on this item this item is
 was presented to City Council in January of this year with a five-year capital plan for the ballpark. You can go to the next slide, please. Thank you. For the five-year capital plan for the ballpark, the City Council did approve the list of projects, but did direct
 the city to come back and staff to come back with funding sources that were not specifically general fund to look for alternative funding sources to to make the capital plan more sustainable in the long term. And so with the work that Robert and that was able to do with the refinances of the ballpark, we were able to come up with $4.35 million of excess revenue.
 plus the capital contribution of $150,000 per year, we're able to come up with most of the money required for the five-year plan. Next slide. I'm going to turn the presentation over to Robert to explain a little bit more about the financing side of the ballpark. Robert? Thanks, Sam. So we had a little bit of discussion earlier this morning about the action that the council took back in April with issuing some bonds. As part of that, there was a refinancing that we did on some of the old ballpark bonds.
 Uh, again, a very, very favorable outcome for the city. It's going to save almost $9.4 million of total savings for the ballpark on the ballpark debt. You see the true interest cost there. The 2.5 1% were able to get the ballpark because it's a revenue bond back deal. And we talked a little bit about that as well this morning. The interest rate for the ballpark and also just the market conditions at the time.
 The old rate was 7.25%, so bringing that down substantially resulted in that $9.4 million of savings. Again, we refinanced, you'll see there the net present value, we saved 35% on the amount that we refinanced. If you go to the next slide, just to show you how that $9.4 million of savings on the debt service is allocated, you'll see in the far right hand column there the savings, and so you've got the old debt service, the new debt service.
 add up to that 9.4 million, you'll see the FY 2021 savings, $700,000. And again, you'll see the way that this savings was structured. And again, very strategic thinking about how we were going to manage through COVID. Again, we did this back in April, again, looking to the future on where we were going to need the savings. So we did structure a little bit more of the savings in fiscal year 2022 and 2023.
 And then you'll see the savings there averages about $444,000 a year for the remaining life of the bonds until 2038. So to be able to save $9.4 million on a $27 million refinancing was just a tremendous deal and has really provided the ability for, if you go to the next slide, IT, for as we look into FY 2022, you'll see the tables here. Let me walk you through what we have on the screen here. So in the current fiscal year 2021, which ends today,
 You'll see the total revenues there we're projecting. Again, the fiscal year is not final yet. We still have some accruals related to the hotel occupancy tax related specifically for the ballpark to be posted. We do know the debt service amount is at $3.6 million for FY 2021. We are projecting a small deficit which was planned all along. Again, when we developed the budget last year, we knew the impact to our hotels, impact on the potential team attendance,
 And so we did have a budgeted subsidy in the current year budget, which again is today factored in. So as you scroll to the right there, you'll see we do have $150,000 annual contribution for the capital repair reserve fund. And then you'll see starting in year 2022, so fiscal year 2022, you'll see total team revenues we're estimating $4.1 million. Again, based on what we've seen with the recent hotel occupancy tax collections, the projection on the team revenue.
 You'll see the debt service total amount that 3.3 million and then the projected surplus. So we're projecting a surplus of just over $800,000 in this coming fiscal year. And then combined again with the $150,000 of annual amount for the capital repair reserve fund. And so you'll see each of the next several years because of that refinancing and being able to generate that savings and bringing down the financing cost of the ballpark combined with
 the performance and the dedicated revenue, the 2% hotel-like efficiency tax revenue dedicated for the ballpark, as well as the team revenue that we receive, you'll see that overall we were able to come up with an estimated $4.35 million of savings, or $4.3 million of funding to be able to fund and cover not only the debt amount needed for the ballpark, but as well as cover the capital repairs that are going to be discussed in just a few minutes from Sam.
 Again, really, really great news that that refinancing came in at the right time. The hotel-like 50 tax revenue has started to bounce back slowly. Again, really, really great news that not only does this show that, again, that savings a little bit we talked about earlier, you know, where did the savings go? The savings is going into utilizing that revenue dedicated for the ballpark to cover the debt payment and to cover the capital repairs necessary to keep that project and that ballpark looking as beautiful as it is today.
 Again, really, really good news. Able to time this perfectly and be able to utilize that money to be able to do the capital project that Sam's going to talk about here in just a minute. So with that, I'll turn it over to Sam and go into a little bit more about the project we have planned. Thank you. Next slide, please. Next slide. So the approval of the plan that was presented in January included all these projects, totaling $4.5 million.
 In addition to the funding allocation as part of the resolution, we're also asking for a change on the CIP. There are two projects that were required to be done in this fiscal year 21.
 That include the video equipment and part of the concession agreement that were originally budgeted for fiscal year 22. Under the agreement, the team or the tenant is allowed to execute those capital projects and take that out of the $150,000 that they submit to the city for capital as part of the capital fund and the revenue that we get from them.
 And so under this proposal, under the CIP today, next slide, we're moving those two projects into fiscal year 21 so that we can record the expenditures and the team will be reimbursing themselves as part of the payment that the city would have been getting in fiscal year 22.
 This is required in order to keep up with and to keep compliant with the GASB reporting as part of our audit. And again, there's no funding coming out this fiscal year 21 that's wrapping up today. Rather, it's going to be recorded as an expenditure where the team is going to reimburse themselves for that expenditure as allowed in the contract. Next slide.
 Yes, just as a summary, the ballpark is a city-owned facility. And under the agreement, the ballpark is, we're required to help maintain the facility as a first-class facility. They also spend a significant amount of dollars to maintain the facility from a day-to-day operation. We are required against the city to pay for the capital costs. We do have a five-year, $4.5 million CIP, and the funding that's been identified today is $4.35.
 We are under the agreement allowed to update the five-year CIP on a yearly basis. So we're going to be working closely with them to continue to identify funding for future capital plans and recalibrate it as we move forward. And that concludes the presentation.
 So this is a response based on what council wanted us to do to find alternative revenue. We felt like given more time, the refinancing and the savings that have been talked about, we could redirect those. And so this is another example of doing that. It is also another example of the, there was an area of,
 or operation that had a lot of issues and we've addressed. I think yesterday we went over the bridges and how it had a lot of issues. For the longest time, we don't remember when there was a five year CIP program, capital improvement program. We were able to get that five year plan put together based on all stakeholder input that we,
 brought it to the council, council approved it, and we took it to the state delegation, and they did Yeoman's work in getting us that $32 million. And so that's a commitment to, as I said yesterday, to kind of keep taking care of that revenue stream that's taking care of some other needs that we have. This particular issue is a little bit different. This is something that was put in place
 and it was done the way it was done and we've made some adjustments to it and I think we have some really good news to share. So thank y'all for the opportunity to come back with a sound recommendation, council. I think that y'all challenged us to do that. I think we've met that challenge. Thank you. And now we have Representative Hernandez, please. Thank you, City Manager Gonzales and Mr. Cortina for that presentation just regarding the
 Going back to Mr. Cortina's your statement about that ends today. I just want to be clear. So there's there's no dollars what we have considered to be a subsidy. There's no dollars coming from our general fund, which subsequently would be paid for by property taxes or sales taxes, etc. We're no longer beginning tomorrow. We're no longer going to be subsidizing that as a result of the savings.
 So that's our estimate right now. Granted we didn't never foresaw COVID hitting us and so unless the unexpected happens yes ma'am that's the that's what we're looking at right now is beginning to generate that surplus to not only cover the debt but to cover the capital projects as well. That's wonderful really really wonderful news and thank you for living up to that expectation to that challenge. I know I had great concern early this year but it is
 obligation to maintain our facilities and that's our facility so we do need to maintain it so just wanted to give a great shout out and kudos to the administration for helping save money and most importantly helping save El Paso taxpayer dollars on this project thank you Thank You representative Hernandez and I know that this was a concern for yours in January and we brought it back to has to be brought it back and
 That's what's that's the way they brought it back. So thank you for your concerns originally. And with that we have Mayor Potem. Thanks. So again, I don't know Robert or Tommy. So help us understand.
 What Representative Nanda has brought up, the fact that the general fund will no longer be used. Can you talk a little bit about the history of the arrangement here for this facility and when the anticipated date was for this, for this, for general funds not to be used anymore? I'll let Robert gather his thoughts. Robert, I'll give you just one quick second. I'm just going to make one quick point and then I'll turn it to you.
 One of the things that we were doing operationally is we had our police officers, while they were on duty, go out and help with the traffic control. So that was really taking a lot of our officers away from their duties during their regular hours. And really, the contract was very expensive to us. So we reworked that.
 and we did that smarter and we were able to have those officers in their respective beats. So I wanted to point that out because I know public safety has been a huge concern, and I know that I've told council that not only have we done that 10-year program and then we put in a lot of new programs because of the number of new officers that we've got that we didn't have before, but that was one of the kinds of strategies that we deployed in order to get smarter in terms of how we used our police force
 not to mention a lot of the other initiatives that the council has supported like the VIP program and the Camera systems that we put in place and a lot of other things. I won't mention right now Robert I think that should give you enough time to answer the rest of that question So the original model when it was passed back in or presented back in 2014 the original estimate was that the general fund would be needed to cover a subsidy all the way through fiscal year 2023 and
 so it wasn't until fiscal year 2024 in which the ballpark was estimated to begin generated enough revenue through the dedicated two percent from the hotel occupancy tax and the team revenue to cover the debt service payment and so what we're looking at and what you all are seeing today is that we're right now projecting to be two years ahead of schedule and again that's the result of members of council may recall i presented this a while back as well back in 2016 we did another refinancing on some of the ballpark bonds we saved about 11 million dollars in that refinancing
 and then combined with the one we did back here at the end of April and early May, saving another $9.4 million. So bringing down the overall debt on the ballpark is really what has allowed us to be able to do this. Obviously we know that the general fund has been subsidizing the ballpark debt, so again it's really really great news that we're able to not only cover the debt with the dedicated revenue, but also pick up and cover those capital projects which are critical. Sam covered it in the summary at the very end,
 But the ballpark is our responsibility. So, you know, it's in the heart of our downtown. It's important that we're investing in it and that we don't let it become an eyesore in the heart of our downtown with all of the investment we've seen. So again, really, really great news that the dedicated team revenue is going to cover – the dedicated team revenue and the HOT will cover the – again, the debt and the capital project that Sam just presented. So in other words, the ballpark is covering its own costs? Yes.
 Beginning of fiscal year 2022. Okay. And so it's clear. So the ballpark is covering its own cost two years ahead of schedule.
 Yes. Okay. And then in terms of this CIP and the contractual requirements between Mountain Star Sports Group and the City of El Paso, can you talk again in very sort of simple terms, why are we having this conversation today about a capital improvement program for the ballpark for somebody who may have just moved to El Paso a month ago?
 So in the agreements, the team owners are responsible for the day-to-day maintenance. And so if you think about it sort of like a general fund, so they handle the daily operating and maintenance improvements. The city is responsible for the capital repairs. And so SAM works very closely with them to ensure that the projects that end up on the list that they identify as being necessary for a capital project actually do fall within to that definition of what a capital project is and that it's not an operating item or routine item that the team owner should be taking care of.
 And so again, we go through that process. Sam mentioned on an annual basis working with the team to identify which of those projects they feel need to be done. And then staff goes back and actually verifies that yes, that those projects are needed.
 Great. Well, I think this is more good news today about this council and our partners in the community investing in El Paso so that we can, again, encourage further economic development and growth in making El Paso a better place to live, and it already is. So thank you for all your hard work. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. And with that, we don't have any other questions. I just...
 Make sure that the ballpark you said will be covering all those expenses based on your estimation today on the year 2026 Correct, sir beginning the fiscal year 2022. I'm sorry beginning the fiscal year 2022 We're estimating to generate enough revenue to cover the debt payment required and the amount to go towards the capital projects and was presented great That's great. Thank you for that. Thank you. And with that, I think you're looking for a motion. Yes, sir Yeah, so do we have a motion to approve?
 motion to approve Second We have a motion and a second There's a motion made by Representative Rivera seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve on that motion Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein Aye Representative Anello Aye Hernandez Yes Molinar Salcido Rodriguez Yes Rivera Yes Liz Arara The motion passes unanimously that brings us to the end of the regular agenda may we have a motion to adjourn
 um hold on you have uh nine yeses i know no that that's incorrect mayor i took the verbal i know i just want to make sure because that's what it showed on the video on the audio video i mean i'm not sure that was that was a clerical error i wasn't i just wanted to make i wasn't populating that i think one of my staff members was and that was a clerical error but i do record eight verbal votes thank you for that thank you for clarifying may we have a motion to adjourn
 There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, August 31st, 2021 is adjourned at 2.04 p.m. Mayor, would you like to reconvene the work session? Please. Okay, may we have a motion to reconvene the work session for August 30th, 2021? Before we go in there. Is there a second? Is there a second? Second.
 I represent Salcedo, but before we take the vote. There's a motion and a second to reconvene. Before we take the vote, I want to thank council. I know that it was a long meeting today.