Thank you, sir. Good morning, Ms. Pryor. Can we start? Yes, Mayor. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, August 30, 2022. Present in council chambers is Mayor Leaser, along with Mayor Pro Tem Shorthine, Representative Anello, Representative Molinar.
 And Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez is running a few minutes late. It is 9.02 a.m. And now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police Chaplain Joe Marotta. And good morning. Good morning. If you care to pray with us today, I ask that you would bow our heads together as we call upon God. Heavenly Father, we come to you today.
 petitioning you for your guidance and direction in today's proceedings. Your word teaches us that if any lack wisdom, let them ask of God who gives of it liberally. So today, God, we are asking for that wisdom, Lord, that you would give it and allow it to work today. We ask that you would bless our elected and appointed officials as they make decisions on behalf of the city and its residents, and execute their duties as best as possible.
 In a day when resources are limited and needs are without number, your word says that you provided for your people with bread from heaven and water from a rock. Let the needs of the residents of El Paso and the surrounding region be met today and allow for limited resources to minister to the greatest number of people.
 Lord, let the hungry eat today. Let the homeless find a safe shelter. Let the lonely find friendship. And those that are hurting across our region find hope today. Let your peace and your presence rest upon all of us. And as always, we ask that you would bless and keep our first responders as they protect us. And we thank you today for your guidance and your wisdom. In his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Clint, can you lead us in the pledge, sir? To the flag of the United States of America.
 And through the power for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, sir. Thank you. For the record, Representative Rivera and Lisa Arraga are in council chambers, along with Representative Hernandez. Thank you. And I do want to thank everyone for being here. It's hard to believe that August has come and gone.
 and high school football, little league football, and college football is here for us. And I think it's really important as we think about that, that as we do a moment of silence today that we pray for all the kids and all the students that are participating in all sports that they stay healthy.
 and that everybody remembers that it's important to be good sports and why we're out there and why the kids are out there, and that we continue to respect the process and respect the children and respect each other as we sit in the stands and understand that we're the example for these kids. We're the example that they'll look over at.
 as their life continues. So I'd like to have a moment of silence for all these young women and men in the city of El Paso that are participating in sports as the month of September is a day away and a lot of youth sports and school sports begin. So with that, please let's have a moment of silence to hope that no one gets hurt and everybody stays healthy. Thank you and may God bless everyone.
 Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to your proclamations. The first proclamation is EPCC Arts in Education Week. Thank you, Mayor. Whereas arts education, comprising of a rich array of disciplines, including dance, media arts, music, theater, visual arts, and more, is a well-rounded subject and an essential element of a complete education for all students.
 And whereas arts education supports the social and emotional well-being of young people in a community of self-awareness, self-efficiency, self-management, and perseverance, social awareness and relationship skills are central to any arts education activity, no matter the age and ability of the student or the environment in which the learning takes place.
 And whereas, arts education enables students to develop critical thinking and problem solving skills, imagination and creativity, discipline and collaboration, alternative ways to communicate and express feelings and ideas, and cross-cultural understanding, which supports academic success across the curriculum.
 And whereas arts education contributes to personal growth outside of the classroom, including increasing a student's likelihood to participate in civic life, volunteerism, altruism, and community engagement, and to succeed in today's economy, students must masterfully develop traits that business leaders demand in a 21st century workforce, such as communicating through words, images, sounds, and movement.
 And whereas reduced funding and equitable access to digital technology and suspension of arts-based curriculum and programs are leading to reduced access to and participation in arts education for El Paso, Texas students.
 and whereas the arts are an integral part of life in the united states and el paso texas and are an integral part of a complete education which contributes to the vibrancy and vitality of communities and the nation now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of el paso that the week of september 11 through september 17 2022 shall be known as epcc arts and education week thank you representative miss prime
 Yes, sir. The next proclamation is Elvira Galvan Galindo, Remembrance Day. Representative Sarga, good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, everyone. Whereas Elvira Galvan Galindo was a lifelong resident of El Paso, Texas, a graduate of Jefferson High School in the class of 1969,
 and worked for the city of El Paso in various capacities during a career that spanned over 30 years. And whereas, after her retirement, Elvita continued to serve her community with great enthusiasm in many ways, including most recently as an appointee to the Greater El Paso Civic Convention and Tourism Advisory Board,
 And whereas she accomplished her lifelong goals of graduating from the University of Phoenix with her bachelor's degree in 2000 and from Park University with her master's degree in 2017. And whereas in her spare time, Elvita loved traveling, flowers, gardening, doing things around her house, and taking care of her beloved pets.
 And whereas the City of El Paso wishes to honor Elvira Galvan Galindo's steadfast commitment to the borderland as a public servant, volunteer, and community leader, and provide to her family a commemoration of her selfless service to the Sun City and its citizens.
 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED BY THE MAYOR AND THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL PASO, TEXAS, THAT AUGUST 30, 2022, SHALL BE KNOWN AS EL VIDA GALVAN GALINDO REMEMBRANCE DAY. THANK YOU, MAYOR. SHE WAS A REMARKABLE WOMAN. SADLY SHE PASSED AWAY.
 in March of this year. So we extend our deepest condolences to her family, but we do want to recognize her for the great contribution she made to our beautiful city. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much. And I think that speaks a lot of volume from a graduate from 69 and in 2017 still had that drive to go and get the master's degree. So congratulations, and you will be missed.
 Ms. Coyne? Yes, for the record, Representative Rodriguez has also arrived in council chambers. The final proclamation is Hunger Action Month. So, Salcido? Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, everyone. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas hunger and poverty are issues of vital concerns in Texas, where 30% of people face hunger in our state, and one in every five children do not know where their next meal will come from.
 And whereas the city of El Paso is committed to taking steps to combat hunger in every part of the community and to provide additional resources to those struggling with hunger. And whereas the city of El Paso is committed to working with El Pasoans fighting hunger and feeding Texas, a member of the Feeding America Nationwide Network of Food Banks, in educating people about the role and importance of food banks in addressing hunger and raising awareness
 of the need to devote more resources and attention to issues relating to hunger and poverty. And whereas El Paso Fighting Hunger has contributed nearly 100 million meals over the last 12 months to our neighbors through the network of food pantries, soup kitchens, shelters, and other community organizations.
 And whereas the month of September has been designated Hunger Action Month in order to bring attention to the food insecurity in our communities and to enlist the public in the fight to endure hunger by taking action, including volunteer shifts, social media shares, and donations to ensure no one has to make the impossible choice between food and other necessities like medicine, utilities, and childcare.
 And whereas, Feeding America food banks across the country, including El Pasoans Fighting Hunger, will host numerous events throughout the month of September to bring awareness and help end hunger in their local communities.
 Now, therefore, be proclaimed by the mayor and city council of the city of El Paso that the month of September 2022 shall be known as Hunger Action Month, signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Thank you, Representative Salcido. And, you know, I think it's very important, and we see the type of work that the food bank has done, and I think –
 there's a lot of challenges during COVID and to be able to provide the service that you all were able to provide is incredible. But your work will never stop and we know that. And it's really a...
 sad thought when you keep thinking about children and one in five need food and will continue to need food and you know which really gives us that drive to continue to provide for the children and for our community and
 Susan, we want to thank you for everything you do. I know you have a board that really is proactive in being part of the community, and I know you all are working on something new coming forward. I had the privilege of talking with them yesterday, and I think it's important that we continue to make sure there's no kid that ever, ever goes to bed hungry because that's unacceptable in our community and in our country. Thank you. Would you like to say a couple words, ma'am? Thank you.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, City Council. I want to thank you all for your support of the food bank. The work of the food bank has been intense, I think from the moment I came into this town in early 2018. And I just wanted to make sure that you're all aware
 that the need in this community continues at an intense level. Since January 1st of 2022, this food bank has served 153,381 El Pasoans. That is one in five El Pasoans has visited the food bank or one of our partner agencies that we supply with food in order to feed themselves and their children.
 We're grateful for your support. We hope to see you at many of the activities that we'll be doing this month in honor of Hunger Action Month and thank you for all you do. Thank you very much. And I think it's important, you know, you said for your support. We're hoping someday you don't need our support because there's no one that's going to bed hungry. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Prine. Yes, Mayor. That brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion Unless separate discussion is requested by council members prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda When the vote has been taken if an item has not been called out for separate discussion The item has been approved council may however reconsider any item at any time during the meeting
 Thank you Mayor Pro Tem. Yes Mayor. Good morning everyone. Proposed revisions for the August 3rd 30th 2022 meeting agenda as of 830 a.m. page 5 item 3 move to the regular agenda per Representative Hernandez page 10 item 27 move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Rivera page 11 item 32 move to the forefront of the regular agenda after item 27 per Representative Venelo
 Page 18, item 47, move to the forefront of the regular agenda after item 32, who represent Hernandez. And page 19, item 50, revise per animal services department. And that revision is to add the words up to $1.5 million to the EPVMA.
 I do have a revision. Are you reading from this one Mayor Pro Tem? Yes ma'am. Okay, so any other revisions at this time? Yes, I just wanted to clarify I did not request item number 47. I requested item number 32. So if you could just swap the two names representative Onelo and representative Hernandez. Item 32 move to the instead of item 32
 Page 11 item 32 moved to the forefront of the regular agenda per represent Fernandez and page item 18 item 47 moved to the forefront of the regular agenda per represent Vanello is that. No that's not correct. I moved item 32 to the forefront. That was it. So Mrs. Prine we had spoken yesterday and I had sent you an email last week about item number 32. I didn't. What I just want to make sure that the proclamation items go first.
 And the resolutions go first so that we have all of those taken care of first that we can we can go take photos and Then the item number 32 can go after this It was item 47 that you move to the forefront. It was the night 32 is a resolution, right? Okay, so then it's an error and the number on the revisions then Should say item 47
 Yeah. Item 47 was the one we discussed yesterday. Right. It's just I think the narrative is incorrect. So the narrative on item number 47 says for September as suicide prevention month. So you'd prefer item 2747. I just wanted you to recognize that the record that we need to change that for the record because it's not the verbiage does not align with the item number. You're correct. I see what you're saying.
 Right. We still have item 47, just not the correct narrative. I guess item 47 is the EP County 911 District Budget. That's the one that will be moved to the forefront. Yes ma'am. Okay, and that's the one. So we have the right item, the wrong narrative? Correct. Is there a second? Thank you. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shorthbine, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote.
 Laura, I'll do verbal. I as well. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein. Aye. Representative Salcido. Aye. Representative Rodriguez. Yes. Thank you, and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item 27. This is discussion and action on a resolution that the city of El Paso proudly honors and recognizes District One city representative and Mayor Pro Tem Peter Schwartzwein for being elected the first Latino chairman of Sister Cities International.
 yeah thank you mayor representative thank you mayor it is a great honor to uh to place this item on the agenda and i i believe that uh we have endured uh our mayor pro tem for so long and every time that he speaks and he he's set to do something he speaks with a lot of compassion a lot of uh drive uh a lot of information to that as well uh and so uh
 I had the honor of being in Santa Fe, New Mexico, when Mayor Pro Tem was elected for the presidency of the Sister Cities International. I've got a little video, and at that time I would ask his staff and Ms. Tatiana to walk up to the podium, please. IT, can you play that video, please? Where's the staff? Luce? And...
 Born and raised in a multicultural community, Peter Sparsbein is ready to represent our organization as the chairman of Sister Cities International. He's a first generation Jewish Latino American. His parents were born far away in Argentina and France, yet sought a community in the United States that embraced their immigrant background and founded right on the border in El Paso, Texas.
 Sforzwine returned home to start an art project and ended up in office as the city representative for District 1. In 2012, El Paso unveiled the return of the streetcars that once connected El Paso and Juarez. Sforzwine was part of the movement and became an advocate for this public work project and historical preservation. In 2015, the people elected him as city representative.
 Peter was inspired to chase drains, overcome challenges, and learn mutual respect as he served the community of El Paso as the city representative. In 2018, he sought re-election, and once again, the people of El Paso supported him and continued representing the community.
 Peter Sforzbein also became a member of Sister Cities International during his time in office, and our organization shares his same beliefs and mission. Sforzbein believes in promoting peace and mutual respect. He grew up in a community where it creates bridges to connect and unite communities.
 Throughout the years, El Paso has exchanged initiatives, built strong relationships, and prospered along with surrounding communities, and he has been a part of this movement. Under Peter Sforzwein, Sister Cities International will continue making a social impact all around the world. Hello, I am John Borella, the CEO of the BorderPlex Alliance, the only organization privately funded that represents three states and two countries. Behind me is an open door.
 It's public artwork here in El Paso that represents the open door to Ciudad Juarez, which is only a half a mile away from where I stand today. I want to congratulate all of you and especially congratulate Representative Peter Schwarzbein for being elected chair of the Sister Cities International Board. The work that all of you do and the tireless work that Representative Schwarzbein has done to create better cultural understanding, jobs, hope, opportunity,
 or trade opportunities is absolutely incomparable. Thanks to your work and Representative Swartzbinds. I can think of nobody better suited
 to lead the organization and Representative Swartzbine. His tireless efforts over the years and your tireless efforts over the years have yielded great results, promoting peace, harmony, and understanding among people around the world. So once again, congratulations for all of the work that you do and congratulations to Representative Swartzbine. On behalf of the Mayor of the City of Guadalupe, how's it going? How are you? I'm okay.
 I forgot to do this thing last week. Representative Peter Swazbein, as a chairman of this important worldwide organization. This is San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg. As a past chairman of SCI, it is my pleasure to congratulate you, Peter, on your ascension to the chairmanship of Sister Cities International.
 SEI brings local elected leaders together to think globally and act locally on international issues of mutual interest, ranging from cultural and educational exchanges, environmental stewardship, business connections and opportunities, and simply making the connection on a person-to-person level around the world. It is important work, and you are well prepared to take the helm. Peter, you deserve this honor, and I look forward to the continuation of SEI's progress under your leadership.
 Thank you, IT. And before I make the motion, I would like to read a resolution that was prepared, and I'd like to make the motion to approve afterwards. But it goes to a well-deserved individual whose commitment is committed once he sets his mind to it. The resolution reads as follows. We're asked, founded by President D. I.T.
 Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1956, Sister Cities International is a nonpartisan 501c3 nonprofit which serves as a national membership organization for individual sister cities, counties, and states across the United States.
 And whereas this network unites tens of thousands of citizens, diplomats and volunteers in nearly 500 member communities with over 2,000 partnerships in more than 140 countries. And whereas the mission of the Sister Cities International is to promote peace through mutual respect, understanding and cooperation. One individual, one community at a time.
 And whereas the city of El Paso has active sister city partnerships with Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, Chihuahua, Mexico, and Hadera, Israel. I hope I said it right, Peter. Hadera, Israel. And whereas in February 2020, Representative Schwarzwein led the Mexico-U.S. Sister Cities Mayor's Summit, which was hosted by El Paso and Juarez.
 and brought over 400 people to the region to learn about the relationship between the two nations. And whereas on Thursday, July 16, 2020, Representative Schwarzwein was elected Vice Chair of Sister Cities International, and whereas on Friday, July 8, 2022, at the annual Summer Leadership Meeting in Santa Fe, New Mexico,
 El Paso District 1 City Representative and Mayor Pro Tem Peter Schwarzwein made history by being officially sworn in as the first Latino Chairman of Sister Cities International. And, whereas Representative Schwarzwein's first major event as Chairman will be held this October at the U.S. Sister Cities Mayor's Community Summit in San Diego, Antigua. Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that one,
 that the city of El Paso proudly honors and recognizes District City One representative and Mayor Pro Tem, Peter Schwarzwein, for being elected as the first Latino chair of Sister Cities International and wishes him a successful two-year tenure as chairman. Congratulations, Mayor Pro Tem. Second. With that, I make the motion to approve. And I got a second. Is there an opportunity for comment and discussion at this time, Mayor? Yes, please, go ahead, sir.
 Representative Mayor Prokofiev go ahead. I know we have a 10 minute limit on our City Council days And I will not use anywhere close to that. Thank you again representative Rivera for for your kind words, and thank you again everybody For for this honor as well again, of course if this resolution passes and we know that we've had some Some very close votes this past year. So hopefully this will not be one of them You know
 It's really been an honor to be able to serve this community. I did not come into public service with a background and a blueprint of what it was except to help this community and to help be an ambassador and speak about the truth about growing up here on the border, which is one of the most misunderstood and most wonderful places that we have in this world. And being able to have the privilege and honor of being able to
 start as a city, as a board member for Sister Cities International and rising to become chairman is really a deep honor and it's an honor that I share with all of El Paso. My interest with the organization has always been to put El Paso first, to communicate
 not just the challenges but the opportunities and the truth about being born and raised here on the US-Mexico border between El Paso and Juarez. And so I feel very honored to be able to continue that work over the next two years, and I think we've done a lot to do that, including bringing the US-Mexico Mayor's Summit
 in El Paso and Juarez back in 2020, literally a week before the world shut down due to COVID. And it's a really great honor, which you'll be hearing from later today, to be working to host the next U.S. Mayor, Mexico Mayor's Sister City Summit in San Diego and Tijuana, October 11th through the 13th as well. And of course, everyone here is invited. You know, when I first was in the
 I was elected onto the board in the summer of 2016. It was about two months after my father had passed. And I remember being in Washington, discussing myself and why I wanted to be on this esteemed board of the oldest and largest citizen diplomacy nonprofit in the world. And I couldn't help but think about my dad. And I couldn't help but think about his role and journey as an immigrant to this country from Argentina.
 about his commitment to his family and towards wanting to to build a better world for for me and my brother and to serve this community as well as a medical professional and he loved el paso and he loved el paso because of the opportunities that are represented to all people latino and otherwise and when i was there i just thought about
 how much of an ambassador he was to El Paso and how much of an ambassador he was towards citizen diplomacy. And I'm just very honored. And so thank you again, Representative Rivera. Thank you again, all of council. And thank you again to everybody here in El Paso as well. I'll continue to represent you. And also, I would be remiss if I didn't thank, one, my staff of Luz and Nissi.
 THEY'VE BEEN ROCK HARD WITH THIS. I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL OF YOUR WORK AND ALSO OUR WEST TEXAS STATE REPRESENTATIVE FOR SISTER STATES INTERNATIONAL, TATIANA AVALA, MY BEAUTIFUL FIANCE WHO IS HERE AS WELL. SO THANK YOU AGAIN, EVERYONE, FOR YOUR SUPPORT. THANK YOU AGAIN, STAFF. YOU KNOW, THE BEST WAY FORWARD AS WE KNOW IN EL PASO IS BY LEADING BY EXAMPLE. AND I THINK THAT WE HAVE A UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW THIS WORLD HOW COMMUNITIES CAN WORK TOGETHER. AND THAT IS AN IMPORTANT LESSON.
 Not just yesterday, but we know more so today than ever before. So thank you again for everybody's support, and thank you again for this honor. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Townsend, for helping put this video together. And thank you, staff, for your help as well. Thank you all. Thank you. Well, thank you all very much for this. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. You know that it's always...
 Great to see that as you term out moving forward, you still have the ability to represent your city and continue to represent the city. So thank you for that. And congratulations on being appointed chair of Sister City and look forward to spending three or four days in San Diego as we continue to sign Sister City. So thank you again and congratulations that you'll continue to be able to represent our community. Representative Hernandez. Yes.
 Thank you and to Representative Rivera for sponsoring this and to shedding light on this wonderful recognition. I wanted to share a quick story with you. I was visiting about the mayor of San Antonio. I was visiting New Orleans Mayor Pro Tem and I ran into the mayor and his staff there and I was like super excited. And I said, Mayor Nierberg, I wanted to meet him and introduce myself.
 and his staff shut me down. They wouldn't let me approach him. And then I said, well, I'm from El Paso, and I just want to introduce myself. And then he heard me, and he says, hey, do you know my good friend Peter? And I'm all like, okay, that's all I had to do was drop Mayor Peter Schwartzman's name so I could get introduced to the mayor of San Antonio. And that is just evidence of why it's so important for someone to help share El Paso's story. We are so...
 There's so many misconceptions and there's not a really true understanding of what makes our community beautiful And that is because of our binational Wonderful people in our community and I can't think of a better person to be in this role mayor portem And so I just want to give you my sincere congratulations continue to correct the misinformation and continue to share about the wonderful people we have in our community and Congratulations on this wonderful
 Thank you. Do we have a motion and a second? Yes, Mayor, we do. The motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve the resolution on item 27. On that motion, call for the vote. Point of order, do I need to recuse myself from this vote? No, go ahead. We'll let you vote. And if it's a tie, you can count on me.
 Do a verbal roll call. Yes, sir. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthyne. Aye. Thank you. In the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Yeah. Congratulations, sir. Mayor, one last thing. Just like to present Mayor Pro Tem with plaque commemorating today's date and, of course, you being selected as the first Latino chair. Over there with your family. And this is from all of the councilors.
 Yeah, we're good. You spelled my last name right. Thanks. Hey. Hi.
 That brings us to item number 32, and this is discussion in action to recognize September as suicide prevention month, a time for people to raise awareness of suicide prevention, treatment and recovery. And this item was submitted by Representative Analo. Thank you, Mayor. I'll read the resolution. Yes, ma'am. It says, whereas September is recognized as suicide prevention month, a time for people to raise awareness of suicide prevention, treatment and recovery.
 And whereas suicide is the second leading cause of death for people aged 10 to 34, and fourth leading cause of death for people aged 34 to 54, and 46% of people who die by suicide had a diagnosed mental health condition. And whereas during the pandemic, hospital admissions for teenage girls who may have attempted suicide increased 50%, with lesbian, gay, and bisexual youth four times more likely to attempt suicide than straight youth, and transgender people are 12 times more likely to attempt suicide than general population.
 And whereas veterans represent almost 14% of suicides among U.S. adults in 2019. And whereas as a community it is vital we learn to identify symptoms of mental health conditions and warning signs of suicide in order to step in and help individuals to get help before it is too late as well as to dismantle stigma and misinformation.
 And whereas together spreading public awareness, educating families and friends, advocating for mental health care expansion, and improving our behavioral health system will help the lives of individuals living with mental health conditions and their families. And whereas the National Alliance on Mental Illness, NAMI of El Paso, along with El Paso VA and Emergence Health Network, will host a vigil to honor those lost to suicide on September 22, 2022 at San Jacinto Plaza at 6 p.m.
 And whereas El Pasoans can text NAMI to 741741 to access the crisis text line, can call the Nationwide Suicide Crisis Line at 988 or Emergence Health Network Crisis Line at 915-779-1800 if they or a loved one are expecting a...
 experiencing a mental health crisis. And whereas September 10th is World Suicide Prevention Day, which is recognized internationally and is supported by the World Health Organization. Now therefore be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso, that the City of El Paso will recognize September's Suicide Prevention Awareness Month in commemoration of those lost to suicide. Approved this 30th day of August 2022. And I believe there are individuals from both Emergence Health Network and NAMI here to speak.
 Good morning, Mayor, Council. This is Rene Hurtado, Emergence Health Network Chief of Staff. I would like to begin by thanking you for your continued support of emergence and for recognizing the public health threat that is suicide. I know you have some statistics there, Representative. We're going to throw just a couple more. According to the National Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the United States continues along a very alarming downward trend for deaths by suicide.
 deaths continue to increase year to year and decade to decade. Unlike other disease processes such as cancer or cardiovascular disease which are trending downward, the trend continues to go up for suicide year after year, decade after decade as I said, and the trend continues to be even more disturbing for children under the age of 18. In Texas, suicide is now the second leading cause of death for individuals ages 10 to 34.
 At Emergence, we work on several intercept points to guide individuals at risk for suicide to available resources. Whether it's at our adult or children's clinic, our veterans one-stop center, or any of our 19 locations, our staff is trained to recognize the warning signs and provide the necessary interventions to hopefully prevent injury or loss of life.
 Through our mental health learning library, we work to provide valuable training such as mental health first aid to educate teachers, law enforcement officers, and the general public about the warning signs and symptoms. And of course, our crisis and emergency services division works with individuals contemplating suicide and other harmful behaviors and provide life-saving services and supports. Thank you.
 Our extended observation unit, our MCOTs, which are mobile crisis outreach teams, and our CIT teams together with the El Paso Police Department provide life-saving services
 and very valuable supports 24-7. Our crisis line, as we mentioned, 779-1800, and now 988, talks to individuals, again, 24-7-365. You can call that number and receive telephonic therapy for folks who are contemplating suicide or to help family members who need guidance to guide their loved ones to support.
 As you may have heard, El Paso is now one of only four Texas centers that are nationally recognized as National Suicide Hotline 988 centers. And we're also proud to be a nationally recognized bilingual call center and we're receiving calls in Spanish from all over the country.
 Mayor and council, please know that as your mental health authority, Emergence Health Network will continue to combat suicide on all fronts, and we will continue to work with the city of El Paso and partners like NAMI to make sure no lives are lost to suicide. Thank you this morning for your time. Thank you.
 Good morning Mayor good morning council. Thank you Representative Manoa for the sponsorship of this item and for bringing this forth. It is very important that we can move and have more conversations on suicide prevention and suicide awareness. In Nami El Paso we work to educate our community on mental health conditions as that's one way that we can prevent
 mental health conditions from becoming so serious that an individual contemplates or attempts suicide. We work with our partners like Emergence Health Network and the El Paso VA to ensure that we are educating our community on the resources that are available to them. You know suicide is a very taboo conversation is a very hard hard conversation to have.
 Rene mentioned some of the you know common medical conditions that we see take individuals to the hospital. Cancer may be a car accident various things and we know that family members rush to support that individual who may have attempted suicide and their close family members. But when an individual attempts suicide it tends to get worse.
 get a little quiet and individuals don't know how to approach that family. And so this month we hope to continue and expand the conversations around suicide expand the resources and.
 educate our community on some of the warning signs and symptoms to prevent suicide and intervene and again have those conversations about mental health before it gets worse. And of course our vigil later this month where we will be honoring those lives individuals be sharing their stories of individuals they've lost to suicide and we'll also hear from survivors who have survived their suicide attempts.
 and talk about now their journey towards recovery as a way to offer hope for those who may feel alone, may feel that they don't know where to turn. And then NAMI El Paso and our community partners like EHN and the El Paso VA are here to help them. Thank you. Thank you. Sir, will you please state your name for the record? Yes, my apologies. Isidro Torres. I'm the executive director of NAMI El Paso, the local affiliate of the National Alliance on Mental Illness. Thank you. Thank you.
 ELIZA BARON Good morning. My name is Eliza Baron and I'm a licensed clinical social worker with the Suicide Prevention Team at the El Paso VA. Thank you so much to having us here today. I just wanted to share a few words and not to be too repetitive as to what has already been said about the importance of this month and really of the work that all of us are doing throughout the year. Suicide prevention is really something that our team puts a lot of energy toward.
 We want to highlight the importance of being able to learn those warning signs and symptoms and asking the question, asking the question immediately when you've identified those warning signs of suicide. You don't have to be a mental health professional to ask that question to provide genuine and heartfelt support. So that's really something that is important that we want to highlight that we all have a role in preventing suicide regardless of who we are in the community.
 During the month of September, our team will be participating in or hosting a number of events, some of which are public. So we would love to see you there. We'll be sharing information and resources about lethal means safety and about learning the warning signs of suicide and being able to do what we can as a community to prevent suicide moving forward. So, again, thank you all so much for having us here today. Thank you for being here. And thank you, Representative Ronello. And I know it's really important for...
 you know, people that need help, but also the families and how they can reach out and what's available out there in our community, so I thank you for the awareness and this is how we'll continue with awareness to get the word out and allow people to know that there is help out there and there's people that wanna help, so thank you. Thank you, Mayor, and with that, I'll make a motion to approve. Second. Second. Here's a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the resolution.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Counsel, did you want to recess? Motion to recess. There's a motion and a second to recess in order to take photos with this morning's honorees. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 9.46 a.m. Yes, sir. Counsel, may we have a motion to reconvene the meeting? Yes.
 There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 10.02 a.m. If we can turn to page number 18, the next item that was moved to the forefront is number 47. This is discussion in action to approve the El Paso County 911 District FY2022-2023 budget to be presented by Scott Calderwood, Director. Good morning. Good morning.
 good morning good morning mayor morning how are you representatives so i'm scott calderwood i'm the director of the el paso county 911 district we've sent you a copy of our budget and i've spoken with most of you most of you are familiar with what we're doing and so i just wanted to take the opportunity to point out that el paso has some of the finest public safety uh
 in this whole country and we are committed to continuing our partnership and supporting that by providing those entities the best 911 service and systems that are currently available. So our budget looks pretty normal this year. We have
 sufficient revenue to meet all of the obligations so we'll be able to continue all of the programs that we've been that we've been sponsoring in the past without any without any real problems so I don't know does anybody have any questions regarding the budget no sir you move to approve second there's a motion made by representative at another seconded by representative Rivera to approve item number 47
 On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously Thank you. Thank you. Nice go to chief mayor. May we go to item number 13 that was moved from consent to regular next Yes, ma'am, please. Thank you
 This is on page five, item number 13, and this is a resolution that the mayor be authorized to sign an interlocal governmental agreement between the city of El Paso and the county of El Paso District Attorney 34th Judicial District of the State of Texas for services to the city and its police department relating to arrest and prosecution of criminal cases in connection with a district attorney's information management system, DIMS program. Good morning, Chief.
 Good morning, Assistant Chief Zee Silva with the El Paso Police Department. If IT can bring up my short presentation, please. You can go ahead and go to the next slide. Thank you.
 This is for the District Information Management System. I'm gonna give you a short presentation on where we are with the program. It aligns with strategic goal numbers two and six to maintain standing as one of the nation's top safest city. In 2021, Advisor Smith ranked El Paso number three for cities of similar size as a safer city.
 It's also to increase public safety operational efficiency to implement leading edge practices and also to deliver services timely and efficiently with a focus on continual improvement. Next slide please. So the purpose of the DIMS into local government agreement is to allow prosecutors to screen criminal cases presented by us law enforcement and to determine if the prosecution is desired within hours of the commission of the offense and with hours of a person's arrest.
 And just for clarity, it's the number one criteria for the DIMS program that the offender must be on the scene for the officer to take into custody. Oftentimes the offender is either unknown, has fled the scene, or the case requires further investigation. For it to be a DIMS case, the offender must be present.
 It also permits the filing of criminal charges in the state court system within hours of a personal arrest which increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the criminal justice system. It allows law enforcement to present a completed case, quickly arrest an offender, and provide safety to the victims. And of course it promotes a strong working relationship not only between the El Paso Police Department and the District Attorney's Office but also the Sheriff's Office. Next slide please.
 Benefits to the police department include, but are not limited to, providing the community with a timely response to the current status of their case. So victims will immediately know what the offender is arrested for. They'll have access to bond information and they'll understand the nature of the charges. The cases can be presented by the officer from the field to the district attorney. Cases are accepted or declined expeditiously.
 The DIMS intake booking process has significantly been reduced in the amount of steps necessary to book an offender into the county jail. That allows officers to return to the field quickly. DIMS cases do not go to a detective for further investigation, and DIMS cases do not go to the transfer office. So that significantly reduces workloads for two of our sections in the police department. Next slide, please.
 For the Sheriff's Department, we have a working relationship. They also utilize the DIMS program, and they come up with a fast-track booking process if you utilize the DIMS system. So instead of going through the four-step process, officers that are using the DIMS system can go directly to the second floor of the jail,
 They stop at the nursing station to make sure that the offender is healthy enough to go through the booking process and then they stop at Emergence Health to make sure that they're mentally prepared to go through the booking process and then we go directly to booking. If we don't go through the DIMS process then we have to stop through four stations
 the nursing station, Emergence Health, the financial station, the CJC, and then we have to go back to the magistrate on the first floor. This is all prior to booking, which exponentially increases the amount of time it takes for an officer to book one person into the county jail. Next slide, please. So far in 2022, we've had over 2,100 cases go through the DIMS process. It looks like we're on track to hit about 3,600 DIMS cases for the year. Next slide, please.
 The scope of the services for the DIMS program is that the DIMS attorney will make their staff, both the assistant district attorney and their support staff, available on a 24-hour rotating basis. They will answer our calls within 10 minutes of the first call or within 20 minutes of a missed call.
 They're to provide us with statistical reports that will include weekly, monthly, yearly comparison reports on the caseload for misdemeanor and felony cases and whether they were accepted or declined. And then we also are to meet quarterly with them to discuss and analyze and review and update the program as necessary.
 So the next steps in the process will continue our quarterly meetings. We've already had about two. We also want to improve our internal capabilities with our records management system to make sure that we're also able to retrieve cases.
 When we compile the statistics from the DIMS program, we'll also match it to the information that we have in our Ware-Barr-Mess system. We'll continue to review process improvements about January, and then if required, we can come back to city council in August and give you another update of the program. And that concludes my presentation. Okay, District Two.
 Thank you. Thank you for the presentation. I'm really glad that we were able to work on this program and get a better outcome. I know that you all have worked really hard on it. I have a couple questions about the kind of cases that qualify for DIMS. I know you said misdemeanor and felony. Are there any kind of charges that do not qualify for DIMS? So all of our major cases, for example, murder, those will never go to DIMS. A lot of our major narcotics cases, our STI...
 negligent homicide cases, those kind of things will never go to gyms. Anything that requires extensive investigation. What about domestic or child abuse? They do go through gyms. They do go through gyms. But remember that the offender has to be in custody. So even if it's a domestic violence case and the offender has absconded, then it has to go through the long route.
 And not every case goes through the DIMS, or not every arrest goes through the DIMS process, right? And so what happens, how do you all determine who does go through DIMS and who doesn't? That is by the judge, is it sometimes by law enforcement as well?
 Generally speaking, we know which cases go through DIMS. So if it happens generally within two to three hours of the call and the offender is still present, it doesn't have a lot of evidence, it's not a murder case, then it'll go through DIMS. But if they are outside of that and the offender is not present, then those cases can't go through DIMS. Okay. And what is the officer's responsibility after the arrest if a case does not go through DIMS? So they'll have to complete the report.
 the report gets approved through a supervisor and then the case gets transferred to the appropriate section Okay, and then it's no longer the city of El Paso's case. It belongs to the
 the the jail the district attorney no case isn't complete it'll go to a detective section okay and the detective will be responsible for completing the case prior to sending it to the district attorney okay thank you that's helpful because there's just been a lot of confusion I think recently with what has happened with some cases being thrown out and some communication in which this falls on the city's
 purview to put that through the process to the district attorney's office. And so I don't know if you all have any comments on that. I think it's created some confusion. My understanding is they weren't very valid comments and were not fair to the El Paso Police Department. I shouldn't have asked you to comment. That's unfair to you. I'm gonna go ahead and comment because you're talking about cases in which the defendant has already been placed in jail.
 And in 99% of those cases, the El Paso Police Department had presented those cases in a timely manner. We did review those cases, yes. Well, thank you. I appreciate that clarification, and I think it was unfair to put the police department and this program on such public notice with not very factual comments. So thank you for that. I really appreciate it. You're welcome. Thank you, Chief Zivala for being here. Representative Hernandez. Thank you, Mayor Burton.
 Just to follow up piggyback off of Representative Nello's question of the two thousand and one hundred and fourteen to date as of this year calendar year in the event it goes through the Dems process and then it gets kicked you know it gets kicked out or it's dismissed because nothing came to fruition. Does do you all have to come back and
 go through the process or the dense process again? Or is it at the end of the cycle of the case where you all have to go back, the El Paso Police Department, do you all have to go back and represent this again in front of a judge?
 No, we do not go back once we present the case to DIMS and it's either accepted or declined the case now belongs to the District attorney The most we can do is that they need more information and they ask us for maybe missing evidence or whatever else that they might Need but if they decide to decline the case at any point then it's only within the judicial system So at no point if the case is dismissed and then it's refiled. There's no role that the El Paso Police Department plays I
 Unless they decide that they want to put out a KPS and we have to go back and pick up the offender. No Okay, there's nothing or the work for us understood and are we able to determine? What progress we have seen year-to-date Year over a year. I don't have that data Okay, because I understand like we changed the process and so it's making it more efficient I'm trying to determine
 where the efficiency is as relates to the changes that we've done procedurally and so i'm just not sure if that's a good representation of data since you have two different procedures or if this is the new baseline and then we benchmark off of this year's new changes that's that's what i believe we should do because we just started the program in january and we should benchmark going forward
 And so in your opinion, in the department's opinion, is this program more beneficial to the city or is it harmful to the city in terms of resource allocation with our police department? So before we answer that, we want to at least have a year of data. I mean, that's generally a good baseline to ensure on both sides if the program is really working the way we set it out to do. We do know that from the jail side, which is very important, that we are having an efficiency there.
 Right, okay. No, no, I appreciate that response and I think that's fair because you want to compare apples to apples and so I recognize that and and so long as there is coordination through the DA that We're saving time and resources then then I'll be in support of renewing this agreement with the district attorney's office Thank you representative and on this we did initiate a lean six Sigma project and identified a lot of efficiencies and
 Some were a little too efficient, and we did include the county in that discussion and that work, and so we took in everyone's comments, and so we made some of the adjustments, not all of them, and that's what the chief's talking about, that those changes that were made, we're going to run that through for a year and then come back and look at it again. Okay, Representative Mullinar? Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem chief. Always good to see you. Thank you On slide 8 you mentioned that yeah continue quarterly meetings with the DA. When was the date of the last meeting? I
 I don't have the dates but myself and Eric Gutierrez who's our city attorney met with them about two months ago and we will track and keep the dates and when we do our final presentation we'll let you know how many times but it's been at least twice that we've met. Okay I don't know if you can answer this question or not but whatever it is or is not happening with the district attorney's office and the public defender's office.
 dismissing cases for lack of indictments. What is the morale on the old council police department? So we don't see that in our day to day work. Patrol officers are not seeing the dismissal of cases. So they're continuing to present cases from the field the way the DIMS program is designed to operate. Okay, and Ms. Hamilton, is there, what repercussions do we as a city incur if so many cases are dismissed?
 Well, the district attorney is responsible for the prosecution of those cases. If there is an additional crime, the officers would go out and investigate that crime for future work. But the dismissal of the cases is not something that the city would be liable. And is there someone from the...
 System to system da was giving me an assistant process. Excuse me, it's this the city attorney's office on that lean six project or In the meetings with the DA's office we did meet with them and they were part of the process We were putting that together and we gave each of you an individual presentation when we went through that process Okay. All right. Thank you chief. I appreciate your time second
 Just had one question. Can you describe your relationship or actually the interaction with the District Attorney's Office over the last few years and how that relationship is working with this program? Well, we've gone through a change in district attorneys, so they're different.
 They're not obviously the same, but right now we do have a good working relationship in regards to the DIMS program. We spent a lot of time working on this contract and making sure that there were benefits on both sides. So I think our relationship is pretty good right now. Do we have an idea of how many DIMS-related cases have been dismissed or dropped over the last –
 six months to a year? I don't. I'm not able to track that through my web RMS system. That's one of the things that we need to receive as part of the data from the District Attorney's Office. And we're also working internally to make sure that our records management system can also capture that data. So when we come back in August, we'll be able to have that for you. Okay. Thanks. Is there any other questions from Council at this time? Okay. Hearing none, I'd like to call the question. All in favor? Oh, whoops. Okay.
 We have somebody that does that. There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item number 13. On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you. Thank you. That brings us to item number 28 on page number 11 of the agenda.
 And this is a presentation and update by the city manager on the status of grants and or loans Provided to small businesses through the small business emergency relief program Managed by lift fund to include a list of any businesses attached to a lien and this is representative Rivera's item Yes Speak yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This this so I
 This item was placed on the agenda because we had a call regarding an individual who was issued a grant and I hope we get that explanation so everybody can, in case you get the same kind of calls, because when the gentleman went to, had paid off his loan,
 He had gotten a grant and paid off his loan and eventually was in the process of selling his business when he was notified that there was a lien placed on his business from the LIFT Fund. That is the reason for this and apparently from what I learned is that they do notify
 regarding this issue so if you have member members of the community in your districts that don't aren't aware of this maybe and you get a call like this this presentation will help you out yes sir yes sir Elizabeth tricks with economic development if IT can bring up the presentation please
 So what we did represent Rivera, this information was pretty readily available. So we were able to retrieve it. She has a short presentation to go over what your question was about. Oh, thank you. Thank you very much. And like I said, it's beneficial for the rest of the council. They weren't aware of this. Yes, sir. So what I wanted to do is just provide a little bit of a background on this program. Shortly after COVID hit about two weeks afterwards,
 The City Council was able to commit a million dollars initially from our impact fund for the Small Business Emergency Relief Program. When combined with the county's dollars in total, 1.2 million dollars was set aside for small business loans. We did partner with Lift Funds to administer those loans.
 In total, we found that 71 loans were provided to small businesses within the city limits for a total amount of just over $1.07 million. So a huge impact very early on before any CARES funding or federal funding was released. Later that year on October 28, City Council did allocate CARES funding for loan forgiveness, which turned all of those loans essentially into grants.
 So all loans, all 71, plus those that were issued outside of the city limits were forgiven. Next slide, please.
 This just provides kind of an overview of how the loan application process works and how the forgiveness process also works. So just like any other loan application, the application was submitted. It was evaluated for credit worthiness. As is the case with most loans, a lien was filed on assets, on the borrower's assets to secure collateral for the loan. So that did happen with all 71 loans.
 And then once council allocated that CARES funding later that fall to forgive the loans, that was done in October. A couple months later, early December, once LIFT Fund received the dollars to forgive the loans, a notice was sent out.
 to each of the borrowers, notifying them that their loan had been forgiven, and also providing instructions on how the borrower could file for release of the lien. What I want to note here is that it was very clear that it is, in this case, the borrower's responsibility to file for release of the lien, and then borrowers would take that on. And next slide, please.
 Just very quickly, this is a sample of what the letter looked like. You can see circled there where it talks a little bit about how the lien can be released. So all borrowers did receive this notice. We have spoken with Lift Fund, however, and ask that they please send out another notice just one more time to make sure that all the borrowers under this program are aware that they are responsible for releasing the lien. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions.
 Well, the mayor walked out, so I'll take it. Oh, there he is. Thank you. Representative Vare. Thank you, Mr. Higgs. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mr. Higgs. That's very informative, and hopefully we can all learn from this because apparently they weren't notifying them, but I'm glad that you got back to them. And are they gonna actually send out a letter for those that have grants and have paid off their grants?
 Yeah just for clarity it's not the grant program. There was no lien filed for grant programs it was only for the loan program which was a really limited number. I'm sorry. So yet. The loan program I apologize. No that's OK. They will send out a second notice sir. Thank you so much again for the presentation. Yes sir. Thank you Mayor Putnam. OK. Representative Rodriguez.
 Thank you. Thank you Representative Rivera for putting this item. Elizabeth my question is you know are we prepared for the second round of grants that will be allocated so we don't have a similar situation to this. Yes. So the second round we're looking at bringing it forward to you all in September October the latest
 You all have already allocated ARPA funding, so we're just working through the details of the contract with Lift Fund. And we are planning on ensuring that, just like is the case here, we'll make sure that it's written out, if there are any loans involved in the future, that there is a notice provided to the borrower. But I do wanna be clear that all borrowers were advised that they needed to file for release of the lien.
 That said though, if we do bring any loans forward, we'll make sure that that's also spelled out that a notice is required in our contract. Okay, and you said we'll be hearing, getting information on those either end of September, beginning of October? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Yes, ma'am. That's when we're looking forward that first round of funding. We are looking at grants at this time. So not loans, but grants, which means that no lien will be required. Okay, thank you.
 Do we know when this grant program is going to be operational. DIRECTOR MACKAY Usually it takes about a month after the contract is approved to get it up and running. What I will say is that we're prioritizing those businesses that did not receive funding through the CARES process initially. So so trying to hit the ones that you know weren't able to take advantage of the program to begin with and then we'll move.
 If there's still funding remaining we'll move to the next round of businesses that perhaps we're able to secure CARES grant fund funded grants. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Do we do we know when when that will be coming to council to approve. DIRECTOR HARRIS. Yes sir. So September October at the very latest. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. Thank you. DIRECTOR HARRIS. Is there any other questions at this time. Not a question. DIRECTOR MACK. There's no action on this item sir.
 Item number 29 is discussion in action to approve a resolution that the City Council declares that the expenditure of District 8 discretionary funds for the use of the El Paso Police Department patrol units and officers to support the buoy 100th anniversary legacy parade to be held on September 1st 2022 serves a municipal purpose and this is representative Lizard There's a motion made by representative. I know seconded by representative. Lizard aga to approve and
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. That brings us to item number 30, and this is to discuss the 2022 Sister Cities International U.S.-Mexico Mayor's Community Summit
 Hosted in San Diego Tijuana October 11th through the 14th as the city of El Paso will be able to promote its uniqueness and reinforce the existing relationships with other Mexican cities and the United States and this item was submitted by Mayor Pro Tem shorts Thank you very much City Clerk and good morning everybody as well First of all, thank you again representative Rivera for the resolution earlier
 great opportunity to talk about this continuation and this opportunity for our community. When we talk about El Paso and we talk about what makes it so special, we know that we have always been a natural gateway to Mexico. Over 90 billion dollars a year of trade crossed through our ports of entry and we know that everything from family, language, music, food, business,
 students and other things cross our borders each and every day between our two sister cities of Juarez and El Paso yet El Paso and Juarez and our city are part of a larger network and a larger relationship between our two countries a bond that is unbreakable and has existed for centuries and so today I would like to if we can go to the first slide IT guess we'll do this backwards
 I would like to just share with the council a great opportunity to invite the council as well as the mayor for an upcoming U.S.-Mexico Mayors Community Summit and a little bit about this initiative with Sister Cities International. Again, to remind council, this is a continuation of the third of what these binational community summits. So next slide.
 So a little bit of an overview. We talked briefly about it due to the resolution that Representative Rivera has. But again, Sister Cities International is a presidential legacy nonprofit founded by Dwight Eisenhower on September 11th of 1956. Eisenhower was one of our greatest generals.
 became one of our greatest presidents. And his concern was with keeping the peace after World War II. And in the middle of the Cold War, he felt that the best way for – to help create global peace and prosperity was not through countries talking to each other but through people.
 And here in El Paso, we do know the power of our people as well. So basically, the program of Sister Cities International started with different community and citizen exchange programs focusing on student exchange, arts and culture exchange, economic exchange, as well as humanitarian exchange. Again, at a time of the Cold War, where countries may not have talked to each other, this was not handled through ambassadors and embassies, but through mayors and through people.
 oftentimes just volunteers. Next slide. And from those initial outreach and sister city partnerships, most of which were with German and Japanese cities in the 1950s, it's now expanded to over 2,000 cities in over 130 countries with over 500 membership cities in the United States. Next slide.
 And you can see those relationships across almost every single state here, and different initiatives, different opportunities. A lot of cities have been utilizing their sister city program to encourage international and economic development. For example, that was one of the opportunities that we signed a sister city relationship in 2015 with Hader Israel.
 Hader Israel is the leading city in Israel relating to cyber and border security technology as well as agritech.
 and other defense industries as well. So it made a lot of sense with our focus on advanced manufacturing since 2015 to look at Jadera as an opportunity, and that's just one. Our relationship with Juarez, for example, is slightly different. It's focusing on tourism and promotion of both of our cities, making sure that we send delegations to Washington and to Mexico City with members of both of our cities simultaneously.
 And so coming up with this, we have over 170 partnerships in Mexico. It is our largest amount of sister city partnerships with any other country, followed by Japan and then with China as well. And so, again, we'd like to invite everybody to this upcoming U.S.-Mexico Mayors Community Summit, again, October 11th through the 13th in San Diego with a day in Tijuana as well. So next slide. Thank you.
 This is a continuation of these US-Mexico summits, started in 2018 in Guadalajara as a way and a platform for different leaders, city officials, business leaders, academics, and experts, as well as citizen diplomats to engage in discussions about that unique and unending relationship between Mexico and the United States. The first was in 2018 in Guadalajara, and we can go to the next slide.
 And so you can see here, these are just some images from Guadalajara. We had over 400 attendees spend two days in Guadalajara with the sister cities of Guadalajara, which traditionally are San Jose, El Paso, Albuquerque, and San Antonio. We then followed up this summit with – and we can go to, I think, the video at this time.
 Followed that up in February 26th to the 28th in El Paso and in Juarez. And for those that had to attend, it was a pretty amazing experience. And here's some video from that. So that was a really wonderful recap. We were able to spend an evening in Ciudad Juarez and it was a particularly spirited time. We actually had a sort of, for those that were there, had an opportunity to be serenaded by Juan Osorio, the Binational Director.
 in Juarez as well as an impromptu karaoke by Mayor Pete Saenz of Laredo as well. So for a lot of people that were there they hadn't been there in Juarez in quite a while. So it was a pretty great time there. So what to expect for this upcoming summit in San Diego and Tijuana is
 First of all, great opportunity and commitment already from a number of mayors as well as elected officials from Fort Worth, San Antonio, Albuquerque, Mayor of Albuquerque, Mayor Kelly will be in attendance as well as Mayor Miyagashima of Las Cruces and Mayor Weber of Santa Fe.
 as well as elected mayors from Los Angeles California Mountain View California San Diego San Jose Ciudad Juarez Guadalajara Tijuana Ensenada and Mazatlan. We could take away that slide. There's another. Miss Prine did you get the thing that I sent. SPEAKER 19- Was it this morning. SPEAKER 20- Yeah it was about maybe 10 minutes ago. SPEAKER 19- No sir. SPEAKER 20- OK. Well some of the agenda items that will be will be going over at this summit.
 Let me just pull this up really quick. So a number of things that will be happening. We'll be having an opening reception in Balboa Park for those who have been in San Diego
 pretty special historic park as well. For October 12th, we'll be departing to Tijuana during the day. We'll be having a mayor's panel with mayors from throughout the United States and Mexico, as well as a panel on the USMCA NAFTA 3.0 as well with representatives from San Diego, Mexico, El Paso on that panel as well. Something really special,
 OUR OWN MAYOR WILL BE SIGNING A SISTER CITY AGREEMENT WITH MAZATLAN MEXICO LIVE AT THE SUMMIT AS WELL. WE ARE CURRENTLY PLANNING ON HAVING FOUR OTHER SISTER CITY SIGNINGS WITH OTHER U.S. MEXICO CITIES LIVE AT THAT TIME AS WELL. SO SOMETHING VERY SPECIAL.
 who were members of council for that 2018 signing with Juarez. It's a very emotional and special time, so to be able to do that with hundreds of others will be a pretty special event. We're also looking at having a panel on design and global resiliency, working on the impact of collaboration with designs and global regions.
 Of note is that San Diego and Tijuana were recently awarded the Global Design City. It's the first time that two cities have been awarded this at the same time. We'll be having a Taste of Baja breakout as well for that first day. And then in addition to that, we'll be having panels on October 13th focused on immigration, energy between the United States and Mexico, as well as a youth panel.
 um with different that's being organized currently by youth from tijuana and san diego as well and finally for a keynote lunch topic we'll be looking at tentatively uh mr abroad who is the
 economy, Minister of Mexico, as well as on the second day, a keynote lunch topic focusing on sports diplomacy between the United States and Mexico with members of the San Antonio Spurs as well as the San Diego Padres in attendance for what should be a very spirited conversation about this opportunity.
 So with that, I just again want to invite everybody on the council as well as the public to attend. This is a great opportunity to showcase the unique culture and vibrancy between our cities and our countries through Sister Cities International. And again, I'd open it up for any other questions at this time. No action, that was just for discussion. Is there, yes, Representative Salcido.
 Thank you, Representative Mayor Pro Temp. I just wanted to say thank you so much for all the hard work you did in showcasing our city. I think it was great. I only heard a lot of positives, so I just want to thank you for all your hard work and your staff in putting such a great event. I'm looking forward to you representing El Paso and just shining a light on our beautiful city for people to really know how great we are. So thank you. Thank you again, Representative Salcedo. Thanks. Is there anyone else? Okay.
 Next item. Yes, sir. That brings us to item number 31, and this is discussion and action to allow the Animal Shelter Advisory Committee, ASAC, to participate in biannual events that do not require a monetary contribution in partnership with the City of El Paso's Animal Services and other organizations to increase adoptions, raise public awareness, and address the needs and welfare of animals pursuant to ordinance number 017746.
 ASAC originating ordinance and this was placed by Representative Anneli. I'm just gonna go for it, thank you Ms. Pryne. For the council's information, this is an issue that has come up at the ASAC committee meetings. This was an item drafted and recommended by legal.
 The ASAC committee has put on events but has limitations on how they can partnership with Animal Services Advisory and need the council's approval to do so. And so I know there was an event planned in October. I think it has been canceled, but this would just allow them to have adoption events in partnership with Animal Services. So I think that Eric Gutierrez is on the line if council has any questions for him. Otherwise, I'll make a motion to approve. Thank you.
 Well, can you explain what kind of joint ventures are gonna have please so okay, so I'll explain again Nothing planned at the moment, but I believe last month or two months ago Animal Services Committee members put together an adoption event And so one day they partnered with other shelters that charge and then on a Sunday They animal services was able to come and I think there were significant amount of dogs adopted out. It's just I
 You know, it was just an event to help clear the shelter, but without the partnership approval from council, that can't actually be, like we couldn't have said, oh, this event was sponsored by animal services committee. It had to just kind of be an adoption event, right? We can't say, oh, this is in partnership with animal services without council approval. So the events can happen and have.
 I think the partnership is the really important thing so it can be officially held by Animal Services. Thank you, thank you for that. Or I'm sorry, the ASAC Committee, I apologize. No, thank you for that and thank you for placing the item on the agenda. So again, I'll make a, oh we have a motion and a second. Sorry. So there is a motion made by Representative Manalo, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item number 31. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to item number 33 of the agenda, and this is a presentation and discussion on El Paso Animal Services Management. Good morning, Mayor, Council. Terry Kepchel, for the record, Director of Animal Services. And could I have IT bring up the presentation, please? This is an update on animal services, where we are for the year. Next slide, please.
 So animal services we fall under a strategical eight nurture and promote a healthy sustainable community. We're also under the 25 by 25 30 by 30 to become a live release rate of 90 percent or better and also to sustain that number. In 2017 we created our strategic plan that we followed daily and this is this is very important. Go ahead next slide.
 Without a strategic plan, this is where we were. This is prior to setting up our strategic plan, the shelter reform in 2015, and suggestions from that reform committee. So in 2014, we saw a live release rate of 27%. Slightly better in 2015. We had no real life safety measures in place. We were still known as a pound. Next slide, please.
 So after implementing our strategic plan, moving forward, you can see our live release rate did much better. We went from that 27% up to the 87% in 2019, and we're continuing to strive for that 90% as we move along. Again, it's very important that we follow that strategic plan. Next slide, please.
 so we saw some uh impacts that we had on from covid uh just like anybody else in in the industry uh across the world we saw effects on our workforce uh people were you know they didn't know what was going to happen with covid a lot of them left
 the job to be with their families. We did get people sick and we continue to have struggle with some of these positions there. We see external impacts, supply chain issues still haunt us today. And we're also seeing shortages of adoptions throughout the country as well.
 Ac yna'r effaith cymunedol ni oedd yn mynd allan i'r cyhoedd yn y ffordd yr oeddem yn ei ddefnyddio. Yn ôl, roedd anwybynnau am sut y byddai'r drwodd yn effeithio ar bawb. Roeddem yn gweld ein digwyddiadau addysg ar ddwy safon yn mynd llawer i lawr. Ond rydyn ni ar y cyflawniad ar hynny wrth gael newydd gweithwyr a chael pawb yn ôl yn y llwybr. Felly rydym yn edrych ar gynyddu'r holl fesurau hynny. Sleid nesaf.
 A chyfathrebu at y cymorthau, gallwch weld bod ein cymorthau cymorth yn i lawr i 24% o'n cymorth ar hyn o bryd. Ac yna, yn ystod y dynion, gallwch weld eu bod o'u cymorth cymorth eu bod hefyd i lawr. Nid ydym ni'n gwybod y bydd ein cymorth yn cael ei gyd-diffynu â'r cymorthau cymorth neu hyd yn oed gwneud yn well. Felly dyna'n ein nod. Bydd yn bodoli i fod yn gwneud hynny i'w gael 90% o gyflawni.
 Sleid nesaf, os gwelwch chi. Felly mae gennym ni ein coed yn ychwanegu. Byddaf yn mynd i ddod ychydig o'r ôl yma. Yn ddawel 2020, mae yna rhaglen cydweithredol sydd wedi cael ei roi i mewn. Roedd hyn yn ysbytio ar draws y dyniaeth yma ac roedd yn enwadol fel HASS. El Paso Animal Services, fe wnaethon ni ymuno â hynny fel rhaglen pylot ac roedden ni yn rhan o'r rhaglen honno am ychydig mis.
 Yn ddyfriol 2021, rydyn ni wedi gwneud rhwydwaith gyda HASS ac yna fe wnaethon ni fynd yn ôl i gweithgareddau llawn ar y sielad dynol. Felly, yn gwbl agored, cynnwys llawn, mae'r gweithiwr wedi ymdrin, fe wnaeth ein digwyddiadau adael yn ôl i mewn i'r lle, y mathau hynny o fesurau. Sleid nesaf, os gwelwch.
 a edrych ar rai o'n allan-dau dros y flwyddyn hwn, y flwyddyn calendri hwn. Yn dechrau yn Ionawr, roedd gennym ein pwyntiau llifoedd yn ystod y flwyddyn. Mae hynny'n bwysig. Mae'r rhai o'r pwyntiau yn digwydd yn ystod y flwyddynion nid-llifoedd. Bydd hyn yn rhoi cychwyn ar gynyddu niferoedd ar ein llyfr. A gobeithio y byddwn ni'n parhau â'r mathau hynny o gydweithdai yn symud ymlaen, gan gael pwyntiau a thrysiau dros y flwyddyn.
 animal services el Paso, byddwn yn arwain y genedlaeth ar ein clinigau gynhyrchu. Mae un o'n partneriaid, Petco Love, yn gwasgu'r gynhyrchu i ni. Roeddent yn hynod o gyffrous, roedden nhw eisiau dod i lawr a gweld sut rydym yn ei wneud yma yng Nghwm Paso.
 Rydyn ni'n gwneud pethau'n fawr yma ac yn mynd yn gyffredinol. Yn ystod yr ymweliad, roedden ni'n gweithio dros 1207 pedair yn ymweliad hwnnw, sy'n ein record amser arfer yma yn lleol. Felly rydyn ni'n ddiolchgar iawn am hynny. Rydyn ni hefyd yn mynd allan i ddiffyn digwyddiadau. Rydyn ni'n mynd allan yn gyffredinol a'n dangos ein hyfforddiant gorau ar gyfer cyfweliadau cenedlaethol. Sleid nesaf, os gwelwch.
 fe wnaethon ni ddechrau ein trawsgwyddoedd yn ystod ym mis Meithrin, ein trawsgwyddoedd gwych, ein trawsgwyddoedd ariannol, aethant i'r effaith. Ac yna, ar hyn o blynyddoedd, eto, rydyn ni bob amser yn pwysio am ddigwyddiadau addysg. Ac roedd nos August yn ein digwyddiad Tŷn, ac rydyn ni'n ychwanegu hynny, ac mae gennym ni ddwy diwrnod ar hynny. Roedden ni gael
 Mudathon here on Saturday where we showcased all of our adoptable dogs during that event Again, we're constantly pushing and moving forward on adoptions next slide please talking about best practices These are some of the things that we've been doing here in El Paso We have the microchip scanning that the fire stations we have
 Again our drive-through clinics are second to none we put into a Into effect a grooming ordinance that not only protects the animals but also protects the employees taking care of those animals We also have our cats at the zoo, which is still one of the only places that you can go Adopt a cat at a zoo across the nation. Next slide, please. Next slide. I
 On this slide here, talking about best practices, this is something where we're going to be introducing a quick sneak peek of this. It's a reunite site. It's the first of its kind in the world. This is going to be a microchip scanning station, self-checkout basically. This reunite site will be put up at the Salvador Rivas Junior Park. That's 12...
 for 80 Pebble Hills on the east side.
 Again, we're looking at revealing this this technology on September 14th This is brought to us and partnership with our strategic partners at the parks and recreation working with them Locating a site and getting their approval to set this up With best friends who helped fund the project and also a 24 pet watch. There are microchip supplier and come up with this technology and and
 Again, the sole purpose of this is when somebody finds a pet, we can quickly scan them. They'll use their phone, use the QR code, and so we can try to reunite these pets before they ever reach our shelter. With that, I'm going to go ahead and pass it on to Michelle Anderson. She's going to go on to the next part of the slides here. Sorry, I've got Adan Parra, who's next. Good morning, Adan Parra, Animal Services, for the record.
 So I'll be giving you all some updates as far as our facility updates enhancements that we're making to the facility our Workforce and some of the things that we're doing out in the community to keep animals out of the shelter next slide
 These are a few of the projects that have been reinvigorated this year. These were approved by the 2019 bond. The main one that we're working on right now and is set to begin in the winter is our HVAC project. That project is going to be a complete revamp of the HVAC facilities there at the shelter to provide more comfortable living conditions for the pets in our care and for the employees.
 Also, the kennel expansion project has been reinvigorated. That one's gonna be adding an additional 400 kennels to the facility, and again, with the mission of providing safe, comfortable living conditions for those animals in our care. Next slide, please. With regard to our workforce, we understand that our workforce is one of our biggest resources as far as taking care of the animals in our care. So we've had to remain agile and,
 create some new positions and also make adjustments to those positions with regard to providing that thousand dollar sign-on bonus a $90 bi-weekly and Infectious control incentive and we're streamlining the processes for getting those employees on board It used to take two to three weeks to to get them on board and now we've got it down to about two two days on average next slide, please
 what we're doing out in the community where we we've had some setbacks with uh coven in the last couple of years but uh we've we've definitely been hitting the community very hard we've been uh we've given out over 23 000 pounds of food microchipping and vaccinating thousands of pets so far this year and the entire point of of those events is to make sure that we
 provide those pets in our community every chance to get back home Without ever having to set one paw in the shelter that's a direct reflection as far as a
 our national partners are wanting to make that effort to get pets back home, keep pets and families together. And so that's like Director Kebschel said, we're trying to do that here in our community and our events that we have that take place on 301 George Perry on a monthly basis, again, are second to none and we're
 Everybody is reaching out to El Paso to find out how we do them, how we're able to serve so many pets in a single day. And we're going to continue that, continue providing those services to the pets of our community.
 We're also partnering with local clinics, local veterinarians. We don't have a veterinarian at El Paso Animal Services at present, so we're having to get creative, formulate those partnerships. We're working with four presently. We also have contract veterinarians, veterinarians that come in from out of town who are licensed in the state of Texas, and working with the VMA to try and do a spay-a-thon in the future so that we can get a lot of those animals owned and shelter pets
 Spayed or neutered in a timely fashion you can see that the data there shows that The number of surgeries were able to perform is a direct reflection of the number of vets that we have on staff so we're really working hard to Recruit we're looking at going out of town to local or in state veterinary programs like a Texas Tech and Amarillo and and
 So that way, we let them know that El Paso exists. We're really selling not just the job and the work life balance, but the city itself and how much there is to do here. Veterinarians can presently go anywhere where they'd like to work, whether it's Florida, Hawaii, San Diego. They have, it's their market right now, so we really need to sell El Paso and show them that this is a beautiful place to live. Next slide.
 With that I'll hand it over to Michelle Anderson. Good morning members of the council Michelle Anderson for the record I'm gonna touch a little bit on our community support our community impact that we have at El Paso animal services and One of those being our volunteer force our volunteer force has
 really did a complete 180, of course, back with COVID, with the shelter shutting down. And in an effort to protect staff, our volunteers, the animals, and our community, we did limit volunteer support at the shelter. But ever since then, we have reopened our volunteer program and it has expanded exponentially. We've had a 175% increase in volunteer hours.
 compared to previous years. In April, we had a record breaking month. We had 863 volunteers donate 3,630 hours to El Paso Animal Services. And really this shows the tremendous community support that El Paso Animal Services has because
 With the number of animals that we have in our care, the number of programs that we're constantly working on, we need that community support and it's coming in droves. We have continued volunteer programs and partnerships. Our rescue runners who come out every Sunday and even helped us co-host our,
 Mudathon that Director Kebschel mentioned. We have partnerships with SISD and CISD a Clint Independent School District for vet science students to earn their vet assistant certification by volunteering at the shelter and getting those hands on experience and developing those skills to then pass that test.
 And we're just working to increase volunteer opportunities, volunteer training opportunities to really support our volunteer force because they are truly, along with our workforce, the backbone of the shelter. Next slide please.
 Also working to develop partnerships across the community. We have a new rescue partner if you haven't visited the Sun City Kitty Cafe at the Sunland Park Mall. It's a wonderful place to go and pet some cats, have a nice cup of coffee or tea, and maybe even adopt one as well. And that's one of our newer rescue partners that we developed this year.
 Also partnering with El Paso Community Foundation you the members of the council approved that partnership between us and the Community Foundation to develop a Friends of
 EPAS fundraising arm, which was part of the original shelter reform plan back in 2016. This will just increase our efforts to provide fundraising capabilities and really expand our efforts to support our life-saving programs that we have at the at the shelter and for our community. Next slide, please.
 As Director Kepchel mentioned as well, always striving to increase our adoptions at the shelter, especially ever since COVID. Adoption numbers across the country have gone down. So we're always looking at ways to increase interest of adopting at the shelter or even across town, developing creative adoption events aimed at highlighting our shelter pets and increasing those adoptions. And also new coming up,
 probably next month is the maiden voyage of our animal services transport bus which you members of this council approved back in 2019 along with that shelter expansion, so that will also be expanding our efforts of transporting more animals to shelters and rescues across across the country to Increase our life-saving capability at the shelter. Next slide, please. I
 Education and outreach. This is going to be a huge focus for us moving forward, and we've really increased since COVID. I'm sure a lot of you all saw some of our Cat Lady Bertha and some of our virtual education opportunities, really expanding that and going out into the community more now that we have –
 the capability to go out into the community. You know, visiting schools, really tackling our efforts to educate our kiddos from as young as, you know, three, four years old, with our safety town participation, all the way up to adults through the Neighborhood Leadership Academy that came and visited the shelter earlier this summer. Next slide, please.
 And we are constantly reviewing and updating our 311 scripts and reviewing how we are getting out into the community and how we are listening to the voice of the community. Our animal protection officers are responding to calls every single day, thousands of calls. We've had 18,531 calls for service since January through July. And these are calls anywhere from, you know,
 at large dogs, stray bite investigations, nuisance calls, animal cruelty or neglect calls. And they are working really hard, our animal protection officers,
 getting out into the community and making sure that we're caring for those pets in our community. I want to set the record straight that in no mention, there's no mention of leaving animals in the field in any of our 311 call strips scripts. We have reviewed all of these concerns that have been brought up to us.
 We take these concerns very seriously and we have reviewed all of the calls that have been brought to our attention and there's no mention of leaving animals in the field except for this kidnapping messaging, which 311, our staff at the shelter, our animal protection officers out in the field really take the opportunity to educate and inform the community how they can help us save lives. And kidnapping messaging is one of the big ways to do that.
 That's really the only way that we will ensure people to leave animals in the area where they're found, because if you find a litter of kittens, chances are mom is around, and by kidnapping those kittens, you are actually putting their lives at danger.
 So really putting out that messaging has have been for years So really that's the only messaging where we will encourage the community to leave those Those kittens out into the field for their best chance of survival but also of course every
 all opportunities taking all opportunities to educate the community to try and help find ways that we can support the shelter and support lifesaving ensuring that pets are getting reunited with their family taking in as many steps as they can because it will ultimately better the.
 the outcome for the animals that come into the shelter and in our community. Making sure that you take those steps to get that pet microchip scanned if you do find a lost pet or leave those kittens alone and check in on them occasionally. Next slide please.
 And this is just a few testimonials from some of our volunteers, our fosters, our rescue partners, you know, just about working with the shelter, working with the community, how much they have dedicated themselves. Aaron Hart at the top left, he's a volunteer and a foster of ours. He's actually a commanding officer.
 officer captain for the US Army. He's been stationed here for the last year. He started volunteering just to get some hours for his for his
 requirement for the program that he's in and he has ended up staying he's donated over 300 hours in the last year alone and has even fostered numerous dogs as well and found homes for them we have miss vasquez down here at the left who is a foster and has been a foster with us for about six years she's fostered hundreds of kittens and puppies to give them an opportunity to uh
 to save their lives because if they were to stay in the shelter unfortunately they might not have had that opportunity and then mutt love one of our rescue partners on the right here who has worked with us for six years now they really focus on those animals that don't have a opportunity and don't have a chance at life at the shelter some of our injured some of our um
 you know, key medical cases that we just don't have the resources for at the shelter. They really help pull and find homes for them and care for them as well. So I won't go over their testimonials, but they are there for you to read them as well. And with that, I will go ahead and pass it back on to Director Kipcho. Thank you. So what does all this mean? What does this all get us? This is our ultimate goal here. In January, we hit a milestone. Okay.
 100,000 pet saved that's that's a just dedicate that's a dedication that's from the support of council the city manager deputy city manager our rescue partners our volunteers
 And I can't go without saying, without the staff at the animal services, these employees, they come in day in, day out, start their day five in the morning, getting the shelter ready, feeding, cleaning. They're highly dedicated employees. Again, we couldn't reach these types of numbers, 100,000 saved. Okay.
 And again, it's with those life safety measures that we put into place back in, started that process in 2015, talking in 2016, and putting our strategic plan in in 2017. Without that, we would be looking at, this number would be more at 28,000 to 35,000.
 but instead it's a hundred thousand and today we're at at 106 000 just a few months later so i want to thank the staff council city manager for all that support can i have the next slide please
 So moving forward, we're going to continue to focus on community support. Again, we want to keep the animals out of the shelter. We give them those resources, pet food if they need it, a dog house, those types of things, vaccinations. We're going to increase our transports throughout the country to other countries as well.
 We're going to be proactive on our recruitment and development and be creative on attracting veterinarians to our community. We're going to become, we're already becoming competitive in the open market. So we're putting things into place so we can attract those and retain them and get those live outcomes increased. We're going to keep up the momentum.
 Again, life saving is what we're looking at getting that 90% and sustaining it. Next slide please. And with that we need the community's help. We can help by adopting, volunteering, fostering, donating, being responsible pet owners. Make sure your pet is vaccinated, microchipped, and registered with the city.
 and make sure that the microchips are up to date. They don't update themselves so that when your pet does get loose, we can quickly reunite the pet without ever reaching the shelter and also spay and neuter. And with that, if anybody has any questions.
 Representative Anello. Thank you. Ms. Prime, can we take item number 50 with this item, one so staff doesn't have to wait for the whole agenda since we're up here now. And also I know that program was mentioned in this presentation and I have questions and if we can just all do it at once, I think it makes more sense. Are you okay with that, Terry? I'm good.
 Item number 50 is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement between the city of El Paso and the El Paso Veterinary Medical Association for the city of El Paso to transfer up to $1.5 million to the EPVMA to promote overall community health by increasing spaying and neutering pets to promote a healthy and sustainable animal community in the city. Motion approved.
 So, thank you. Mario Diagostino, and I just wanted to kind of highlight some of the things the team's gone over. I don't think they – they talked about the passion the employee has enough. And so with that, we know the stresses that COVID brought on the community, the entire community, and especially the shelter operations. I mean, we –
 We didn't see the movements we've seen in the past. We haven't had our adoptions up. We had staffing difficulties. We had a lot of turnover. We had people leave. The real difficulty right now is not having those veterinarians. This new item that you just brought up, that directly correlates with this. And this is how the city, El Paso Animal Services, is remaining creative during these difficult times. This is a force multiplier. So what this does is it allows us to give money to the EPVF.
 VMA, so that we can get spays and neuters done across all the veterinarians in town. And so that's huge. Without a veterinarian, that really puts a backlog on our shelter, on what we can actually adopt out by Texas law. We can't adopt animals unless they've been spayed or neutered. So this allows that force multiplier. Since we haven't had an opportunity to hire a vet now, we're utilizing them.
 going back to the presentation and looking at our creative ways that we've been addressing these issues is we've changed our hiring practices and Everything from our sign-on bonuses that we've talked about here for several months and what you all have supported in a new fiscal year We're also looking at very creative ways and we're happy to say that we we've got veterinarians looking at the position we've gotten to a range where we can be Competitive with the market and we truly hope to bring a veterinarian on board soon I
 That will help change the outcome of the shelter. Right now when you have to rely on outside sources, this 1.5 million is going to help to help continue those efforts. But this gets one on staff in the shelter 24 seven. Other creative items that they talked about that I'd really be missed if I didn't highlight is that new pet scan feature in a park. That's huge.
 That's the first of its kind. That's awesome for El Paso. It's on the east side of town where it's a large community, very dense community. We have it at all the fire stations, but this is just one more avenue where people can take, when they find that lost pet, they can take it to get chipped. And so those are some of the items I wanted to cover. I'll leave it back to Chief Kepsoff for any questions. Do we have public comment on this item, Ms. Pryor? Yes, ma'am, we do. Can we take that first, alternate mayor pro tem? Thank you.
 The first speaker is mr. Ron Como followed by Julia Crampy and Bernadette at any bus good afternoon Okay, so where do we start do we start at the sixty six point one ten percent live release rate that we had We're really achieving ninety percent. We're down from running 87s and 90s in 2019 We're discussing not having the Haas program in our facility yet we have
 them not picking up strays. They said that they were only going to pick up injured and aggressive dogs. Matter of fact, I believe you all got a memo to that effect. We have the program of Find Her to Foster, which is a HOSS program, which is still in place at our shelter. The found reports, which don't work, are still in effect at El Paso Animal Services, which again is a HOSS program. We are running the HOSS program from one end to the other.
 The problem we are having today is the number of strays there are in the city of El Paso because they left and are leaving, let me say that again, left and are leaving strays unaltered running our streets. We have to stop the cycle. We have to stop producing all these strays. We have a shelter that is absolutely packed.
 and there has been not one comment about how they're going to safely or humanely save these animals and house them. They don't know. They have no clue. We've discussed this. I've given you guys an alternative way, an inexpensive way, and from what I'm being told, a pretty quick way to turn these schools into a shelter.
 We can't get people and keep people in disgusting conditions that are at our shelter. We are overwhelmed. We are overrun. And it's because we've allowed the HOSS program to stay in El Paso. We've allowed the shelter to give us information that's inaccurate. Yes, adoptions are down. They're down 21% nationwide. Texas is actually better. Let's use real numbers instead of just saying, eh, they're down, so that's why we have less adoptions.
 When we speak it called to the public I'm going to give you actual numbers from the shit City's reports from July 2019 compared to 2022 we keep hearing that they've gone back to the plan from 2019 that actually worked They haven't they haven't even tried we've gotten lots and lots of lip service. It's time honesty comes up we come up with a real plan to fix the shelter and
 This is insane, folks. 3,995 strays at the end of July attached to the shelter. Where are they? Do they even know? Thank you. I'll see you later on at the Open to Public. And Mr. Como, today's call to the public is only for topics not on the agenda. The next speaker is Julia Krempe, followed by Bernadette Arenivas. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Thank you.
 Some of the stuff they really talked about sounds really good. I like the allocating of the money to the vet because spay and neuter is a very huge issue here in El Paso that needs to get handled, and the shelter is not doing it currently. Some of the things they did not address is the current conditions at animal services where they are currently housing animals inhumanely. They are still housing animals in cramped cages with dogs that do not know each other without any kind of,
 of enrichment. It is inhumane. They are holding them like that long term. That is the problem that I have with animal services currently. Funny that they bring up like the grooming ordinance that they're bragging about having been a victim of their grooming ordinance. I will tell you it is completely worthless. You can take a one and a half hour online class, become a certified groomer in El Paso without ever having touched a dog.
 You can also go in their grooming ordinance where it tells you that me as a grooming shop owner have to have water for dogs at all times. Water for dogs that are supposed to be drying while they cannot keep water in their own dog shelters where they are housing them for months to years. Just some unreasonable expectations here on the grooming ordinance. But once again, the problem that I have is how the dogs are currently being housed
 They are being housed inhumanely. They do not have enough enrichment. They are living in their own filth. The environment that they have is not conducive to adoptions because when people come to see dogs, they are covered in their own feces or their own urines
 They are so stressed out from being contained for months that they are not considered adoptable. We took a dog from there that had been, God, he'd been there for more than a year. His name was Piper. The dog was completely out of control. He has since gone to a rescue, been one of the people at the rescue. The mentality that these dogs have after being confined to a year is not conducive to sending them to a home and having them be rescued.
 Nice easy beloved pets and when other people see these out-of-control dogs going into a home Being behavior issues being problems Do you think they're gonna want to go adopt a shelter dog after seeing that? No, and the problem is is they don't get enough time They don't get enough tension They don't get enough exercise because there is just way too many dogs at the shelter for the number of employees that they have there people should go to a shelter to adopt the best dogs and
 so that other people go to the shelter to adopt dogs, not just housing hundreds of dogs stacked on top of each other inhumanely until they go kennel crazy. Like I said, that's the problem that I have with the shelter, the current conditions that the dogs are in. Thank you. And the final speaker is Bernadette Arenivas, and I don't see Ms. Arenivas in person or in the queue, so that concludes public comment. Ripponello, did you have some questions? Yeah, thank you. Terry, I have a question.
 many questions but I'm going to try to do this in a way that makes sense because my notes are a little all over the place. So first I want to start with the reunite site. I know the chief said it is similar to what we have at the fire stations. So what is the information that will be provided because I know there's been some confusion for people who take a dog that they find to the fire station and they think they're going to get someone's personal information and that's not the case and then they get a little frustrated. So can you explain what
 this is like how this process is actually going to work if you find a dog so it's gonna be similar but instead of taking the pet to a fire station to scan it's gonna be a self-service so you'll take it to the reunite site again this is a pilot program we're hoping that this is successful we'll be able to spread it to other parks throughout this the city
 So it's all self-contained. You'll scan and then there's a QR code that you'll use your smartphone, scan that QR code, and it'll run you through the process. If there's no chip found, it'll give you the next step processes to do. Request that posted on social media and those types of things. If it has the number, it gives you the number to call so that you can find out who that pet owner is.
 the next process is so people are going to be getting individuals and like phone numbers and information because i know that's been something we have it depends on the chip and how they they register it if you register you don't want to give that information out you can do that and then at the the chip manufacturer they'll contact if you don't want them to give that information out okay um and if the animal does not have a chip what are those steps so those steps are going to be to to uh
 Check your neighborhood, post on lost and found type things, and as a last resort would be to take it to the shelter. Okay. And then on slide 19, I know Michelle talked about the new transport bus. That bus has or has not been purchased yet? It has been purchased. Okay. Yes. Is it the new one or is it the one that has not been working? It's a brand new one. Okay. And is the other bus up and running yet or is it still out of commission? No.
 We don't have any other transport bus. We have some vans that we used to use for small trips. Are you talking about the adoption van, maybe? When we did the event a few months ago, we were told that this bus was out of commission. That would have been the adoption van. It's working. We were told that this one, the transport bus that opens up, was not working. But that may have been a miscommunication. And we just have one of those. Right. Okay. Okay.
 And then you talked about also on slide, I don't know what slide it was, I lost it, I'm sorry. But you talked about, I know we're working on the HVAC right now. I know that we have funded an expansion of the shelter. Ponding, the ponding area needs to be, I guess, dealt with by the water utilities prior. Can you give us a status on that project?
 Has any of the design been done? Has any of the work been done? We're still in the design phase for the shelter itself. Okay. The HVAC system has already been designed out. Again, with the COVID and the supply chain, we're waiting for those components to come in so that they can start. It's already been pushed back about a month, so we're anticipating this winter.
 October November is the time frame that they're gonna do again it's a heating and cooling throughout the whole shelter the ponding area working with
 The water utilities, they're actually looking at contracting this out. So I know they're in the contracting phase to get that project done. What it's going to do, it's going to push the ponding area more behind where Humane Society is, make that a little bit deeper. So where the ponding area is directly behind the shelter, that will be filled in, and we can use that for more kennel space. Sure, and we can't do any work until they do that. So we don't have a time frame on that project from the water utility?
 It's supposed to start any time. I don't have the exact time frame, no. That is fine. Okay, so I want to talk a little bit about...
 Two things. I wonder which one I want to talk about first. Let's talk about slide six and intakes and adoptions, right? So we've been getting a lot of calls about the Community Cats program, and I'm going to put this on the ASAC agenda. This has just come up, so we can talk about it there. But I did kind of want to know a little bit of history about how the Community Cats and the trapping started at the City of El Paso and where we are now with that.
 Don't know if you have that history off the top of your head. I don't know if anybody here does I don't have the exact dates, but I know it was a passed by ordinance I believe it around 2019 or earlier than that I don't know the exact dates but it was passed by ordinance and it's a community cat program that allows animals to be Become community cats that means we're not gonna go pick them up and euthanize them as long as they go through that program the program requires us to
 spay or neuter. We tattoo them such as a small ink on their belly and also their their their ears get tipped as well meaning that their ear gets flattened a little piece of their ear gets removed so that they're easily identifiable. And when this program started who would who would trap the cats? Who would pick them up?
 The my understanding unless Don has that it's the public that would pick them up they drop them off and if they would give us the information we would drop them off at the place where they they were captured.
 If they give us that but we also had some some people from the community they wanted to take them back themselves So we would contact them and and give them back at that time Just to be frank with everybody right now that that community cat program is we're way behind on it again We do not have the veterinarian on staff. The entire goal of this is to Have a cat come in to become a community cat TNR cat and
 we would spay and neuter it within 24 hours and return it. Right now with the backlog of spay and neuters, it's not happening nearly as quickly as we used to. Okay, and that's gonna transition to my last set of questions, but really quick. We used to provide traps.
 for individuals to do that. And we're now being told that we do not and have not provided traps. And I'm not entirely sure when that stopped, but if we, again, I don't expect you to have any dates off the top of your head. I am gonna put this on the ASAC agenda. I know those ladies have a lot more information than I do. So I just, I get what you're saying about like we're not able to neuter right now. So it's kind of like a double-edged sword if we do get those cats.
 but I am concerned about the amount of participation that we do have in that program at the time, if that makes sense. But we can have that conversation in a couple weeks. So my questions now are in regards to the agreement. Will we be taking the animals? So explain to me what will happen with someone who needs their cat or dog spayed or neutered. We now have this contract with the El Paso Veterinary,
 Medical Association will they be coming into animal services? Is there a place that other individuals will be going to get the service done? How is it going to work? So currently what we do is We'll talk about I'll talk about first the the way animal services we utilize it. So again, we don't have a veterinarian. So We we partner with The different clinics throughout the city and we continue to look for more partners We find out what their capabilities are because they're also a
 have their regular clients to take care of so we discuss capabilities and we come up with a plan and we actually take the pets to them and then we pick them up and bring them back to the shelter so it's again it's a little labor-intensive on our part but it's something we we have to do with this 1.5 million is what we want to do with that is help develop a
 about your program so again we have the foster to adopt is what we have been heavily relying on right now so we can't again
 Chief D'Agostino said we cannot legally adopt until the animal has been spayed or neutered So we have the foster to adopt so people can take home an animal It's still property of the city and once it does get that Spay neutered then we can finalize the adoption process and with this voucher program. I'll be able to allow So you take a cat home?
 nawr gallwch chi gyfansoddi gyda'r llist o fets a chael hynny ar eich cyfansoddiad. Gallwn ni ddim yn unig gwneud hynny ar y llyfrgell, ond rydyn ni wedi'i ddysgu'n anodd iawn oherwydd mae llawer o bobl yn newid eu cynlluniau, felly mae llawer o ddim yn cael eu dangos. Felly, rydym yn cael ychydig o ddwy-eddifon agored eto, felly mae'r fets yn dod arnom a dweud, rydyn ni wedi sefydlu ac nid ydyn nhw wedi dangos. Felly,
 Rydyn ni'n edrych ar wahanol ffyrdd a ffyrdd gwahanol i ddarparu ysbyt neu'n neudr i'r cymuned. Iawn, felly, rwy'n meddwl bod yn dda syniad o rhaglen rwyf chi, ond yw'r 1.5 miliwn wedi'i gysylltu â nifer o dynion, yn dda? A yw hynny'n cofio cymaint o dynion i'w ddarparu neu'n neudr? Sut ydy hynny, sut ydym yn budgedio ar gyfer y angen sydd gennym yn y ffordd honno? Felly, dwi ddim yn gallu rhoi cyfrif ar gyfer eich nifer cywir oherwydd mae'n dibynnu ar
 yw'r gair yn fwy a'r teuluoedd fwyaf oeddiol. Felly, eto, mae'n dibynnu ar sut amser yw'r mathau o gyrsiau sy'n digwydd. Felly, rydym yn edrych ar, eto,
 rydyn ni'n pwysio'n anodd i gael gweithiwr yn ystod ystod ystod ystod. Bydd hynny'n ein chael i ni, eto, yn dechrau yn ystod ystod ystod i gael llawer o'r nwtriwyr spain hynny wedi'u gwneud, ond nid yw hynny yn mynd i ddychryn y llawr sydd gennym, felly byddwn yn mynd i ddysgu gyda'r rhaglen hon. Felly, fel y byddwn yn cael mwy o weithiwr yn ystod ystod ystod ystod, bydd yn llai o ddibynnu ar y
 ar y llynedd arall, er bod ni'n defnyddio'r rhain, er bod ni'n defnyddio'r rhain ar y dyddiau da, oherwydd mae'n amlwg bod yna gwerthfawr o ran y gwerthfawr sydd yn gallu cael ei wneud yn y llyfr. Ie, rwy'n credu bod angen i ni ddod i'r llyfr. Nid oes cwestiwn am hynny. Rydym wedi'u cymryd yn ôl, yn enwedig mae wedi bod yn blynyddoedd gwych ac nid ydym wedi cael y llyfr. Rwy'n gwybod nad yw hynny'n llwyr o'ch ffwrdd. Mae llyfr yn anodd, ond rwy
 Rwy'n mynd i stopio mewn gwirionedd. Mae gen i gwestiwn arall. Pa mor o dynion sydd wedi cael eu ffostro allan sydd ar gael i fod yn rhan o'r spain neu'r newtriod? Ydym ni'n cael y numau hynny? Dydw i ddim yn cael y numau cywir ond mae'n ystod y rhwng 3,000. Ac yna mae gennym ni dynion yn y llyfrgell sydd ar gael i fod yn rhan o'r spain neu'r newtriod hefyd. Rwy'n credu fy ngwestiwn yw a ydym ni'n meddwl y bydd y 1.5 miliwn o ddolr yn gallu ein gallu i fynd drwy hynny?
 Yn ystod y flwyddyn nesaf, roeddwn i'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n gwybod? Ydym ni'n meddwl, ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a ydym ni'n meddwl, a y
 roeddem yn cael ymatebion yn gynharach ac rwy'n credu ein bod yn cymryd cymorth felly roeddem wedi mynd i'r cyfnod cyfan o 1.5 miliwn. Iawn ac felly fy nhaeth a fater yw pam wnaethom ddewis nad ydym yn mynd i ddim yn ysbytio neu'n neudio cyffredinion hyd at eu 4 mis? Oherwydd y cyfnod sydd gennym ac rydym am gael rhai ohonynt allan? Ond rwy'n gwybod ei fod yn gallu bod yn ystod 6-8 wythnos.
 So that's a decision of the that's one of the downfalls of having to contract out with the clinics as a private practice. That's their standard. They wait till they're older in the shelter. We did them in the past and in the shelter medicine life we do at the younger at the younger age. So it's it's.
 Again, it is a a negative thing for us because they're you know, the younger the cuter But it's it's the clinics that they've made that decision on their own. Okay, absolutely last question. I'm sorry represent No, can I just take my second ten minutes I have one question left my last question is how much do we have budgeted for two veterinarians and
 What is the salary, the starting salary? Do we know what that is? Sorry, that question wasn't clear. I was saying, I know that we've increased that, and so I don't remember exactly what we're looking at for starting pay and what we're seeing.
 The average across the country. I mean, I know again we have a shortage everywhere So it's probably a more than competitive the base veterinarian to the to the senior the chief veterinarian ranges from about 130,000 all the way up to about 100. I believe it's hundred low low 190s Okay, and what did we have that at in 2019 or pre-pandemic? I'd have to go back and check what that was
 Yeah I mean I just I want to just prove to the public that we are really serious about this and we really have addressed our job specifications over there to make sure we're including that. And so we can be aggressive in our search. And we did adjust that pay. We just did. For a higher amount. Yes. Like Maureen said.
 So the range is 81.5 to 145, and now it's at 104 to 197. That's for the chief veterinarian's position. So we put it in the ballpark of where we can be competitive with the private market.
 Yes I do want to add on that one point five million dollar question you had that is enough to cover the population It really is but we we added dollars in there because it's not just about spays and neuters. It's about welfare checks It's about making sure they're healthy so we can start those transports with that new vehicle It's the whole package of care and we need that to make sure that we have it in place for until we get a veterinarian and even once we get it a veterinarian, we know that that large of a of a
 population within our shelter or in our foster program is going to be a strain on one individual. So that's still there to help them to get them started and so we can get the process of getting back on track with our spay and neuters and our medical care. Sure and I just I want to say that I understand that a lot of the issues we're having is because of a lack of a veterinarian.
 We can't get animals out. Post-COVID was also very different than COVID. We seem to have a lot more animals coming back to the shelter. I know that there are limitations, there are situations that have created the position that we're in, but we're still responsible for dealing with that. It's hard because I don't want to be hard on you all because I understand that you're in it.
 a position that didn't exist two years ago but it is what we are in now and there are an increased number of strays on the street all you have to do is look on next door all you have to do is you know talk to the people that come to my house in the middle of the night because they found a dog running down trowbridge and they don't know what to do with it
 Right there is a problem. I know that y'all are doing your best to address it, but we do need to be finding alternate solutions because it is becoming increasingly worse. At no fault to anyone at Animal Services or at the shelter, I don't want to in any way say that I'm pointing fingers and that anyone is to blame, but we do need to be looking at how we can be getting more creative because...
 I'm just concerned that we're not gonna fill this position as quickly as we think. We've been trying, we're having trouble, people are having trouble all over the country. It's not a unique situation to El Paso. And we can only for so long try to find short-term solutions.
 until it just gets worse, right? And so those are my last statements. I'm sorry, Mayor, for going far over 10 minutes. Thank you all. We are in the process of hiring a vet right now, so just wanna make clear that that pay difference did make a significant difference, and we're gonna be working on hiring a second and third vet as well. And the 1.5 million is a bridge, because the staff, as in their presentation has shown, we've been very creative, given just the different challenges.
 But we we don't we don't give up we have looked at other options and that's what was presented today
 thank you representative nello and i know you serve uh you know on the animal board um on the animal shelter board and we thank you for that and i know you and i have had quite a few discussions and um we thank you for your passion and you know we do have to continue to work and continue to move forward to find different answers no doubt about that thank you representative molinar
 Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Kepshaw, thank you very much for your presentation. I haven't reviewed the presentation, and I'm glad there was no mention about however you pronounce it, the Haas or Hayes program. So I'm glad that you explained that because that was going to be one of the things that I was going to say, well, why is that not there? Yeah.
 So in July of 2021 has been discontinued However, our office district for office still receives calls still receives emails from citizens that say hey I have a stray dog. I called 3-1-1 I called or I would drove to animal services there and they were denied They were said I did not you know, we're told you keep the dog you foster the dog you feed the dog Whatever it is like that. So
 Animal services today. Are they accepting new animals? Yes. Yes Just want to be sure loud and clear. Yes, that is an affirmative if I if I could yes, sir. Go ahead It's it's a yes
 Yes we will accept them. Do we try to get somebody to take care of that animal to keep it out of the shelter. When we look at some of the concerns we heard here today and we talk about that long term housing and what effect that has on an animal. We know that and we're concerned with that. So we're doing our best to keep the animals from even coming into the shelter.
 So do we try and talk to that community member and get them to hold it until they can get reunited with the family? Yes. But at the end of the day, if they say, I'm sorry, I just can't do it, it doesn't get along with my dogs, it's not my, I don't have the situation, I don't have the capability, even the dog food in the cage, that doesn't help us, I just can't do it, we bring that animal in. And that's correct. You know, some people already have dogs and that those dogs will not accept that.
 Another dog or whatever reasons dogs live their lives that way but you know, we've heard of soldiers that are Deploying that are PCS in and they're like, hey, what am I gonna do with this dog? I cannot keep this dog elderly that are disabled that are out of the goodness of their heart and
 They said, hey, I've got this dog in my yard. Someone please come get it. You know, I'm going to fall down. Something's going to happen to me. Something's going to happen to this dog. And you know, they're reaching out to our office
 We need help. We desperately need some type of help. I cannot keep this dog. I cannot feed this dog. You know, my income is limited and things like that. So I just want to be sure that you are. And I understand, you know, Chief, I understand what you're saying. Yes, it's packed. And that's not a humane way to keep an animal. But at the same time, when you hear it from the citizens, it's like, you know, good, bad, right, wrong. What do you do? So thank you. That's all I have.
 Thank you. Thank you. If we haven't, maybe we can reach out to Dr. Bonhart, see if we can get out of retirement just to help out with this. It seems like he has a lot of opportunities and time on his hands, and maybe he can help with being a veterinarian again for our community. Thank you, Representative Salcedo. Thank you.
 thank you mayor and thank you to representative and i want to know she does sit on that board and has a lot of great questions i just wanted to make more of a suggestion i know that we like to promote within i know that not having a vet has been an issue so not sure if there's something that we could really work on identifying somebody that would want to be a vet and we really focus on incentivizing that person to
 they're in our network already, so we just basically pour into them to make sure that we then have a vet at the end of the day and also have a commitment from that person to serve our community. Yes, and so,
 During this this region budget season we've talked about it and you've all supported the increase in the tuition assistance program So that is there we do have some city employees who are actually vet techs or veterinarians in Mexico Well, there's currently no direct path to get it done But we're assisting them in however we can to help them bridge that gap so they can get their licensing here so we're looking at everything creative possible to ensure that we're helping those who want to help us and
 to take care of our own shelter. So we do have employees within the city of El Paso who we are investing in for those long-term investments, and hopefully we see some of that come to fruition here in the next year. That's great. It's great to hear that you all are being extremely proactive. I think, yeah, the best word is invest in our staff and employees, and then more importantly for them to give back to the community. So I'm excited to see that transpire. Thank you.
 Thank you. I know Mayor Pro Tem, you kind of giggled a little bit about Dr. Bonnard, but I did call him. And I tried to convince him, and I talked to the chief, and so I made a phone call to him, and he told me he had not spayed or neutered an animal in over eight years, or he would have loved to come help us. But we did make that phone call, hoping that we could get that type of help. So we're looking at all avenues to try to get people to help us.
 as we understand the importance. And with that, we have Representative Hernandez.
 Hi and welcome. This is the first time I've been able to recognize you and congratulate you on your new role. I do just have a quick question, and I'm proud to see a lot of the advancements that we're making. I know you all are solutions-oriented, and I appreciate you all working diligently to address the concerns from the public. I just have a question just regarding any complaints we receive online.
 from, you know, regarding animals, because I'm dealing with a situation in my district. Is there a department within animal services that are responding to any complaints unrelated to, you know, like any harsh conditions for animals, but rather how animals coexist with neighborhoods? Because, you know, like with roosters and things of that nature, we're starting to get complaints about it. Who is responding to those type of complaints? Code compliance or is it animal services? Yeah.
 Felly mae gennym ni'n awdurdodau diogelu anifeiliaid. Yn y trociau, maen nhw'n cymryd y straes a phethau. Maen nhw hefyd yn ddiffygwyr codi. Felly maen nhw'n yna sy'n mynd allan.
 maen nhw'n edrych ar y sefyllfa, gwneud yn siŵr bod y dynion yn cael eu lleoli'n iawn, maen nhw'n cael eu lleoli'n iawn hefyd. Rwy'n gwybod bod rhai materion gyda'r rwyster rydyn ni wedi'i gael yn ddiweddar. Mae'n rhaid i mi fod, dwi ddim yn gallu gofyn y llaw yn gyntaf, ond mae'n rhaid i mi fod yn gwahanol o ran y ffwrdd, felly maen nhw'n edrych ar wneud yn siŵr y pethau hynny ac eto, nid ydym yn edrych ar mynd allan ac nid ydym am
 drop the hammer right away. We want to work with people, make sure that their family unit is intact. So we want to provide them those resources, the knowledge and the tools that they can, that we can, so that they keep the pets with the family and also address the neighbours' concerns as well.
 Iawn, felly mae hynny'n helpu i gyflawni llawer o fy ngwestiynau. Beth yw'r tîdl? Oes anifeiliaid gwasanaethau anifeiliaid? Yn y gweithrediadau anifeiliaid. Gweithrediadau anifeiliaid. Gwneud gweithrediadau ar y ffordd. Mae'n iawn. Diolch am eich amser a'r wybodaeth. Diolch, Prif Weinidog. Diolch i chi i gyd am y cyflwyniad. A... Fynger, roedd y pwnc hwn hefyd wedi'i gymryd gyda phwnc 50, felly mae sylw ar bwnc 51. Mae'r Cyngor yn barod.
 Y cyflwyniad a wnaeth ei wneud gan Representatif Salcido, a'i ail-dweud gan Representatif Anello. Ac mae hyn yn cael ei gyflwyno ar item 50 ar y cyflwyniad. Cofiwch i'r cyflwyniad. Yn y sesiwn cyflwyniad, mae'r cyflwyniad yn cael ei gyflwyno'n unigol. Yn ystod nesaf, yw 34. Diolch. Diolch, Prif Weithiol.
 Yn 34, mae'r trafodaeth yn ymwneud â'r gofyniad y bydd y Rheolwr o Gael a Chyfrifoedd Strategol yn cael ei awddur i ddewis cyfraniad i ddarganfod gwasanaethau, dysgu, LLC, DBA, gweithgareddau. Yn ymwneud â'r cyflwyniad. Mae yna gyflwyniad wedi'i wneud gan Brif Weinidog Rivera, a'i ddewis gan Brif Rodrigues. Ar y cyflwyniad hwn, cyflwynwch i'r cyflwyniad yn y sesiwn o ddewis, ac mae'r cyflwyniad yn cyflwynio'n unigol. Yn ystod nesaf, ynghlwm 35,
 Mae hwn yn drafodaeth ac acoliad ar awr o ddewisolwch nifer 2022-0038R457B, Gweithredwr cynllun cyfrifol a 401A, Gweithredwr cynllun cynllun gwasanaethu i allu llwyddiant. Yn ddiweddar. Yn ddiweddar. Mae yna gwaith cais gan Brif Weinidog Rodriguez, yn ddiweddar gan Brif Weinidog Molinar, i'w gwerthfawrogi ar y gwaith hwn. Cofiwch i'r cyfweliad yn y sesiwn cyfweliad, ac mae'r gwaith hwn yn cyflawni'n unanol. Yn ystod nesaf, nifer 36,
 Mae hyn yn drafodaeth ac acoliad ar y cyflwyniad y bydd y Rheolwr o Gwerthu a Chyfrifoldebau Strategol yn cael ei awddur i ddewis adroddiad i USI Southwest Inc. yn adnabod y contract 2019-1063R, Gwerth Gwarchod. Rwy'n symud i'w gwerthu. Mae yna gwaith cael ei wneud gan Brif Weinidog Rodriguez, a'i ail-wneud gan Brif Salcido i'w gwerthu. Ar y gwaith hwn, gofyn i'r cymryd yn y sesiwn cymryd, ac mae'r gwaith yn cymryd yn unanol. Eitem 37.
 is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for contract number 2022-0411 our professional municipal advisory services between the city and hilltop securities inc will to approve there's a motion made by representative rodriguez seconded by representative salcido to approve on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item 38
 Is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2022-0039, Security Guard Services to Night Eyes Protective Services, Inc.? Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Thank you.
 Item 39 is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating a portion of Grandview Avenue at 1901 Grandview Avenue. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Lizardaga, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve. There's no public comment on this item. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Molinar voting nay. The motion passes.
 Item number 40 is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating a portion of a 20-foot wide alley and utility easement at 415 North Mesa Street. There's a motion made by Representative Lizárraga, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve. There's no public comment. Call for the vote. Voting session is open. Representative Lizárraga? Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously, item 41,
 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending ordinance 8064 to add Cesar Chavez Day. Move to approve. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez seconded by Representative. Rodriguez. Anello. Anello. Anello. Representative Anello seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 Item 42 is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services between the city of El Paso and Park Hill Smith and Cooper Inc a Domestic for profit corporation for a project known as EPIA taxiway golf reconstruction move to approve motion made by representative and on this seconded by representative Molina to approve on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 Item 43 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services between the city of El Paso and Garver LLC for a project known as EPIA, General Aviation Ramp Reconstruction. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Anello to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Item 44 is discussion in action on the approval of a resolution to authorize the city manager to accept and sign a grant agreement for the rebuilding American infrastructure with sustainability and equity grant for the sledder port of entry pedestrian and related improvements. Move to approve. Second. Can we hear? Hernandez? I was just going to ask Mayor if we can hear a quick briefing from Ann if she's available to speak on it. Absolutely. Representative Hernandez would like to hear a presentation. Absolutely.
 Give me one moment to share the screen. Can everyone see the slides? Yes, ma'am. Okay, so today's presentation covers a grant application that we brought to you this past spring. The project was the East Letta Port of Entry Pedestrian and Related Improvements. And this is a grant from the United States Department of Transportation. And today I am bringing it back because we were successful. We won that grant.
 We got $12 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation under the RAISE grant award program with a $3 million match for this project. And I'm going to give you some background real quick on our grants program that we've recently implemented and utilized in pursuit of this grant. So,
 For this grant program we are working off of a defined set of priorities that align with our strategic plan and other adopted documents that are in support of that plan. And working with that list we have identified multi depart or projects from um
 more than five city departments mainly pertaining to infrastructure that support our priorities. We spend a good deal of time familiarizing ourselves with the opportunities that are out there, what they fund, what the criteria are, and then we match those to the priority projects.
 So in doing that, we have been able to undertake a very strategic approach in getting our priorities funded. This is a brief list of the priorities, and this information is within the backups. I'm not going to just read the list to you, but under each is its strategic alignment.
 And so as you can see, we have the deck park, advanced manufacturing, our international bridges. And we've got a couple of different things related to energy and resilience. This is where you're going to find things like electrical vehicle infrastructure, climate action plan, things like that.
 And then there's also a regional component to the strategy. We have met with other stakeholders, and we're working pretty closely with a couple of our regional partners to ensure that within our priority projects, we are pursuing partnerships where there is alignment. And also –
 fairly important as well is we are ensuring that we're not competing for the same opportunities or uh being the grants um the same funding cycle that we're that we're talking about who's applying for what and we're making sure that we bring the most projects possible to our area and as many of these funding opportunities have a maximum number of uh awards they're willing to issue to the same geographic area it helps us to ensure that we're um
 that we're not competing with each other for those opportunities. And so we have strategy works out that covers fiscal years 2022 to 2024 at this point. It's a living strategy.
 And then here we get into, now with that background, the actual project for which we received this award. So to recap, $15 million project divided up as $12 million of funding from the United States Department of Transportation and a $3 million local match. The local match will come from International Bridges P3 Fund.
 These are the elements that this project is going to contain. There's gonna be a lot more pedestrian amenities that make it easier for pedestrians to get across safely and comfortably. Provisions of shade, dedicated areas for people to connect with their rides and transit.
 More street lights, more pedestrian level fixtures and intersection treatments and things like that. Wayfinding signage, landscaping improvements is going to be a really, really good project. And then this is a slide that covers its strategic plan alignment as well as other adopted plans, such as the Texas-Mexico transportation master plan, the border transportation master plan and the bridges capital improvement plan.
 And with that the requested action today is for City Council to approve a resolution to accept the grant and authorize the city manager to to enter into the agreement and for us to accept the required match. And this concludes the presentation and I'm happy to answer any questions. DIRECTOR DEWOLF So we're using the P3 funding and those funds were originally
 for to fund overtime for CBP officers. Is that fund currently, do we have the three million in the fund or that's money that we'll continue to collect? And what are we spending on funding for the officer, overtime funding as we continue to make sure that we fund those officers to expedite the crossings?
 Good afternoon Mayor and Council. David Coronado with the with the International Bridges. I can I can take this question. And so yes Mayor so these these funds the three million dollars we're using is going to come from that same fund from the P3 program. So essentially it's great revenues that we set aside. That fund is used for three essentially three purposes. One is for CEP officers to provide overtime.
 Two is for police officers also over time to do traffic control. And then three is capital projects. And so we have made sure that we have enough funding in that account to cover, continue covering the P3 with CBP, with PD and the projects that,
 all at the same time. So this contribution is not going to be an expense or a reduction in those other uses. We have plenty in savings that we've been accruing since 2014. And so we continue providing PD overtime at the bridges, CAP overtime, and then now with this additional capital projects with the same account. What do we have in that account currently? And I didn't
 So you're telling me that that P3 funding was also for capital improvement? Yes. At the bridges? Yes. So our CIP for the next five years, it's about $42, $44 million over the next five years.
 the majority of it about 32 is going to come from the state in the rider 44 that we received the other 10 is coming from p3 and so the last time that i checked and i don't have the right number the exact number in my in my head right now between nine and ten million dollars that we have right now in the fund uh in savings
 Since 2014, we've actually been receiving more revenue that we have spent. And so those savings have stayed in that fund, and that allows us to commit to this grant. No, it's great to be able to get those funds, and I know that I was very happy to see that.
 I just want to make sure that the P3 funding is the proper allocation based on the agreement we made with the federal government when we signed and agreed to be one of five ports that had the ability to do the P3. And so, like I said, it was back in, I think, 2015 when that was finally signed. And I know it started in the prior council before I even took office that really started that –
 to be able to allow the P3 funding to be able to increase the quality of life for the citizens coming across. So I just want to make sure that that was part of the agreement, that we could use the money for capital improvements. But, I mean, all the matches and all the grants and all the money we've gotten from the federal government, congratulations with everything you all have done to get that.
 Thank you, sir. And yeah, no, totally agree with you. I think, you know, as we proceed over the next five years, we're going to be giving you updates on the CIP. You know, we want to make sure, just like you and the rest of the council, we want to make sure that the program is sustainable, that we can actually continue funding the CIP, continue funding the overtime, and especially also for police officers. We have a ton of issues with traffic control.
 You know, we could do with more officers, more hours. But again, we have to balance those needs, right, both the short-term and the long-term. In this case, this is a long-term investment that, you know, DOT, with the support of Ms. Escobar, the rest of the state delegation, now we can actually, you know, invest in a larger project with a small contribution from the P3 fund. Thank you.
 Representative Hernandez followed by Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. IT, can you please go to slide number three?
 I just wanted to take a moment and give praise and recognition to our wonderful administration staff and all the work that you do. I don't remember the last time we've actually received this competitive grant. I think the last one was before previously known as the Tiger Grant, right? Is that the Sun Bowl Garage is what we built with that Tiger Grant. Do you all know of any other RAISE grants that we've received?
 Yeah, we actually won a grant in 2021 under, I believe it was, it was raised, I don't think it was its previous name anymore at that time, but that was for, it was a $900,000 grant for the design of the deck part.
 Wonderful. And it is because we are taking the time to not only create a strategy, but we have a clear vision on how to leverage our current dollars. We leverage and we draw down these federal funds, but it doesn't.
 It doesn't work without a plan. And so I just really want to tout and recognize all of the achievements. We've been able to bring in new revenues, $35 million of new revenues that would have not happened without the support of our wonderful team and staff. And so kudos to you all. This is how we reduce the burden to taxpayers while prioritizing our strategies.
 This is how we advance and improve our infrastructure and keep doing a good job, keep seeking these grants and raise dollars because it is, without these funds, we would not have any of these wonderful projects that are absolutely necessary for our transportation. So thank you all for your hard work, and I look forward to seeing more grants coming our way. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Nunes. Mayor Pro Temo?
 Thank you Mayor. So Mr. Coronado, do we have an idea of what percentage of the P3 funds would be utilized for this? Like I said, right now we have about $9 to $10 million in the fund. Every year in P3 dollars, we get about $3 million.
 in a normal year, right? 2020 was a normal, right? But in a normal year, we got about $2.83 million. So this is essentially worth one year's worth of revenues in bridge tolls. So we're getting one year. Again, only from P3. And from that one year of a $3 million investment, we're getting 15 from the federal government. We're getting 12, right? Great.
 So seems like a pretty good return on investment. You know obviously we know that our ports of entry are the lifeblood of our economy. Each one serves to be as an artery to the heart that is our binational community and our binational economy. So I think that this is a very good project very happy to see these improvements there. You know it's a little bit of catch up we know that this this
 port of entry was not necessarily really designed with pedestrians in mind yet we see people that are that are aligning to utilize bus uber and just to get picked up every single day so these kind of investments are much needed and again want to thank staff for their hard work on this and again if you
 If you fail to plan, you plan to fail. So it's good that we have the strategic plan in place, as well as the Texas Border Master Plan and others as well. So, you know, it takes a village to make this kind of work happen, and it's a great day. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. I also want to thank you all. Thanks, staff. This is great.
 as the new rep for that area and having worked that area before this is a much needed project the reason why we need officers down there not only be for vehicular traffic but also foot traffic sometimes they were placing themselves in danger and hopefully this will resolve all the issues and make uh make the directing traffic a lot easier for the officers down there as well i thank you for
 your strategic planning and now hopefully soon to be your action to improve that port of entry as was mentioned it wasn't built for pedestrian safety but lo and behold hopefully in the few short years you'll be able to make it pedestrian friendly and safe for everyone to travel in and out thank you so much thank you mayor thank you sir
 And again, congratulations on the team for securing these grants. And I know we work very strong with our federal government partners, our congresswoman, and everyone that has really helped to secure these. And so we do thank the congresswoman for working really hard with our team to be able to secure a lot of these fundings. So congratulations, and thank you all for bringing the funding to El Paso and not costing the taxpayers money. Thank you. And with that, we have a motion and a second.
 Yes, Mayor, the motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve item 44. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. We now move to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city.
 And the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks.
 against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may bring forward a topic that is commented on on a future agenda. This afternoon we have three members of the public that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Marcy Chavez, followed by Jose Barriga and Marty Hunt. Good morning, Ms. Chavez. You'll have three minutes. Good afternoon. Yes, good morning, first of all. And I would like to speak, since I only have three minutes, about the economy. And this is based on the elderlies, actually everybody in the residents of El Paso, Texas. Though, as we all know, everything has gone sky high right, its prices. The rents, and I'm just gonna base it on housing,
 Housing has extremely created a big chaos in regards to the residents here in El Paso, which I'm one of them. They have prices for rentals that is so ridiculous. Nobody can afford $1,300, $2,300, or whatever dollars they're asking for with a, what do you call it, a stable income such as Social Security. Okay.
 Many have been receiving a lot of stimulus checks since the pandemic started. And until this day, they're still receiving. Why do we discriminate the elders, you know, versus the young generations that now they don't even want to work? Because, you know, it's better to receive free money than just to go out and work. As we all know, there's a lot of, you know, applications out there, positions that are needed because nobody wants to work.
 Now, I'm here and I hear millions of dollars going into grants and fundings and this and that. And what about us, the people? What about what's going to happen to us? We're going to end up in the streets? I've been in the streets because of this situation.
 And it's not even fun to be out there, believe me. The majority say that homeless are out there because of their choice. No, it's not because of their choice. It's because of people that are supposed to be representing us. Not the government, not the state, not anybody, but the people, which don't even do their job.
 Yesterday I came to your office, Mr. Mayor, and it was kind of cowardly that they sent a police officer to speak to me other than speak to you. I think that if you're in a position, you should be available to hear the people out of the people's mouth instead of hiding away. We didn't choose or elected you so you can just have a title.
 And it's enough is enough. You have a lot of people that are very upset out there. And we have a lot of concerns that you all don't even bring up ever in any other meetings. So that is my concern. My concern is the economy. We don't need big buildings, fancy buildings, or remodeling or anything else. We need to feed the hungry. We need to help the ones in need.
 That's why we worked all our lives. We're taxpayers, and you're using our money in misspending money. Because to me, I don't care about the building. I don't care if somebody comes from wherever they come from, and our money is given to them. How is that possible? Now I live in an apartment, and I'm paying $300 in utility. Thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three-minute limit. Thank you. The next speaker is Jose Barriga.
 mr barriga will be followed by marty hunt mr barriga's topic is my journey today good afternoon mr body good afternoon everyone i'm jose barriga and i'm here to share a story the beginning of this journey started whenever i missed the 630 inbound bus 37 for nickel and sands en route to northgate transfer center
 At 6.35, I had no other choice but to walk from the vicinity of Canyon Hills Middle School to the Dyer and Hondo Pass outbound Dyer-Brio station, arriving almost at 7 a.m. At 7.09, I boarded the outbound Dyer-RTS from Dyer-Hondo Pass station. At 7.55, I got out at the Kansas-San Antonio stop.
 from the cancer san antonio rts stop i walked to city hall arriving at 8 30. the purpose of my business was to physically sign in so i could see if i could talk in person for today's public comment segment right after my va appointment at 08 19 i left city hall toward the san antonio transit terminal and i got there at 08 25. at 08 41 i took the albana lamida brio a zero nine oh five
 I got out at the Alameda Jefferson High School stop. From there, I walked approximately 0.7 miles by using the recommended route via Reynolds, which is inaccessible, to the South Central VA Wellness Center, located at 350 River Street, from my 10 a.m. scheduled appointment. At 11 a.m., I departed the VA Center
 and I headed back to Alameda Jefferson High School stop by walking through Texas Tech via Rick Francis, which is accessible. I would recommend that route. At 1135, I took the inbound Alameda RTS and I arrived to the San Antonio Transit Terminal at 1150. From the San Antonio Transit Terminal, I walked back to the City Hall at 0 at 1158.
 Whenever the rail car will be available for extended hours, I would like to have access to the proper available public transportation from to the proximity of my home. It's that you have the proper, you're going to have extended hours of the rail car and you limit the hours from the other buses. I think that I will not have access to the transportation.
 I don't know what, I think I would feel that, I would feel really, I don't know, maybe upset, maybe put to the side, maybe disregard, maybe I will not have time to use it. Thank you, sir. You've reached the three-minute limit. Thank you. Thank you. The final speaker is Marty Hunt, which is joining us virtually. Please press star six to unmute your telephone. Marty Hunt, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Marty Hunt.
 Marty Hunt, I see you in the queue. If you press star 6, you can unmute your telephone. Marty Hunt, star 6, please, to unmute your telephone. Mayor, I don't see the person unmuting the microphone. I'm not sure if they're having technical difficulties. But that concludes call to the public. Thank you, and thank you, everyone, for coming to call to the public. Thank you, Mr. Travis. With that, we go to...
 The next item is 45, this is discussion and action on a resolution of the city council of the city of El Paso nominating Phelps Dodge refining corporation for participation in the Texas enterprise zone program. And staff does have a floor amendment to read into the record on this item. Yes, ma'am, thank you. Bill Allen with economic and international development. And I'd like to present to you a Texas enterprise zone nomination, could you please bring up
 my presentation. Thank you. Next slide, please. So the requested action is for the approval of resolution nominating Phelps Dodge Refining Corporation to receive the designation as a Texas Enterprise Zone project. A couple highlights on this project. The company plans to spend a
 They will retain all of their over 400 jobs over the five-year period of this designation. And very important, no impact on city funds. The program involves state sales and youth tax rebates only. Next slide, please.
 I'd like to provide some backup and background on the Texas Enterprise Zone program. This is an economic development tool for local communities to partner with the state of Texas to encourage job creation and retention, as well as capital investment. Texas communities nominate companies in their jurisdiction to participate,
 And municipalities of our size are eligible to nominate up to nine Enterprise Zone project designations during each state biennium. The current biennium began September 1st of 2021 and runs through August 31st of 2023. We've already processed two nominations in the current biennium. That was Charter Communications back in the fourth quarter of 2021.
 and El Paso Healthcare Systems in May of this year. Designated businesses receive state tax incentives under this program in the form of state sales and use tax rebates.
 There are some eligibility requirements for this designation. Jobs must have an average wage that meets or exceeds the county average weekly wage. And I'll talk about that in just a second as it pertains to the nominee. In addition, employment and capital investment must be met prior to the expiration of the five-year program.
 Jobs must be maintained through the end of the designated program or for at least three years after the date which the tax benefits are received, whichever is later. And then if located outside an enterprise zone, 35% of the company's new employees that are brought on must be designated as economically disadvantaged, have an enterprise zone residence, or be a veteran. Next slide, please.
 A little bit about Phelps Dodge Refining Corporation. So they are a wholly owned subsidiary of Freeport-McMoran, who employs 24,700 people worldwide. Again, they are located, the facility is located at 897 Hawkins Boulevard in District 3, and they plan to...
 There are over 400 employees in El Paso, 219 of which are in their copper refinery and 184 in its rod mill. So they're going to use the $20 million of capital investment to upgrade and improve both the refinery and the rod mill facilities. Again, staffing levels will be maintained over the five-year designation period at minimum.
 And then as far as their average salaries, their average salary currently is just a shade under $76,000. And their operator's salary range from $55,000 to $83,000. And when you compare that to the El Paso MSA median wage of $14.58 per hour, or $30,326 annually, that matches the criteria. Next slide, please.
 So as far as recommendation, Phelps Dodge Refining meets the criteria for designation as an enterprise project. Again, they're planning to invest a minimum of $20 million. They will retain over 400 jobs during the five-year period at minimum and have committed that 35% of any new hires will be residents of an enterprise zone, economically disadvantaged, or veterans.
 There is no impact on city funds. Program involves only state sales and use tax rebates. This is a wonderful state program that helps us to assist with significant local investments. This will also generate incremental tax revenue. And then lastly, as mentioned, I do have a floor amendment to this resolution. It is in the first bullet of the sixth recital, changing the word inside on line three,
 to outside. That first bullet would then read Phelps Dodge Refining Corporation is a qualified business under Section 2303.402 of the Act since it will be engaged.
 in the active conduct of a trade or business, a qualified business site located outside an enterprise zone, and at least 35 percent of a business's new employees will be residents of an enterprise zone, economically disadvantaged, or veterans. The remainder of the resolution remains the same and is unaffected by this correction. Thank you, and do you have any questions? Thank you. Do we have a motion?
 The motion is seconded, Ms. Cray. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Salcido. To approve with a floor amendment on that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Anello voting nay and Representative Rodriguez not present. Thank you.
 the next item is number 46 this is discussion in action on an appeal by the property owner of 1121 terrace court el paso texas in the sunset heights historic district regarding a decision rendered by the historic landmark commission in hlc case phap 22-00022 on june 6 2022 to deny a certificate of appropriateness for the reference property thank you representative lisada
 Thank you mayor I just want to thank the city staff miss Velasquez and the historic land commission for their hard work in considering this case and making their recommendations in cases like this in which staff recommends against approval and the HLC voted against approval. It is very difficult for me to overturn that on appeal and
 In order to do so, I would need to see very compelling new information. In this case, we made it very clear to the property owner at the last city council hearing that he would need to provide us with any new information for us to consider as soon as possible so that we could do our due diligence and conduct our review.
 The property owner just yesterday afternoon sent us new information after our agenda review meeting was already completed and adjourned. Meaning that we haven't been able to have a proper dialogue with staff and with the public about the new information. Regardless of the final outcome today, I find the timing of this new information important.
 unacceptable on the part of the property owner who is effectively asking us to let him off the hook for something He didn't get proper permission for from the HLC Regardless of any permits he did or didn't have we made it very clear that we needed this information much sooner than when we received it in order for his appeal to have more of a chance of success and
 Because we haven't been able to publicly consult with city staff about the new information. I would like to do that now If that's possible mayor, can the staff please give us your input? Interpretation of the recommendation about the new information that the property owner provided yesterday And I wonder if staffs have the opportunity to really review it since we just got it yesterday. I
 Good afternoon. This is Providencia Velazquez, Historic Preservation Officer. I would like to answer that. Yes, Mr. Feria, the property owner, did submit some information, but what he submitted to you are plans that were never submitted to us for the...
 proposal for the approval for the permit for these structures. He also submitted some estimates that he got within the last week for work that he had done many many years ago. And I think he's submitted some paperwork just to show you that there were permits that were approved in 2002-2005 that he received, but again, he has never submitted any application for a permit for the balcony, the canopy, the pergola.
 And he was well aware that he was in a historic district. We have information that he submitted applications back in 2002 and 2005. But in 2018, when he was constructing these structures, he never came to the city and asked for approval. He never went through the process. He never did this legally. So what you have in hand are basically papers showing that he got some estimates for the work. And I think he's trying to incur a little sympathy by showing you how expensive it would be. It would have been a lot less expensive if he had done this legally. Thank you.
 So what you have in front of you doesn't really help the case, I don't think. We are still asking you to recommend denial of his appeal and to support the decision with my more commissioned decision. Okay, you answered my... Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Kristen Karam, for the record. Yes. The staff does have a presentation, and I think it, because this is an appeal hearing, I think it may be important for staff to have the opportunity to present. Okay. Thank you, Ms. Karam. If you may. Thank you.
 I do have one more question for Ms. Velazquez if possible. Was this information provided to the historic land commission at their hearing or is it completely new? Ms. Velazquez, this information? It's completely new. Okay. Thank you. Representative, he submitted this yesterday basically. So we got it about the same time you did. Hold on one minute please. Hold on. Do you all have any questions for the applicant? Okay. So if you like, I can go over the PowerPoint.
 So as you can see this is an appeal the Historic Landmarks Commission decision. This is a brief view of the process that's required. This is a timeline of recent activity when he was cited in 2018 and as you can see it took four years for this to go to court and four years for it to go to the Historic Landmark Commission. So these structures have been completely finished and done and were in place for several years before the applicant took steps to legalize them.
 The construction also involves a few issues. We are also talking about, of course, the historic landmark connection components, but there are several issues at work here. There's the fact that structurally, we don't know if these structures are sound, if they present any danger to the public, and if they meet current code, because he never submitted anything. And also, planning and zoning will not be able to approve these structures because they don't meet the required setbacks. So the historic is one component of many on this parcel.
 This is a brief timeline of the permit activity and you can see that in some cases he did submit an application for work. Sometimes we did grant it, sometimes we didn't, and many times the final inspection was never called. But he never, ever, ever submitted a proposal or an application for these structures.
 This is what the house looked like on the left in about 2001. And in 2022, you can see that it's almost unrecognizable because it can't be seen. In a historic district, we really pride ourselves on our architecture. We would like to show it off. So we asked that the main facade always be visible. We wouldn't approve something like this because it obstructs us much too much. Sorry, much too much. And here you can see exactly what was done. So there was fencing done, the balcony, there's electricity, there's a dumpster there that's been,
 illegal since 2014, they're stuck on the wall. And here's the back of the property where he constructed two structures, the pergola that you see in the canopy, and they're not done in compliance either.
 I'd like to show you one example. In 2005, he asked for approval to change his windows, and that was granted. And the approval was to change the windows in kind, meaning he had to put in new windows that look exactly and function like the old. They can be a different material, but they have to look like the old, and he hasn't done that. He has not complied with that approval either. Okay.
 So lastly, again, we are asking you to uphold the Historic Landmark Commission denial of all this construction that was done illegally and deny this property owner his appeal. Please let me know if you have any questions. So I make a motion to deny the appeal. Is there any questions? Mayor, if I may, I think the motion is to uphold the Historic Landmark Commission's ruling. So the motion is as written.
 So the motion would be as written? That's correct? The motion is to uphold the, the motion should be to uphold the historic landmark commission's decision on June 6th of 2022. And we do need to offer public comment as well. Okay. I believe my time has about. We will, we will sir. Absolutely. If you just give us a chance sir. Okay so do we need to change the motion?
 Laura I believe that the Miraflame a though the one of the assistant city attorneys sent you a proposed motion if you might read that into the record, please. I
 Thank you. Yes. So the proposed motion for item 46 reads, whereas the City of El Paso's Historic Landmark Commission, HLC, is established under the authority of Chapter 211 of the Texas Local Government Code, Municipal Zoning, for the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare and protecting and preserving places and areas of historical, cultural, or architectural importance.
 and significance, whereas Title 20.20 of the El Paso City Code authorizes the HLC to decide cases regarding certificates of appropriateness and declares as a matter of public policy that the protection, enhancement, preservation, and use of historic landmarks is a public necessity and is required in the interest of the culture, prosperity, education, safety, and general welfare of the people.
 Whereas the purpose of title 20.20, historic landmark preservation includes, but is not limited to protecting, enhancing, and perpetuating historic landmarks which represent or reflect distinctive and important elements
 of the city's region, states, or nations' architectural, archaeological, cultural, social, economic, ethnic, and political history, and to develop appropriate settings for such places. Whereas on June 6, 2022, the HLC denied the request for certificate of approval after the fact for an outdoor deck in case number PHAP 22-00022, located at 1121 Terrace Court, El Paso, Texas, 799-02,
 on the basis that the constructed addition did not meet the design regulations or character for the Sunset Heights Historic District.
 Whereas the applicant for case number PHAP 22-00022 has elected to appeal the June 6, 2022 ruling of the Historic Landmark Commission to the City Council of the City of El Paso under the appeal procedure defined in Section 20.20.190 of the El Paso City Code. Whereas the appeal hearing before the City Council began on August 16, 2022 and continued to the August 30, 2022 City Council meeting.
 Now therefore be it resolved as follows. Motion that the City Council uphold the HLC's decision on June 6, 2022 of the denial with recommendations in case number PHAP 22-00022 for property located at 1121 Terrace Court, El Paso, Texas 79902 for the purpose of promoting the public health safety morals or general welfare and protecting and preserving places and areas of historical, cultural or architectural importance
 and significance. This motion incorporates by reference, as is fully set forth herein, the recitals above and the content of the following. Number one, agenda for the El Paso Historic Landmark Commission meeting of June 6, 2022, including attachments thereto,
 Number two, historic landmark commission meeting, minutes of June 6, 2022. Number three, presentation materials and related documents provided at the regular city council meeting of August 16, 2022 and August 30, 2022 for item number 41, file 22-1049 and item 46, file 22-1049, which include the following materials. A, City of El Paso, Texas agenda item department head summary form.
 B, planning and inspections department memorandum dated August 8, 2022. C, notice of appeal dated July 20, 2022. D, backup agenda material for the June 6, 2022 HLC meeting. E, certificate of appropriateness denied by the El Paso Historic Landmark Commission. F, PowerPoint presentation titled Appeal of HLC Decision for 1121 Terrace Court.
 and number four the minutes and video record of the august 16 2022 and august 30th 2022 regular city council meeting related to hlc case number phap 22 dash 00022 approved on august 30th 2022. thank you do we do do we have public comment signed up for public comment i did not have anyone signed up for this item sir pardon me
 Under our rules in state law, we can allow on specific agenda items if someone has not spoken up but has the desire to speak, we can allow it. Right. I think we should allow the public comment. I didn't sign up to speak, but I will allow them time to speak. So if we can give them three minutes to speak, I would like... Mayor, would you like a motion to suspend the rules?
 The rules require that the person sign up with the city clerk prior. We are by law allowed to have reasonable rules related to agenda. And our rules do require persons to sign up prior. But if you want to suspend the rules to allow these members to speak. Yes. I move to suspend the rules. Second. There's a motion and a second to suspend the rules of order to allow speakers after the sign up period. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? Yes.
 And the motion is 3 minutes. They'll have 3 minutes. OK. Thank you. Sir, will you please state your name for the record? My name is Luis Yanez. On the intent of the property, 1121 Terra is the item on the agenda.
 Would like to ask for permission to exceed the three minutes. I don't think this is public comment I'm his attorney and I'm presenting his appeal before the City Council today as posted on the agenda So if I can have that clarification if I can exceed the three-minute rule No, you can't know we'd like to continue to stay with the three minutes or as you didn't sign up for public comment But it's important for us to hear from you And we we did make an exception because I think it's important to hear from you and the homeowner also sir. I
 Thank you, so we can give you three minutes and then the homeowner, please we'd love to hear from him. Thank you Evidence in this case for today's meeting we did so we were not a
 instructed us to when we needed to provide those this case has been ongoing for a little bit over four years that's taken the historic landmark commission to bring this before city council and to hear this case so two weeks is not unreasonable for my client to uh or it's a little bit unreasonable for my client to secure all the evidence to present before the council however he did so and he provided uh those items to council yesterday i would like to invite
 the council's attention to the permits that he did secure. And he did secure permits for everything aside from the pergola. However, he did contract with a company that builds pergolas, and they're the ones that were supposed to ask for that permit. He did file the building plans with the city, and those have been filed with the city since before the pergola was even started.
 They did not secure the permit.
 My client is a person contracting with a company to do those, to perform those services and for whatever reason they did not. In those plans, it does say that the structure is sound, that the ground that it sits on is proper for the structure. So I would differ with Ms. Provencio that none of those tests have been done. They have been done and they're in your packet so we submit it for your review.
 Additionally, my client did secure permits for the fencing, also for the windows, and nowhere does it say that it needed to be a specific kind of windows. Now, we provided you the cost of how much it would cost my client to replace those windows, and it would cost them over $20,000 to replace those windows. Like you testified before you,
 uh... two weeks ago that he's been making this uh... property uh... better uh... for twenty five years a little bit of the time for him to undergo all this expenses
 would be a tremendous cost to him. We provided pictures of the properties around the neighborhood, which have very similar pergolas as installed by him. The fences that he installed comport with the international building code, and they're set at 42 inches. Now Ms. Provencio makes some statements, but she doesn't provide any proof as to when this,
 That the permits don't comply with the work that was done So Let me ask you a question your three minutes are up, but I do have a question on what you were going over Can you you're telling us that there was permits for everything? except the pergola except the purple and he did apply for a permit once he got a He found out that there was no permit taken out by the moment that that was back in 2021
 Okay, and the pergola was built in 2017 18 So everything the windows everything that we're talking about except for the pergola was permitted by the city But those permits were not sent to us They were in the in the packet that we submitted to you. I
 certificate of appropriateness page 41 42 some of those permits we did provide those to council so what you and I just want to make sure that I heard you correctly that's why so everything that was built in that house windows everything else it was permit it was applied for permits through the city in the city issued permits based on
 Whatever was requested Yes, mayor he did and miss Provencio alluded to that in her statement and the only thing that was not Permitted would be the pergola. That's correct. He did apply for Before was it ever permitted after he applied? No, it was not However, the building plans by a civil engineer were filed with the city back in 2018 Originally, yes, sir. And were they stamped by the city at that time? I
 Were they stamped? Yeah, you said they were submitted. I'm not sure if they were stamped, but I know they had it as they just returned them to us this past week. Okay. We have, yes, sir, from the City Planning Commission? Yes, sir. Tony De La Cruz, Planning and Inspection. So just to address some of the questions for comments that were brought up, some of the items that you will note.
 that were submitted to city council was a packet of I believe 40 documents and I can share my screen if the council would allow me to. I did not receive a packet with 40 items I received an attachment with 18 items on it. I believe this is something that we we have at least that was emailed earlier. Mine has 56 pages.
 So at this point let me bring that up really quick. So I believe this is what the general is referring to. One item to note so these are the plans that were prepared by engineer back in 2018. So you see the survey the general site plan. The site plan one thing to note is that this site plan was actually prepared on July the 12th 2018. The notice of correction
 for this property when we first noticed the violation was actually submitted a month before the plans were prepared on June 11th of 2018. So the plans that were prepared that are part of this document were prepared approximately a month after the notice of violation was issued along with notice to cease all work.
 In going through this simply shows a aerial of the proposed construction. And again these were done approximately a month after the correction notice was issued. DIRECTOR DEWOLF I've never seen the correction notice. DIRECTOR HERSEY Well that's the correction notice that's on file but the alteration permit that was submitted in 2021 was submitted in January of 2021. All reviews failed primarily because of the Sony violation historic landmark approval being required.
 So yes an application was submitted. The application was reviewed the application and the reviews failed at that time. This is a copy of the certificate of appropriateness application that was submitted to the Historic Preservation Office regarding the case currently before City Council. Pictures of the pergola. And please let me know if City Council would like me to slow down or stop at any instance.
 So in getting to lease our estimates by the property owner that were submitted that should be part of City Council's packet. So these are some of the older permits that we're starting to look at. So roofing permit issued in 2002. That was approved and that was part of the presentation that was provided by Throvie earlier on on that spreadsheet that we showed.
 At this point, this is the administrative review for that roof that was approved by the Disposed Landmark Commission, specified the color to be Sierra Gray, based on the pictures that we currently have. That is in compliance. This is a certificate of appropriateness for a separate item. The request was to stucco the entire house. This was denied at the time, and it was allowed to be painted instead and applied a stucco to the chimneys.
 This is the actual permit for the re-roofing back in from 2002. And then we had a permit for a rock wall. Again this permit dates back to 2003. Attached is a copy of that permit along with the approval from the Historic Conservation Office at that point. In 2005 you'll note that we also had a permit to replace the windows which is the permit that I believe the gentleman is referring to.
 That permit was approved and did go through the Historic Landmark Commission and this is the Historic Landmark Commission application. It stated replace the windows with new matching existing. So what you see now and.
 On the presentation what you'll notice is that staff looked at older Google Street views and the windows in a specific area of the house were changed at some point between 2015 and 2022 long after this approval from the Historic Landmark Commission had been granted. At that point we're not seeing any permits that have been submitted or approvals by the Landmark Commission at that time.
 Again the basic permit that is issued by our department for the replacement of the windows in 2005 and some of the comments that City Council has in their patents.
 Also, if I may add, when replacing the windows, we approved replacing windows with new matching the existing. And as you can see, that's not what was done at all. What he did was remove the project window and replace it with a big picture window. This is not what was approved by staff. This is not what was approved by the Historic Landmark Commission. That's a violation as well. So, yes, he may have gotten approval for the windows, but he did not install the windows that we approved. Thank you, Representative Nello. Thank you.
 Yeah, my question is for Mr. De La Cruz. You keep referencing a package. What package? There's absolutely not on this council meeting or the last council meeting any of this documentation uploaded. I'm seeing, I guess, an email that was sent on Monday, August 29th.
 This email that was forwarded to me is from was sent to the mayor from Yanis. So you're referencing documents that are in response to this 18 page attachment that was sent to us. What I'm asking you is why were none of those documentation from staff uploaded in the backup for council's review?
 This documentation was actually sent to mayor, city clerk, and Provincial Council. From you, yesterday? No, no, from Ricardo Pena. The property owner. The only attachment I have from anyone yesterday is an 18-page attachment. Does anyone else have anything else? No, none of us have anything else. So what you're saying, Mr. De La Cruz, just to be very clear, the property owner sent you all documentation yesterday, right?
 the documentation was sent to the mayor to provi and the city expert but none of it got to city council that is my understanding i mean i don't disagree that with uh representative of the sadaga that yesterday was far too late to give us this information um but i also don't think it's appropriate that the information wasn't given to us so i'm going to be uh recusing myself from this vote represent south sado thank you mayor um
 Yes, I actually wanted to go over those documents. I mean that for me was very important So the fact that I don't have you know that that information right now I will also be abstaining from this vote Would be best that we postpone it till we get that package Representative Sorry, you can make a motion for that, but I won't be voting in favor it's difficult to for them to tell us that we have an 18 page package and I
 I'd make the motion to postpone another two weeks to see we have that package in hand. Second. Can you make sure we got the, you know, and I know you said that we didn't have a time limit, but we do have, you do have a time limit because we did discuss it in the last meeting saying that we would give you two weeks and we'd reconvene in two weeks, so
 that's not an accurate statement that you didn't know that there was a time limit and there is a time limit and we will be reconvening in two weeks and i hope that at that time we do not postpone it anymore that we have the information and we just move forward with it but uh you can't tell me you didn't have a time limit because that's an inaccurate statement noted i will uh
 Send this to everybody just to know that it's 56 pages. Yeah, make sure we get a copy of it I said with plenty of time sure. Thank you without we have a motion in a second to postpone Well, which one takes precedence from mr. Pryor postponement would take right correct So we have motion in a second to postpone and this is for two weeks representative Rivera There's a motion in a second to postpone the item for two weeks on that motion call for the vote in the voting session. I
 And the motion passes with four affirmative votes. Representative Molinar-Lizarraga voting nay. Representatives Schwartzbein and Rodriguez not present. The remainder of council voting aye. The motion passes.
 And, sir, we will have a meeting in two weeks, and there is a time limit, and the longer you take, the less chance we have to review the documents. So I do recommend if you could get them to us yesterday, it would be probably very appropriate. I'll resend them today, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you.
 And I believe it's the applicants responsibility to get it to us is that correct? That's how I was talking to he's representing the applicant. That's why I'm speaking to the attorney. Yes, so directly to us Thank you, but right away. Thanks The next item is number 48 This is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call professional services agreement to perform surveying services on a test by test basis and
 to Brock and Bustillos Inc., Cobb, Finley and Associates Inc. and Frank X. Spencer and Associates Inc. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthvine and Representative Rodriguez not present.
 The next item is 49. This is discussion and action that the city manager or designee be authorized to sign required documents and submit an application to the Texas Military Preparedness Commission for the Defense Economic Adjustment Assistance Grant for the construction of the McGregor Range water line. Move to approve. Second. Motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve. On that motion, call for the vote.
 In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthby and Rodriguez, Representative Rodriguez, not present. Pleasure seeing you. Motion to adjourn. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the meeting for Tuesday, August 30th, 2022 is adjourned at 1258 p.m.