Good morning, everyone. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, September 13, 2022. Present and presiding in council chambers is Mayor Leaser, along with Representative Anello, Representative Hernandez, Representative Linar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera.
 and alternate mayor Pro Tem Lizada. Mayor Pro Tem Shorespine has requested to be excused from today. It is 9.04 a.m. Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by police, fire, and ministry coordinator for the Sheriff's Office, Chaplain Sam Ferroni. Good morning, Mayor, City Council, Mr. City Manager. It's good to see all of you in person again.
 If you care to join me as I pray, please do so. Heavenly Father, we give you praise for another beautiful new day, the opportunity we have to overcome evil with good and to make a positive impact on the world around us. We acknowledge you this morning and may we seek your presence in order to find wisdom, grace, guidance for whatever lies ahead of us today.
 I thank you for and I pray for my mayor, city representatives, and all who influence the direction of our city. Please cover them today with your mighty hand of strength as they work through the agenda of this meeting. Thank you for the words of Proverbs 3 that tells us, Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding, but in all your ways acknowledge him and he shall direct your paths.
 May each of us follow this directive so that we follow in your path and not merely our own. May we walk in the path of love, wisdom, righteousness, forgiveness. Please grant your favor over this meeting today and everyone who will participate. I ask that you'll bless and watch over all of those who protect our freedoms and who keep us safe. God bless El Paso and God bless America.
 In the mighty name of the Lord, I pray. Amen. Thank you, and God bless you. Thank you, sir. It was great to see you in person. Command Sergeant Major, can you please lead us in the pledge, sir? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God's name. And justice for all. Thank you. You all want to do the Texas? Will you do it for us? That would be great. Thank you very much. He can still do the Texas flag. Thank you. Thank you.
 And Command Sergeant Major, welcome home. It's what an honor to know that you grew up in El Paso and were gone for how many years? 27 years and now he's back as the Command Sergeant Major here in El Paso for the garrison commander. And he told me he's never leaving again. He loves the city and grew up and went to school in Anthony. And welcome home, sir. Thank you. And with that, I just wanna,
 I know we talked about it a little bit yesterday, and I want to talk about it today, that this weekend we remembered 9-11. And it was, you know, 21 years ago on Sunday, and one more year removed. One thing that we talked about, and it's really important, that it will never be out of our minds and it will never be out of our hearts. And it's, we made a commitment.
 back 21 years ago that we would always remember. And I got to go to the school on Friday, and I know the superintendent was there also, and it really was young kids that...
 Well, they weren't there on 9-11, but yet they're learning about it and continue to learn about it. And I thank them because this is one way we will never forget the brave men and women, the 343 firefighters, the 72 police officers, the two FBI agents and federal agents that ran in the building not knowing whether they would come out or not. And one thing that needs to be told, when they ran in there,
 14,000 Americans, 14,000 people like just you and I were saved. And that's important to know. And we couldn't thank every police officer, firefighter in our community and across the country for your dedication. As you know, you leave every morning knowing not to what you're going to expect, but knowing that you're there for whatever the challenges may be. And on 9-11, they were there for the challenge. So, again, thank you.
 We will never forget and our hearts will always remember them. So with that I would like to have a moment of silence. Thank you and may God bless America and may God bless every one of you all. Ms. Pryor. Thank you Mayor. That brings us to the Mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is EPCC Hispanic Heritage Celebration Month.
 Thank you Mayor. Proclamation for the city of El Paso Texas whereas the National Hispanic Heritage Month is the period from September 15th to October 15th and whereas Hispanic Heritage Month celebrates the long and important presence and contributions of Latinos and whereas El Paso Community College diversity and inclusion programs will present its 21st annual Hispanic Heritage Month celebration entitled Unidos inclusivity for a stronger nation.
 And whereas the EPCC Hispanic Heritage Month celebration will offer students, faculty and staff and the community a fiesta event to highlight Hispanic American contributions to education, government and culture on September 21st of 2021.
 of 2022 and whereas the celebration will present a lifetime achievement award to a local, regional, and national trailblazer mentor for their contributions to the border city community. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that September 15th through October 15th, 2022 shall be known as EPCC Hispanic Heritage Celebration Month signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Aliso.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, mayor and city representatives. Thank you so much for this proclamation My name is Lee Vasquez. I'm the coordinator for diversity inclusion programs and with me I have loose the los reyes and david Zamora we're here to represent EPCC and this year's Hispanic Heritage Month national theme is Unidos inclusivity for a stronger nation and
 And at EPCC we strongly believe that diversity is very important, whether it be local, personal, state or national, it should be at the forefront in everything that we do. And El Paso Community College continues that effort with our programs.
 On here, we did give you a flyer. Hopefully you get to see it. We wanna invite you all to our 21st Hispanic Heritage Month Fiesta, which we collaborated with EPCC, Campus Life, and Student Government.
 We've done things virtually for a couple of years now. So it's good to kind of come back and be together, of course, following our safety protocols. But we're honoring and having our keynote speaker, Chibi Orduna, who comes from Texas. He was selected from our student government. And he talks a little bit about, you know,
 what's going on in society right now. He's up to date and then he does a lot of spoken word artists. So through his art, he kind of explains that.
 We are honoring Donna Munoz. She's an EPCC English instructor as one of our mentors. She's written a book and teaches there at EPCC. And then Dr. Andres Muro. He's also an EPCC director for the Community Education Program. So he helps out a lot with like the GEDs and bringing in money to help students complete their education. So they've done a lot for their community and we wanna honor them that day.
 We have Carla Mariscal who's going to be our host for that day. So we want to invite everybody to join us September 21st at the Valle Verde campus from 9 to 2 p.m. to join us. And then we also have Reden Sonder. But thank you and I hope to see you all there. Thank you. The next proclamation is Gold Out for Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. Professor Molinar.
 Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas each year many parents hear the devastating words that no parent wants to hear, your child has cancer. We, Gold Out El Paso, want families to know that they are not alone during this difficult time and they have our support. We will try our hardest to help families in need in any way possible. And whereas Gold Out El Paso honors all the children and families affected by childhood cancer.
 We honor all warriors, survivors, and angels that have courageously fought this battle. We honor families affected by childhood cancer because no child should fight alone. And whereas Gold Out El Paso will continue to make it its goal that the City of El Paso turn gold every September,
 And whereas children fighting cancer should never feel alone, and with the help of our community all children fighting cancer will always get the recognition in September for Childhood Cancer Awareness Month for our children are the future. And whereas we ask the El Paso community to join in, go that El Paso's motto, when one fights we all fight, when one cries we all cry, when one celebrates we all celebrate,
 We are all in this fight together now. Therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of September shall be known as Gold Out for Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. Signed, Oscar Leaser, the Honorable Oscar Leaser, Mayor of the City of El Paso.
 Good morning, Mayor and Representatives. Good morning. Thank you for giving us the proclamation again this year. We'll be doing this every year as long as we can. Every child deserves more than 4% of federal funding and the recognition. We've got to go gold before it goes pink.
 and we plan to turn the city gold every year and more. And we hope that other organizations and, you know, YASD, I hope that next year they help us turn the district gold as well and the city gold. So, you know, we're not done. We're going to keep fighting for the kids. Thank you. You know, and I know that cancer
 when money is raised for cancer, 96% of it is determined based on adults and children. 96% of it goes to adults because that's the adults that as they try to find research for
 for medication and all and 4% goes to children. So I had the honor of being the national chair for Hyundai for Hope on Wheels and we actually went across the nation and we raised money through all the Hyundai dealers and I'm very proud to know that we raised about $15 million a year. And that really wasn't enough to try to find a cure for medications for children, but I would go in the hospitals and as we gave the donations to the hospital,
 and they would ask me to go see the children. And I told them I couldn't because I would cry. It would really make me sad.
 that go in and see a child and they told me he says no you don't understand when you go in there and you see them with the iv or the bandages or whatever that means they're getting help and that's really important but i still couldn't do it anyway but it's uh it's really important that the you know that september is gold out month and that we you know recognize the children because it's it's very important that um
 We continue to fight and find research, and I can tell you that my motto is always one child that has cancer is one too many. So we'll continue to, you know, advocate. And I know that we were able to donate and honor our local children's hospital, and we'll be able to do that again this month because it's important that we continue to fight for children. So thank you. Yes, ma'am.
 And the final proclamation is 915 Wheaton. No, hold on one second. Just a second. I'm sorry. I have a quick question for one of the representatives from the Gold Out El Paso.
 Okay, hi, good morning. So I know that, you know, my children's school, they're doing every Friday, they're doing yellow, and on next Friday is gold out for their school. Yes, ma'am. Is that something that you all are inviting all the school districts to do? Yes, ma'am. We would really love to do that, turn the whole city gold, especially the kids, because...
 Even if we don't realize it we all know somebody that knows somebody that has childhood cancer. And these kids really go through a lot. They feel they lose their life. They really do. We have some of our warriors here present today and they love to see the support. And I think if we can get more schools involved the kids they'll know that they're not fighting this alone and their peers will understand of what they're going through.
 And it just helps us bring awareness and show them that they're really not alone. They have all our support. And we would really love to see the whole city, the whole districts go gold. Right now we do have Socorro that's helping us a lot. And so we just want to make it citywide. Okay. So I want to actually, the t-shirts that you all are wearing, do you all sell them? Yes, ma'am. They are on our website at gold.opasso.com. Okay. Yes.
 And every year we do change designs. Okay. And the sad part is we do add more names to the back because on the back of our shirt is all our angels, warriors, and survivors. And so, yes, ma'am. Okay. So you said that's goldoutelpaso.com? Yes. This is our first year shirt, actually. He's one of our survivors, William. Hi. And he's wearing our first year. And if you notice the back of his shirt compared to our shirt, which is this year, the names have really grown a lot.
 And I appreciate you all being here. Thank you for your courage, the young warriors that are here. And I will be encouraging my SISD to continue supporting you all. And I will let my school know that you all do sell these t-shirts for the parents that want to support you all. So gold.opasso.com. Okay, thank you. And now the final proclamation is 915 week.
 Thank you. So proclamation of the city of El Paso, Texas, whereas progress 321 is a group of purpose-driven professionals dedicated to making the region the best place to live, work, and create.
 In WARE-AS, we empower and connect professionals across sectors, disciplines, generations, and cultures. We bring together emerging leaders with established trailblazers and foster meaningful, actionable progress in our region. And WARE-AS 915 Week is an initiative by Progress 321 to reach out to El Pasoans to encourage them to show their pride for our community and celebrate our region with various events.
 And whereas El Paso Everywhere is a three-day conference dedicated to celebrating our community, we proudly invite El Pasoans abroad to come back and experience the people and projects actively transforming our region. We challenge them to give back to the city that made them by creating or participating in Give Back projects that will continue to progress our region.
 Launched in 2019, El Paso Everywhere showcases unique culture of three states, two countries, and one beautiful region. In Whereas, launched in 2017, One Region, One Table showcases unique culinary culture of three states, two countries, and one beautiful region through an elevated multi-course dinner event complete with a cocktail hour, live entertainment, and a sommelier's choice wine pairing.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and City Council of the City of El Paso that September 12th through September 18th, 2022 shall be known as 915 Week. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leiser.
 Good morning. Good morning. How are you? And city council representatives and everyone here, thank you so much for supporting nonprofits in this proclamation. This proclamation is more than what we could have expected for launching 9-1-5 week.
 My name is Gracie Viramontes I am the president of Progress 3 2 1 and thank you Representative Anello you pretty much explain what the organization is about and I would like to introduce Ivan Chavarria. He's been working extremely hard on Progress 3 2 1's initiative with 9 1 5 week and while he does that I have a little bit of swag to give you guys. And he is the chair of Progress 3 2 1 9 1 5 week.
 Good morning, Major and Council. Thank you for having us again. Like Canelo said, she pretty much covered everything, but we're here to invite the community to celebrate 915 week. We have various events throughout the weekend, including a fiesta at the Convention Center on Thursday, September 15th for 915 day, and we're inviting the community to be a part of it, to join us for live music,
 vendors, artisans, and of course many more things, right? So we encourage all of you to visit 915week.com for a full list of events, and if you're interested in purchasing a 915 Week shirt, you can go into 915week.com for more information. Thank you. Thank you. Before we go to the next proclamation, I know that from community college, Lou was trying to speak and we kinda didn't notice it. So Lou, you wanna come up please?
 Good morning, Major Leaser, city representatives. Thank you so much for giving us the opportunity. It's my pleasure to be here. And I just wanted to take the moment to invite you all in the whole community to join us for the second part of our Hispanic Heritage Month festivities, which are the readings. We will be having the readings at the Northwest Campus Library. That will be October 4th. And the second one will be...
 At the Rio Grande campus October 5th, so please join us we invite the whole community And thank you very much for your time. Thank you Thank you very much. Miss prime. We're gonna go to Nevada next okay And this is representative At this time
 This is for item 19, Representative Rivera. And this is discussion in action on a resolution recognizing the Isleta Independent School District for being the only A-rated district among the city of El Paso's largest districts. May I call up the Isleta Board please? Mr. Javier de la Torres, the superintendent, Mr. Cruz Ochoa, board president, Mr. Charlie Bustillos, vice president.
 Ms. Catherine Lucero, Secretary. Mr. Shane Haggerty, Trustee. Mr. Soltero Ramirez, Trustee. Mr. Mike Rosales, Trustee. Would you please come to the front, please? Mayor, Council, City of El Paso, it's my honor to recognize the State Independent School District and present this resolution to you as it reads.
 Whereas on Monday, August 15, 2022, the East Leda Independent School District earned an A rating for overall academic performance from the Texas Education Agency for the 21-22 school year. And whereas the East Leda Independent School District received 98% of its campuses earning top ratings of either A or B for their educational programs.
 whereas he said a independent school district is the only a rated district amongst the city of El Paso's largest districts again whereas let me read that one again because it's very important that you all understand the importance of this he sled independent school districts is the only only a rated district among the city of El Paso's largest school districts and whereas
 nearly the 1,200 public school districts in Texas that were rated this year East Littler Independent School District was among only 396 to receive an A rating for its performance in three domains student achievement school progress and closing the gaps and whereas of the 8,451 campuses rated this year
 only about 28% or 2,356 schools earned an A rating from the TEA. And whereas in Isleta Independent School District, 50% of its campuses earned an A rating including the following 28 campuses. Isleta Pre-K Center, Alicia Archacoon International School, Justeer Elementary School, Del Norte Heights Elementary School,
 Dolphin Terrace Elementary School, Del Valle Elementary School, Edgemere International School, Eastwood Heights Elementary School, Eastwood Knowles International School, East Point Elementary School, Glen Cove Elementary School, Mission Valley Elementary School, North Star Elementary School, Pebble Hills Elementary School, Ramona Elementary School,
 REL Washington International School, Sage Land School, Scottsdale Elementary School, Tierra Del Sol Elementary School, Thomas Manor Elementary School, Vista Hills Elementary School, Rio Bravo Middle School, Del Valle High School, Hanks High School, Valle Verde Early College High School, Young Women's Leadership Academy, Plato Academy, and Tejas School of Choice.
 Now, therefore, it be resolved that the City Council of the City of El Paso recognizes the Isleta Independent School District for being the only A-rated district among the City of El Paso and its largest districts and recognizes Isleta Independent Superintendent, Dr. Javier de la Torre of the Isleta Independent Board of Trustees and all faculty, staff, students, and parents for a successful 21,
 22 school year. Congratulations. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning Mayor Leaser and good morning city council members. I am Cruz Ochoa. I am honored to be the president of this letter school district. As you see behind me is some board members that were here. I just want to say that we're very honored to receive this recognition.
 It has been a long, rough road, as you know, for the last three years. And to achieve this has been because of the dedication that we have from all our support staff, our teachers, our admin, everybody has pitched in to make this district the best possible. And it has been a road full of challenges, but we met them all.
 and we've tried to achieve the best for our children because the goal is to educate them to the best of our abilities. And here in El Paso, because we're so far away from everybody else, we have to rely on ourselves. And I also wanna recognize our sister districts. They have been working hard just as much as we have
 I know that in the coming years, they will also be rated as an A district because as you can see it on the numbers, they are all working hard to bring us together and make El Paso the number one city in Texas that will have a lot more A rated districts in the future.
 So thank you very much for this recognition. And I'd like to hand over the mic to Dr. De La Torres so he can say a few words. Thank you. All right. I just want to tell you that we're not far away from everyone. Everyone's far away from us. Oh. I want to make sure you know that. Well, thank you.
 Just very briefly, good morning. Good morning, sir. Members of the City Council. He was doing so well until he included other districts. I want to take a moment though and recognize that many of the people who are responsible for our school districts, academic programs, language programs, dual credit programs are in the back of the room. I also want to make sure to, please stand, they're wonderful.
 Our chief academic officer, Dr. Brenda Chacon, has been amazing. I want to recognize the principals, the leadership of the schools. Without their leadership, much of this would not be possible. And then we have to get into the four corners of the classroom and acknowledge, embrace the fact that those teachers are the single most important.
 instrument that we have for reaching children. And they've just been phenomenal through some very adverse periods of time.
 But for you to take time from your very important meeting to recognize us, we appreciate it. I'm sure the board appreciates it. And I'll finish with this. A lot of what we have accomplished in the last nine years or during my tenure would not be possible without the confidence and trust of my school board. Leadership starts at the top, as it does here. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. And I think it's...
 I think you kind of said it all when you talked about and introduced the people that really have worked really hard with you because it's leadership and that makes a big difference when we're talking about mentoring kids and doing the right thing. And we've talked about this, if we've talked about it once, we've talked about it a thousand times that the children are the future of our community and it's up to you all to make
 that they continue to grow. And I think with your team and your leadership and everyone here, it's very evident that our city's in great shape and we thank you for that. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor. Representative Ruendis wants to say something. One second, sir. Hold on, hold on, gentlemen, gentlemen, gentlemen. So, hold on, gentlemen, come on back. We're gonna be voting on the item as well, but I also wanted to share with you all that I have four children.
 in the Ysleta school district, so I'm a very proud Ysleta parent, my children go to Ramona Elementary, which I will say, and I know this is like battleground conversation, but really one of the most phenomenal schools in the district, really care about the children, the culture there is incredibly just family oriented and really care about the children. So I couldn't leave without saying,
 that the service, the education is above greater than I have ever expected. My six-year-old is speaking Spanish fluently, and she also is reading in Spanish, and now she knows how to understand novelas. And so...
 So I'm like my six year old is doing that. I could have never phantom that this is the type of education and the standard and the level of excellence that I can expect from my children. So I'm very proud of all the work Ramona and the school district has put into our children and we're looking forward to the to the much needed upgrades
 that the voters of El Paso approved so thank you for your hard work thank you superintendent and and all the teachers everyone who puts the effort into making the the school district the best in El Paso thanks and and finally what I know I know representative Hernandez and I've had the pleasure of working with trustee bestillos mr. Rosales miss Lucero they always make themselves available to us and dr. de la Torre you're not that far away you have also
 been receptive to us and invited us to many events and we appreciate you for that and so um here's just a little something from the city council of the city of el paso it probably recognizes the isla independent school district uh for being the only el paso school district to earn an a rating from the texas education agency for the year 2021 and 2022
 School year congratulations as mr. Del Toro's as to brand it the district. I like that. Thank you so much for everything Your many your many the improvements that you made for campuses are and your vision is fantastic kind of reminds me of mr. Gonzalez here, but I think Thank you, good morning as a retired educator I just want to really
 commend you and congratulate you for this A plus rating of all those campuses. I was a, I was a student,
 state mandated testing coordinator as well at the campus I used to work at and I know how hard it is achievement that you all have garnished for your School district is and so I just wanted to take a few moments to congratulate you and dr Della thought I you said it best when you said teachers are the single most important and
 factor in this recognition so I thank you for being here and congratulations to each and every one of you for all your hard work and your dedication as our mayor says so often the youth really are the future of our city and so thank you for for this shining star for our city of El Paso congratulations thank you okay I make a motion to approve sir
 There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item number 19. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present. We'd like to ask all this morning's honorees to please remain in chambers until the recognitions are complete so that City Council may have an opportunity to take photos with you. Mayor, you would like to move to item 20 next?
 Item 20 is discussion in action to recognize the week of September 12th to September 16th as the 2022 Disability voting rights week. Thank you mayor. Thank you miss prime. I will read the resolution into record So whereas in July people with disabilities and their supporters celebrated the 32nd anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act and whereas there are over 61 million people with disabilities of all ages living in communities throughout the United States and
 And whereas the disability community has a critical interest in policies enacted at local, state and national levels that affect the, sorry, affect the integration of people with disabilities, young and old, into our communities, and whereas getting the disability community involved in influencing people, public policies in a, is essential if these policies are
 are to meet the real needs of people with disabilities that live in the community. And whereas nonpartisan voting is one way for disability community to exert their influence at local, state, and national elections.
 And whereas there are multiple efforts to organize people with disabilities and our allies around the issue of voting. And whereas Rev Up, Register, Educate, Vote, Use Your Power is an effort to encourage state and local disability communities to organize voting coalitions. And whereas members of the National Disability Rights Community are organizing a Disability Voting Rights Week that will span from September 12th to September 16th, 2022.
 now therefore be it resolved that the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso is proud to support the growing involvement of disability community in the nonpartisan political process and recognizes the week of September 12 to September 16th as 2022 Disability Voting Rights Week I don't know if there's anyone here oh hi everyone if you all would like to speak
 Good morning. Good morning. How are you? City Council. Thank you for taking the time to do this resolution for us for voting rights. It's important that people with disabilities, not only people with disabilities encompass a disability vote, we also have our neighbors, our friends, our relatives.
 our communities that represent the disability vote. And it's important for us to make sure that people with disabilities and those that support us are registered to vote. It is the national push to register people with disabilities to vote. So we do wanna encourage others to make sure that you're registered to vote and that you exert that right you have to,
 elect the people that represent you and have vested Vested commitment to improving the lives of people with disabilities here in El Paso and around the country. Thank you. Thank you
 do we have a motion thank you everyone for being here um i think as as i said we know that voting is a challenge in our community and for individuals that already have a difficult time we want to make sure as a city that we make voting easy and accessible for individuals with disabilities i know during voting week we make our public transit free so people can get out to vote but we need to be doing more and working with the disability community to understand how we can help
 and how voting can be more accessible on our end. So thank you all very much. With that I'll make a motion to approve. Thank you and thank you all for being here and I think it's important that we always treat people the way we want to be treated and we'll never be disappointed. So thank you. With that we have a motion and a second. Yes there is a motion made by Representative Anello seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item number 20 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 Mayor, you want to move to item 21 next? That is discussion in action to recognize September 18th to 24th as the American Library Association's Banned Books Week. Thank you.
 This is the last one I have, I promise, Mayor. So whereas in 1982 the annual celebration of Banned Book Week was launched by the Office of Intellectual Freedoms, the American Library Association, and the publishing community in order to fight against censorship and celebrate the freedom to read. And whereas banned books were celebrated in order to highlight current and historical attempts to censor books in libraries and schools, while also celebrating the freedom to choose as well as the freedom to express one's opinion, even if that viewpoint may be deemed unconventional.
 And whereas Texas State officials in leadership position last year began questioning books and reading materials in public schools, particularly those related to race and sexuality, including Pulitzer Prize winning books and authors.
 And whereas the books that are being questioned tell the stories of people of color and other stories of the marginally oppressed, which should be included in the education of all people. And whereas we should recognize that the power of words and books is used to open the eyes in the world of younger generations by starting conversations and outlining the perspectives of different groups and individuals. And Banned Books Week was established to acknowledge this fact and celebrate the stories that officials in our state are trying to silence.
 And whereas the city of El Paso has committed to building a truly equitable community by guaranteeing every citizen has the freedom to read and have access to diversity and information. And YWCA El Paso del Norte region's mission is to eliminate racism, empower women, and promote peace, justice, freedom, and dignity for all.
 whereas the YWCA El Paso del Norte region and the City of El Paso have partnered to create banned book sections in all of the City of El Paso public libraries ensuring all community members have access to stories that represent them and that citizens are encouraged to embrace diversity by reading stories about communities other than their own now therefore be it resolved that the City Council of the City of El Paso recognizes September 18th to 24th as American Library Association's banned book week
 Hey, y'all. How are you? Outstanding. Hi, I'm Sarika Barlow. I'm the CEO for the YWCA. Excuse me, YWCA. Thank you so very much, City Council, Mayor,
 In March, YWCA launched the Spanbook Initiative, and we are so grateful for your unanimous support of putting this in all of our public libraries. At the YWCA, as we've shared, our mission is to eliminate racism and empower women, and it is so imperative that we allow the voices of the marginalized black and Hispanic, Asian, and indigenous people to be heard and to be represented
 And it's said that people perish for a lack of knowledge. And so it is important that we hear these voices and we allow these stories to be told.
 so that we can learn from them and so that we can grow. And so we are so thankful to be part of a community that is willing to grow and to learn and to move forward. So on behalf of YWCA, we are thankful for your consideration of this resolution as the National Week is celebrated on the 18th. So thank you for your continuous support. And in El Paso, I'm proud to say that
 Every voice matters and this is a great community to be represented in thank you And I want to thank you for your leadership and your commitment and you're doing a great job And and it's um, we really want to thank you for stepping in and doing an incredible job Congratulations and welcome. It's the first City Council meeting that you've spoke up in this position. And so we're really excited to have you here Sorry was there a motion
 Yeah motion second. Thank you. There was a motion made by representative Vanillo seconded by representative Molina to approve item number 21 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session And the motion passes unanimously Next is the mayor's distinguished award to dr. Ashan Choudhury and dr. Ryan wick and I'm gonna have a
 Australia Escobar read a couple words. She had the honor of working with both of them for a long time and Is very proud to be here standing next to him. Good morning mayor and council Estrella Escobar chief of staff for mayor Leeser. I
 On September 2nd, the West Texas Aerospace and Defense Manufacturing Coalition, led by the University of Texas at El Paso's renowned Aerospace Center, NWM Keck Center, in partnership with Congresswoman Escobar, the City of El Paso, the County of El Paso, and many other partners, announced it had been awarded a $40 million grant as a winner for the Department of Commerce's Build Back Better Regional Challenge. Along with matches and in-kind contributions, this results in more than $80 million for our Aerospace and Defense Manufacturing Initiative.
 The city, led by the mayor and the city council, and a team led by the city manager, will contribute nearly $42 million in cash and in-kind contributions and will take the lead in designing and developing a 250-acre advanced manufacturing district at the El Paso International Airport to provide a physical space and the necessary support infrastructure for existing and new manufacturers to expand operations in our region.
 The significance of this award for this collaborative partnership is immense. It will be transformational for this region and completely revitalize El Paso's economic landscape. And this partnership started with two individuals, Dr. Hassan Chiduri and Dr. Ryan Wicker.
 Dr. Asan Chidori is associate vice president at UTEP and founding director of the Aerospace Center in addition to being the Mr. And Mrs. McIntosh Merchant and Chair 2 in engineering. The Aerospace Center is a premier minority serving research center that explores new technologies and challenges in space aeronautics defense and energy using digital tools and skills that are transforming the way we design build and test systems and
 Under Dr. Choudhury's leadership, the Aerospace Center has developed an expansive vision to exponentially expand our nation's talent force by unleashing new opportunities for students from every background and every zip code through cutting-edge applied research in aerospace, defense, and energy.
 He is an internationally renowned expert in aerospace and defense systems and has led the growth of UTEP's Aerospace Defense and Energy Education and Research Program from its infancy to a program that is nationally recognized. The Aerospace Center has grown from a 3,000 square foot lab employing 30 students as research assistants to over 35,000 square feet in laboratory space and 8,000 acres of test facilities employing 200 students today.
 Dr. Ryan wicker is director and founder of the WM Keck Center for 3d innovation and America makes satellite center the endowed Mr. And mrs. McIntosh Mercer Murchison chair one professor of mechanical engineering at UTEP an editor-in-chief and founding editor of additive manufacturing journal
 Dr. Wicker has co-founded three university spin-out companies holds 29 US patents in nine foreign patents Published hundreds of peer-reviewed articles and has employed more than 500 students and researchers in UTEP's Kett Center with many of them becoming leaders in the additive manufacturing industry in total The aerospace center has received more than 60 million in grant funding and the Keck Center has received over 44 million in grants in the last 10 years not including the most recent grant award. I
 The strategic partnership between Dr. Chidori and Dr. Wicker is the seed that grew into the wonderful partnership that resulted in being one of only 21 cities out of 529 in the nation that applied to receive this phenomenal 40 million grant award, translating into more than 80 million for our region and becoming the economic and research engine that will transform El Paso's future.
 It is for this amazing vision and leadership that the mayor and the City Council of the City of El Paso Award the mayor's distinguished award to dr. Asante dory and dr. Reinwick. Thank you Before we do the award. I want to thank mr. Gonzalez and his team for Recognizing the partnership of dr. Shaduri and dr. Wicker that and what it could bring to the community economic development and
 It really has made it manufacturing and it's made a huge difference in council also for supporting as We needed to support it to be able to move it forward where the the White House would award these grants So mr. Gonzales your team and thank you very much for recognizing the great partnership and working with you To be able to have this incredible Two gentlemen in front of us doctor and doctor. I
 come to speak to us too so we can congratulate you who would like to go first. Yeah thank you very much for the award Mayor and City Council. My family's been in El Paso for over a hundred years. I went away to school. I worked outside of town before I finished my PhD but in 1994 I came back to El Paso and became a professor at UTEP.
 At the time, Dr. Natalicio had the vision of us becoming this research university. And what we, what is my proudest moment is being here today, that that vision is becoming a reality. We had to work very, very hard to develop the research preeminence in order to get competitive research awards at UTEP. And so Dr. Chiduri and I built two independent centers.
 that are globally recognized for what we do. Mine in advanced manufacturing and more particularly 3D printing, additive manufacturing. And Dr. Chiduri's in space and the aerospace center. Dr. Chiduri and I, after developing that research preeminence, came together in 2015 and started focusing on leveraging our research and what we've accomplished to better our community.
 And so we've been spinning out companies and working on these things. When I started at UTEP in 1994, 60% of our students were the first in their families to get a college degree. I stood up at our commencements and I was tremendously proud of that. There's still a majority of those students today, over 50% of our students are the first in their families to get a college degree. And so I've been at UTEP 28 years.
 So our vision now is not that we don't feel proud that many of our students are the first in their families to get a college degree but we're going to provide a living wage to our community in STEM areas so that potentially over the next two decades we can drive that number down. We would love to see that number cut in half to where we're raising our
 All of our students are very very successful in engineering. We're the two centers produce over 300 students. They don't graduate every year. We employ nearly 300 students in our two centers. We employ dozens of full time staff and what is paying me as an El Paso and as the majority of our students we've been exporting all of our talent.
 And so our vision, and now it's coming together, and this partnership that has grown tremendously, is we are beginning to see this vision come to fruition. So we are so excited of the future and what this grant represents, and there will be many more grants to follow in these areas.
 And we can't wait to see our students graduating and getting $80,000 job offers elsewhere and getting $80,000 a year job offers here and being able to stay home. There are – it's not just us. Both of us care deeply about our students. And so everything we do is really for our students and the students that we produce.
 And there's many individuals on the backs of which we had to ride in order to get here. So we can't recognize everyone. But we brought with us our vice president of research, who's been vice president and saw us from the growth from very little extramural research to being recognized as this Carnegie One Research Institution. So Roberto Osageta has been a tremendous influence on the two of us. We also brought.
 some new representation for us, the future of UTEP, and our new dean, Dr. Ken Meissner, is also here. There's also a product of mine, a student who's got a bachelor's degree, a master's, and a PhD at UTEP,
 now a professor at UTEP. So he started this center with me as a student, has been with me since 1997, now a professor at UTEP and becoming a role model, is a role model for our future generations. And that's Professor Frank Medina, who's also here. So thank you all very much. Thank you.
 Thank you so much, and unlike Ryan, I'm only 22 years in El Paso. This kind community accepted me as one of their own, and I cannot thank you enough. Such a privilege to be part of this kind community. So as Ryan explained, that we run a massive research center, but working with Congresswoman Escobar, we decided that you're going to use this preeminence to build El Paso a bit differently.
 To me, this whole Build Back Better regional challenge and everything has a really singular ask. We want to make sure that we have the fair share of American wealth. We want to make sure that our community has a fair share of American prosperity. We don't want to be neglected. We don't want to be considered as a borrowed community that doesn't know what to do with it. With this grant set as a course, we want to make sure that
 That every piece of defense hardware built, some's built in El Paso. Every spacecraft we build that go to moon and beyond moon, part built in El Paso. El Paso will rise, and this grant is the rise of El Paso. I cannot thank you all of you enough for, I know many of your friends, and such immense support we got. My special thanks to Tommy Gonzalez.
 You know, the submission process is complicated, and he was always stood by and help us to go through this very difficult process. Let's consider this is a journey. This is the start of a journey, and hopefully I will see you few years later and tell that where we are with that. Thank you so much. Thank you. And I'd like to, you know, as Dr. Rickers, you were talking about Dr. Nottolicio,
 She had a vision and she always you know She always dreamed big and she always had a vision that today would be a day that she would be very proud of And I know that she's looking down on both of you and couldn't be any prouder To accomplish one of her visions and one of her dreams for El Paso. So I know we all love dr non alicio and she dedicated her whole life to the students in the city and
 and you all at UTEP. So, you know, I know that she's very proud of every one of y'all, and she's looking down with a big smile. I know that.
 And I know she had her hair done, especially for you all this morning to make sure when she looked down on you all. So thank you. And I'd like to present – I'm going to go down there and present this award. Representative Hernandez, will you help me please go down there and present this? And Mr. Gonzalez, I think you were a big part of this, so I'd like for you to go up there with us to present this award to them. And it's important that you continue to be recognized for –
 I'm going to read it first. This is to Dr. Chidori for your unwavering dedication to students, steadfast commitment to research and extraordinary vision for a brighter El Paso. Mr. Gonzalez. Thank you, sir. And Dr. Wicker for your unwavering dedication for students, steadfast commitment to research and extraordinary vision for a brighter El Paso.
 And this award that we're given today is the Mayor's Distinguished Award, and it's an award that is not given very lightly. I've been in office, again, almost two years, and this is only the fourth time we've given this award because it's for people that are committed and dedicated to making El Paso a better place. So thank you and congratulations. There's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting in order to take photos. All in favor?
 Anyone opposed. The meeting is in recess at 10 o'clock a.m. Council members if I could actually we're going to this is order and this is for the public as well. If you can follow. Being the city council meeting all in favor. Yes. Anyone opposed. The meeting is back in session at 10 18 a.m. That brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem Lizada. Thank you.
 I move to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 3, item 1. And that revision is to include the month for the August 30, 2022 minutes. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse absent city council members. And that is to excuse Representative Peter Shorthvine from today's meeting. Page 4, item 5, delete per capita improvement department.
 Page 8 item 18 postponed two weeks per representative Swartzbine page 8 item 22 delete her representative Rivera. And finally page 9 item 25 delete her police department. There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda. Miss Cassidy has signed up on item 17 Carol Cassidy.
 Don't see her in chambers. The motion was made by representative Lisa to God seconded by representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion called for the vote and the voting Session the motion passes unanimously Representative an ello not present that brings us to page number eight item number 23 and this is an update on the streets and maintenance pothole patching program. Good morning Richard
 Good morning, sir. Good morning. Richard Bristol with Streets and Maintenance. If you could please give up our, bring up our presentation. Thank you. Thank you. I'm Richard Bristol with Streets and Maintenance, and I'll be presenting along with Sal Salise. Sal is our transportation manager over the street maintenance section, and I'll be asking him to come in and help with some of these slides as we keep going. If you could please advance the next slide. So this is Gold Team 7.
 to enhance and sustain El Paso's infrastructure network. If you could please advance the next slide. So what we wanna talk about today, we're gonna touch on our pavement maintenance strategy, briefly touch on how to report a pothole. Sal's gonna walk us through
 the pothole repair process and we want to make sure you understand some of the things that we've changed in our approach since we used lean six sigma a couple of years ago um sal will also give you an update on present near monsoon season we have a little bit of customer feedback to touch on and then i'll try and briefly and uh efficiently uh tie it back with the summary and get to the uh presentation uh in a reasonable time if we go to the next slide please so
 Streets matter. This has been in all of the Chyman surveys. It's crystal clear to all of us in the streets and maintenance department. And we're actually pleased that it is a priority because we're very serious about streets as well. And what we want is the same thing that the public wants. We want quality streets. If you could please advance the next slide.
 And this slide right here is one of the most important ones in our presentation, because what we want to do is show you how we can align and integrate the capital program with the maintenance program. And we start with the investment.
 And if you look at the far left, we've got a chart there that shows the resurfaced streets since 2013. It's very close to 500. That number, 479, was a few weeks back. We have not stopped paving streets since then. So that number continues to rise. But what that investment reflects...
 is $285 million invested into our streets. And that investment has an impact. And that impact is reflected in the second chart. Mr. Rodriguez gave a very detailed presentation to the council in April about the payment condition indexes.
 What I took away from that slide and what we took away as a group is that investment has a lot to do with why our overall PCI average has not dropped. We've remained relatively steady since 2018 and that is even during a period where we missed over a year of paving. But we believe that has a lot to do with the investment that the council has approved us to make in our streets
 in the 2015 and 2023 period. And as you can see, in 2012, we were at 75. There wasn't a lot of investment between 2012 and 2015, and you can see that reflected in the payment score. It dropped by 10 points.
 We would hope to be in front of you at some point in time with a payment score that is increasing. That is our goal. But going through these tough periods of these last couple years, we're very pleased that we're able to hold where we are. And we do thank you for that investment to get us there.
 maintenance plays into this as well. And the reason maintenance plays into this is because an investment that's made on the capital side, ultimately results in an operational efficiency on the maintenance side. If you look at those streets on that first chart with the 479, all of those streets, they were the worst streets in El Paso not too long ago. And they were the ones that were popping up on the pothole heat maps and on the PCI maps as red.
 after we paid them, we essentially eliminated thousands of pot holes from our annual queue because we knocked out a lot of trouble streets over the last few years.
 While we were doing that, more streets continued to develop, to deteriorate, and more have fallen into a problematic area. And that's why we have a pavement management program so that we can continue to deal with these problems. Now, our pothole heat map is what's shown on the bottom right column. Now the value of that map, that shows us where we worked during the last year.
 the concentrations of yellow and red that shows you the worst parts of town. These are things that we take into consideration when we're building things like our pay go programs for residential streets, in addition to the payment condition, in addition to closing on neighborhoods, we also look for those areas where we have these problems.
 because what we're trying to also do in our maintenance problem is find efficiencies to keep the maintenance program moving by eliminating major problems in the capital program. And we've had an effective go at this over the last few years, we firmly believe, and we're gonna make our case as to why.
 There have been years where we've had varying levels of pothole repairs since we started this process. And if you look at 2020, it's substantial. We did 75,000 potholes in that year. I can tell you we did 60 in 21 and 41 in 22. And it has gone down a bit. But I want to emphasize in 2020, we didn't pave that year. And we were quite aggressive on our pothole patching program for that reason. And we got a lot of work done.
 So there is some variation on the amount of potholes that are repaired during the course of the year. And that has a lot to do not only with investments and not only with our maintenance practice, but it also has to do with weather conditions as well, which we'll touch on as well in the presentation. If you could go to the next slide, please. So just recapping some of our diverse projects.
 payment management investments we've got it on the cip there's debt funded for resurfacing and reconstruction hopefully we'll be able to pass a community's progress bond which would be absolutely critical to keep our to keep the progress moving for the next 10 years frankly but we also have our pay go money that pay go money that you approved for us was an absolute game changer in regards to payment management and on top of that we also have our operating budget
 These are the operating resources that support these programs, and those are also invested through the general fund. So we have various ways that we invest in various programs, and it all leads to results. If you could go to the next slide, please. This is a slide that we tend to put in most of our presentations, and the reason I have it on this one is I want to make a point. We have over 6,000 streets in El Paso.
 We cannot be on 6,000 streets in the course of a week even, but the general public is. And the general public has proven time and again to be our most important ally when it comes to reporting problems in the streets, whether it's,
 during normal conditions, whether it's during a weather event. But these are the individuals that are using the streets daily and they know what they know what they're driving on. So we we put a very high value on what the public provides to us. And we like to say this at every presentation because we're seeing a decrease in our public reported service requests. And we just want to make sure that we're capturing everything. If we could advance to the next slide, please.
 On this slide, I want to just show you what has kind of changed in our approach to patching potholes over the last many years. Back before 2016, we had a completely different process. What we were doing back then was we were driving service requests, essentially. Service requests drove our process. And not only did they drive the process, the older service requests were prioritized.
 When we were following that method, we found ourselves having a lot of time traveling throughout the city, going from one location to another, essentially going from one service request to another. When they're doing that, they could have been driving over a pocket. What we changed was now our work is driven through our patching zones. And Sal's going to explain that in detail in a minute.
 But what it is, is we're working larger groups of employees in small concentrated areas. And by staying in a small concentrated area, we're not driving around and wasting the day getting from point A to point B. We're within a smaller geographic region, less travel, and it's given us the time to do more pothole work.
 Another benefit that we had from that Lean Six Sigma project was data. We changed how we did data. We were doing it manually before and we started doing it electronically on this project. We rolled out electronic data management throughout the department and what we found is we've got better data and having better data is helping us make better decisions. The result of when we're chasing the service requests was we were getting less than 20,000 potholes done a year.
 And every year since 2016, we've either doubled or tripled that number. What we really are more proud of is the fact that our service requests coming from the outside have not only stabilized, but they remain low. And when the public is not calling them in, that makes us want to verify because we're assuming our process is working, but we want to verify it too. If you go to the next slide, please.
 So our street maintenance division is one of several within the department. Mr. Solis is our transportation manager overseeing the division and the five handsome gentlemen to the right are our supervisors at our outlying corrals.
 Sal will go into how we have set up this program. But what I would like to add is the group collectively has about 130 years of experience, and they are backed up by our management team here in the office, myself and our three deputy directors. We bring another 116 years of experience and oversight to assist these gentlemen. Right now, I'd like to ask Sal to take over the presentation and walk us through the next few slides.
 Thank you, Mr. Bristow. Good morning, everyone. Mayor and Consul. I'm the Transportation Manager overseeing the five names corrals. As you can see here, every corral is assigned to an area supervisor and corresponding personnel. Before I move on, I do want to reiterate what Mr. Bristow said. These gentlemen right here are completely knowledgeable of the trade. They know what they're doing, and they're very serious about it.
 what they do. They do have a high level of ownership. Next slide. As an overview of the pothole repair process, we need to understand the city is geographically divided into five main series. Each area is equipped with an average of two pothole patching units that, because of the monsoon, crews are being deployed to work six days per week.
 Furthermore, each section, each area is subdivided into areas of focus that we call patching zones or grids. Next slide. So as you can see in the map to the left,
 Each corral has been subdivided in four sections. We call these, again, zones, patching zones. Our comprehensive approach is by having crews stay on task on each one of these grades. They reduce travel time, cover more ground, and improve time management. Next slide. And Sal, if I could, if you could go back one.
 So what it's getting at is, if you look at the east side, for example, you see the four sections that are in green. On a Monday, and I'm not sure which day you've got them assigned, but assuming Monday they're in East A, they don't leave that area in East A. So therefore, they're not going from areas of East C to East B to East D looking for service requests. They stay in that concentrated zone for that day, which is scouted previously by the supervisor. So we know where the potholes would be.
 And then the next day they'll move on to another grid. I'm sorry, so I wanted to make sure we had that expressed. No problem, thank you. Next slide. Put the last page in front of that. Some different types of roadway deficiencies we see in our roadways. This includes cracking, potholes, base failures, and sinkholes. Cracking is our least severe problem, but we still respond to these deficiencies through our Crack Seeing program.
 Below that, if you can see the picture in the corner to the left, we have potholes. Potholes are perforations in the surface of the street usually caused by excessive moisture from rain or other factors like age of the road or stress that the pavement has been receiving. Base failures, if you see the top right, are pretty much failed or deteriorated areas underneath the pavement.
 reflect into the pavement as the surfaces or these layers start moving vertically or horizontally. And in a more extreme situation, we have sinkholes, as you can see in the middle picture to the right. This is when roadways wash away, causing cavities. They're large enough to swallow a car. And lastly, we have pavement cuts.
 Although this is not quite a payment failure, payment cuts are part of the industry's improvement work, normally compromising the integrity of the street. And we as the city permitting authority, it is very important through our permitting data that we ensure proper restoration because our primary maintenance concern is public safety and preserving the infrastructure. Next slide.
 In an effort to take care of the deficiencies, we introduced two methods to address pothole repairs, a long-term approach and a temporary. To define the difference between them, cold mix is used when the ground is wet, regardless of the surface temperature, whereas hot mix is a long-term solution, but it's not recommended during low temperatures or oversaturated ground. Next slide, please.
 Okay, so the picture on the top illustrates the cold mix application process. Its benefits, the material can be transported in pickup trucks. It also helps prevent issues from spreading quickly. This is a much faster process compared to the long term because it doesn't have to deal with demolition and removal of debris.
 The pictures in the bottom illustrate the long-term approach. The benefits is that it's a long-term, you don't have to worry for that long. It protects all of the motorists and pedestrians because it's not an issue. And it's usually placed by the use of pothole patches. And Sal, if I could add something to this. The reason we do the cold mix during periods like a monsoon season is potholes emerge fast.
 And when it comes to potholes, timeliness is everything. If you don't get on a pothole fast, two things are gonna happen. It's not gonna fix itself. It's gonna continue to grow into a costlier and more complex problem. But in addition to that, you can see there's an obstruction in the roadway. A car tire could easily get into that and cause damage. So if you see us out there doing the cold mix, the name of the game on that is to go through a corridor and to apply cold mix
 everywhere we're seeing an obstruction. And then what we do is we turn that data and then they can be scheduled for a proper patch with a pothole patcher at a later date. So please don't assume that because we're using the temporary patch that we don't go back and do a final patch on it. We do the temporary patch so we're not causing damage to cars and so we're not continuing damage to our infrastructure. And so it's a stopgap method so that we continue with
 with the proper patches. Now, the proper patches will come in time, but they take a lot more time to do so. So I just want to make sure that was out there as well, Seth. Thank you. Next slide. So this is the pothole service request slide, and our takeaway from this slide is this is what's happened to the public-initiated service requests since we started working in the grid system. So we rolled out this process, and the service requests have decreased.
 Our target is to keep 90% of the work self-initiated. That would mean our process is finding 90% of the work. Last year we were able to get to 93%, but that would be our goal. We do have upticks and we want the upticks. We want the public reporting things because that's how we know we're getting everything. But we believe our process is showing signs of working
 simply by the reduction of service requests. If you go to the next slide, please. So these are the potholes in the present fiscal year. The blue graph represents the potholes. It's a reduction from the previous year. As you can see at the beginning of the year, up until about November, I think what we were doing was, those were all potholes from the monsoon season previously, where we're basically,
 tying up all those loose ends. Around November and December are two things. One, it's going back with the hot mix and getting all the areas that we had to use cold mix during the monsoon season. But we also had some moisture events in January and February, which also produced a little bit of an uptick in potholes. Then it kind of dried out and stabilized for a little while. We have the clouds over the month of August because that's when we really started seeing
 the profound effects of the monsoon season this year. Whereas last year, we started seeing the effects of monsoon season very early in July. If you go to the next slide, please. So quality control oversight through the pavement cut permits, this is a very sensitive issue. And the reason it's sensitive is because this is something that is very complicated to control.
 Last year, during the course of the year, there were 6,094 permit cuts that were issued citywide. The reason that there's a lot of them right now is because, well, there is five fiber optic build-ups going on, five G-Builds within our neighborhoods. In addition to that, there are two small cell builds going on throughout the community. So there's a lot more permitting going on right now supporting those projects.
 The goal of permitting for pavement cuts is real simple. We want to protect our pavement with a quality restoration. A lot of the utility companies, they do have assets in our streets. Within the street right of way, you'll find gas lines, you'll find water lines, storm water lines and waste water lines. Within the parkways, you're going to find the telecommunication lines. The fiber optic companies are working within telecommunication lines, but that's still part of our right of way.
 Our ordinance governs this process, section chapter 1304 of the municipal code. And the real purpose of payment cuts, at the end of the day for us, we want to know who is working in our payment so that we can hold them accountable to a proper restoration so that we don't have payment failures later on that have resulted from a happen.
 haphazard or unacceptable backfill and repair and restoration of a pavement type. If we go to the next slide, please. So this requires a lot of ongoing coordination, and sometimes it's a lot of painful communication. But working with these five telecom companies has been an experience for us. We have coordination meetings with all of them now.
 It's taken a lot to get our process improved over the last few years and we did have some help. We weren't quite ready for the storm of these telecom build outs a couple years back, but now we're in a position where we're much better able to produce during it. Now there is a present project, a Lean Six Sigma project that's examining
 pavement cuts and it's being done in conjunction with the water utility. And if you look at that bottom cut, that's a water utility cut right there. They're probably, as far as the utilities that would cut into the pavement the most, it would be the water utility.
 And as mentioned, their water line and their assets do exist in the pavement. What we need to find is a way that we can communicate and coordinate better so that we're not cutting into newly paved streets. That's the name of the game. When we get a street paved, we would like to establish it so it's not getting cut into immediately. Sometimes it does happen because people do have service connections,
 or there could be a line break but we do believe that there's a lot of opportunity for improvement here through something as simple as communicating coordinating better and we think that lean six sigma is going to help us find a better avenue and a better process of handling this educating the industry on pavement cuts has been a challenge and it's been a challenge primarily
 primarily because a lot of the companies that are coming into town to do the subcontracted work for a lot of the telecoms, they aren't from here.
 I'm told in our communication meetings, or our coordination meetings often by them, that other communities in Texas do not require permits or handle their permits the same way we do. But one thing that we'd like to make it very clear to the companies that do business in El Paso is, one, we are very serious about safety. We do not want any El Pasoan or anyone period getting injured or worse in a permanent traffic zone.
 And we take that very seriously as a Vision Zero community. And the second thing is we take our pavement very seriously. We cannot afford to have additional damage to our pavement if it's unnecessary. And that's why we're making the extra attempt to try and bring in some of these pavement cuts that we're working on with our utility partners a little more control through coordination communication. If you go to the next slide, please.
 So some of the risks associated with not responding to issues like this in a promptly way is unsafe conditions for the street users. We also have an increase in insurance claims and property damages. An unpaired pothole will just continue to deteriorate and it will develop into a larger pothole. Then it will need a paving and restoration project to satisfy its repairs.
 Next slide, please. Okay, so just a brief comparison between last year's monsoon year and this current one. Last year, the monsoon came in early and with a lot of and many damages. About nine streets were required comprehensive pavement repairs. As you can see in the pictures, you can see the level of destruction that some of these streets received. Can you go over the next slide, please?
 And this year so far, we have seen some issues with washouts, with slope erosion. Many of this silt material stays in the road, becomes a problem of structure to motorists, so we have to respond and clean up.
 assessment. We use our machines to carry all this debris out of the way so we could eliminate the obstacle and we bring our sweepers so they can finish the job so they can clean and make it better. Next slide, please.
 For the past two, three months, we have removed over 130 cubic yards of the reed. We also have swept over 1500 curb miles. As you can see in the picture to the right, you can see whenever we're patching, we see these issues. You see the material from that median ended up in the middle of the street. So we need sweepers so we can start removing that material at the same time that we're patching potholes.
 We also, during these three months, we have been patching over 8,000 potholes. So we're moving along. Last time we got a rain in some areas, so we're right now mitigating some of these issues. Next slide. These are some of the customer feedback that we've gotten. Not all of our customers have negative comments for streets.
 Street department is generally because there's a problem that they need dealt with and we understand that and we're very happy to jump on those problems But we do get a lot of compliments and we do get a lot of positive feedback from the public in addition to these I've heard stories of people actually and
 giving our patching crews water, ice cream, and a lot of people are going on their way to thank them. Some people stop and thank them while they're working. It's a bit of a distraction for the employees sometimes, but I think it's very nice that that happens. I'll give you a second on this slide and then I'm gonna move to the next one and I'll try and wrap up the presentation. Thank you. So in summary, a lot of the actions that are producing results for pavement management are in place.
 We have a very aggressive maintenance operation as we've had a chance to go through right now. We have a continuous resurfacing program. We continue to resurface streets. We're not paving today because of the rain, but we are paving weekly. Quality control through permitting. Again, the permitting process is very important because we need to know who's cutting into our right-of-way, and we need to hold them accountable for a proper restoration.
 The ongoing investment is there. This council has invested over $285 million since 2013 in our street pavement, and that has had an impact on our pavement conditions. And periodic assessments of our conditions are very important because they guide our decisions. We're very interested to see where we are in the next pavement assessment, and we're very optimistic that we want to cut in to that 65 and hopefully we can start moving the numbers in the other direction.
 Equipment investments are also absolutely critical. The pictures to the right are two of the four brand new pothole patching units that were delivered in the current year. The staff thanks you very much. We have a fifth one that is on order. It's not quite delivered yet. We can assure you we use the equipment. We beat up the equipment. We don't not take care of it. We take very good care of it because we rely on it.
 but we use it a lot, and we really appreciate the opportunity to get new equipment because this is our lifeblood, and it really does make a difference for us.
 And then the other pillar there is new sources of funding and investments. And that's the potential for the Community Progress Bond. And if the Community Progress Bond passes, that will keep this momentum moving for at least the next decade. And that will put us in a very good position to continue to attack these street and pothole problems. So this was our last slide. Sal and I will stick around for any questions that you have this time.
 MEMBERS OF COUNCIL, WE PUT THIS TOGETHER BECAUSE IT WAS VERY TIMELY AND ALSO JUST THERE'S A LOT OF QUESTIONS WE GET ON POTHOLES AND WE FELT LIKE IT WAS GOOD INFORMATION FOR US TO SHARE WITH YOU SO YOU KNEW WHAT THE PROCESS WAS. I KNOW THAT WE GAVE PREVIOUS PRESENTATIONS WHERE THE NUMBERS WENT UP DRAMATICALLY LIKE FROM 12,000 A YEAR TO 76,000 POTHOLES A YEAR. THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF WORK, THOUGH, THAT YOU ALL HAVE BEEN DOING WITH RESPECT TO SECURING ADDITIONAL FUNDING SO THAT WE CAN HAVE PAY-AS-YOU-GO DOLLARS.
 on an annual basis as well as just a commitment with the bond program that have been put in place, again, by all of you. So the execution of that has really helped with the condition of the streets, but we still have a lot of potholes that we get after and we just wanted to make sure y'all knew what the process was. We're also working on the CRM process, which is a customer relations management software
 that I think that we've reached out to a couple of you, if not several of you, to be involved in that so that that can stream in as well in terms of getting calls not only on potholes but other different complaints that we get from your constituents in your respective districts.
 thank you representative uh nanda followed by representative thank you mr bristol um thank you so really nice to see um faces to the department um really appreciate everything you're doing in the community and i know that you are struggling with personnel but still managed to do all the work that you're doing just a couple of questions i'm really first a comment i really am pleased that you are in coordination with
 other utility companies. I think it's only going to make our processes better. I'm happy to hear about You all looking at how to make processes more efficient and I'm curious, you know Anytime we go through like using an example anytime we go through like a rezoning process There is a checklist if you will before any rezoning or any development happens that goes through the City Plan Commission and
 Is the streets department consulted any time there is a request for a special permit or a special privilege to determine? What kind of groundwork we're gonna have to do for that respective? plan development for the future And then if in the event that you are consulted Could you all look at if you're not already? can you all look at how we can improve the process to make sure that the applicants are aware of the
 that there is a process to go through and maybe we can find efficiencies to save time for not only the development or the improvement in tandem to what the requirements are for the streets department. So I hear a lot of concerns about efficiency and like, hey, there's a lot of things that we can be doing on the front end instead of the back end. I'm just curious what kind of,
 System you all have in place as it relates to any underground work street cuts and all of this comes to to council or to? the City Planning Commission
 Before he answers Mr. Richard, let me let me jump in real quick before he answers I just like to say that one of the things that we looked at several years ago was how many streets have been completed and how many street cuts have been taking place and The response that we got back was very troubling and that if we had like 174 new streets We had over a hundred street cuts that took place on those streets so
 Back then we said let's work on getting all these different groups together. It's going to include us making changes to the franchise agreements with utilities. It's going to include us looking at permitting and how that takes place. And it's going to also include very close coordination with the Water Department relative to what their improvements are underground and in what we're doing as a city. And it's going to be...
 a big LSS project. It's going to make every one of the other ones we've done pale in comparison to include the one we did on bridges. The one we did on bridges included over 40 stakeholders. So, Bristol, with that, Richard, I'll let you answer a question. Yes, sir. So we don't regulate and control every one of these processes, but we are involved in the reviews. So when it comes to the subdivisions, we're obviously reviewing for the subcontractors
 planning department in the building inspection department but how we're involved is we're part of their process because there are reviews that we do for traffic engineering there are views that we do for street lights because there's electrical lines running through these streets there are reviews that we do for street maintenance and like harold our pavement engineer will take a look at
 whether or not there's a maintenance concern with any of these changes or such. So our involvement is as part of the process, but we're an ancillary role on our assignment is to review plans and review information that are part of applications that are under Mr. Hathaway, Mr. Smith over in the BPI department. So we support them in that process, but they do have us involved.
 And that's great. I I'm sorry. Did someone say something? Yeah. I apologize. Representative San Rodriguez, Chief Operations Officer. Richard, if you can touch on the right of way permits that you process specifically as streets and maintenance, traffic control permits and right of way permits, because I think that's there's two types of permits, special privileges as well as right of way permits that cover pavement cuts, utility cuts. Those go directly through your department. If you can cover that as well. Absolutely. I'd be delighted to.
 So the first one are traffic control permits. Within Section Chapter 12 of the ordinance, a traffic control is addressed. Anytime you're working within the street right away, you're required to have a permit and you're required to have proper closures. And simply for safety, this is a public safety issue. And...
 This has been a challenge for us to last over the last five to 10 years to get this moving. The community was not as aggressive or the city was not as aggressive on this until maybe six or seven years ago.
 And so we handle all the child control permits. So that's literally anytime anybody's going to do work, that's gonna require them to be inside our street right away. And that does include sidewalks. We do require permits for sidewalk closures because pedestrians need a route just the same way that vehicles do. Now the other permits, and by the way, that does include inspections,
 The site inspections for traffic control, we can roll up and we'll ask to see the traffic control plan. We'll do an inspection to make sure that it is compliant with what is set up in the field is consistent with what's on the permit. We can't get to all of them because of resources, but traffic control is simply for the purpose of public safety. And the second one is the payment cut permits which we touched on earlier.
 So our role in that permit is, again, we want to make sure we know who is working in our right-of-way so that we can hold them accountable for a proper restoration. So those are the two permits that we handle directly here at Streets and Maintenance. And through the other processes, we have an ancillary role where we just provide plan review, we provide comments, and we provide the information that they require of us.
 Great, thank you. And and as part because I know you all do like traffic Impact analysis as part of your review. I'm also looking for as part of your review pavement cuts Why because often when I see things come to City Plan Commission by the time you're ready for construction. I
 It's like down the road, but we've already paved a street and then they go in and cut it And so that's the kind of coordination I'm hoping for because there's nothing worse than seeing a brand new street repaved and then cut as a result of a Development because either any utility or they need you know lines of you know, whatever underground lines and
 but also you see a connection to the water utilities. So I'm always seeing these cuts from different utilities. It has nothing to do with the city, but there's gotta be a way that we can red flag that at the onset during the city plan commission as part of the streets department review. Just things to look at as you are exploring how to make the department more efficient and how to ensure that we are restoring and keeping our streets stable and with, you know,
 We want to make sure that they're structurally stable, but at any rate, thank you for all that you're doing really happy to hear that I do have several questions about you know, the the department overall, but I'll let Mike I'll turn it over and yield my time to my colleagues. Thank you Thank you, mr. Bristol, my questions are gonna be on the pavement cuts First of all, you said they're working when they work on right-of-ways. They have to have permits you specified that do those permits indicate a
 the measurements those cuts can be made or do they come back to you on that? No, they have to provide a plan, sir. And we review the plan. Our permitting section will review whatever plan they're submitting and they have to be very specific because we're making decisions based on the information that they're giving us. It's the same thing we have a problem with the traffic control as well. We're trying to make a decision on what's the safest and most reasonable action for the city
 But we need good information to do so so we do require as much information as possible on these payment cut permits so we have sufficient information to make a decision and Locations and exactly what they're doing are very very important exactly especially in the main roadways And then they use these metal covers. Do you have a specificity on what they have to to to
 Measure with I mean the middle themselves the middle plates they lay down and how do they secure them? I'm sorry, maybe I didn't make myself clear. I mean I meant to say when they lay them down for security purposes and
 Do they, does the city require them to be secured in certain ways or? Absolutely, absolutely they have to be secured. With the edges being lined with asphalt? Absolutely, we want them secured because we don't want them knocking off. When we have a lot of rain and a lot of traffic going over them, they tend to move, which can cause problems. And so, you led into my next question. So how often do you check and make sure they haven't moved?
 Well, when we have something major, like we had one on Lee Trevino during the course of this year, we were checking it daily and checking on the progress daily. But they moved a few times, and we did have it repaired. And I believe, well, I probably – there have been many incidents where we've had to issue citations to people for having not –
 projects we got called on several times regarding that so uh how long do you give those these companies to go out there and and fix that when the plate moves well i i actually have uh mr uh jose gutierrez if you don't mind jumping in and providing uh some help on that answer he runs our permit section and there you go yes sir good morning yourself
 Good morning. Good morning, Councilman Mayer. My name is Jose Gutierrez. I'm one of the transportation managers overseeing the permit operations and inspections within the group. Basically, the permit holder, whoever applies for the permit, is responsible for securing these metal plates.
 We'll be out there looking at them, inspecting them, and making sure that everything is properly done. But as far as the quality control and quality assurance and making sure that everything remains safe relies heavily on the applicant, on the permit applicant.
 If it's gonna be the utility company or one of their subcontractors, they're responsible to follow the design standards for construction and have a even and safe transition for the public, either if it's gonna be pedestrians or motorists going through the right of way. Okay, so when they lay them down and are they supposed to notify the city and you all go out and check their work? Yes, sir, there's gonna be follow-up inspections either if it's gonna be a backfill, two-sack, asphalt, concrete.
 Okay, and I know that that that was great on the fact that mr. Bristol brought it up himself We had gotten a lot of calls on leach arena because some of those plates did move People were so afraid to drive over it. They were sometimes nearly causing accidents and moving over to the next lane So I appreciate that the the fact that you all go out and check there. So, um, I
 We've sent you several emails on that as well regarding that, if we could do that. I know we have another one in George Theater that's kind of leery with the asphalt, part of the asphalt being washed away on one of the edges. So thank you for that information, and that way I can relate that to the—
 The study that the city manager was mentioning, they're going to be addressing all of these things in very, very granular detail. Okay. So all of these will be part of the comprehensive review that's going on right now. Okay. Thank you so much because, like you said earlier, I hate to –
 have the city liable for one of these places caving in and then there goes a vehicle and so i appreciate you staying after that uh because that's one of the biggest calls that we get in our office thank you sir thank you man thank you representative said more than not
 Thank you very much, Mayor. Mr. Bristol, thank you very much for your presentation. Sal, same thing as well. A couple of questions. So do you have, or is there an optimum time to repair a pothole? Let's say, for example, there's a rainfall, and I guess the street needs to dry out. Of course, you're going to have the puddles there, things like that. But is there, like, an optimum time period to wait until a pothole is started? As soon as you see it.
 I'm sorry? Pothole, once it opens, as soon as we see it, we've got to get on it, sir. Okay. When a pothole opens, it's not going to repair itself. It's only going to continue to deteriorate and just become a more complex and more expensive problem. So the sooner, the better. Timing is everything on potholes. Okay. And, Mr. Bristol, how many, I'm going to call them a pothole repair truck, how many do we have in our fleet? We have 10. So pretty much two per. We have two assigned to each of the five maintenance corrals.
 Are these an aging fleet or are they fairly new? No, sure. It was years ago, but the council has been pretty generous with this. We received delivery on four brand-new units this year. We have one pending delivery.
 And in 2017, you replaced three of them. So we're very fortunate to have good equipment, and we take our equipment very seriously because it's our lifeblood. So Sal's team is very good on preventive maintenance.
 Okay, those are good good words of encouragement and miss Neiman have a question for you. So every year Currently right now when you register a vehicle in El Paso County you're charged two fees One is a ten dollar feed and the other one is another ten dollar fee one of those ten dollar fees specifically goes to El Paso County roads and bridges and
 And I know last city council we were talking about potentially adding a third fee, but that has to be approved by the state legislature. So let's just stay with the first $20 or 10 of the $20. Is there any way that we could leverage from this county of El Paso to get some of that $10 fee at $5, 50% or $2.50 per vehicle or anything like that?
 Think that we've had discussions with the county along those lines we can certainly continue having that discussion We would need to go back and see how the money is being distributed because I believe also it is used through the MPO process I think we really need to work on that because every citizen here that owns a car Has to register the car in the city County. Well the county of El Paso and they're paying $20 right now. And so I Just really believe that we the city of
 Within the city limits are not being Receiving our fair share on that part and that's local here in El Paso. So thank you ma'am Thank you, mr. Marshall and your team. Thank you And I think you know the magic word to show was preventative maintenance which becomes a lot cheaper And he sure to continue to Do so thank you for that. Thank you. Sure. That's fine. I
 Yes mayor that brings us to item number 24 and this is a presentation and discussion on El Paso animal services animal protection Officers good morning chief. Good morning council Terry kept show for the records animal services director And have a presentation today along with Gina Ramirez. She's our field operations manager and
 I'm bringing this to you all this morning to discuss animal protection officers, APOs. Just like any other organization in the city or across the nation, we use a lot of terminology and acronyms that sometimes people don't understand. So I wanted to bring this forward to you just so you get a little bit more understanding of our field operations.
 The officers that work out there, again, they're animal protection officers, and we also refer to them as APOs. Could I have the next slide there? So prior to 2016, before reform and looking at everything, our APOs, they were known simply as dog catchers, and that's pretty much what they were. They would get called out astray at large animal. They would pick them up.
 take them straight to the shelter, go through their emancipation period, depending if it's an owned animal or unowned, and then if nobody claimed it, most likely it was euthanized. After our reform and looking at our operations and where we want to be at, what do we want to be as a community
 the live release rate of 90% or more we had to look at those life saving activities. So to better align we renamed them to the animal protection officers which is more than just capture and take to the shelter. They also go through extensive training. One of those trainings is ACO training which is animal care officer training. These standards are set by the state.
 Department of State Health Services so they're all get that training which allows them to also enforce our state laws and local ordinances another training that they do receive is euthanasia training this is a last resort because we do respond to animals have been hit by vehicles may have been attacked by another animal and there are such a
 State that we want to end their suffering so we do have that training so that we can do that in the field Again, this is the last resort City of El Paso our animal shelter is the only municipal shelter for the entire county of El Paso but when it comes to the field operations we have a
 Partners throughout the county and other municipalities here in the city So we have we work really closely with all of them. All these are strategic partners They're all In line with us on the life-saving procedures so we have we work with the animal welfare at the county Socorro the TIG was and
 And we also have other strategic partners. One of the biggest ones that we work with almost daily is the El Paso Police Department and their animal cruelty unit. So we work really closely with them, the Texas Parks and Wildlife, and again with the Texas Department of State Health Services on our training and care of animals.
 So we're looking a little bit at some of our numbers. Some of their duties is they provide permits and licenses to different businesses in the community. For example, the groomers. So we do inspect the groomer facilities.
 and we make sure that they're compliant with their trainings to make sure that, again, that their safety is insured, the animal safety is insured, first aid. There's no set standard on training, so we make sure that we, as an organization, that they do cover certain things. Again, first aid for animals. The other thing that we require to make sure that animals are being handled properly
 is when they're in there, they have to either have a live feed for the customer to watch their pet being groomed or the window. So we make sure that those types of things are up and running. We also do permits for things such as fowl. Some people like to have roosters, so we make sure that they're in compliance with those types of things. We respond to calls of service. The vast majority of those come from 311.
 This year we've responded to over 21,000 of those types of calls and they range from stray animals nuisance calls you name it last year we responded to over 29,000 stepping back a little bit again to where we used to be we used to be again call for service pick up the animal take it straight to animal services now we
 The officers are equipped with tools and resources to try to find the animal's home. So first off, obviously, is we carry the microchip scanners, they check for the chip. If they do find it, this is our RTO, our return to owner success story. We get them back to their family. They don't have to go to the shelter. They're not exposed to any diseases or anything else.
 So we quickly get them. If they're not a chip in there, we still continue to canvass the neighborhood. We'll drive around, see if we see somebody looking for their animal. Many times we find that or ones we show up to as well. We also search social media. Social media is a very good tool that we use nowadays, and many of our officers are very keen at using that, and they can look up it quickly and see if there's somebody using social media to find their animals.
 So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Gina Ramirez. Good morning, members of the council. Gina Ramirez for the record. Good morning. I'm going to be touching a bit about our animal protection team and the operations and what we consist of.
 Our animal protection team are public service. We work diligently every day to ensure that the safety of the community and their pets remain our top priority. El Paso, once known as the rabies capital of the nation, has since then declined significantly due to several improved factors in our animal control practices, some being our effective leash laws, another one being our power of engagement and public awareness on our vaccination programs.
 And of course, our enforcement on quarantine and dangerous dog animals. Some of the duties that consist of our animal protection officers are going to be responding to 311 calls, as our director Kip Shaw mentioned earlier. They range from traffic hazards, animals loose on the freeway, wildlife, investigation of cruelty, nuisance, and exposures.
 Our officers also are involved in our career events, public engagements and events and mega events for the vaccination and the microchip clinics. They are also part of our very own EPA is prime EPA is prime's main goal is to ensure that we are keeping pets with families.
 Unfortunately, there's times when owners are not able to reclaim their pets at the shelter, whether it's due to lack of transportation, mobility, or oftentimes they don't have family members to get them there. Our officers will jump into action and deliver their pets right to the very own doorstep.
 Some of our tools as mentioned earlier again by Director Kepchall are going to be an array of tools and equipment that we provide our officers to ensure that they're out there providing the best quality to our pets in our community. Some are going to be our digital thermostats for our cruelty cases for canines that are left in vehicles.
 Others will be our scanners, our digital distance readers, and of course, laptops. Laptops are going to be used in every call that they respond to. They utilize those laptops to research microchip and tag information,
 They'll also utilize that to research case history calls that they're currently investigating so they're able to find out what they're about to investigate, what the disposition of current calls at that location were, and if there's any caution that they need to take. For instance, if there's a call where the dog keeps getting loose and jumping out, our officers are able to take that precaution and be prepared.
 Our officers are more than just dog catchers. They are investigators, they are at times educators, and problem solvers. We work hard to make sure that we continue providing our officers the tools and trainings that they need so we can continue with the unyielding customer service that we can provide both internal and external to our pets in our care and in our community.
 Some of the trainings that we provide them are going to be the fundamentals of report writing, situational awareness, de-escalation training, animal cruelty and dangerous dog investigations, and preparation for our prosecution cases. Just to name a few, but there's a lot. Thank you.
 It's important to know that we also try to provide them with as many tools that they can to help better service the community. Oftentimes the officers will find a pet with no tags or microchips and through the power of canvassing and door knocking they're able to reunite that pet back home.
 They're also equipped with microchips so when we're able to reunite them back home they're able to microchip on the spot and get that pet in the system increasing its chances from getting back home in the event it gets lost again.
 and our changes in our field. So historically animal protection officers would literally just do roundups and that's exactly what they would do. They would go to a certain area and round up every animal that they were able to impound without ever making any effort to reunite those pets back home. Now we are their voice. We are their advocates and we will make every effort to reunite that pet back home.
 Our community loves their pets and oftentimes they put their pets needs before their very own. I'm going to touch real quick on about a story that's really close to my heart. Promise not to get emotional but we were reached out by our strategic partners the animal cruelty unit regarding an individual they came across at a 7-11. His name is Brian. Brian fell on two hard times and became one of our houseless pet houseless community members.
 alongside with his four year old fawn pit bull by the name of Fred. We quickly jumped into action, our resource rovers and our protection team, and we were able to meet with Brian. Brian in conversation often went hungry just to make sure that Fred's needs were met before his. And it was important for us to lift that burden,
 off of Brian's shoulders to make sure that he got that warm meal and he no longer had to worry about how he was going to feed Brian. So we were able to provide him with the pet resources that he needed. We continue in communication with him and all of our members in the community. And the message we give out is regardless of your financial status, everyone deserves to be seen and everyone deserves to own a pet and we will help in doing so. Thank you.
 This is a picture of Brian and Fred with our resource rover team and that that I'll leave it for any questions. I don't believe there are any questions but thank you very much for your presentation and all the information. Keep up the good work. Thank you. We did have a speaker on this item but I don't see Mr. Como in the room. So that brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 26 to 28. Item 25 was deleted with revisions.
 Move on the first reading of ordinances. Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Lizardo, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 26 to 28. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. That brings us to item number 29.
 And this is discussion and action on the... Excuse me? Did we probably comment on item 24? Did we call that? On item 24, we have Mr. Komu signed up. I didn't see him in chambers. Oh, okay. I just wanted to make sure. Yes, ma'am.
 Item 29 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2022-0697, Allison Proprietary Parts and Services Rebate to Stewart and Stevenson LLC, DBA Stewart and Stevenson Power Products LLC. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item 29. We do have public comment, but I don't see Ms. Cassidy in the room either.
 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 30 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2022-0-86 janitorial services for el paso museums to ace government services llc there's a motion made by representative molinar seconded by representative salcido representative saliga i had requested to speak
 I'm sorry Representative Anello. Thank you. I have a clarification question if there's someone on the line. Yes ma'am. Thank you. I'm sorry I can't see the screen. So this is a 97 percent increase from the previous year that was last year correct. Yes from the previous solicitation for these services. The the increase is primarily from an increase in the hourly rate that the.
 That is due to the the employment mark. DIRECTOR HARRIS. And can you tell us what that hourly rate what the difference is. Sorry I think you're on mute. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. I'm sorry can you hear me. DIRECTOR HARRIS. Yes you can hear you now. Sorry about that. DIRECTOR DEWOLF. I apologize. The previous rate was 11 25. The rate for this solicitation is 18 50. DIRECTOR HARRIS. Thank you so much. I appreciate the clarification. DIRECTOR DEWOLF.
 And the motion was made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve item number 30. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 31 is discussion and action that the purchasing director be authorized to issue a purchase order for the award of contract 2022-0767, masked on arm pole, 3-bit to Tri-State Electric Limited. Motion to approve. Seconded.
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar. There is public comment from Ms. Carol Cassidy on this item.
 Good afternoon, Ms. Cassidy. You'll have three minutes, ma'am. Yes, hello there. Glad to be here. I just left Yandel, the J-Hop. We are reading the Bible in English and in Spanish for over our beautiful city. Just for your information, on satellites, it's being broadcast throughout the world. That is the strength and the glory of El Paso. Ms. Cassidy, you must speak on the item you signed up for. Yes, I'm speaking on it. I want to know, this is a non-competitive item.
 How come are you guys spending your own money or the city money and is this on the record? I want it on the record. Is this your own money or this or the people's money? It's being spent for this It says it's a non-competitive bid. So that's my question You good folks here?
 Why is it non-competitive if this is the city's, the taxpayers' money that's being spent? Why wasn't this put out so we can see how many are bidding on this contract and hopefully trying to save a little money in this city where, my God, I just looked at the preliminary budget for I think 2023, it's 1,100,000, but the assets of the city are only about 700,000.
 So are you guys trying to, I mean the bankruptcy is imminent. Of course, we're going into a depression probably worldwide. So I'm asking you the question, who can answer it? Why is this a non-competitive bid? You're here, you're supposed to. It's coming from the general fund, but I believe Mr. Gonzalez, can you help us out on that or Mr.? I mean it says non-competitive, so Mr. City Manager, what about this? Good morning, Claudia Garcia with purchasing and strategic sourcing, may I respond? Yes ma'am.
 Okay, so the reason why this recommendation is non-competitive is because we did it competitively twice and according to our policy, after two attempts, we can start negotiations if we didn't get any responses of prior procurements, competitive procurements. So we did solicit twice for these goods and services contract.
 For we the people here that are paying and are in debt now, I believe it would be $5,000 for every taxpayer, every small business owner in our beautiful city of El Paso. You guys have an obligation to make sure you get some more bids.
 All right, I mean it's just insidious. I mean I'm standing up now with the county and with my school district and of course the county hospital. I mean they wanna impose taxes without us voting. It's criminal. Anyway, all the good people here, I'm here doing the best that I can and representing myself. Of course there's a lot of people behind me. We're the majority in the nation
 Anyway, that's what I'm asking you, and I think it behooves you. Thank you, Ms. Cassidy. You've reached the three minute limit. Yes, I have, thank you. Thank you. And I have a gift for you. I'm gonna give it to you. Thank you, Ms. Cassidy. Give it to this lady. The motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar, to approve item number 31. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 32 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022 Dash zero six three two janitorial services city one two three and four and MCAT UPTT to ace government services LLC There is a motion made by representative Molina seconded by representative Rivera to approve item number 32 on that motion call for the vote and the voting session and
 And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 33 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning of a portion at 541 Schwab Street from R3 residential and RF Ranch and Farm to R5 residential. Motion to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve. There is no public comment on item 33 on that motion. Call for the vote.
 And the voting session and the motion passes with six affirmative votes Representative Moline voting nay the motion does pass that brings us to item 34 This is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning 519 South Angora loop from our for residential to a o apartment office There's a motion made by representative only not seconded by representative Salcido to approve
 There is no public comment on this item. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item 35 is a public hearing on an ordinance removing a condition placed on the property at 1426 George Dieter Drive, which imposed a condition. Motion to approve. Motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Rivera. To approve item number 35, there's no public comment.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item 36 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 1681 Joe Battle Boulevard from R3 residential to C3 commercial. Motion approved. There's a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Salcido. To approve item 36, there's no public comment. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open.
 Representative Rivera. I do. Thank you. And the voting session. The motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Anello voting nay. The motion does pass. Item 37 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from RF Ranch and Farm to C4 Commercial and imposing conditions at 12191 Railroad Drive. Second. I vote aye. Second. I vote no. Second. I vote no. Second. I vote no. Second. I vote no. Second. I vote no. Second. I vote no. Second. I vote no. Second. I vote no.
 There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve item 37. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item 38 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning of several parcels at 5510 Willruth Drive, Fort Worth.
 from R4 residential and R4SC residential special contract. And this is to R4 residential and R4SC residential special contract. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. This is item 38, voting session is open.
 Something. You said the approach. Mine froze. Representative Molinar, thank you. Mayor Pro Tem, Lizada. Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Item 39 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from C1 commercial to GMU general mix use and approving a master zoning plan and amending the master zoning plan at 201 Shadow Mountain Drive. Motion to approve.
 There's a motion made by mayor Pro Tem Lizardo seconded by representative Rivera to approve item 39 There's no public comment on that motion call for the vote And the voting session the motion passes with six affirmative votes Representative Molly not voting name the motion does pass item number 40. I
 is discussion in action on an appeal by the property owner of 1121 Terrace Court, El Paso, Texas in the Sunset Heights Historic District regarding a decision rendered by the Historic Landmark Commission in HLC case PHAP 22-00022 on June 6, 2022 to deny a certificate of appropriateness for the reference property. I believe there's public comment. Ivan Lopez, is he here?
 You have any comments on this Representative Saadia? I do. The gentleman can go first. Okay, yes ma'am. Thank you. Would you like to speak? Would you like three minutes or? Thank you. He would like to wait. Okay. So is there a motion or?
 Well, I know we've discussed it a few times. Yes. Yeah, I did have some comments I just wanted to say that my comments would be similar to my comments from two weeks ago I want to thank again the staff city staff miss Velasquez and the historic land commission for their hard work and considering this case and
 and making their recommendations. In cases like this in which staff recommends against approval and the HLC voted against approval, it is very difficult for me to overturn that on appeal. I also received a letter from the Sunset Heights Neighborhood Improvement Association urging the city council to deny this appeal. I believe that letter was sent to all of you.
 In order to do so, I would need to see very compelling new information. Based on the information I have seen, this applicant is a property owner who is effectively asking us to let him off the hook for changes to his property that he didn't get proper permission for from the HLC.
 Can staff please give us your interpretation of and recommendation about the new information that the property owner provided since this item was postponed two weeks ago?
 Good afternoon. Providencia Velazquez, Historic Preservation Officer. The property owner did submit information, as you can see. It's about 40 pages. And what he submitted are basically copies of applications that he got back in about 2002, 2005 for work on the roof, windows, and things like that. But nowhere in that application, or let's just say in that submission, is approval or permit for any of the work that he's done illegally, including the canopy, the pergola, and the balcony.
 So our decision is still the same. We do not recommend that you approve his appeal. We ask that you uphold the HLC's decision to deny it because this does not meet any code. It was done illegally, and he had four years to stop the process and to contact us, and he did not. So we're asking that you uphold the HLC's decision and deny this person his appeal. Thank you very much. And Ms. Velasquez, was this information provided to the Historic Land Commission at their hearing, or is it completely new?
 No, ma'am. It was not provided to the Historic Landmark Commission at their meeting. It's not completely new because we did have it in our files. But again, the Historic Landmark Commission and staff noticed that he never got a permit for the work. He was cited in 2018 for construction, but he just kept doing the work and didn't come in to take care of it.
 So after he completed construction, after he'd been sitting there for about four years, he came in and tried to get a permit. And after that, it was just too late. The structures that were done illegally, there was absolutely no approval. There was no review whatsoever. And again, we're just asking that you uphold the HLC's denial. Thank you, Ms. Velazquez. I believe Ivan Lopez is here now, and I believe he had public comment on this item. That's correct, Mr. Lopez did sign up. Good morning, Mr. Lopez. You have three minutes, sir. Good morning, Mayor and Council.
 Thank you very much for having me here. I'm speaking as a citizen of El Paso. Per the HLC meeting, it was evident that the owner mentioned that they had not received a permit for several of these items. And I did see the last council meeting. I think it was the one prior because it had been postponed.
 And it seemed that the owner and the representative were trying to disguise the fact that they did not have a permit for this by showing previous permits from other years. That really showed, I mean, I guess just seeing the difference from an HLC meeting to a city council meeting and trying to express or disguise the fact that there was no permits prior to try to convince the city council to vote in favor of an appeal.
 just doesn't seem right. So because of that, I just wanted to clarify that, you know, per the Historic Landmark Commission meeting, the owner did express that these items were not, did not have a permit. So I think it's important that everybody knows that. And I think everything else has been explained by the Historic Preservation Office. I just wanted to come in and say that as part of
 one of the citizens of the city of El Paso and understanding what happened within the two different meetings. So I appreciate your time on this. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Mayor? Anyone else? Mayor, may I speak? Carla Neiman for the record. Yes, ma'am, I'm sorry. Representative Nizaraga, there is an item in the backup that's a motion that we prepared out of our office for purposes of today's hearing.
 If I may, you could also just ask that the motion is to uphold the HLC denial of the case. That's a shorter version, but then we could also use that as part of the record. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Yes, so I move to deny the appeal and uphold the decision of the Historic Land Commission and to deny the applicant's request for its certificate appropriateness after the fact. A motion and a second. All right, if you did want to.
 There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Lizadova, seconded by Representative Anello, and this is to uphold the denial of the Historic Landmark Commission. Yeah, hold on one second please. Do you want to talk, sir, before we take the vote? Yes, yes, Mayor, if I may. Yes, sir, I thought I'd asked, but I better check again.
 You have three minutes, sir. Good morning to everyone. We did send the packet, as council can see. This house is not dilapidated as many homes around the area. I think we submitted pictures of the homes directly in front of my client's property. He's kept his property looking clean. He's made some...
 work or he's paid to have some work on his property including the the fencing including the pergolas and we submitted proof that he did request a permit for the windows and the roof so that the fact that the historic commission is saying that he did not request any uh
 Any permits is really not true. He provided those to you. It has the stamp of the Historic Landmark Commission. He's trying to make his property better. They do comport to standards, including the railing, the fence that he put up, 42 inches, according to the International Building Code. That's the appropriate height.
 and he did get permission for those. The Historic Landmark Commission is complaining that the windows don't have the little squares on them as they should. They're brand-new windows. Look at the windows of the property right in front.
 which ones look cleaner, which ones look better. That's what he was able to afford, and he did request a permit. Nobody went over there and told him those are not permitted until now that he requested a permit for the pergola years later. Now the Historic Landmark Commission comes and says, oh well, this is not done correctly, this is not done correctly, and this other stuff is not done correctly. That's not fair to any property owner, much less my client.
 Thank you. I was looking at the timer up there. I don't know if that's the correct one. That's correct. Okay. So we would ask you to consider upholding his appeal and letting him keep those improvements. We submitted a proof of how much it would cost for him to
 replace whatever the Historic Landmark Commission wants replaced and extraordinary amount of money to replace those. We would in the alternative we would ask you to consider basically letting them keep everything but the pergola so those are our requests this morning. Thank you. Thank you. One second please sir. Representative Salcedo?
 Thank you, Mayor. I just have a couple of questions. Good morning. I saw the backup, so there is no permit for the pergola, correct? He did request it after the fact. He didn't request it before. And it's not been approved. Has it been approved? It was not approved. And then for the windows, were they compliant to the standards of the HCLL Commission?
 I believe that the squares, the type of window, the design of the window is not comporting to standards of the Historic Landmark Commission. Okay, so it's not to standards. Okay, thank you. So were the permits for the window approved? They were. They were? Okay. Okay.
 good afternoon mayor council this is sony de la cruz and i'm available to answer any questions you may have regarding the permitting of uh that were so that was submitted as part of your package so one one thing to note the window permit that was issued that is being discussed currently that window permit was issued in the early 2000s
 As the owner's representative stated, the windows had been approved to match the operation and the grid pattern at that time. Window permits expire after six months after they've been issued. So this permit, while the permit was issued, was issued.
 give or take 20 years ago for the newer windows that have been installed the permit was not able to be found within our system and that was none was provided within the package so the windows were replaced at one time then replaced again later at a different time so i want to make that clear that while the permit was obtained back in 2002 2003 that permit does not extend for 20 years later thank you sir yes sir
 I think your client would like to speak, sir. Yes, hi. Good morning. Will you state your name for the record, please, sir? I'm Ricardo Feria. I'm the owner of 1121 Terrace Court. Thank you, sir. Been there for 28 years. In this paper right here, in the agenda, it says, promote the visual image of El Paso. Please go around and see my street. It's about the only house in El Paso.
 the looks that has a nice image around there. That's all I have to say. That's what it says right here. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Anyone else? No. Member Nunez? Mayor, I just wanted to say that I'm very sorry that it's very unfortunate that it's come to this. I do really wanna stay true to our city's processes and procedures, and while I welcome that you are taking the initiative to improve your home,
 not only as your primary residence, but for others. I do need to respect the Historic Landmark Commission and our procedures, and so my vote will reflect that. But know that I hope that regardless of what the outcome is today, that you continue to make investments, and we welcome that. We just hope that you consider our processes, because the minute that we set a precedence,
 then it could get out of control. So we want to stay true to historic preservation. We want to stay true to the intent. But I just wanted to say I'm very sorry that you and your family will have to go through this and all this process, but ultimately my vote will reflect making sure that we are preserving the integrity of our code. Thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Ranallo. Thank you. Similar to what Representative Hernandez said, I do want to talk a little bit about a process. I hear you saying that you built this patio and pergola without a permit, but it wasn't until you went to apply for a new permit that you've been having to deal with it. That is our process.
 That is a process for anyone, right? Unfortunately, our staff does not have the manpower to go out into every neighborhood and say this person's doing work without a permit, we're going to stop it. We don't find that out a lot of times until they do come in later for a permit and we say, hey, this is out of regulation. And I think as to what Representative Hernandez was saying, these permits and this process is in place for safety.
 There are a lot of people that do work, we see people targeted very much in this community that will have electricians, like electricians do work in their home that didn't get a permit and didn't do it properly, and that becomes a safety issue. I know that you're saying that you have drawings and those things were done safely, but there is a precedent to be set with that and we cannot make exceptions because when we do that we're then allowing other people to end up in a potentially hazardous situation for their home and their families.
 And so again, I'm sorry that you're going to have to reverse some of this work. I think that we can get this in line with the historic commission in the future. And we do encourage you to go through that process and do it properly. Because we want you to live in a home that you're comfortable in. I know that you said you have Airbnbs. That is a legally allowable business in your home. And we want you to be able to do that successfully. But we just ask that you follow the process correctly.
 Thank you representative Rodriguez Thank you. So really quick probably I know that The gentleman here is saying that he purchased the home 20 years ago, sir. Is that correct? 2028
 20 to 28 years ago, and I know that this is this has always been an issue when people purchase Historical homes when they want to renovate it and something as simple that you might think hey I just want to update the windows has to go through a different process because it is a historical home When these homes are being sold specifically these historic homes in these historic neighborhoods are
 Are we doing any type of education to the homeowners to let them know, hey, you know, we understand that you might want to be coming into this to do an investment, but there is a it's a stricter process and there's stricter guidelines to do so.
 Actually, it's not as if we individually reach out. A lot of times people do buy homes and say later on that they didn't know that they were in a historic district. The city does, however, reach out. We do conduct workshops and we do conduct community meetings and certainly attend them when we're invited. So we're always trying to let people know that they're in a historic district and there are certain rules that have to be followed. With regard to this case, the property owner knew very well back in 2002 when he got one of his permits that he was in a historic district.
 He had gotten a few permits, but as you can see from the windows, he didn't follow them. And in 2018, when he started construction, he was cited by code enforcement. He just refused to stop. He just constructed three structures on his property without getting permits, without getting approval from zoning, without getting approval from the city's building and permits department to see that these structures are structurally sound. So what he has done, he has done it legally. He did it completely with full knowledge, knowing that he's in a historic district and
 Regulations had to be followed, and he refused to follow them.
 So that's where we are at this point. This person is constructed a lot on his property legally. It is setting a very bad example for everybody else in the neighborhood. And as much as he claims that his property looks very nice as I'd like to say these are not certificates of pretty they're certificates of appropriateness and there's a reason why for that. I'm also asking you to not reward him for doing work illegally because that sends a very very bad message to everybody else in the historic districts that we have here. That means that they will then ask for forgiveness instead of permission. We're asking everybody to ask for permission first so we can guide them.
 Thank you, Pravi, and I'm in complete agreement with you. You know, I have a really profound appreciation for historical preservation, and like I said, you know, it's very admirable when somebody wants to take on investment.
 For historical home or historical building. However, she is correct that there is a process and the reason for it is to preserve that historic character that this home once had. And so, you know, I believe that absolutely you could do anything that you want to do on your on your property. You should be able to but
 unfortunately you do live in a historic home and so i think that your investment could also go a long way if you were to just stick to the historic character of it the historic nature of it and i also think that you know there's a lot of resources with our historic landmark commission that they can help you to kind of guide you to say hey you know how to update those windows so that they're not fully out of compliance or how to change the door even like how to change the
 color you know I don't think that some of these gates that I'm seeing here were initially part of the home when it was first built but somebody was able to add them and if you were to want to update things like that I'm sure that you could but unfortunately I do need to go with the recommendation of the HLC and I again would hope that you continue to invest on your property but doing it in a responsible way to the historic Commission thank you thank you
 Thank you. Probably I just got one question. If he tore down the pergola, based on all the permits issued and being that he's been there 28 years, would he be in compliance based on a permit issued or he'd still be out of compliance?
 Well, he's done so much work on the property, sir, that he's pretty much out of compliance. The windows are not what we approved originally. The balcony has to go. The pergola would have to go. The canopy would have to go. There's a fountain in the rear yard that we also never approved. So there's a lot there that you're not really seeing. And a lot of it, as I said before, is just not in compliance.
 Just for the record, if you call anybody from the pregolas, I mean, they leave that in two days or less. So, no, they didn't sign me, and then I kept working. I wouldn't do that. I promise that. Thank you, sir. But, yeah, I'm willing to take down the pregola. I mean, if we can stop this, I'll take it out. Okay. Thank you. No other questions? Mr. Cronin?
 Yes, Mayor, there's a motion made by Mayor Potemli Zaraga, seconded by Representative Anello, and this is to uphold the Historic Landmark Commission decision on June 6, 2022, of denial for the Certificate of Appropriateness. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Molinar voting nay. The motion does pass.
 Thank you, sir. I know that we tried, and that's why we kept postponing and postponing it, because we did want to work with you, and we appreciate you coming in front of us. And if we can continue to work with you, we want to continue to work with you, sir. And also, thank you for being here.
 I know that the Landmark Commission will work with you and continue to work with you to hopefully make sure some things so you don't have to go through everything that's listed on there for you. But this council tried and gave, you know, the benefit of the doubt all the way through, and that's why we kept postponing it to try to see if there was a way we could work with you. And hopefully we will moving forward. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. Thank you, sir. Thank you, both of you.
 Item number 41 is discussion in action on a resolution that the city reviewed and approves the issuance of the unlimited tax bonds series 2022 by Paseo del Este Municipal Utility District number two Second there is public comment on this item mayor. We have miss Carol Cassidy who signed up. Good morning, Miss Cassidy You'll have three minutes. Hello there back again my gosh
 I didn't realize that this is unlimited. What kind of a utility is this? Is this electric or water? Ms. Cassidy, you may go ahead and use up your minutes and then council may direct staff to respond after your comments are completed. Okay, well it's kind of vital to this issue, but in any case, it's unlimited. And tax bonds, oh my gosh. Maybe you guys didn't hear, but I believe that the corporate bond market is actually collapsing in the United States.
 So how dare anybody impose anything for the taxpayers here in this great city called El Paso that's unlimited. I believe I passed you out a paper, the wicked flee when no man pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion. Well, I'm standing up as a lion right now for this great city that I've moved to on my own volition.
 In any case, El Señor is in charge, and E-L means God in Hebrew. So I'm speaking that out just to make sure. I gave you a copy of the Ten Commandments, which I'm going to give to the county and, of course, the Canateo School District. My gosh, thou shalt not covet, thou shalt not steal from the good taxpayers, the small business owners here.
 That's what I have to tell you guys, so that better be on the record. And, yeah, I want someone to explain what's this unlimited. We don't give anybody authority for unlimited when it concerns taxpayers, the hardworking small business owners of which how many have collapsed in this great city? I think I'm done. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'll answer the question. So unlimited tax bonds, these are municipal bonds that are guaranteed by the full faith and credit of a local government. And so these bonds are being issued by municipal utility district number two. This is not city debt. These are bonds that will be fully funded through the taxpayers that live within this utility district. Now it's a series 2022 and it's only for that series, correct? Correct. So this is unlimited. It's not right. Unlimited is not every year from now on.
 No, sir. That's just I want to make sure Where is where is pastel Alistair the municipal utility? Where is that? That's on the east side off of Pista and solid Pelicano. That's correct And so this has a pretty long history back in 2007 the voters approved up to 17 million dollars of bonds to be issued for water wastewater and drainage projects and
 With this issue they would have only issued nine point five million dollars and so they're still well below what was approved by the voters back in 2007 to be issued for those projects. And again this isn't debt issuance for the city of El Paso it's just for that specific district. So furthermore under state law they are required to provide notice on a local government's agenda and they choose our agenda to place these notices on. So again it's it's a mere formality that the state requires of them.
 My only last question on this, this is within city limits, correct? It's not county? Well the county, we're within the county. Okay. The city of El Paso is inside the county. I guess what I'm trying to ask is if this is district six or if this is in the county area. I don't know the boundaries. We can certainly get you the boundaries. Can you also repeat the years, Robert, when it was approved?
 2007 was when the voters approved up to $17 million of bonds to be issued for water, wastewater, and drainage projects. And so with this issuance of $2.75 million, it will only bring their total of what they've issued or will have issued to $9.54 million. And so they're still well below the authorized voter approval amount of $17 million. I think they chose a poor name in the unlimited tax bond series 2022. That's the name of the bond. Right. Okay.
 So they could use a better word than unlimited. OK. And Robert you don't have the specific boundaries right. Not in front of me but I can send you the I can find the boundaries and send it to the council. It is outside the city limits. It is outside. Yes. OK. And Robert will send that to you once he gets the actual boundaries. OK. Thank you.
 And again, it does not affect the city issuance. No, sir, it's not a city of El Paso debt issuance. It is not. It's Water District number two. It is not. Right, it's Water District number two. With that, do we have a motion? There is a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Hernandez, to approve item number 41. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Mayor, did you want to go continue with the last item? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Item 42 is discussion in action to adopt a resolution that endorses the Vision Zero goal of eliminating traffic deaths and serious injuries on City of El Paso streets with an emphasis on protecting the most vulnerable users of our transportation systems. Move to approve. Second.
 there's a motion made by representative hernandez seconded by representative anello we do have public comment mayor we have mr scott white i don't see scott white there he is he was hiding on me you were hiding on me good afternoon mr white you'll have three minutes my writing buddy and you're hiding on me
 You've got to make it fun. Good morning, council, Mr. Mayor, staff. I really want to thank you all for this. For the record, my name is Scott White, and I am part of the conspiracy to end traffic deaths not just here in El Paso but across Texas. For too long, we spent a lot of time just trying to edge around the issue of how serious
 uh... traffic traffic crashes are and i'm glad that i've been whispering for almost eight years that we need to adopt vision zero and we're getting really close now and this is an important thing because if we just look at the math for what these caught traffic crashes cost us for the past four years just the direct cost is almost one point eight billion dollars to this to the city to the community to the victims of these crashes
 And it's even worse if we look at the extended costs, which is almost, and these are all conservative estimates, of $1.78 billion for the four years of what it's cost our community and its residents for the crashes that were cited, the numbers that were cited in the backup material. That's a huge difference to our community. But that's not even what people feel, the families who've suffered these losses. And so moving forward with this, I
 and getting to the point where we're going to actually reach zero traffic deaths, that's going to make a great deal. That's going to mean a great deal to the people of this community. And I appreciate you moving to this point. I hope to see this project completed. And I thank you for your time. Thank you, Mr. White. Ms. Prime, do I have a motion and a second? Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Anello to approve item 42 on the motion. Call for the vote.
 In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously, the final item on the agenda is number 43. This is discussion in action on a resolution to authorize the city manager or his designee to submit a letter of support to the El Paso Metropolitan Planning Organization in support of an application for FY 2022 SS4A Discretionary Grant Program to develop a comprehensive regional safety action plan. Motion to approve. Second. Second.
 And we do have public comment from Mr. White on this item. He's coming up. And by the way, I did see your mom the other night. She was great. Well, we have a running joke that people know me as Pat's mom and other people know her as Scott's mother. I know you as Pat's son. Yeah, Pat's son. And so, again, I appreciate your support moving forward with adopting Vision Zero.
 It's really important that every community
 this in this region really adopts it and I know that the MPOs really leading this charge but the county is moving on this thank you all for the city moving on this Dona Ana County is moving on this and this federal funding I hope is really going to inspire the entire region to really embrace vision zero wholeheartedly and you also know me as your writing buddy that's right
 Thank you. Thank you so much. And, you know, I know you, you know, bike safety. And the first time I got to meet Mr. White was I –
 We went out riding. I'd never met him before and these guys were going on the long ride It was my first time ride and I got tired about maybe halfway out I'll I'll give myself benefit out We were halfway out And I said to turn back and he actually rode back with me to make sure I was safe and there wasn't one guy driving By himself so he does believe in safety and it makes a big difference. So thank you With that we have motion in a second. There was a motion made by representative Rivera and I didn't catch the second. I
 hernandez representative hernandez thank you to approve item number 43 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously mayor may we go to call to the public now please ma'am thank you
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving the citizens of this city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic brought forward be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have four members of the public that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Ms. Wally Sheck. Her topic is Right or Wrong, Save America. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. You have three minutes. Good day. Hello, Ms. Sheck. God bless every one of you. May God save America. And I'm here today to tell you that in September the 27th is my 350th appearance at Agenda. I reached my goal.
 And yes, sir. And may I leave, sir, please?
 Bring your wife because behind every good mayor and good man is a good wife and your family makes sacrifices for us the people because you are the mayor of the people and I trusted you in 2013 and may God bless you for what you do for the city and 27
 of September. It's 10 years that I'm a widow because of the city. And this is gonna be unheard of what I'm doing on the 27th because I love El Paso and let El Paso shine not only to the nation but globally. There is not one world war
 second bride that came to El Paso in 52 and accomplished what I have accomplished. And you find out, all of you, God bless you and God bless America. No time limit for me under 27, okay? I'm the boss. Thank you. Thank you. And Ms. Shek, uh,
 We're not going to slow down at 350. We want to make it to 500 times, so don't slow down yet. I said we're going to make it to 500 times showing up. Okay. So we'll keep it the time limit, but you'll get three minutes another 150 times. Yeah. You will not regret it. I'll be watching you on television, but I won't be here after the next. I'm getting too old to go by bus. Thank you. Thank you, and we love seeing you. Come back. Okay.
 And the next speaker is Joseph Bartz and his topic is fast and furious driving endangerment morning, sir Sir me will you get close to the microphone please? Thank you I don't care whether you're on a loop on 54 I 10 going through town or
 There's way too many people driving way beyond the speed limit. They're not even, you can't even call this speeding. This is hyper speeding, driving, dangerous. It's going to raise our insurance rates. It's just going to create more hate and discontent on the road. It's going to show that this community is not a loving community. And it plays right into this gentleman, Mr. White's concern about the traffic lights and crosswalks and all that stuff.
 But I talked to my neighbors and stuff like that and everybody's seeing this. It's just way too much speeding by these big vehicles, sports cars, super cars. In fact, this morning I took my wife over to the clinic. We were coming back and there was this BMW super sports car that passed us going 70 miles an hour or more. Just three weeks ago I was driving on the loop.
 I was looking out my right mirror, there's nobody behind me, and I pulled out to pass another car that was going slow. But there was this motorcycle coming down that road, going twice as fast as the speed limit. Of course, that's my estimation, but the way he passed, it was pretty obvious. So my question is, when are we going to start doing something about this?
 Every facet of our society would benefit from stricter controls of this excessive and what I call fast and furious and loud Cars and driving and I do understand we have a noise ordinance in the city I think it reads something to the effect that if it's louder than your refrigerator, it's too loud correct me if I'm wrong Well anyway, I just wanted to get that off my chest I wanted to bring this up to you and I want to thank you for your time any questions?
 Thank you, sir, for being here. Thank you. The next speaker is Jerry Halberg. Jerry Halberg. Don't see Ms. Halberg coming forward. The next speaker is Richard Genetta.
 Mr. Hineda's topic is rumors heard about council action. Good afternoon sir you have three minutes. Good afternoon mayor council. My name is Richard Hineda. I hope you're at least vaguely familiar with the work I do. I host a humble little podcast called the El Paso Beat. I watch every city council work session every city council meeting I've even seen Ms. Shek every time that she's been up here and over the course of the last two years doing work for this podcast I've made a list of friends connections
 sources here and inside and outside of City Hall. It is through these sources that I've heard a rumor that I'd like to address with you today. This rumor states that one of the representatives who voted against Representative Anello and Representative Rivera's ordinance to instruct our police department to deprioritize abortions.
 Okay, let's not we can't take this political. We need to make sure that It's not a campaign. This is a rumor that I know that's something that's coming up go down that road, sir I think it's really important. We don't this is not a political forum right here. All right. Yeah, I'm sure you'll have your opportunity Sure, the item has been voted on and I was just here to challenge the representative to
 Yeah, I'm gonna ask you not to do that if you continue when we're gonna ask you to stop Okay, please use your three minutes to address the full council and not any particular item like that. Okay Well, I'm not gonna step on any toes. I'm just gonna go ahead and yield my time Thank you all for giving me the opportunity. Have a good one. Thank you, sir Call to the public
 Motion to adjourn this meeting we need we need to cancel this meeting and then come to the next meeting There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting all in favor aye anyone opposed aye
 And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday September 13th 2022 is adjourned at 1219 p.m. Motion to reconvene. We need council will need about five minutes to return to yesterday's conference I.D. So those in teams if you'll exit today's conference I.D. and join yesterday's conference I.D. We can reconvene. Can you make it 10. You want 10 minutes. Can we reconvene the meeting while you.
 City attorney has a question. So I was just asked. Council we have we have one less item to discuss with you an executive but the item that doesn't to be discussed first our lawyers on a schedule to go to a hearing on that case so we could get into executive as expeditiously as possible. They need to be at a hearing at 1 30 so we need to.