In our borderland, we lost a young man, very unfortunate, a band member from Bowie High School that was at a football game. And for unknown medical reasons, he passed away yesterday. And I want you to keep him, but also his family and friends in your prayers. And I'd like to have a moment of silence in remembrance of Daniel Esparza, who lost his life on 9-11-2023.
 You know, the future always of our community is the youth, and we should never bury the youth. And it's a sad day in El Paso when we lose someone like that. So I'd like to have a moment of silence. Thank you. That's fine right there, sir. Yeah, that's fine. Again, may God bless America, may God bless El Paso and its wonderful people. Thank you.
 miss prime thank you mayor that brings us to the mayor's proclamations the first proclamation is national recovery month who's got that one episode of hero i just turned it on sir thank you samir
 Thank you for allowing me to read this proclamation. We are since inception in 1989, September has been recognized as National Recovery Month through the big Texas Rally for Recovery. Texans all over the state come together to honor the people, families and communities that live their lives in recovery and in doing so celebrate the lives affirming progress in recovery.
 Whereas individuals, organizations, communities, families gather together every September to celebrate recovery and in doing so change negative perceptions, attitudes, discrimination, stigmas towards people and families in recovery. Whereas Big Texas Rally is about having recovery centered around recovery.
 celebration for individuals, families, communities to honor, recognize, and that not only recovery possible, but it's alive and thriving. Whereas when we gather to celebrate recovery, we help to change stigma and misconceptions surrounding recovery, and in this way, allow other individuals and families to find paths to recovery. Whereas the city of El Paso together will spread the message to people seeking recovery,
 You are not alone. There is hope, there is help, there is support available for others in recovery. Recovery is possible.
 Whereas on September 23rd, El Pasoans are encouraged to join Paso del Norte Recovery System of Care as they celebrate together with our voices in a powerful union proclaiming that recovery is for everyone, every person, every family, and every community. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council that the month of September shall be known as National Recovery Month.
 So I'd mayor Oscar Leeser. Thank you. I'd like to say a few words. Good morning. Hi My name is Chris Bailey I'm a man in long-term recovery and what that means for me is I haven't had to touch a drop of alcohol or drugs since August 7th of 1997 Mary Lisa you mentioned the day in 9-11 2001 when we were attacked and I do remember the day that I was attacked that we were attacked and I
 I was headed into my fifth year of recovery in 2001. I was getting up to get ready to attend a college class. My mother had come into my room and said we'd been attacked, and I watched the towers burn on that day. That's emblazoned into my mind, and as awful as that day was, I'm grateful that I was in recovery when it happened because I can remember it. I could feel empathy for the people
 that died that day. I lost two friends in the South Tower and it was a dark day in my life. I also had the recovery that allowed me to lean into that pain and to feel it and to grieve for the first time in a long time. Recovery has given me and many of us not just our lives back, but the ability to touch the lives of others, to help them learn, to live again.
 And it is my hope that moving forward, and I really want to express my deep thanks to the city of El Paso for getting behind this initiative, for the mayor signing this proclamation for council, getting behind it. Because we do face a lot of discrimination. We do face a lot of stigma. And to know that recovery is possible, that there are recovering people in the world, and that people that are still out there suffering.
 that there are individuals that have a helping hand ready and available for them. So I want to thank you all today. Thanks. Thank you, sir. Thank you all for coming up. And I think you're correct. I think public awareness is so important that, you know, there is help out there. And to allow and let people know where they can go and get help is so important. And then to listen to the success is even more important. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you for the opportunity to share a little bit of my personal recovery journey with you during recovery month this year. My name is Christine Zimmerle and I'm a person in long-term recovery from drugs and alcohol. What that means to me is that today I can be present, a mother, a mentor, and a productive member of this community. I have overcome my problematic relationship with substances. Life has thrown me many numerous challenges.
 poverty, homelessness, food insecurity, surviving domestic violence, battling physical, mental, emotional health challenges, including addiction. Today I stand before you as a testament to the power of resilience, transformation, and the unwavering human spirit. My journey started with attempted suicide and overcoming the darkness of incarceration where I made a commitment to choose life and to turn my life around.
 Surviving these challenges has taught me the importance of self-worth and gave me the strength to rebuild my life from the ground up. Through mental health and recovery support, I discovered the power of seeking help and the incredible impact of support systems. Some of these challenges left scars on my soul, but they also fueled my determination to break the cycle and contribute positively to society. Thank you.
 In recovery, I have found healthy ways to cope, and I have discovered the beauty of a life free from the chains of addiction. My story is a story of hope, resilience, and transformation. I stand here today not defined by my past, but empowered by the lessons it taught me. I've worked hard to heal the wounds that once held me back, and I'm dedicated to helping others who face similar challenges.
 Through mutual aid, counseling, community engagement, residential recovery support, education and a commitment to self-improvement, I have reclaimed my life. Today I am a voice for those who often remain unheard, a beacon of hope for those still struggling, and a living example that no matter how dark the past, recovery is possible.
 I believe that together as a community, we can break down barriers, erase stigma, and build a world where everyone can heal, grow, and thrive. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you. Thank you for being here, and thank you all for being here. There's a couple more that want to speak. Hi. My name is Maricela Tavares. I'm a woman in long-term recovery. I'm here to invite you all to our Big Texas Rally for Recovery. It's September 23rd.
 From 12 to 7 at Memorial Park. Set we're celebrating recovery. I want to share a little bit about my journey. My glasses. Okay. Today I stand before you to talk about journey of resilience hope and transformation. The journey of recovering from drugs and alcohol. It's a journey that touches the lives of millions worldwide. A journey that speaks of the human spirits incredible capacity to heal and rebuild.
 When we think of recovery, it's important to remember that it's not just about abstaining from substances. Recovery is about rediscovering oneself, rebuilding relationships, and rekindling dreams. It's a journey of self-discovery and personal growth, one that often begins with a single courageous step, the decision to seek help. The first step in recovery is often the most challenging one. Admitting that you have a problem and reaching out for support takes immense courage.
 It's the moment when you decide that you are worth the effort, that your life is worth living to its fullest potential. Recovery is not a linear path. It's filled with ups and downs, setbacks and triumphs. It's about facing your past, making amends, and forgiving yourself. It's about learning new coping mechanisms and strategies to deal with life's challenges without resorting to substances. Support is the cornerstone of recovery.
 whether it's through professional therapy, support groups, or the unwavering love and understanding of family and friends. Having a strong support system can make all the difference. We must recognize that recovery is not a solitary journey. It's a collective effort that requires empathy and understanding from all of us. During recovery, individuals often rediscover their passions and talents.
 They rekindle old hobbies, find new interests, and rebuild their lives with purpose and meaning. The transformation is awe-inspiring as people emerge from the darkness of addiction into the light of a healthier, happier, and more fulfilling life. Recovery is about breaking the chains of addiction and regaining control over one's destiny. It's about proving to oneself and the world that we are not defined by our past mistakes.
 Instead, we are defined by our resilience, our ability to rise above adversity, and our unwavering determination to lead a life of sobriety. While the road to recovery is without a doubt challenging, it is also a testament to the unconquerable human spirit. It's a reminder that no matter how far one may have fallen, there is always a path back to health, happiness, and wholeness.
 In conclusion, recovery from drugs and alcohol is a remarkable journey of self-discovery, resilience, and transformation. It's a testament to the strength of the human spirit and the power of support and understanding. Let us all be compassionate and supportive allies to those on this journey, for they are not defined by their past, but by their incredible capacity to recover and thrive. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, City Councilmen and women. I am very blessed to be here.
 Forgive me if I'm a bit nervous. Why are you nervous? I don't know. It's a new setting for me. It's a very new setting for me. Welcome. A couple months ago, we came down here and we talked about the Narcan issue, and I'm very grateful for you guys helping us out with that. I really am. I am a person who I don't know if I would call a long-term. This Friday, I'll be picking up two years clean from drugs and alcohol. Thank you.
 And the way my life has changed and the contrast between today and where I was at is an absolutely, it's a beautiful thing. I'm a person who's experienced incarceration, homelessness. I was involved in a lot of, let's say, things that weren't conducive or productive in society. And the fact that I can stand here before city council today and I have a voice is a very, it's surreal. And to be able to do this so young and to be able to,
 Change my life around and be able to make a difference. It's a very beautiful thing for me and it's something I'm extremely grateful I've gotten the opportunity to do and you guys Making September recovery month and you guys willing to hear us out It really gives me it helps me with my purpose in helping other people Get their lives back together, and I just want to thank you guys for that and that's all I got. Thank you Congratulations
 Again, thank you all for being here, and I appreciate Representative Fierro and for you all to be here and sharing your story, but, you know, on the impact and what it means to our community. So I thank you all again. Thank you. For the record, Representatives Rivera and Fierro are also present in chambers. The next proclamation is Gold Out Child Cancer Awareness Month. Representative Moulinard.
 Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas each year many parents hear the devastating words that no parent wants to hear, your child has cancer.
 We, Gold Adult Pass, want families to know that they are not alone during this difficult time and they have our support. We will try our hardest to help families in need in any way possible. And whereas Gold Adult Pass honors all the children and families affected by childhood cancer, we honor all the warriors, survivors, and angels that have courageously fought this battle. We honor families affected by childhood cancer.
 because no child should fight alone. And whereas Gold Out El Paso will continue to make it its goal that the City of El Paso turn gold every September, and whereas children fighting cancer should never feel alone, and with the help of our community, all children fighting cancer will always get recognition in September for Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, for our children are the future.
 And whereas we ask the El Paso community to join in Gold Out El Paso's motto, when one fights, we all fight. When one cries, we all cry. When one celebrates, we all celebrate. We are all in this fight together. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of September shall be known as Gold Out for Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. Signed, the Honorable Oscar Leaser, Mayor, City of El Paso.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council Members. Thank you for allowing us for the third year in a row to have a proclamation for childhood cancer awareness. My name is Irene Montelongo. I'm the founder of Goldado Paso.
 We are pleased to be the only organization in our city bringing awareness to childhood cancer. And each year we're pleased that many more people, schools, businesses are becoming aware of what the color gold represents. And that there are many children in our community who are currently or have battled this horrible disease. There are many faces of childhood cancer and not many are aware of it until it hits close to home. That could be your child, a family member, a friend.
 The children featured on our yearly shirt were one day just healthy, ordinary kids until they weren't. Our mission is to share the raw truth about childhood cancer. And with this proclamation, the children and parents who have heard those devastating words know that they are not alone through this battle.
 Thank you for taking the time to acknowledge Gold at El Paso and all the children our organization represents. Our goal is to continue to bring awareness and see that many businesses, buildings, and schools participate in turning this city gold for the month of September. Thank you for allowing us to do this the third year in a row. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Council Members, City of El Paso.
 Many of you know me as Command Sergeant Major Gonzalez of Fort Bliss, but today I stand here as a father, a father of a warrior and a survivor of childhood cancer. And I stand here to support Gold Out and everything that we're doing that they do for El Paso and our children and our parents who, as a parent, we're used to seeing a child run around in a soccer field or ride a bike out in the street
 But for those children going through this horrible disease and those families that are fighting it together, their childhoods are spent in hallways, walking around with an IV plugged in, and riding a tricycle down a hallway or going into an art room by themselves because they can't be around other people and other kids, their childhood.
 They missed so much of their childhood. And just bringing awareness of that here to El Paso is what Gold Out is all about. And we wanna invite you all to turn your lights gold, put on a yellow light bulb into your home, into your cities, wherever you are, just to remember that this month bringing awareness of
 all of these young children and their families, what they're going through and what they're fighting for every day. So I just wanna say thank you for a third year in a row, allowing us to come up here and to bring this and be heard, but make it public so that these stories are heard.
 right our herd and then and you know what the sufferings is right because we see on the television those commercials about a child sitting there with no hair in a bed but until you know the pain of having to shave your child's head you won't understand it so please thank you for your support thank you for continuing support gold out El Paso and childhood cancer awareness again thank you for this privilege this morning thank you thank you command sergeant
 Hi, my name's Alexander Martinez. And on October 15th, 2021, I got diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. He's so shy. So yeah, so we just wanted to say thank you so much everyone for this opportunity to spread awareness, especially for this month. This is our month and Alexander definitely did have a hard ride. He's still in treatment, but he's looking towards the end of it at this point.
 And we're very happy. Gold Out has helped us so much in spreading awareness and helping us financially. And everything that they stand for, 100% of their proceeds from all their fundraisers and donations come back to families like us. And we couldn't be more grateful. And like the speaker before us mentioned, you know, just turn on those lights. Make them yellow. Wear yellow. Turn your offices yellow. Anything we can do to spread awareness would be absolutely wonderful for us. And thank you guys very much for this day and for this month. Thank you.
 We know that I was the national chair for Hope on Wheels for seven years to find a cure for pediatric cancer, and we've raised money nationally because we know that it's roughly about 94% of all cancers are adult cancer and childhood cancer, so there's not a lot of funding for it, so it was really important to try to get funding to find a cure for pediatric
 pediatric cancer and I know that I would visit hospitals all across the nation and I wouldn't I couldn't see a child I couldn't Go in there and see a child finally a doctor pulled me over and he said hey Oscar come here This is when you walk in there and have a bandage on or they have an IV or the lane in a bed they're getting help and that's what we have to strive for to make sure they get help and My goal was always to make sure that something that we would hear someday that no child would ever have cancer and
 The numbers have gone up a lot of, you know, the survival rate has gone way up now, and it will continue to go up, but we've got to continue to fight as a community, as a country. And like I said, I was the chair for the whole United States for seven years to try to find a cure for pediatric cancer, and we need to continue to unite because we can't lose another life that's so important. Yes, ma'am.
 SPEAKER 9 Good morning. My name is Ashley Nevarez and I stand before you emotional and unprepared the same way that I walked into the hospital with my son. His name is Irvin Vidal Nevarez and I can't express my gratitude for your associations and organizations just like Goldado Paso and his doctors and all the medical staff who have gotten him through so much and myself as well.
 If it wasn't for their support I don't know how a lot of us would get through because you lose so much when your family is affected by childhood cancer. And now all I can say is that I'm even beyond grateful that he's doing really well.
 And he's now starting public school this year and he loves it so it's definitely a blessing to see your child still continue to grow with you and every day becomes a blessing. So definitely follow your instinct when it comes to your children and please continue to bring awareness and consideration to this cause that I know is slowly and thankfully getting.
 becoming bigger and more well-known. So thank you so much for your time, and I hope you all have a really blessed day. Thank you. You know, we'll continue to fight together, and that's the important part. And if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers, the City Council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once all the ceremonial items have been completed. The next proclamation is National Surgical Technologists Week. Yeah, you guys are up.
 Whereas for over 60 years surgical technology has grown to meet the ever increasing demand for well educated, highly skilled and versatile surgical technologists. And whereas surgical technologists are entrusted with the lives and well being of patients and provide a critical service during surgical procedures. And whereas over 90,000 surgical technologists nationwide are an integral part of the surgical team committed to providing the highest quality of surgical care to patients.
 And whereas surgical technologists are responsible for the application of sterile and aseptic technique in the operating room, ensuring that equipment functions properly and facilitating safe and effective conduct during invasive surgical procedures. And whereas surgical technologists strive to prevent life-threatening surgical site infections and maximize patient safety.
 and whereas surgical technologists graduate from an accredited program and receive certification conferred by the national board of surgical technology and surgical assisting assisting based upon passage of the national examination and whereas the surgical technologist's motto agar primo the patient first reflects total commitment to patient safety and advocacy
 And whereas the City of El Paso is honored to join our nation in recognizing National Surgical Technologist Week. Now therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and City Council of the City of El Paso that September 17th through September 23rd, 2023, shall be known as National Surgical Technologist Week. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mr. Mayor, honorable council members, we really appreciate the opportunity to be able to have you very clearly elucidate the unknown tasks and the unknown dedication that is put into the work that surgical technologists do throughout the country.
 It is, again, an unknown profession. We're the people behind the mask, even before COVID, and behind the red line in the operating room that nobody ever actually remembers. Most people think that it's only doctors and nurses that work in hospitals, but there are many, many people
 allied health professionals who work within hospitals in specialized areas, and surgical technologists are certainly one of them. Our patients are typically asleep. They don't remember that we were there. And that is actually when we know we've done our job correctly is when nothing happens that they should have to know that we were there.
 But the surgeons and the nurses, the anesthesiologists, the first assistants, we are all part of a dedicated high functioning team that is our major goal as was stated in the proclamation is ager primo which means the patient first. Everything we do is to provide positive patient outcomes and be effective.
 a positive force in their lives whether they are ever aware that we were there or not. I stand before you not having put the proclamation forward. I've done that previously. The last one I have here is from 2007. But I do appreciate this recognition. I am Margaret Rodriguez and I am the program director of the El Paso Community College
 surgical technology program. I'm a graduate of the program from 1980 so that dates me. I've been a surgical tech for 43 years and I've also been teaching for 27 years so I very proudly behind me have not only the current class of surgical technology students but many of the graduates who have come through the program many who are working at all of the different hospitals in the city including UMC.
 and they are here also to represent. They are dedicated as well, and like a proud mom, it does my heart good to see them having done so well and out working and taking care of all of you who are going into the surgical setting and making sure that you have the best possible outcome that you could have. And as has been stated here with other groups this morning,
 You don't know what you don't know until you
 have to know it. And so people are not aware that we are here and we really appreciate the recognition and we'll keep doing our job to keep you safe and so that you don't know that we're there and we hope that there will be an enhanced knowledge that the profession exists, how important it is. There is a severe shortage throughout the country and that we are trying to put out as quickly as possible highly trained, well
 intentional and dedicated and professional individuals. So thank you for this opportunity this morning and this honor and we do appreciate it. Thank you, congratulations and all the success. Hello, my name is Belinda Chavez. I graduated from UNC 22 years ago. I have been with ECC also, so I'm a little nervous.
 I guess I graduated from EPCC over 22 years. I have been with UMC 21 years and going. And I can say that I love what I do. I've seen a lot. And teaching new techs is also a lot of fun. But the biggest part is taking care of my patients. Taking care of people like you. Doesn't matter where you come from, doesn't matter what you've done. I treat all my patients exactly the same.
 because it's how I would like to be treated. It's how I would like my family. But as a surgical tech, my patient is first. And I am proud to say that I graduated, I am certified, and I love working at UMC as well. So thank you very much for this day. We do appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you all again for being here.
 Again, thank you all. And one of the things you said that's important, and I live by this, that you always treat people the way you want to be treated. You'll never be disappointed. And you're correct. So thank you all for being here.
 The next proclamation is El Paso Children's Hospital Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. Thank you, Ms. Prime. Proclamation in the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas El Paso Children's Hospital provides the highest level of pediatric care in West Texas and Southern New Mexico. And whereas close to 10,000 new cases of cancer will be diagnosed nationwide among children this year alone and many infants, children and teens will suffer from long-term effects of comprehensive treatment including secondary cancers.
 And whereas over a thousand children across the country will lose their battle with cancer, and many medical providers and medical professionals will race against time to provide life-saving treatment and medical breakthroughs to prevent the tragic loss of life. And whereas the Southwest University Pediatric Blood and Cancer Center at El Paso Children's Hospital is the only certified children's oncology group.
 center in a 270 mile radius which provides quality clinical trials to treat many types of pediatric cancer. And whereas that means that children are able to stay right here at home to receive the best care using the latest research and protocols in a multi-specialty environment designed just for kids where they receive the very same protocols as some of the top hospitals in the world. And whereas the Southwest University Pediatric Blood and Cancer Center at El Paso Children's Hospital has been able to help hundreds of families affected by childhood cancer.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso that the month of September 2023 shall be known as El Paso Children's Hospital Child Cancer Awareness Month. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Congratulations. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor Leaser. And good morning, City Council. Thank you all so much for having us. Representative Vanilla, we really appreciate all your support in having us here. My name is Daniel Veal. I'm the Director of Marketing for El Paso Children's Hospital.
 And the month of September is Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. And we have just a couple people we want to be able to share some of the great things that we do for the community. But we definitely want to give Goldout a major thank you. I don't think they really went into detail about how much they do for our families every day in the hospital. The amount of entertainment, the food for the families, just so many different things.
 that really bring a lot of happiness to the kids and their families. And obviously we'd like to thank Mayor Leeser and Honde of El Paso, Oscar Leeser's Honde of El Paso, for continuing to contribute through Honde Hope on Wheels. At this time I'd like to invite Dr. Benjamin Carcamo. He's one of our physicians with our Pediatric Hematology and Oncology Unit. Ah, thank you.
 Thank you for the opportunity to talk to all of you. I have been here in the community for about 25 years.
 I have had the honor of treating a lot of children with pediatric cancer in El Paso. Initially, we started our journey at another institution, but about 12 years ago, well, actually it was 2012, El Paso Children's Hospital opened doors.
 and we were able to transfer our care to El Paso Children's. Childhood Cancer Awareness Month is a time to honor those with pediatric cancer. It's also a time to have important conversations with one another to raise awareness about pediatric cancer. At El Paso Children's Hospital, this mission is not only exclusive for one month, but it's every day of our lives.
 The Southwest University Pediatric Blood and Cancer Center is a pediatric oncology program based at El Paso Children. We opened in 2012.
 And we have a 24-bed unit dedicated to the care of pediatric cancer. We have an infusion clinic that also takes care exclusively of pediatric cancer and pediatric hematological problems.
 And we also have a cancer survivor clinic, which takes care of the children after they survive their journey. And this is not a small matter.
 We have treated 70 kids with pediatric cancer, but that's what we did last year, and most of them made it, thank God. We have treated 40 patients so far this year, and 18 patients already rang the bell, okay, when we –
 do this, this special ceremony that we give to our children because they have a long journey. They go through a lot, not only them, the parents, families. It's a difficult journey. They may take months or even years. So ringing of the bell is very special for them. And we do it to honor their life, okay, and their family.
 the work that they have done, the suffering that they have gone through.
 And to make sure that they remember this for the rest of their life. It's a very special occasion. That's what ringing the bell is. We have 18 so far this year. We treat all kinds of cancers. The most important cancer that we treat is leukemia. But we also treat a lot of brain tumors and sarcomas and many different other diseases.
 We are so lucky to have a community that recognize the importance of providing our children with unique opportunities during the time with us.
 with the support of the community, not only for our patients, but also for our doctors, hospital, the nursing staff, social workers, child life specialists, the pharmacists, a whole host of people that is completely dedicated to the care of these children. You know, we are finding new ways to improve the care of pediatric cancer.
 And our new specialty center is going to be open soon, and it will be an exacting step in keeping El Paso Children's Hospital at the forefront of pediatric healthcare in our region. In the next month, the community will be getting more insights into the types of services our new facility will host.
 And it is important for us to show that borderline region, how dedicated we are in enhancing our levels of care for our children and the ability to keep over 85 percent forever living El Paso for the treatment of cancer. I thank you for your effort and thank you for this opportunity to talk. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Dr. Carcamo. Thank you, Dr. Carcamo.
 To close out our very special day, we do want to welcome Andres Melendez and his mom Irma and his family. They're the perfect example of what it means to stay at home for health care that doesn't require them to leave the city. So if we can have you guys come on up. Good morning. My name is Irma Melendez, and together with my husband Sergio,
 Our son Andres who was diagnosed with Ewing sarcoma last September, his twin brother Adrian, and our oldest daughter Cristina. We stand here before you today with a profound sense of gratitude. When the news of Andres' diagnosis reached our ears, our world seemed to come crashing down. The uncertainty and the fear that surrounded us was overwhelming.
 But from that very moment, you, the incredible team at El Paso Children's Hospital embraced us with open arms and provided us with a haven of care and support. Throughout this challenging journey, we have witnessed the strong spirit of our son, Andres, who has faced every treatment and procedure with courage and determination beyond his tender years.
 Your dedication to his well-being and your solid commitment to finding the best course of action for his unique condition gave us hope when it seemed most elusive. To each member of the staff from the cafeteria ladies, nurses, PACU, everyone and the doctors, you have become more than just health care providers for us.
 You have become our pillars of strength. Your expertise, professionalism, and compassion have not only healed our son's body, but also mended our spirits, reassuring us that we are never alone in this fight. As parents, our hearts have been heavy with the weight of responsibility and concern, but your unwavering support has lifted us of that burden.
 From the long nights to the countless tears you stood by our side offering comfort and guidance reminding us to cherish our precious moments with our children to the volunteers and donors who have poured their hearts into making a Basel Children's Hospital a beacon of hope We extend our gratitude your generosity has alleviated financial strains allowing us to focus solely on our
 being present for our children. As we continue on this journey, we carry with us the knowledge that we are not alone. El Paso Children's Hospital and its remarkable team have become an extension of our family. Supporting us with love and compassion, we are forever grateful for your dedication to transforming lives, restoring hope, and battling against the odds. In closing, let us remember that our journey is not over yet.
 But we face the future with newfound strength and resilience inspired by the love and care we have received here. With this gratitude in our hearts we move forward knowing that every step is taken with support of a community that has touched our lives in profound ways. In our hearts you will forever hold a special place for you have been more than just medical professionals. You have been our friends our confidants and our guiding lights.
 From the depths of our souls, we are very thankful for everything you have done for us. With great gratitude and hope, the Melendez family. Thank you. You know, it's been a real honor to be able to, as a local dealer here in El Paso, when I became the chair for seven straight years for Hope on Wheels, we would go around the country and donate money to hospitals to fund research
 for hospitals but i couldn't donate to my own city because we didn't have a research hospital we didn't have a mechanism where i could say you know what i get to make a decision where the money goes but i could never give it to el paso we gave it to you know georgetown university um
 Duke, Yale, we went to these huge areas and donated a lot of money, but it really would sadden me that we couldn't give it to our own community. And just two months ago, it was an incredible pleasure to be able to stand in front of a children's hospital and donate half a million dollars for pediatric research on behalf of Hope on Wheels and Hyundai El Paso.
 We want to thank you. It really warmed my heart to be able to give to our community after doing it everywhere else for so many places that El Paso finally got a research hospital so kids can stay home. Kids don't have to go anywhere else and I can tell you as a survivor. There's nowhere like being home when you're going through treatment. There's no doubt about it when when you have to go stay in a hotel somewhere and and
 and it's probably one of the worst things. You don't have your support staff. You don't have your family with you. You're there for treatments that be able to have it here, I understand what the difference will make. So I'm very happy to be able to support Children's Hospital, but also so you all, just like you all, have a home in El Paso and be able to feel like you're at home. So congratulations and thank you.
 And the final proclamation is 2023 National Dance Alliance Spirit Rally D1A National Title Winners UTEP Dance Team Day. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the UTEP Dance Team registered for the 2022 UDA Collegiate Dance Competition and was put on hold due to COVID restrictions, but this does not stop them from training and be determined to bring a national title for 2023.
 And whereas, through all the campus events, athletic games, and special appearances, the UTEP dance team trained long hours during the holidays with zero days off to head off to Daytona, Florida to compete against other Division I universities. And whereas, on April 6th, the dance team competed in the National Dance Alliance Division I Spirit Rally category and proceeded to qualify for the top
 five finalists and on the final day of competition, the dance team competed against some of the best dance teams in the nation and won first place. And whereas within the history of the UTEP dance team, this is the first time ever the team has competed at national level, winning the national title of National Dance Alliance D1A Spirit Rally.
 And we're asked the city of El Paso recognizes the importance and prestige of for the UTEP dance team of winning the 2023 National Dance Alliance Spirit Rally, the D1A national title. And we're asked the competition along with sportsmanship, academics, leadership and character builds trails traits that are found in everyday lives.
 And whereas we encourage the El Paso community to congratulate and show support for the UTEP dance team, and therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that September 12, 2023, shall be known as 2023 National Dance Alliance Spirit Rally D1A National Title Winners UTEP Dance Team Day. Congratulations. Come on up. Congratulations. Mr. Edens? Mr. Edens?
 you hiding back there on us come on up you know after um 35 years she um decided to retire after y'all won the championship and all he figured he couldn't accomplish any more than that so he decided to retire and i know that you you gave back and worked hard and for the supervised the department for 35 years and congratulations on your service to utep and our community you've your um
 your admiration for what you do is huge. So thank you again. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. My name is Leslie Lopez. I'm the head coach for the UTEC dance team. Behind me I have standing some of my dancers here. I am...
 I'm very sentimental goodness gracious. But it's because it's so surreal. All of this just happened so quickly for us and we trained extremely hard but my hat and my hat goes off to the girls behind me because they put in the work the time the effort along with their studies that they do every single day they put in 12 plus hours. I have I always say this I'm going to have doctors. I'm going to have trainers.
 I'm going to have psychologists. I'm going to have teachers. And I have it all, so I'm blessed to have these wonderful dancers. I have a huge thank you to our admin, Dr. Gary Edens, Dr. Charlene, Dr. Katie, my good friend Bianca. There you are.
 Also my family, big support. Most of all our community. Coming into this team five years ago, it's been a dream of mine. Born and raised here in El Paso, proud teacher at Mottwood High School for 13 years. Ran the Emerald Dancers for 13 years, great years. And I came, I said to my family, I said one day I will become a collegiate dance team coach. Doesn't matter where, well it did matter because I wanted to be here. I wanted to stay home because this is my home.
 And the opportunity came and I was given this opportunity to run this team. And when I came in, I told the girls, I believe Emily and Caitlin, who were with me for five years, are let as well. I said, hey, so what do you think about, you know, my first year coming in? You want to do a national event?
 you know, competition. They're like, sure, coach, let's go out and do it. I said, okay, well, it's going to take work, and that was just year one. So it took us four years, and then our fifth year going in, April, we said we're going to go to Daytona. We're going to go out and just see where it lands. I only set one goal with these young ladies, and I just said, go out and have fun. Let's see. Let's see where we stand. So we made it to, I said, I would like to at least get to finals. Let's see what happens from there. And...
 I always ask Mo, or actually everybody here, how bad do you want it? And they said they want it really bad. So I said, okay, well, it's gonna take a lot of time and work and effort. And so it was our last run through before we left on that Thursday, I believe. We had a rehearsal Wednesday and I said, okay, let's give it our all, let's see what happens. It was a really bad run through by the way, right?
 So I said let's get everything out. It's OK to have a bad run through because then that's when we're going to come back and win it all. So we went in we competed we went up against some really big schools right Dr. Edens? The big schools and not knowing anything I just went out. The girls went out they performed and we came out. They were long story short.
 They were calling out all the teams in an order that I didn't know. I was just like oh please you know just call the University of Texas El Paso. They called the first team the second team the third team the fourth team I was like OK that's it we didn't get it. But then the fifth team came out and it said the University of Texas at El Paso just to know that they called the University of Texas at El Paso was a big accomplishment for these young ladies. Coming in fifth place.
 as they were calling out. I thought it was fifth place. We looked over, Dr. Shervin, remember? We looked over the scores, and it turns out that we came out number one. We scored a 96.8, I believe it was, and everybody else was below us. And I was like, oh my God, when am I gonna tell the girls? How am I gonna do this? And we were in a hotel, and the lobby isn't that big. So I took them outside, and I said, I gave them a speech. I don't remember what I said, but they do.
 So I said yeah after all this you know we did good. We're going to have a lot of work to do because you are ranked number one in the nation. And just to know that you know the University of Texas at El Paso is on the map stating that we are national champion winners. These girls did all the work and I couldn't be proud to be their coach and to be a part of this beautiful university and the love that I have for El Paso because I'm born and raised here and I'm going to continue.
 to educate and create wonderful individuals because I love to teach and I'm proud of them. So thank you El Paso and thank you everybody. I appreciate you all. Thank you. I just wanna congratulate you, but you talked about everything, but you forgot to talk about that they have a great mentor and they have a great coach and we can have a lot of talent, but if you don't have someone that can lead you
 to do the best you can and to actually do it together as a team, it's hard to win. And we see that a lot in sports. So congratulations on your great achievements. But also the girls, congratulations in your great achievements. But now you all have a great mentor and a great coach to always be able to look up to. So thank you and congratulations.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Mayor Pro Tem. I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse absent City Council members. And that is to excuse Representative Isabel Salcido and Representative Chris Canales from today's meeting. Page 5, item 14, move to follow consent agenda per Representative Rivera. Page 6, item 16, move to follow consent agenda per Representative Fierro.
 Page 8, item 25, delete per climate and sustainability. Page 11, item 37, follow council items, pro representative Anello. And page 12, item EX2, take the item, it says at 9.30, but take the item after item 16, pro economic and international development.
 We have one more item. Representative Kennedy has the resolution on here. They would like to be read prior to we break into pictures. Counsel, please remind us prior to the consent agenda. 23. 23. Item 23. Is that page 7? Page 7, yes, ma'am. Page 7, item 23. Follow item 16, Representative Kennedy. Second. And, Counsel, we do have public comment. Yes.
 on items on the consent agenda. On item number five, this is a resolution approving an interlocal agreement between the City of El Paso and Socorro Independent School District to allow law enforcement officers to issue parking citations. Ms. Turner, good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Mayor and Council. As I read this, they're not police officers, they're just whatever they are, security guards that are hired by the,
 So Coral, to write tickets, you have no control over the quality of these people. So my concern is the liability of the city. There's no different in the same item we had two weeks ago, Ms. Turner, that we spoke about. And I know that the police department kind of gave an update on it last time. I thought everybody was quiet.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Assistant Chief Victor Sarud. When we worked on the initial ordinance to make these modifications so we could introduce this interlocal agreement, we do have Officer Joel Vera with Socorro Independent School District. They are commissioned peace officers under DECO standards. They have the training. We've offered the refresher. As a matter of fact, Officer Joel Vera used to work with the police department for over 20-plus years.
 So we have that working relationship and we're making sure that everyone understands the way everything works. There should be no no no issue going forward. We have a process to get the tickets into municipal court and notification made to everyone.
 And this is for parking tickets obviously they still provide a safety aspect over and above this This is just to give them the ability to provide a right to say a parking ticket when people violate parking rules fire lanes and Also, the income comes to the city of El Paso is not stay within the area but
 but they still provide over and above this. They still continue to be peace officers and provide safety for the students in the schools. Yes, sir. Strictly parking citations within the city of El Paso with the school districts, that's El Coro Independent School District, within their surrounding area. Thank you for that. Thank you.
 With that, we have a motion and a second. Ms. Turner also signed up for item six, which is a resolution authorizing the mayor to sign an updated interlocal agreement between the city and the Texas Department of Motor Vehicles. I have a question. Doesn't the court send out, and isn't the court responsible for notifying people that they have a parking ticket? What's your question, Ms. Turner? I didn't get it. Isn't the court's responsibility to send that notice out?
 Think your notice is put on your window. Oh, that's when you get the ticket. That's what I'm talking about Miss Turner, this is an issue. We've been discussing often lately What I heard a voice I just didn't hear what it was said Good morning mayor counsel Steve Alvarado code enforcement director The court does issue notices. This is part of the interlocal agreement that we'll have with the state of Texas Department of Motor Vehicles on
 The access that they will have is the notices after the unpaid citations sit in the system, go to the municipal court system, it'll allow them to run the license plate and send a reminder to pay the citation.
 that's after it becomes delinquent that's after yeah it gets sent over the court it doesn't get paid within a certain amount of time and then they will send it once you get a citation they don't send you a reminder you got citation once it becomes delinquent then the reminder you have not paid your correct that is correct but that's not what this item is i don't think
 This is about registration owner information by the Municipal Courts, Police Department and Environmental Services. That is correct. The center local agreement will be for the Municipal Courts, code enforcement with Police Department and also Environmental Services.
 The municipal courts will have access to run those plates, send reminders. Code enforcement will have access to run plates on junk vehicles, send notices out, and also ESD will have access to run plates for littering and code enforcement, you know, so we could research those crimes. Thank you for that.
 My next question is how do you control that that access is just solely for that one issue and it's not somebody looking for personal information on somebody else? That's my concern.
 Yes, we share those concerns. So each person that has access has to sign a disclosure saying that they'll use it for law enforcement purposes only. That's what the municipal court, minimal people with code enforcement have access, and also I think one or two people with the environmental services have access. We have a list of people. Each one has to sign that disclosure that they'll use it for a lawful purpose. Is there a way of tracking who is?
 who has gotten certain information from the system? I'm sure there is, I would have to check with the- Right, so that's one way of controlling it. Absolutely. Yes, thank you. The next item Ms. Turner signed up for is item seven and this is a, to allow the city manager to sign a landscape maintenance agreement between the city of El Paso and the state of Texas through TxDOT. We spent a lot of money on our medians, making our highways beautiful, and then we set these ugly trash cans out along the road. So,
 How does that work? You spend all that money to make them beautiful, and then the next thing you do is you put garbage out along the road. It makes us look bad. I've seen other cities that look really good, and they don't have this stuff alongside the road. Now, I know there's an issue coming up today that's on the agenda, but I think we need to get rid of this thing, period, get these things off the streets and out of the neighborhoods. Thank you, Mr. Turner.
 Miss Prine, before we take the vote, can we pull item 5 from the consent and can we also move item 17 to follow item 16? You said item 5 moved to regular? Mm-hmm. And you said item 17? So yeah, we'll do 14, 16, 17, and then 23, and then go into executive. Okay, Ms. Turner also signed up for item 12. Okay.
 Ms. Turner, you signed up for item 12 as well, and this is a tax refund in excess of $2,500. Explain to me how you can overpay $14,000. I mean, I track everything in my accounts down to the penny. So how would you, how do you do this? How do you miss $7,000 a year?
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Maria Pazillas. The taxpayer paid online through an e-check, and the total amount due was $14,000, and they selected to pay the full amount. We have an option to pay the full amount or to pay a different amount. So in this situation, the taxpayer selected the incorrect button, and that's how the overpayment was generated. Thank you. Thank you.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Potemanelo, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. That brings us to item number 14.
 item 14 is discussion in action to approve a resolution that the city of el paso honors oscar renegas marialena flood and modesto a gomez for their contributions to our community prior to the 2023 latino legacy awards hosted by community in action this is representative rivera's item representative thank you mayor thank you sir uh i'm hitting number seven thank you man
 Do we have any other representative for the Gomez family here? Thank you. Can you come up, please? Come on up where we can see you. Good morning. Don't be shy. And before I read this, I'll make the motion to approve. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Let me read the resolution that I've made a motion to approve and seconded by Representative Kennedy. Thank you.
 Whereas Community and ACCION's mission statement is to mobilize Latino leaders to impact economic and social equality, equity, educational opportunities, and cultural appreciation. And whereas Community and ACCION was organized in 2010 as a 501 nonprofit organization.
 And whereas community and ACCION's purpose is to improve the lives of the El Paso's Latino community by instilling pride and providing leadership. And whereas
 Community en Accions recent programs have awarded scholarships to students and spearheaded the completion of the Men of Company E monument honoring the memory of brave men from El Paso who sacrificed their lives during World War II. And we're asked, Community en Accions.
 annually conducts the Young Achievers Forum in partnership with the University of Texas at El Paso and New Mexico State University and touches the lives of thousands of students from area schools encouraging them to continue their education beyond high school. And whereas Community en Accion's Latino Legacy Award recognizes individuals who are worthy of recognition at the highest level and whereas
 Community and Acción has named the following individuals as the recipients of the 2023 Latino Legacy Award. First, Oscar Venegas, founder and until 2019, president of VEMAC, Inc., a successful and highly respected construction company.
 Mr. Venegas started the Alumni Association for Civil Engineering at the University of Texas at El Paso and has received numerous Civic and business awards for his dedication and service to our community. Mr. Venegas, can you come forward? Second, Ms. Marielena Flood.
 Ms. Floods is a trailblazer in higher education and healthcare who advocated and worked tirelessly for the expansion of Texas Tech School of Medicine and Thomason Hospital in our community, resulting in improved healthcare for hundreds of thousands of persons in West Texas, Southern New Mexico, and Northern Mexico. In addition, Ms. Floods has been an important part of numerous community organizations.
 Third, Modesto A. Gomez. Mr. Gomez was a World War I veteran and founder of Marcos B. Omnijo VFW Post 2753. He was an early civil rights leader and original member of the El Paso Housing Authority Board of Directors, an instrumental in convincing federal and local governments of the urgent need for federal housing in our community.
 Mr. Gomez was an advocate for improving education for schools in the South El Paso area, as well as entrepreneur and national president of League of the United Latin American Citizens in 1943. This award is presented, I hope I said it right, posthumously? Okay. Posthumously. Okay, thank you. And whereas on September 16th, 2023,
 Community en Acción is recognizing these exceptional members as our community at the El Paso del Norte Hotel in El Paso, Texas. Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso City Council congratulates Oscar Venegas.
 Maria Elena Flood, and the family of Modesto A. Gomez encourages our community to join in honoring and celebrating the lives and accomplishments of the 2023 Latino Legacy Award recipients.
 Good morning. Good morning Mayor Lee sir. Thank you council and thank you Representative Rivera for pushing forward this proclamation. My name is Anna Aleman I am the executive director of Community en Acción and we're a member led organization and our focus areas are education economic opportunities and cultural pride. Every year we host the Latino Legacy Awards where we recognize and honor two to three
 individuals who brought about transformational change as you just read right now. So this year's are Modesto A. Gomez and we have his grandchildren Raul Gomez and Mary Martinez who I'm going to invite to come up as well as we have the family of Marilena Acevedo Flood and then we have Oscar Venegas.
 And I just want to add more about Oscar because the other families are going to be able to add. But I notice Oscar doesn't say much about himself. But I just want you to know that one of the things that I found out that really stood out to me is that Oscar mentors not only does he mentor young engineering students coming out of UTEP but he also mentors other contractors other business owners and he is credited for changing the landscape of construction in El Paso. So I would like to invite.
 the families to please come say something about the nominees Good morning My cousin Murray Martinez we just want to thank you all for this recognition of our grandfather and
 our grandfather had a great pride in the El Paso community he invested so much to make El Paso better and the one thing that he instilled in all of us his grandchildren is that we need to do our part as well to make where we live a little bit better so we are very proud of the legacy that he gave us and we appreciate the honor that you're bestowing on him thank you very much thank you congratulations
 And Modesto was very Modesto. And entonces, nobody really knew what he did during his time. So as his grandchild, I learned later these various things. And it's a wonderful thing to have that in the family, and we are continuing it. But thank you all for...
 the honor of letting us speak and certainly the honor from Community Nixon for considering Modesto for this honor. Thank you all. Thank you. Mayor Lee, sir, council. I'm Catherine Flood Rivera and Maria Elena Acevedo Flood is my mom. I'm number five child of eight and Maria Elena would be thrilled to have been here today. Every one of the proclamations would make her so proud of El Paso.
 She worked tirelessly as well as many of the other recipients and she took a lead from my Abuelita Josefina Salas Borras Nations and what she did was work in our community from 1916 all the way to her death in 72 and Marilena inculcated to everyone especially her children to give back to the community and she worked not only in El Paso to make it better but in our state
 all of Southwest area all the way up to Washington D.C. fighting for Hispanic rights as well as health care better health care for women and children. She serves on so many national boards and continues to promote El Paso in her capacity as a retired individual but she would be proud of all the proclamations today. And we want to support.
 Everything that has been going on in our health care not only in our education So thank you again, and we're very proud to accept that on her behalf. Thank you Council members I want to say a little bit about CEA CA started 2011 Richard Castro approached me and said I want to start something and one of the one of the things that he mentioned was company
 to call this time to get the statue for company. So I thank Richard, I thank CEA for this honor. I'm humbled and honored to be associated with Maria Elena Flood and Modesto Gomez. I'm getting older now so I forget. And I also wanna tell you that I graduated 50 years ago from UTEP and I went into the construction industry. And I like to use this saying a lot and the saying goes,
 The road to success is always under construction. That applies here. Thank you very much. Thank you. I also would like to introduce Javier Bañales, who's on our board of directors. He's the chair of this year's Latino Legacy Awards. And I would like to ask our chair, board chair, Dr. Silvia Acosta, if she would say a couple of words. Hello. How are you? I'm Dr. Silvia Acosta, and I am the chairperson of Comunidad en Acción.
 First of all, I want to say that Comunidad en Acción was formed as an organization that is unapologetically supportive of Latinos.
 And by that I say we are here to honor our Latino leaders in our community. We are here to support entrepreneurship of our Latino community as well as the educational opportunities offered to Latino students. The organization has been instrumental in so many ways providing scholarships for the children
 of those people murdered at Walmart. We actually have a student currently in New York City that we are supporting her education to ensure she makes it through. And we've made that commitment for every single child of every single person that was lost during that tragic day in El Paso.
 I also want to say that our organization is made up of incredible leaders that are committed to El Paso and that are committed to the future of our city. So on behalf of Comunidad en Acción of all of our board members.
 and of all of our members and of the many students that receive scholarships including those that do volunteer service that are funded through the Richard Castro Scholarship also at CEA and our Young Achievers Forum that happens in New Mexico and at UTEP at New Mexico State and at UTEP. We want to thank you on behalf of all of those thousands of kids that we work with every day. The scholarship recipients and our board and our members. Thank you. Thank you.
 With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor, we have a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Kennedy, to approve the resolution on Item 14. On that motion, call for the vote. I think Representative Kennedy's light's on. Did you want to say something, sir? I was just going to say, if anybody would like some Oscar Venegas stories, they should see me after the meeting. Voting session is open in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you all for being here.
 The next item is number 16, and this is discussion in action to recognize September as Hunger Action Month in order to bring attention to food insecurity in our communities. And this is Representative Fierro's item. Representative Fierro. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Go ahead. As we're walking up, I'll go ahead and start. Whereas hunger and poverty are issues of vital concerns in Texas, where 15% of people face hunger in our state, one out of every five children do not know where their next meal will come from.
 Whereas the City of El Paso is committed to working
 with El Paso Fighting Hunger and Feeding Texas, a member of Feeding America nationwide network of food banks in educating people about the role and importance of food banks in addressing hunger and raising awareness of the need to devote more resources and attention to the issues related to hunger and poverty. And whereas Fighting Hunger has distributed nearly 100 meals over the last 12 months to our neighbors,
 throughout the network of food pantries, soup kitchens, shelters, and other community organizations. And whereas the month of September has been designated Hunger Action Month in order to bring attention to food insecurities in our communities and to enlist the public in the fight to end hunger by taking action, including volunteering shifts, social media shares, and donations.
 Now, therefore be it proclaimed by El Paso Mayor, City Council, that the month of September 2023 be recognized as Hunger Action Month. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you, Representative. Would you like to come up, please? Please. Thank you, Representative Fierro. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Representatives. I just wanna make one correction, and that is it's 100 million meals, not 100 meals.
 My name is Susan Goodell and I'm the CEO of El Pasoans Fighting Hunger Food Bank. We are so grateful for your support of Hunger Action Month. There are 199 food banks that serve every county in this country and El Pasoans Fighting Hunger is proud to serve the three most West Texas counties, Huspeth, El Paso, and Culberson.
 The issue of hunger in America is so terribly under underestimated. Thirty four million people including nine million children in our nation are food insecure. According to the most recent UTEP study 35 percent of El Pasoans are food insecure. Our food bank serves one hundred and fifty seven thousand unique individuals on an annual basis. My speaking of 9 11.
 My first introduction to disaster response was 9-11-2001, when the 199 CEOs of the food banks across the country were gathered in Philadelphia, and we immediately gathered together,
 and began to figure out how to get support to affected people, in particular those in New York where we at the food bank I then represented, where we sent millions of pounds of wholesome fresh food and staff members to New York to help with the disaster.
 This food bank here in El Paso has been a respondent to every disaster the city has had over the last five and a half years. And we stand ready to stand with the city at future disasters, including the upcoming very likely federal shutdown. And we are preparing for that as we speak. I want to thank the city for supporting Hunger Action Month.
 And I want to assure you that this food bank stands with this community today in the past and in the future. Thank you so much. Thank you. And I know that.
 He's watching, I'm sure, at work, Mr. Tanneyberg, who, you know, had a huge hand in making sure that El Paso had a food bank and that El Pasoans were taken care of. And he was always very upset that we had to go all the way to Midland to have our nearest food bank. And he worked really hard to make sure that our community was represented in that.
 to this day you don't have a bigger advocate than than tanny so congratulations to you and of course tanny for all the work since he was the pioneer of making sure that our community was well taken care of thank you thank you susan it was a motion made by representative fierro seconded by alternate mayor protein molinar to approve the resolution on item 16 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 the next item that was moved up to the forefront is 17 and this is discussion in action to approve a resolution that recognizes the week of september 10th to september 16 2023 as welcome week and directs the city manager to work with the el paso police department to make any appropriate and necessary policy to ensure all el paso residents feel safe and protected regardless of their race nationality or immigration status and this is representative anelo's item
 Thank you, Ms. Pratt. And I was happy to put this item up in conjunction with the county who had it yesterday as a resolution. So I'll make a motion to approve, and then I will read some of the resolution.
 So it says, whereas the city of El Paso has symbolized liberty, security, equality, opportunity for generations of immigrants, refugees, and asylum seekers by extending compassion and hospitality, and whereas the success of the city of El Paso and its residents depends on making sure that we all feel welcome here and are a vital part of our community, bringing fresh perspectives and new ideas, starting businesses, contributing to the economy, and creating vibrant diversity,
 that we all value. Whereas, regardless of where we are born or what we look like, we are El Pasoans, united in our efforts to build a strong community and by recognizing the contributions we all make to create vibrant culture and growing economy, we make our community more prosperous and more inclusive to all those who call it home
 And then I'm just gonna read the first. Now therefore be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City of El Paso recognizes the week of September 10th to September 16th, 2023 as Welcome Week and calls upon the people of the City of El Paso and community organizations to build stronger communities. Motion and a second. We have some speakers. We do have seven members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Sophia Avant Meyer.
 Followed by Michael Gutierrez, Ivan Diaz. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. My name is Sophia Vantmier, and I'm with Texas Rising. I'm speaking in favor of item 17. El Paso is consistently regarded as a friendly and welcoming city by those lucky enough to pass through. However, El Pasoans deserve to feel safe and welcome in their own city as well, regardless of immigration status, ethnicity, or nationality.
 Please take the steps needed to ensure the safety respect and welcoming of all our city's residents. Thank you. SPEAKER 2 The next speaker is Michael Gutierrez followed by Yvonne Diaz.
 Good morning you have three minutes. Good morning council. My name is Michael Gutierrez. I'm with Texas Rising and I'm here today to support item 17. This resolution embodies the values of inclusivity and equity that our city should always strive for. By officially designating welcome week we're sending a clear message to our community and beyond that El Paso is a place where diversity is celebrated
 and everyone is welcome. Furthermore, the commitment to work with our police department to ensure safety of all residents is a vital step towards building trust and fostering a sense of security within our community. In a time where issues of race, nationality, and immigration statuses are often at the forefront of public discourse, it's crucial for our city to take proactive stances in protecting the rights and dignity of every person who steps foot in our community. I urge council to support item 17, thank you.
 The next speaker is Yvonne Diaz, followed by Wesley Lawrence. Good morning. You have three minutes. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Yvonne Diaz with Texas Rising. This morning I'm speaking in favor of this item as making El Paso a welcoming place is all something for all is something that we should strive for.
 We know that during these last months a lot of NGOs like us, Texas Rising, and others have been helping with the influx of people coming to our city. A lot of us are burned out, and I don't think that limits organizations like us, but also public servants such as law enforcement. Yeah.
 By passing this item, we are not only ensuring the safety and respect for everyone that comes to our city or that can potentially be profiled, but also the ethical and lawful training of those who are in charge over enforcing the laws. Yesterday the county passed a proclamation in honor of welcome week, and today we hope that you take the bold steps to pass this item and truly make El Paso a welcoming place for all.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Wesley Lawrence followed by Samantha Singleton. Good morning Mayor and Council. You know this this resolution is what truly makes El Paso special. I truly believe that El Paso is the example for the shining city on top of the hill.
 I've been speaking to a lot of the people that are coming here from different countries throughout the world for opportunity, for hope, and for a better life. A lot of them have stressed the importance of the help that people in El Paso have given them, whether it's food, whether it's clothing, whether it's a listening ear and someone to talk to while they're waiting to go to their next destination on their pathway.
 Lot of them have stressed that they've had difficult interactions with local law enforcement officials here in El Paso So I do believe that this is a step in the right direction I I know that the people of El Paso are very loving and that we love our neighbors regardless of where they come from and who they are and and the history of their life and
 So I'm thankful for this resolution and I only hope that we can continue to do more for those coming here for a better opportunity. I know like Yvonne said, a lot of us that work with NGOs are very stressed due to capacity and due to a lot of the issues that our NGOs are going through. So I thank you for this resolution and I hope that you all pass it. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Samantha Singleton followed by America Sanchez and Lisa Turner. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, city reps. My name is Samantha Singleton and I'm the policy director at the Border Network for Human Rights. The definition of welcoming means behaving in a polite or friendly manner to a guest or new arrival.
 Although that is the Oxford language definition, this is how I define welcoming. Caring for and helping others whenever possible. Putting your selfishness to the side and becoming selfless. Extending love to each and every one regardless of their race, ethnicity, and culture.
 As a city who has stated publicly on several occasions that we are welcoming, it only seems befitting that we put action behind our words. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. This is the golden rule, really it's the biblical rule, that so many of us often quote. So I stand before you today to ask you to do just that. Today you have the opportunity to look beyond where a person is born,
 or what a person looks like, and build a stronger community by showing your love and humanity and declaring this week welcoming week. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is America Sanchez. Good morning. My name is America Sanchez. Good morning. I am in favor of item 17.
 It's crucial for the local government to establish policies that prioritize the safety and well-being of all El Paso residents, regardless of their race, nationality, or immigration status. By implementing inclusive policies, we can create a community where everyone feels valued, protected, and free from discrimination. It's a step towards fostering unity, understanding, and respect among all individuals who call El Paso home. Together, we can build a stronger and more inclusive city for everyone to thrive in,
 That's why I'm asking you to vote yes on item 17. And the final speaker is Lisa Turner. Again, good morning, Mayor of Council. Good morning, Ms. Turner. The city of El Paso is a rather unique city. Unlike other cities, when people show up on our doorstep, we do everything we can to help, and we have seen this. They ended up on our border. They came in here seeking asylum, and people filled their vehicles up full of coffee and whatever to get down there to help people out.
 My issue with this is simple. You say all citizens. All citizens means everybody, everybody. Then you break it down into three categories. I'm worried about everybody that you leave out. It may be me misreading it, I don't know. Is this a needed, yes. Does it need a floor amendment? Yeah, I think it does, but that's up to you all. But to me it just seems like it's
 It's not really for all citizens. So if you're gonna say all citizens, I want all citizens Protected male female whatever they want them Protected treated equally. I don't care where they came from. I don't care what church they go to I don't care what hairstyle they have what language they speak. I don't care about that. That's how I was raised. I
 But if you're going to say all citizens, please don't designate just three categories. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Do we have a motion and a second on it? Yes, sir. The motion was made by Mayor Potemanelo, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 17. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. The next item that was moved to the forefront is number 23. Thank you.
 Item 23 is discussion in action to approve a resolution recognizing Constitution day and this is representative Kennedy's item whereas the frequent recurrence to fundamental principles is of great importance to civic literacy and preservation of liberty and free government and
 And whereas the week in which September 17th falls is designated by the state of Texas as Celebrate Freedom Week in public schools, and our community ought to support our students and join in the responsibility of teaching the rising generation to be free, and whereas the Constitution of the United States of America, having been established to secure the blessings of freedom to its framers and their posterity, ought to be recognized and celebrated on the anniversary of its signing,
 And whereas all who partake in the blessings of liberty are encouraged to read the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States, reflect upon the honor the sacrifice is made to establish and protect our republic, join in ceremonies and activities commemorating the anniversary of the signing of the Constitution.
 and to celebrate the inalienable rights which the government of the people, by the people, and for the people was formed to secure. Now therefore be it resolved by City Council of the City of El Paso that the Mayor, Council, and City of El Paso resolve to recognize September 17, 2023 as Constitution Day and the week of September 17 through 23 as Celebrate Freedom Week,
 approved this 12th day of September 2023 and I will make the motion that that be approved We do have public comment on this item We have miss Aaron take good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Thank you My name is Aaron take and I am a Patriot Academy Constitution coach Thank You councilman Kennedy for bringing this resolution forward and I am grateful for the opportunity to speak before you all this morning and
 and ask that you unite with all upon whom the blessings of liberty have been bestowed and vote in favor of this resolution. Few people are aware of the significance of September 17th in American history. This year on this date we will celebrate the 236th anniversary of the signing of our Constitution, the longest standing constitution in the world, the one that established a land of individual liberty, endless opportunity, and innumerable chances.
 President Ronald Reagan in his inaugural address said, Perhaps you and I have lived too long with this miracle to properly be appreciative. Freedom is a fragile thing, and it's never more than one generation away from extinction. George Mason wrote that no free government nor the blessings of liberty can be preserved to any people, but by frequent recurrence to fundamental principles.
 Friends, the last few generations have lived in a time when the levels of peace, progress, and prosperity are such that it is easy to take for granted the freedoms which have been the catalyst for such blessings. If a nation expects to be ignorant and free in a state of civilization, Thomas Jefferson wrote, it expects what never was and never will be. We must not become complacent. We cannot ignore the risk of existing in a state of civic ignorance.
 How many of us can comprehend the gravity of the day 56 men signed their own death warrants? And the precarious state of the 13 colonies following the end of the American Revolution, the task before the delegates was daunting. Benjamin Franklin gave a speech during the Constitutional Convention in which he said, We have gone back to ancient history for models of government and examined the different forms of those republics which having been formed with the seeds of their own dissolution now no longer exist.
 and we have viewed modern states all around Europe but find none of their constitution suitable to our circumstances. He then made a motion that prayer be held in the assembly every morning before they proceeded to business. Later, he was asked what form of government the delegates had implemented to which he famously responded, a republic, if you can keep it.
 The first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, John Jay, said, Every member of the state ought diligently to read and to study the Constitution of his country and teach the rising generation to be free. By knowing their rights, they will sooner perceive when they are violated and be the better prepared to defend and assert them.
 We have a duty to ourselves, our children, and their children and beyond to not only protect the blessings of liberty, but also to ensure they understand the history, intent, and construct of our republic's governing documents, starting with the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, so that they may one day assume the duties requisite to the preservation of the freedoms we've enjoyed for over two centuries. Thank you. Thank you.
 there's a motion made by representative kennedy seconded by alternate mayor pro tem olina to approve item 23 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session the motion passes unanimously mayor pro tem anello not present mayor ex2 was also moved up was council going to recess now for photos or retiring to executive session i think we need to recess for photos okay is there a motion to recess there's a costa
 Yeah, because after that we'll have to recess for lunch. There's a motion and a second to recess of city council meeting, all in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1053 in order to take photos with this morning's honorees. Council members, there are nine items that we're taking photographs for, if I am counting them correctly. So we're gonna do them by order. We're gonna do National Recovery Month first, followed by Gold Out Child Cancer Awareness Month,
 So we could thank you motion to reconvene the regular council meeting Mayor did you want to wait until noon for call to the public or did you want to reconvene the meeting? I?
 well we have to move into executive because there's a press conference at one I know so that's what I'm saying so she's got 15 minutes and we got called to the public at noon so we'll take our go into executive about the item pardon me you have to go into executive council there's a motion and a second to reconvene the council meeting all in favor anyone opposed the meeting is back in session at 1146 a.m. mayor which item would you like to move to next
 Let's just let her finish so they can go to work because otherwise they're going to leave us and they've been here all morning. So this is item 24 Mayor? Yes ma'am. Item 24 is a TxDOT operational update on projects currently in design and estimated completion dates for construction projects to include reporting on aesthetic landscaping elements. Thank you. Go ahead Ms. Rice. Thank you. Thank you so much. I appreciate it. You have no idea. Good morning while it's still morning Mayor and Council.
 I'm joined here with Raul Ortega who is our director of transportation planning and development and Aldo Madrid our director of construction. So they're the brain power here and my muscle back there. So I plan to update you on current and future projects and I believe somebody is going to work the slideshow for me or? Yes. IT can you please bring up the presentation? Thank you so much. Thank you. I can do it myself once it's up.
 Nope, that's not me. IT, this is item 24, please. Well, in any case, it's a great pleasure to be before you all today, and it's nice to see these familiar faces, and I really do appreciate this, and I will be as quick as I can. If I pass through a slide too quickly, please feel free to back me up. All right, thank you. Here we go.
 This is just a snapshot of construction letting volumes that we have the fiscal year 24 through 27 on there are subject to change. Should there be projects able to be moved up which does happen frequently in our plan.
 Another snapshot we have 74 projects happening right now across our district which is the six western counties of Texas totaling over a billion dollars. I-10 widening west which is going on now that now we're moving on to current projects.
 Many of you guys have the ability to have seen the work that's going on here. We're expanding from four to six lanes from Mesa Street to just south of Vinton. We're doing ramp reconfigurations. We're reconstructing existing frontage roads. We're doing operational improvements, installing wrong-way driver advanced technologies. And currently that project is a little bit ahead of schedule. They have completed the widening to the inside.
 And they have done these the lanes and so that also limits the ability to access the ramps and that those ramps will be coming into service over the next year as they finish the outside lanes.
 The Loop 375 main lane widening project, I-10 to Zaragoza is an ongoing project. This is now in its second phase. We have an estimated completion date of 2025. Again, it's adding a lane to the inside which requires a lot of bridges to also be expanded. It's added the braided ramps, we've already seen those, and the frontage roads there that go over the railroad tracks and the
 it's not the Playa Drain, but the irrigation canal that runs underneath there, so that emergency vehicles can now get over there.
 The Montana widening project is also one of five widening projects we had going on. We've completed the I-10 widening east. This Montana widening project is creating a freeway out of Montana. And it is started in 2019. You can see in this lower left photograph the conditions where we are scheduling to go under Loop 375.
 We ran into very uniform grains of sand, and it is very difficult to dig down in there, and we're having to come back at work and do some retaining walls because when you dig that, it just flows in. So that was a challenge that was unexpected on that project. We're managing it.
 Purple Heart widening is one of our widening projects where we're adding frontage roads from Spur 601 to Montana and that is underway. It's been underway for about a year. We have a joint agreement with El Paso Water. We are You can see on the lower left that they're placing a giant water line there and That relocation is just was part of the work. This project has already graded where the frontage roads will go and
 Here's one that everyone's really happy about, including myself, but I'm going to play it straight here. We've got the North Mesa Street rehabilitation. Some of you may remember when we did a rehabilitation project from Baltimore to Sunland. This was always the intention to pick up the other lengths of Mesa from Sunland down to Donovan and from Yandel up to Glory Road. So that's what we're working on now. Currently, crews are out there repairing curbs.
 They have a lane closure that they pick up every day. It goes nine to four. It's a daily lane closure. And I was there at four. They were already picking up well before four yesterday. I was happy to see it while they repair curbs. And then they'll get down to the brass tacks of what the project is really about, which is the resurfacing of Mesa. Looking forward to that one, huh, Representative Kennedy? Me too.
 The Borderland Expressway is, this is the ultimate design that's shown, and that is a project where we have one phase funded and that is going to
 Start next month. This is going ultimate design goes from loop 375 up to FM 3255 connects to the New Mexico to 13 and then 404 so we will finally have an outer loop and a way for trucks to get Through the Anthony gap which is a much lower grade than what we have now, which is merely Trans Mountain Which is an 8% grade which is not favorable for trucks when they have to get around So this is going to be a boon to our community. So
 Phase one goes merely from Dyer to Railroad. It is a little bit like getting the camel's nose under the tent. We've got phase one funded. We're looking for funding for the other two phases. This let in April. It's got an October start date, and it will just go from Railroad Drive again to Dyer, adding the frontage roads on that project. It will be built. The entire project will be built in phases like that where we start with frontage roads and we add main lanes. Okay.
 Artcraft is letting next year, and this is a welcome project to people who've ever been stuck behind a parade of fan blades coming through Artcraft, trying to make those turns where we're adding these direct connector ramps, which will accommodate those large, oversized.
 fan blades as they go through there. We're also reconstructing and widening and adding frontage roads in both directions. There will be overpasses at Upper Valley Road and West Side Drive so that it will function more like a freeway in that area.
 I-10 widening West these are now projects that are happening in the new near future as well I-10 widening West got that last part of it funded which goes from just south of Vinton up to the New Mexico state line where we can do that widening and that is
 Has a current letting date of 2025, but as I mentioned when we were looking at the letting volumes, that is, we have it available to let next year and if some money frees up in the unified transportation program, we were hoping that we can slip that project in and begin it next year.
 Also, this is one where in this portion of this project we will address landscaping in that area and where the opportunities exist. So that will be another welcome change for that area. The I-10 Furniture Roads from Executive Center to Sunland Park is another fairly new project. It has an estimated letting date of 2025, and that is...
 Really going to change the complexion of the west side in that it will add those frontage roads westbound only at this point from executive center to Sunland Park and they'll connect up with the CD lanes there and there that that area has Been growing and being become become more urbanized but there is no access at that point from the whole Montesillo area and that whole area in between and
 where Topgolf is, all that down to I-10, and this will provide access lanes and then set the stage for the city to come and do Mesa Park, which is another connection. The Montana, this phase two of the Montana project, which I mentioned, is scheduled to let in 2025. It's been designed, and you can see it will go from...
 Loop 375 westbound and eastbound add frontage, road, and lanes from Tierra Este to Zaragoza.
 US 54 main lanes. I'm really happy about this one because I know that Northeast El Paso has long awaited this and it is to provide US 54 over main lanes all the way from Kenworthy to McCombs. It'll also provide overpasses at Sean Haggerty and at McCombs and it will include ramps and and a shared youth path use path on both sides.
 So that is scheduled to let in 2026 again. It's as far as we're concerned it's available to let in 2024 and we're just waiting for the opportunity to move that up in the schedule and
 Another thing that happened this last legislative session or legislative session 87 we got House Bill 3399 passed which allows TxDOT to provide roadway services to federal military property Military installation program is what we call that and so we're looking at improvements to Han Road reconfiguring three intersections there to mitigate congestion meet current standards and
 The letting dates on these projects are all to be determined. We're going to do an advance funding agreement with Fort Bliss. This is another Constitution Avenue Iron Medics adding roundabouts there. And then we are working with Spur 601 and Global Reach to just install a traffic control box there.
 So, if you don't already, please follow us on Twitter. You can sign up for email traffic alerts at drivetexas.org. You can follow us on Facebook by liking us. And you can visit us online at texdot.gov and look for El Paso News. You will see every week's closures. They're also available to you via email if you want me to send them to you directly.
 And my last slide is a plea for asking you to help us end the streak. We can engineer, we can ask for increased enforcement, but it really is up to drivers to drive to conditions, make sure their vehicles are safe, not drive distracted or under the influence, and just watch out for workers in our work zones. Any questions? Thank you.
 Thank you. You did a great job. You did 13 minutes, 42 seconds. I told you I could get it. I'm sitting about here.
 Mayor, just real quickly, I want to thank Jennifer and Tomas and the whole team. Zaragoza is partly in our district. We get lots and lots of questions. You're always accessible, so thank you for all the work that you do for our constituents in District 6. Thank you, Representative Vieira. Appreciate your kind words. And again, that 54, Sean Haggerty there, we've been fighting for that for quite a while, and it's been, what, 20-some odd years in the making of, so I know that...
 through the MPO, the city has fought to get that done and it's finally moving forward, so we thank you for that. And with that, thank you all. Thank you. And with that, I think I need to take a motion to recess into executive session. So moved. Thank you so much. Thank you, ma'am. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. For item number two. I'm sorry, Mayor? Second item. Yeah, just EX2.
 Okay. Yes, ma'am. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551, Subchapter D.
 to discuss Executive Session Item Two, Discussion on Potential Economic Development Opportunities in Northwest El Paso, HQ number 23-1055, under 551.087, Deliberation Regarding Economic Development Negotiations. It is 12 o'clock p.m. Please take any discussions outside the chamber so that council may conduct business at this time. Thank you. We're on Executive Session Item Two, Mayor Pro Tem.
 I'm opening the motion right now. I apologize. Motion made, seconded, and carried to approve a term sheet for a performance-based incentive of up to $3,391,000 for the expansion of an existing manufacturing operation by Eaton Corporation in El Paso, Texas, to the addition of a new manufacturing facility located at 1 Helen of Torch.
 Troy Drive in El Paso, Texas. Such expansion will result in the creation of 575 new full-time jobs, the retention of 300 current full-time jobs, and a minimum investment of $70 million. Second. Motion and a second. There's a motion made and read into the record by Mayor Pro Temanelo, seconded by Representative Kennedy on EX2. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 mayor may we move to call to the public yes ma'am thank you the el paso city council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge
 The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business nor may any member of the public
 uses foreign political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. Mayor, this afternoon we have 25 people that signed up to speak. If they all take three minutes, it may exceed the 60 minute limit.
 We'll be okay, ma'am. Thank you, sir. The first person is Elizabeth Crawford. Ms. Crawford, star 6 to unmute your telephone. Elizabeth Crawford, star 6, please. Ms. Crawford's topic is National Abortion Victims Remembrance Day. Go ahead, Ms. Crawford. You have three minutes. Ms. Crawford, you're on mute. Go ahead, ma'am. Ms. Crawford, we're unable to hear you.
 You may wanna hang up and dial again and we'll come back to you. The next person is Rene Corral. Rene Corral's topic is follow up to the amount of loose abandoned and stray animals in El Paso. Good afternoon, sir, you have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. At the last city council call to the public meeting, you saw and heard from many of your constituents who took time away from work, school, and other obligations
 to come here and ask the City Council for change at Animal Services. There are many more of your constituents that couldn't make it, but are watching and paying close attention to this issue, and the number of these citizens keeps on growing. After the last call to the public, some of us had a meeting with Animal Services leadership at their request to answer our concerns. These concerns could not be answered, which only reinforced Animal Services leadership's
 incompetence and dysfunctional state we are all tired of having to come here and ask you to fix this problem local rescuers have many solutions like making the MacGuffin school a shelter which will be a win-win situation for the migrants and the dog shelter here these rescuers are the most qualified resources that we have but animal services leadership is too close-minded to see that
 Animal services leadership preaches the same old tired scripted rhetoric of how the current initiatives that are in place are working and how animal services are better off than they were five years ago. They are all lies and some people are buying into these lies.
 Animal services claim they are not closed intake shelter, but what they really mean by that is that it's a highly restrictive and limited intake shelter, which refuses to take in countless of loose dogs. Animal services leadership was asked two weeks ago, is it a matter of money? The answer was no. Who in their right mind says money is not an issue at an animal shelter? If money is not an issue, why are we in this situation? Okay.
 Could it be that the current funds available to animal services are not being utilized properly because of incompetence and poor leadership, including proper training to staff? Animal services claims their staff is safer and therefore happier as a result of the shelters reduced intake. But what about the community safety? Just in the past two weeks, there have been three more reported dog attacks. I want to go on public record right now
 and ask what will the city council say to its constituents or the media when a child is mauled to death by so many loose dogs? Because it's not a matter of if it will happen, it's a matter of when it will happen, if this situation is not remedied right away. Thank you, sir. Thank you. The next speaker is Benjamin Alba. Benjamin Alba also signed up to speak on loose cats and dogs and animal services. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 I was here at the previous call to the public regarding the animals in our city. A few days after this previous call to the public meeting, I met with the Director of El Paso Animal Services at his request. He wanted to hear my concerns regarding the cats and dogs. One of the things I mentioned to the Director was the numerous amount of people
 who have tried to do the right thing that is bringing in straight cats and dogs i mentioned many people are being turned away but the director told me that wasn't true he told me people were not being turned away however just as soon as i left this brief meeting i had with the director there was a lady outside the shelter with a dog waiting to be helped
 She thought I was an employee, but of course I told her I wasn't, but I did offer to help. She told me she had found a stray dog and came to the shelter a few days ago wanting to foster and adopt the animal. But she was turned away and was told they were busy and about to close for the day. That's fine, but then she came back the next day at an earlier time, but again was turned away.
 She came back a third day. So I then telephoned the director and I told him, hey, look, there's a lady here waiting outside and that this was the third time she had stopped by. This is not the first time I've seen such poor service from our shelter. As I mentioned a few moments ago, the director stated that they don't turn people away, but in fact people are being turned away, such as in this case.
 People are frustrated. Your constituents are frustrated. They are tired of seeing all these loose, abandoned, and injured animals. They are tired of being treated poorly by the animal services shelter. People such as myself and our animal rescue groups have offered numerous suggestions, but we are not being listened to.
 Just recently, I was told a local TV channel was offering free public service announcements to the shelter, but the shelter never got back to them. One of the employees at the animal shelter told me, well, it costs money and it's not within our budget. How could it cost money if this is a free service that the news channel media is offering? We need to do something and we need to do it immediately. This is just getting worse. Thank you, Mr. Ivo. Thank you.
 Next speaker is Ron Como. He's also speaking regarding animal services. Mr. Como will be followed by Barbara Valencia Mark Fierro. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes Sorry, I tripped on my tie on the way up here I Got to start out with good. I fully appreciate the things that have been happening I know we've run into a little snag with the school and I'm hoping we can get that taken care of and
 Rapidly so we can move on one of the things that we need to discuss is the same thing that was just brought up about dog attacks We we haven't had some serious dog attacks lately pets have been killed while people were trying to walk them and Animal Services takes these aggressive dogs and hands them back to the people that allowed them to get loose and attack people and their pets
 Technically, I believe they are supposed to quarantine the stray and it's being handed back to the owners and they're getting tickets for licenses and no shots. Imagine that. We have a situation that just happened this weekend with Ruby, who is the newest ASAC member. She was bitten, she was attacked, her pet was killed and the dog was turned over to the owner.
 The first one where the two dogs attacked the throat and the groin, they turned the dog back over to the owner. And the people interviewed on Channel 7 said they didn't feel safe in their own community because this dog was brought back to the owner who obviously didn't have control over the stray.
 We have a situation right now in Northeast El Paso that happened on Saturday. We have a gentleman that's out there that's blown every window out of his mobile home. He's torn the doors off of it, the roof's ripped. He's had numerous calls for animal cruelty. He's had numerous calls for all kinds of things. The police department's been out, animal services has been out, nothing has been done. Well, Saturday, he went after one of his neighbors with a baseball bat.
 So PD showed up animal services showed up because they had two more dogs one shot again Same guy had this shot German Shepherd While they were interviewing the gentleman that he damaged his truck the police officers got any physical altercation With this gentleman now understand. This is not the first time they've been there and talked to this guy and
 But because he attacked a police officer, I guess they decided to check his record. He had outstanding warrants for misdemeanors and felonies. So they confiscated or they took him in under arrest and contacted the shelter to pick up the dogs. That was Saturday. The dogs are still in the gentleman's front yard. The dogs got loose this morning and chased one of the neighbors who was carrying their child. We need no more excuses about why we can't pick up strays. He needs to come up with a plan.
 People are going to die if we don't get this fixed. Thank you for your time and I appreciate everything that has been done Thank you. Next speaker is Barbara Valencia also speaking on animal services responsibility Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Okay. I'm Barbara Valencia with Huckleberry Hound dog rescue responsibility
 At the last City Council's call to the public portion of the meeting, Mr. Mark Fierro read directly from Animal Services' website, where it stated on at least two different portions of the website as an open admission shelter. Animal Services Management has since taken those words off the website. This blatant attempt at concealing and misleading the taxpayers of El Paso has not gone unnoticed.
 Removing that statement does not absolve Animal Services nor the City of your fiduciary duties and responsibilities to the taxpayers. Courts across the country have ruled against cities and their municipal shelters for closing shelter intake as violations against the taxpayers and fraud. In the rulings, it states open admission shelters.
 that are operated by municipalities and are paid for by tax dollars are to admit every stray animal in their jurisdiction regardless of health, age, breed or temperament.
 Managed admission shelters that are municipalities and are paid for by tax dollars must maintain open admission policies to admit every stray animal in their jurisdiction regardless of health, age, breed, or temperament. Limited admission shelters. They may accept animals based on self-defined criteria and are to be privately funded, not publicly funded.
 which means no tax dollars. Animal Services Management hosted an online meeting on September 6th with several members of the public, and it was stated, Animal Services is not going to take stray and lost animals into the shelter.
 Due to Animal Services words and actions, they are operating as a limited admission shelter by self-defined intake criteria. And as such, the City and Animal Services cannot use the $12 million of taxpayers money allotted to the fiscal year 2024 Animal Services budget.
 Animal services now is now a limited admission shelter according to animal services management and must seek private funding City manager Weston mayor and City Council you have two options either continue operations at animal services as a limited admission shelter and forfeit all the tax dollars or use the allotted tax dollars for its intended purpose and
 and which means animal services goes back to an open admission shelter and admits every stray animal in its jurisdiction, regardless of health, age, breed, or temperament. Thank you, Ms. Valencia. Thank you. The final speaker regarding animal services is Mark Fierro. Good afternoon, Mr. Fierro. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. Thank you for your time. Respect. Respect.
 El Paso code and ordinance 7.14.020. Every dog, cat, or ferret coming into the possession of an animal welfare organization, including animal services,
 received in any manner other than a release by the owner of the dog, cat or ferret, in this case a stray, must be held a minimum of three full days if the dog, cat or ferret does not have a registration tag or microchip.
 or for a minimum of six full days if the dog, cat, or ferret has a registration tag or microchip before the animal may be transferred or euthanized, with the exception of humanely euthanizing to end severe suffering prior to the end of the hold period. Animal services, ACOs, and 311 dispatchers are telling finders of stray animals if the stray is taken in by the shelter,
 that that animal will be immediately euthanized, which would be a violation of city ordinance. This is animal services' way of guilting people into keeping stray animals they are unable to care for. This tactic is not only disrespectful, but also a form of psychological abuse to the finders of stray animals. At the last city council meeting, many community members took time off from work
 time away from their families, time away from other duties and obligations. They drove downtown right here and searched for parking and walked blocks to City Hall in 100 degree heat in order to come speak before you, only to be disrespected by Animal Services Management laughing at us. Yes, many of us did see that atrocious spectacle displayed by Animal Services Management.
 Community members want to know why the city of El Paso is so dysfunctional as to allow for management of a city department to lie, mislead the public, cheat the taxpayers, break local and state laws, and openly disrespect the ones that are paying their salaries. No other company or organization would allow any of their management employees to do all of this and remain employed with them.
 When a community member asks a simple question, they deserve an answer, not to be dismissed and disrespected. Mr. Fierro, thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Elizabeth Crawford. Ms. Crawford, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon. Ms. Crawford's topic is National Abortion Victims Remembrance Day. Go ahead, Ms. Crawford, you have three minutes. Ms. Crawford, we're still unable to hear you.
 I'm sorry for that. We'll go ahead and move to the next speaker, Aurelio Valdez, Jr. Aurelio Valdez, Jr. His topic is the process and selection of the permanent police chief. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Can you all look up? Why are you on your phones? So I'm not happy, and for many reasons. In 16 – I'll introduce myself first. I'm Aurelio Valdez, Jr. I'm the founder of the El Paso Gender and Sexuality Alliance Board. Y'all are still not looking up, so are y'all paying attention, or am I speaking? Okay.
 So in 16 years there has not been a new police chief and yet you're rushing this by. This is not right. There is no opportunity for substantive community input. Put the pause button on this and just wait a second. Sexual harassment has become a pattern of practice in the police department and yet you are doing nothing. Stop standing by and continuing to enable this. The officers who are supposed to trust and who we are the ones who are supposed to trust and we trouble with our lives and there's a situation are the ones who commit crimes.
 Go forward and you will have blood, broken bones, death on your hands by continuing to silence the community's input and stopping police brutality. If you have any of these police chiefs to become your permanent chief. The next speaker is Veronica Carvajal. Ms. Carvajal, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Ms. Carvajal is also speaking regarding selecting the next chief of police. Go ahead, ma'am. You have three minutes. We're not able to hear Ms. Carvajal either. I don't know. IT, can you please assist? Ms. Carvajal, I'll come back to you.
 We're asking IT to assist because we're unable to hear you. We'll move on to Irma Cruz. Irma Cruz is also speaking regarding selection of the new chief of police.
 Good afternoon, you have three minutes. Buenas tardes a todos. Gracias por la oportunidad de de permitirme hablar con ustedes. Mi nombre es Irma Cruz. Soy parte de la Red Fronteriza por los Derechos Humanos. My name is Irma Cruz and I'm part of the Border Network for Human Rights. And right now I came to you because we want more involvement of the community to be in the, for the process of selection of a new chief of police.
 We, the community, are the ones who are in direct contact with the police and we deserve to have a voice in this election. So that's why I'm here and I'm asking to do more events, more opportunities so people can talk to the candidates and can have an input there. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Susana Herrera.
 Susana Herrera is also speaking regarding selection of the new Chief of Police. After Ms. Herrera, we'll go back to Ms. Carvajal. I think the issue has been resolved. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Buenas tardes. Mi nombre es Susana Herrera y yo vivo en el este del Paso.
 And I want to ask you to give us the opportunity as community members, as we have a daily life here, so it's very important that the community be involved in the decisions that are made so that we can know and that the candidates for chief of police also get involved more with the communities.
 no
 So, that gave us a kind of combination and having the direct treatment. And we also remember that for many years El Paso was one of the safest cities. And I think that what helped us a lot was the interaction that there was with the community.
 Y me gustaría que en esta nueva elección nos permitieran seguir con ese contacto para que cada vez el paso sea una ciudad más segura. Gracias. Gracias, Dr. Ms. Herrera, I would also like to ask counsel that the community be allowed to participate in this election of the new chief of police. The next speaker is Veronica Carvajal. Ms. Carvajal, go ahead now. Yes, can you hear me? Yes, we can. Okay.
 Okay great thank you. Good afternoon Mayor and Council. My name is Veronica Carvajal. I live in District 2. In 2007 I participated in a panel that interviewed the candidates for Chief of Police.
 Then city manager Joyce Wilson invited me along with Fernando Garcia from the Board of Network for Human Rights, Brianna Stone, then director of the Paso del Norte Civil Rights Project, Carlos Marentes from Centros Sin Fronteras, and other community members. Our community panel interviewed the finalists one by one. We then came up with a recommendation. Well, I did not agree with the final recommendation. I was very grateful for the meaningful dialogue with the candidates as well as the community leaders.
 To be clear, Joyce Wilson did all of this before the Board Network for Human Rights created the El Paso Police Accountability Task Force. This was also before the Black Lives Matter protests and the community outrage that followed due to the aggression showed by the police at the protest. This was before the late federal judge, Bill Martinez, issued an opinion with scathing statements about a police culture that lacks accountability for its officers.
 This was before the multiple lawsuits and settlements about excessive force against people with mental health challenges. And this was before police officers were accused and charged with crimes including sexual harassment, sexual assault, and rape. Former city manager Tommy Gonzalez should not have been allowed to shut out the community. This position is extremely important and completely out of the hands of voters. He did not set back community engagement precedent that was established over 16 years ago.
 I am asking that a community panel be convened to interview not just the four finalists but all of the top candidates. I find it very hard to believe that we had two finalists in 2007 who were both female and Mexican-American. And today, 16 years later, none of the four finalists are female.
 This interview panel is just one way that the community can be involved in selecting the person who will be in charge of the most expensive department in the city's budget. For this and many other reasons, we deserve a seat at the table. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Margarita Arvizo. Margarita Arvizo, Rocio Esteban. You, Margarita? Okay, go ahead. Go ahead, Ms. Arvizo. You have three minutes.
 buenas tardes mi nombre es margarita arvizo y gracias por tener la oportunidad de hablar con ustedes estoy aquí verdad por la preocupación que tengo en saber quienes van a ser los candidatos verdad para ser los nuevos o
 policía el jefe la policía entonces yo como miembro de la comunidad del paso y que vivo en el área este me preocupa verdad conocer más de ellos saber que es su trabajo anterior qué cosas han hecho cuáles son sus metas también para para el paso porque porque necesitamos que nuestra ciudad sea más segura acuérdense que te estamos teniendo índices más altos en violencia entonces necesitamos que este nuevo jefe verdad pues
 a la comunidad junto con sus agentes verdad para que hagan un buen plan entonces necesitamos conocer más de cada uno de ellos para elegir quién es
 es quién es el mejor candidato yo sé que el día de mañana va a haber una presentación donde vamos a poder estar viéndolos y platicar con ellos pero pues también necesitamos verdad que la comunidad se involucre más y organizaciones y es que muchas gracias por esta oportunidad y que antes de que ustedes decidan algo pues que también nosotros como comunidad estemos enterados y podamos participar también en la elección de este nuevo jefe de la policía muchas gracias y bonita tarde
 Gracias. Ms. Arvizo también está pidiendo la participación de la comunidad en la selección del nuevo jefe de la policía. El próximo orador es Rocio Estebane.
 Gracias, buenas tardes. Mi nombre es Rosy Estebané, vivo en el área este del Paso. A mí me gustaría también conocer a esta persona o a los posibles candidatos, porque prácticamente va a trabajar con nosotros en la comunidad. Entonces, a mí sí me gustaría saber...
 y espero y que realmente conozca a las diferentes áreas y comunidades que hay aquí en El Paso y que sea una persona capacitada para desempeñar un buen papel en su trabajo. Gracias. Gracias. La señora Estefania también comparte los mismos sentimientos que los precedentes. La próxima persona que se ha enojo es Dulce Carlos.
 Se seguirá Rosa Avila, Samantha Singleton, Ellen Lizárraga, Betty Camargo, Fernando García. Buenas tardes, tienen tres minutos. Buenas tardes, mi nombre es Dulce Carlos, soy miembro de la Red Fronteriza por los Derechos Humanos. El día de hoy estamos aquí con esta preocupación sobre cuáles son las propuestas que estos candidatos presentan a nuestras comunidades. Una de las principales preocupaciones que tenemos también es
 cuáles son sus propuestas, cuáles son sus planes respecto a estos temas que han tocado muy recientemente a nuestra comunidad sobre cómo proceden o cómo reaccionan los agentes ante los llamados de personas que están teniendo una crisis de salud mental o que están pasando por algún ataque
 desafortunado entonces pues esas son una de nuestras preocupaciones y esperamos que la persona que sea elegida verdad tenga una buena disposición ante la comunidad y sobre todo que pueda atender a todas estas necesidades muchas gracias gracias carlos es also a member of the border network for human rights and shares the same sentiments of allowing community involvement in the next election of the police chief
 La próxima oradora es Rosa Avila, también con el Bodo Network por los Derechos Humanos. Buenas tardes. Mi nombre es Rosa Avila, soy coordinadora del área de Canotillo, del oeste del paso. Gracias por la oportunidad. Estamos aquí en representación de nuestras comunidades y pedirles ahora sí que la oportunidad, que nuestra gente…
 Que nuestra gente en general tenga la oportunidad de conocer a los candidatos, a quién va a ser el nuevo jefe de la policía, e interactuar con ellos para una mejor relación entre policía y las comunidades, ya que eso nos daría tranquilidad a nosotros, el saber que tendremos la confianza en ellos para cualquier emergencia que se presentara. Gracias.
 Esa vela ojo ojo shares a Saint-Séntiméz en ex-picar ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo ojo Samantha Singleton. She will be followed by Alan de Zaragoza. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon on Samantha Singleton, the police accountability task force coordinator for the border network for human rights. On February the 22nd of 2023, I emailed each of you in addition to 40 former city manager Tommy González
 y el director de seguridad de la ciudad, Mario D'Agostino, que dice que cuando el momento es correcto y que la ciudad se ve hacia el papel vital, es nuestra expectativa de que haya una importante involucración comunitaria en la selección del nuevo jefe.
 Fernando García, director ejecutivo de BNHR, participó en el proceso cuando el antiguo jefe Allen fue elegido. Y es nuestro deseo que BNHR, en adición a otros líderes de la comunidad, extienda una oportunidad de involucración. La exclusión de este proceso de contratación muy importante nos enviará un mensaje fuerte a nuestra ciudad.
 A través de los envíos, me informé de que había un gran intercambio y participación en la comunidad, así como reuniones de seguridad y sesiones de preguntas.
 El anuncio de los cuatro finalistas para esta posición fue una sorpresa y una sorpresa sorprendente no solo para nosotros, sino para otros que se han inquietado sobre ser parte del proceso de selección. Un número limitado de organizaciones comunitarias y grandes participantes se han dado la oportunidad de conocer al reclutador.
 mientras que muchos aún no están involucrados en el proceso. No fue solo el cambio de un jefe de policía, sino una oportunidad de sentarse con líderes de la comunidad y con los responsables claves para abordar los desafíos que el Departamento de Policía ha tenido y que ha estado enfrentando, en adición a tomar un paso hacia cambiar la cultura dentro del Departamento de Policía y la perspectiva de la comunidad que protegen y sirven.
 No se debe considerar la liderazgo de la policía sin input de aquellos a los que la policía impactará. Entendemos y estamos conscientes de que habrá una recepción de reuniones y reuniones mañana, pero eso no es suficiente.
 as a community member, leader, and a stakeholder, it is imperative that we are able to inform community members that we deal with consistently, that community leaders and key stakeholders were given their due diligence
 in this process. I cannot truthfully say that that happened. So we have a sign-on letter which includes several organizations that believe no hiring decision should be made by the city manager until community leaders and stakeholders have been allowed to interview the finalists
 and make a recommendation to the city manager. This is not a difficult request. It's a process that has been done previously by ignoring the perspectives and concerns of community members, leaders, organizations, and key stakeholders. It sets this community engagement model back that has been established over 16 years ago. Thank you. Thank you, the next speaker is Ellen Izarraga.
 Ellen Dizarraga is also speaking regarding the chief of police selection. He will be followed by Betty Camargo. Good afternoon you have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon council. I am just here to echo the message that has been shared today. I had the opportunity to make some calls to your offices yesterday to express my concern for the lack of community.
 involvement in this election, so I really hope that today that is something that you take away. As Samantha said, this is not a difficult decision to take. We just simply wanna get to know these candidates a little bit better. We wanna know their values, we wanna know where they stand on some of our issues. At the end of the day, the decision will fall back on you and our city manager. We're simply asking to have a seat at the table.
 So I just want to encourage all of you again to give us that opportunity. We have yet again our city has the opportunity to show our state our nation what community policing values we have the values that we have as a community and I think that this is a great opportunity again to make an example of that. Thank you. SPEAKER 1 Thank you. The next speaker is Betty Camargo also with the Border Network for Human Rights speaking on the chief of police selection. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon and thank you for the time. My name is Betty Camargo. I'm state's program director for Border Network for Human Rights, but I'm also a community of El Paso. As a member of this community, I believe that the selection of the next chief of police is a critically important decision that will have a significant impact on the safety and well-being of our neighborhoods and residents. It is my sincere hope that the city council will prioritize transparency and community engagement throughout the hiring process.
 It's my understanding that the current timeline for selecting the new chief of police does not allow for meaningful community input or engagement with the finalists before a decision is made. This is deeply concerning to us as it suggests that the voices of those who will be most affected by the new chief's policies and initiatives are gonna be ignored. I respectfully request that you delay your vote on this matter until the community has had the opportunity to meet with and provide feedback on the final candidates for the position.
 This would not only serve to improve public trust and confidence in the police department, but it would also help ensure that the new chief is well equipped to address the unique needs and concerns of our border community. It is crucial that the new chief of police is someone who not only has a strong background in law enforcement, but also who understands and respects the needs and concerns of those of us in our community.
 By involving the community in the hiring process, we can ensure that those chosen candidates is someone who's well respected and appreciated.
 I urge you to consider the current approach and to take steps back to involve the community in the decision-making process. This could include hosting town hall meetings or community forums where the candidates can be introduced and questions can be asked. It's important that we work together to create a strong and positive relationship between the police department and our border community, and involving the community in the hiring of a new chief of police is necessary.
 Thank you for taking the time to consider our thoughts on this matter. I hope that you will take them into account and make the decision to involve every stakeholder in the hiring process of the new Chief of Police. Thank you. The next speaker is Fernando Garcia with the Voter Network for Human Rights speaking on the Chief of Police selection. I don't believe Mr. Garcia is here. We'll move on to Ms. Lisa Turner, also speaking on the selection of Chief of Police. Good afternoon again, Ms. Turner. You have three minutes. Mayor Pro Tem, council.
 I'm a sitting commissioner of the El Paso Women's Rights Commission. I am the mayor's appointee, therefore I represent every single woman in this city. The fact that the El Paso Women's Rights Commission was not even involved in this process is disgraceful. The fact that two of the selectees were supervisor and one is a presently interim chief. You have to understand, I have a certain view of leadership.
 As a leader, your people are a reflection of you. If you don't have integrity when you see something wrong to step up and say something, then you should not be considered for this position. If what we have seen in the El Paso Police Department as how the female officers are being treated, and God knows what they're doing to the women in the community, we need to reset this process immediately.
 This process was discriminatory from the get-go. The institutional bias against women to be a chief is there. You can't get around it. It's the same thing, because we've got a city manager selection coming up, and I haven't heard a single word about involving the Women's Rights Commission in that selection process. We represent all the women in this city, and this council and our city managers
 so far have decided to ignore the voice of the women of this community. You've ignored us. It's unacceptable. It's disgraceful. It's disgusting. Now I don't know how to get this across to you, but my request is that you redo this search and make sure that there are female selectees.
 and that you do involve your Women's Rights Commission and other female stakeholders in this city. If you don't, you're telling every one of us that we don't matter. That's exactly what you're telling us, and that's unacceptable.
 Thank you. The final speaker on the topic of selection of Chief of Police is Carmen Rodriguez. She submitted a statement that reads, please read the following message at Tuesday's public comment period. Dear Mayor and Council, there is growing awareness among the public of the city's unwritten policy that the public should know as little as possible about certain issues and procedures. The issue at hand is the selection of the police chief. The unwritten policy states,
 On this issue, the less the public knows, the less they will complain. This policy has been in existence for decades and it doesn't seem to matter who sits in the mayor and council seats. City managers and city attorneys have been the enforcers of this policy. It is not only a policy, but also a culture of secrecy that permeates
 down through the different levels of the city's administration. The fear of retaliation keeps city employees quiet and in line. In the past year, a group of citizens who believe in public oversight of the police department's use of force practices has been trying to engage with the police department in a very respectful and positive manner.
 After much time and effort, they have been unable to gain acceptance as a public partner to make improvements in the police department. The Border Network for Human Rights Police Accountability Task Force is a group dedicated to this effort and now they are simply leading the demand for public input in the police chief selection process.
 Please open up this process to more public input. Citizens are only trying to have a more responsive and accountable police department. We should all agree on this goal and join together to bring it about. Thank you for your time and service, Carmen E. Rodriguez. The next speaker this afternoon is Elaine Prickett. Topic is thanking the council for the continued support and reporting on the success of Mission 15. Elaine Prickett, she will be followed by John Poland,
 Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. I just wanted to come and thank you once again for making such a great homecoming for our veterans. First of all, I'd like to introduce some of our honored veterans that are here with us today. This is Joe Lopez, China Boy Lopez, one of our Vietnam veterans that was on the last mission. This is Humberto Matas, who was on our last mission. He's also a Vietnam veteran.
 This is my father in law Kirby Prickett. He was on mission five Korean veteran and Mr. Delgado was a Vietnam veteran on our last mission. I think Mr. Dixon.
 Oh Mr. Dixon had to leave. He was a Korean veteran that was here. I also want to introduce John Poland who is our one of our board members and Linda Weber who is a board member that are here today. And I also want to introduce Teresa Orr.
 She is the wife of one of our veterans that was on Mission 13 who passed away in February and she's going to speak in a few minutes on the impact that Honor Flight has on families. I just wanted to share with you some comments that were made and what the impact is that the city of El Paso is having on our veterans and want to thank you for that. We had one veteran say you don't know what wounds and this is at Tears I'm also the videographer so through Tears he's telling me you don't know what wounds it healed
 To know that people are proud of me and to have someone hand me a cardboard welcome home sign. We also had a veteran mentioned that for the first time on this last trip he felt like he could rejoin the American society because when he came back from Vietnam he didn't feel like he was part of our society anymore.
 Recently a couple months ago one of our veterans Mr. Root passed away and the trip meant so much to him and the welcome home that you were able to provide that on his columbarium he had them put mission 13.
 That's the impact that this has on our veterans and this is the very little that we do to honor and respect them. And I just want to thank the city of El Paso and all of you for having such a wonderful homecoming and for your continued support and to request that you continue to have that support for us. Thank you very much. I just want to check, does anybody need a flyer? Are you unfamiliar with HonorFly or has everybody gotten their pin? Okay.
 You need a pen? Okay. Thank you, Ms. Pickett. Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak to you. The next speaker is John Poland, speaking on thanking City Council for support. Good afternoon, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, thank you. Honorable City Council members, I am John Poland, Secretary of the Honor Flight of Southern New Mexico and El Paso Board of Directors. I'd like to add my thanks to those that Elaine just gave you for your enthusiastic support and commitment to our Honor Flight.
 As you will hear from the stories of our veterans and family members alike, the ability for veterans to go to Washington, D.C. to see the memorials that were built in their honor has allowed innumerable veterans to finally turn the page and come to grips with their past military careers in a positive and uplifting way. I think you can see why we do what we do.
 And I give you our sincerest thanks for coming alongside us to continue this effort. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Teresa Orr. Her topic is speaking on behalf of her husband and other veterans that went on the honor flight of Southern New Mexico and El Paso in May of 2019. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, council members. My name is Teresa Orr, and I'm here to speak about the fantastic,
 Honor Flight of Southern New Mexico and El Paso, what it does for the veterans. My husband, Sergeant John Richard Orr, also known as Private Cowboy, a Vietnam 7th Marine Scout Sniper, had the privilege to be on Mission 12 in May of October 2019. Even though he was very honored to be selected, he also felt, as most veterans do, there's a veteran more worthy than me.
 but he did manage to go. On the day of leaving for the honor flight as it approached, I could see how excited he was, but there was also an underlying apprehension and I felt that this apprehension was due to the fact when he came home from Vietnam, he did not receive a welcome home. It was the complete opposite. On the day of the departure as we headed to the El Paso airport,
 As more and more veterans arrived, you could see their excitement. But there was also that underlying apprehension. I believe the apprehension was centered about not knowing how would the public react to them. If you have never attended an honor flight departure, I urge you to go to the airport to see the veterans off. But I also urge you to go back when they come back.
 to see the difference that this flight has made for them. A healing took place on the trip, and they finally got the welcome home and the honor that they deserved. You could not only see this in their body language, but on their faces. They were now publicly proud of their services and sacrifices for their country.
 It was amazing to see the before and after change given to these veterans due to the Honor Flight. The Honor Flight gives them back their pride and dignity to make them feel appreciated. The Honor Flight of Southern New Mexico and El Paso puts many veterans that helped make this healing trip for them possible. They are the angels that the veterans deserve. Thank you for your time. The final speaker is Linda Woodburr.
 Her topic is thanking the council for their continued support and reporting on the success of Mission 15. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Linda Woodbur. I have the fancy title of
 Medical coordinator, I am a board member, but because of my nursing background, part of my job is to review every application that comes into her program, and look through them thoroughly, call each veteran, call each guardian, and assess their health issues and needs so that we can match, and give each veteran the proper care that they need during the trip.
 I just wanted to mention a few numbers. As we continue to need the support that El Paso gives us, we have planned only one flight for next year so far, as we're not sure as to we will be able to do a second flight. I just wanted to, as I say, mention a few numbers. Our waiting list right now is 124 Vietnam veterans.
 Of those, 47 are from El Paso, 36 are from Las Cruces, and 41 are from other areas in southern New Mexico and western Texas. If we're not able to do,
 two flights this year and again next year, you can imagine how long it will take us to get our veterans that are on the waiting list to there. Our flight for this fall, September 28th to the 30th, we have 34 veterans going. Of those, 14 are from El Paso, eight are from Las Cruces, and 12 are from other areas. And we continue to accept applications and hope
 And hopefully we can continue to have the support of El Paso. We are grateful for what we do have, but we continue to need support so that we can
 have the same effect as the trip has had for for private cowboy on all our other veterans. And I just wanted to I I learned better when I see things. So I just wanted to hold up and show you that I have three binders of this size that contain the applications and I see them every day and hope and pray that we continue to cover program and offer this wonderful opportunity to our veterans. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem, that concludes call to the public this afternoon. Thank you, Ms. Pratt. I want to thank everybody for coming today. I know I've heard a lot of these concerns previous today. I echo a lot of the sentiments shared here today and have expressed those to the city manager. I think it is really important. My understanding is that we would have a lot more public input in the chief of police search. I've been disappointed myself that that hasn't happened. I think
 um we all felt that way about the city manager contract right which is why we're we'll be discussing that later i don't think this process should have been any different so i just want to thank everybody for coming um with that council it's 121 would you all like to take a nine minute break it's up to y'all i mean just well because i know now right now we can't get up we keep getting right on the edge of quorum so we can't get up to use the restroom and so i just want to take this opportunity to to do that if you would want to before we lose quorum again
 Yes. Okay. Motion to recess, Ms. Prime? Second. For how long? Until 1.30. Okay, there's a motion and a second to recess of city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1.21 p.m. and will reconvene at 1.30. Representative Kennedy, we will have a quorum when you get up here, sir.
 Ms. Prime, we have a quorum now. Motion to reconvene. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1.35 p.m. Mayor, may we go back to item five that was moved from the regular agenda? Absolutely, ma'am. Thank you, sir. Item five is a resolution that the city council approve an interlocal agreement between the city of El Paso, Texas, and Socorro Independent School Districts
 to provide authority to commission law enforcement officers hired by SISD to issue parking citations for parking violations under the El Paso City Code in the vicinity of schools that are in the SISD district. Mayor Pro Temp.
 I apologize. I wanted to clarify, I don't know why I didn't ask it at the time, but in public comment, there was kind of a question about what if someone just wanted to find someone's data. And I wanted to clarify, based on this item, these will be SISD police officers or peace officers, right? These people will be trained officers. And so just not anybody from SISD administration is going to be able to do citations. Correct.
 The interlocal agreement gives the authority for the Socorro and Tobitico School District to have their commissioned peace officers issue the parking citations. And they're allowed to by law in the state of Texas. As a matter of fact, we even allow it with our parking enforcers through ordinance and such. So we provide the citation. They in turn are going
 be issued the citations, if there's a hearing case or anything like that, they're gonna respond to it. They're gonna deliver them to one location where we're gonna turn them in, but it's all gonna be based more of a force multiplier because there's been requests from the community and also let us hear with me, it started through two avenues. We had a meeting in one community
 and he had started in another one. So basically we brought this together and it's an option that they have because they don't have the system set up for parking citations, no traffic citations. I just wanted to clarify, because I think based on that questioning, I wanted for public edification people to realize they're actual trade peace officers. So with that, I'm fine. And that was my only clarification. So I'll make a motion to approve. Now they're appointed by the state. Excuse me, are they state peace officers, by the state?
 I'm not understanding are they the peace officers for the school district or state officials? Yes, by all means Yes, so they have a lot of jurisdiction more than just our school district Texas Commission Officers correct standards. Thank you. Thank you, sir Yes, sir, the motion was made by mayor Pro Tem Manalo seconded by alternate mayor Pro Tem Molina to approve item number five on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and
 And the motion passes unanimously. Representatives Hernandez-Ferro not present. That brings us to item number 15. Did you move 7 also? No? Okay. Okay, thank you.
 Item 15 is discussion in action to direct the city manager to designate the second Monday in October of each year as Indigenous Peoples Day as part of continued efforts to address systematic racism Towards indigenous people and promote the closing of the equity gap for indigenous people in our community. This is representative on a lozai
 Thank you, Ms. Prine. We know that since the 1990s, communities have been recognizing the second Monday of October as Indigenous Peoples Day. Columbus Day was created as a recognition of Italian individuals who were receiving persecution.
 As an Italian individual, I think it is really important in this community we recognize the people that came here long before Christopher, were here long before Christopher Columbus, are native to this community and who have given so much culture, history, and importance to El Paso. And with that, I'll make a motion to approve. One motion, two seconds. There's only four of you, so. There's a motion made by Mayor Potemanello, seconded by Representative Kennedy, to approve item number 15 on that motion. Call for the vote.
 Representative Fierro, would you like to vote on this item? Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 18.
 Item 18 is discussion in action to approve a resolution to direct the city manager to work with the police department the department's designated LGBTQ liaison and a community stakeholder task force to evaluate new policies and trainings to improve how transgender and gender diverse individuals are identified by the El Paso Police Department and
 to implement a list of bias-free policies and to implement a safe place program in the city of El Paso. And this is also Mayor Pro Temanillo's item. Ms. Prang, can we take items 18 and 19 together and then go to public comment once we've read them?
 Item 19 is discussion and action to approve a resolution to direct the city manager to create a policy that ensures access for transgender individuals to freely use city facilities consistent with their gender identity and or expression in city-owned buildings and to direct the city attorney to create an ordinance amending Title V of the City Code of Ordinances.
 relating to single user restrooms to require single user restrooms to have gender neutral signage. Also Mayor Pro Tem on LO's item. Mayor Pro Tem? Yeah, can we take public comment first Mayor? Yes ma'am. Thank you. Do we have public comment on? Yes sir we do. Can we just take them both at the same time? Yes sir. The first person that signed up to speak is Eric McNabb. Eric McNabb, star six please to unmute your telephone.
 Eric McNabb, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. While he's doing that, we'll move to Andy Rose, follow by Sophia Avant-Mier.
 Good afternoon you have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon City Council. So with these items as a transgender person these affect not only me but everyone within the transgender community and gender diverse community in El Paso with item 18
 being the one that helps trans folk and gender diverse folk feel the most the most safer in El Paso. Before I got my gender gender marker changed on my driver's license it was always terrifying for any
 Any encounter I would have with an officer because if they were to see that either when I didn't get my name changed or when I didn't get my gender marker changed, both of which I got done years apart, I was scared that they wouldn't see – one, wouldn't see me as a woman but wouldn't treat me as a woman either. And in that case, if I came across anyone who happened to not –
 not take too kindly to to myself as a transgender woman or as a person. I often fear for my safety and I know that there have been other cases with other transgender folks and gender diverse folks in the city where they've had encounters with police officers or law enforcement officers and had been blatantly discriminated against and
 and had their safety put at risk. With this item this would definitely help to at least give officers and law enforcement a better understanding of of transgender folks and gender diverse folks and keep keep these citizens these citizens safe safer and have a better
 hopefully a better experience if they ever have to deal with law enforcement. And in terms of the second item this helps to.
 keep this allows transgender bless you. This allows transgender folks to use the restrooms that obviously coincide with their gender identity. While I may have been assigned male at birth I obviously present and identify as a woman now to every fullest extent and
 I've had experiences where I've either been eyed going to the women's restroom or been been asked whether or not I'm supposed to be there. And it's it's cruel. It's inhumane and no one should ever have to go through that. So please pass these items. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Eric McNabb. Eric McNabb go ahead. You have three minutes.
 Hello, can you hear me? Yes. Yes. If one were to follow local news Facebook pages in El Paso and read the comments made on stories involving LGBTQ plus people, you will see that they were openly vilified, dehumanized, mocked and demonized by El Pasoans of all types. The hate directed towards trans people is especially pronounced. You can see these bigoted and vile comments get overwhelming support from El Pasoans in the form of likes.
 There is a toxic culture in this city that is the product of traditionalism, dogmatism, religiosity, and the poor educations of many who live here that make El Paso a very unsafe place for LGBTQ plus El Pasoans. When whole types of people are dehumanized and demonized, that is when people feel allowed to or even obligated to harass, bully, and attack them.
 It pains my heart reading these bigoted comments on local news pages because I know there are trans and gay El Pasoans reading them and being reminded of how unsafe they are in El Paso, reminded of just how much they are hated by the El Paso community for no other reason than being who they are. They didn't choose to be gay or transgender. Who would choose to be the most openly hated and discriminated against types of people in the city? Nobody would.
 To some extent, these El Pasoans have to block out this hatred and vitriol they read on social media for their own mental well-being, but they can never completely ignore it because it can cost them their lives or physical safety. LGBTQ plus El Pasoans need to be able to trust the El Paso police more than the average person because the statistics show they were at least nine times more likely to be victims of violence than non-LGBTQ plus people.
 The El Paso police has the same toxic prejudices as the broader El Paso community because that is where they come from, which is why you all need to take action to reassure LGBTQ plus El Pasoans that steps have been taken to reduce this toxic bias as much as possible so that when they go to report hate crimes, harassment, threats, or violence, that their concerns will be taken seriously.
 El Paso is unsafe for these people. Please take actions to make it more safe for them. Please support training that makes our police more understanding of the humanity and concerns of the trans people they will encounter at some point while protecting and serving the community they are entrusted to. Please support the creation of a safe place program which will reassure LGBTQ plus El Pasolans that their victimization will be taken seriously by El Paso law enforcement if it were to happen.
 When hate crimes and violence go unreported, the perpetrators are emboldened and El Pasoans are less safe. When those planning on committing hate crimes know that their victims have a safe place to seek refuge and that law enforcement will take LGBTQ plus hate crimes seriously, they are less likely to commit those hate crimes they intended to and the LGBTQ plus community is safer. Please make El Paso safer for El Paso's LGBTQ plus community and vote yes for item 18.
 I was also planning on giving a public comment. Thank you. You've reached the three-minute limit. The next speaker is Sophia Avant-Mir.
 Followed by Michael Gutierrez, Yvonne Diaz, Wesley Lawrence, Lorena Edwards, Lisa Turner. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon My name is Sophia Vantmier and I'm with Texas Rising I'm asking that you vote in favor of items 18 and 19 because our LGBTQIA plus community deserves to be treated with respect and without bias and
 The trans and gender diverse community needs to feel safe when using public facilities and interacting with the police Just as cisgender folks would thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Michael Gutierrez followed by Yvonne Diaz Wesley Lawrence Lorena Edwards You have three minutes. Can you just remind everyone since we're taking the items together? There will only be one opportunity to speak on both items. Thank you. The discussion is taken together Hello
 Again before speaking for my support for item 18 and 19 I want to thank Representative Anello and the various organizations that helped draft this legislation ensuring the fair and respectful treatment of all members of our community regardless of their gender identity is a fundamental principle. By taking proactive steps and improving the way transgender and gender diverse individuals are identified by our police force we demonstrate our commitment to upholding the rights and dignity of every member of our community.
 Furthermore through the implementation of a safe place program we send a strong message that El Paso is welcoming and safe and is a safe city for all individuals regardless of their gender identity.
 This initiative fosters trust between law enforcement and the LGBTQIA plus community which is essential for effective policy policing and policy work in community building. In terms of item 19 by taking this action we are clear we're sending a clear message that our city values and respects the rights and dignity of all of its citizens.
 Transgender individuals face unique challenges when accessing public facilities, and this resolution addresses those challenges head-on. It not only promotes equal access, but it also helps reduce the discrimination and harassment that transgender individuals often encounter.
 Additionally, directing the city attorney to amend Title V of the City Code of the Ordinances to require gender neutral signage in single user restrooms is practical and a positive step forward and this small change can make a significant difference in the daily lives of transgender individuals and gender diverse people including myself. I urge the council to vote in favor of item 18 and 19. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Yvonne Diaz.
 Followed by Wesley Lawrence, Lorena Edwards, Lisa Turner, America Sanchez, Amber Perez, Aurelio Valdez. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 Thank you. Hi again. Good afternoon. Yvonne Diaz with Texas Rising. After several attacks in the community by our state legislature this past May, I don't even know when is it, it's been a lot, but we've been advocating for different causes, including the LGBTQIA plus community, and on July 5th,
 We were so happy that you supported the proclamation for International Drag Day. And I think in this same spirit, I'm asking all of you to support item 18 and 19. I ask you to continue taking a bold action to protect the most vulnerable. When our state legislators have failed to protect us, the responsibility now falls on each one of you.
 and to create a safe space that we all deserve. Therefore, I urge you to please vote in favor of items 18 and 19, thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Wesley Lawrence. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Wesley Lawrence, for the record, SD 29 committee man serving El Paso all the way to far west Texas. I want to thank Representative Anello for putting this item on the agenda.
 I can tell you that my friends in the LGBTQIA plus community especially those in the trans community have been dealt a difficult blow from our leadership in Austin from Republicans stopping the use of gender affirming care for minors from banning books for children to learn how to be themselves and to learn about the way of life
 from going after drag queens and from cities around the state of Texas and around the U.S. having to put up with it far right extremism throughout various states. You look at Florida who just made it against the law for children to be called nicknames without the use of their parents signing a form or for them not being able to have safe bathrooms in schools.
 This this policy is important and I can tell you talking to the different families that have been in communication with that this is a step in the right direction. We need to continue moving forward keeping LGBTQIA plus organizations in the loop. People like the Borderline Rainbow Center El Paso 7th City Pride the GSA and Mountain Star Pride as well ensuring that we are creating policy that ensures that every El Pasoan is safe.
 You know simple things such as city reps helping people change their their name and their gender identity on their driver's license ensuring that we have open conversations between the police department and every organization that deals with the LGBTQIA plus community.
 I would welcome the use of officers to be coming DREAP trained which is diversity resiliency and state of El Paso training which allows them to understand how to better work with LGBTQIA plus individuals. That training is offered from the borderline rainbow center and it's very useful. I would even encourage every city rep that's here to take that training to better assist your constituents throughout the district.
 And lastly I've asked for it time and time again. I think the time is now for the state of for the city of El Paso to join the amicus brief against the state of Texas to finally show every city in Texas that El Paso can and will be a leader in defending the LGBTQIA plus community and ensuring that.
 El Paso can be the beacon of a safe place for every LGBTIA plus family that has now been come to have been forced to be political refugees in the state of Texas because of people like Governor Abbott Ken Paxton Dan Patrick and a rogue Republican led state house and state Senate. Thank you. The next speaker is Lorena Edwards. Lorena Edwards star six please to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon you have three minutes. Can you hear me. Yes. Hello. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Beeser and members of city council. I'm so sorry I'm not there today. I'm actually really sick. I'd like to give major thanks to Representative Anuel for spearheading this resolution to help foster a better relationship between our law enforcement and our community. I'd especially like to mention the fact that she considered reaching out to the community itself to get feedback and data as to the biggest concerns that are being experienced real time here in our city.
 We returned, my family returned to the borderland to raise our kids here in the same environment that I was raised. I'm currently raising LGBTQ kiddos in this city and I want to be able to tell them to find our law enforcement as their protectors and not their aggressors. All too often we tell our kiddos, right, growing up that they need to seek out first responders and law enforcement during times of need. But it's been a while since I've felt like that was a completely safe option for my kiddos.
 and instead I find myself leading them with words of caution and apprehension. This resolution is a starting point to help heal that relationship."
 And as my children near adulthood and in just a couple years, my eldest friend's daughter considers a career as a paramedic in our city. I'd like to be able to have the optimistic view that she would have a positive experience working alongside a properly trained and aware law enforcement agency in El Paso. As far as item 19, again, I would really like to thank Representative Anolo for spearheading this as well.
 The increasingly aggressive political climate around trans rights affects all El Paso citizens. Although I am the mother of a transgender daughter, as I mentioned before, our family's current bathroom battles exist with our youngest child. And I say child, but I need to explain that I'm speaking about my almost 15-year-old non-binary kiddo. Not looking particularly male or female, my child's appearance as a young teen is just androgynous enough that it wouldn't be completely apparent what their gender is.
 This is important because when we're out in public, an innocent bathroom break in this political climate can lead to a verbal altercation or otherwise uncomfortable interaction for my kiddo with anyone else emboldened enough to voice their opposition to the bathroom that they chose. Currently, this occurs when my child uses the bathroom of the gender that they were assigned at birth, which is the bathroom that the state of Texas declares over and over again they would like my child to use.
 Relabeling single-stall bathrooms as gender neutral removes this potential political ammunition for being used against my child time and time again. We would love to see the day where our children have another option so that they're not doing things like restricting liquids
 for hours to ensure that they don't have to use the bathroom away from home. I thank you guys again for your time. Thank you again to Representative Inello for showing us that you do want our hands on the side in this city. I really appreciate it and I do urge you all to vote to approve. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Lisa Turner. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Ms. Turner, good afternoon. Mayor, council, I've never hidden the fact that I am a transgender woman. Here's the truth.
 We see a police officer, we see a threat. You all see them as safety, but I see a threat, having been raped by one. You don't hear about it, because we know nothing will be done. You have no training, you don't care. A transgender child several years ago,
 was belittled and harassed by a city employee and not a damn thing was done to correct the behavior, to institute training, not a damn thing. Pardon my French, I'm Caucasian, which means I have a 50% chance of being raped simply because of who I am. And then it goes up if you're Hispanic, a woman of color, Native American, it just gets worse.
 what we face every day is a denial of health care, denial of being able to get a loan, getting a house, everything. You don't want to listen to us. You don't take those steps to include us to say, yes, you're a viable member of this community. You don't want to institute any kind of training. I'm told that we had, so-called, a crisis.
 liaison between the police department and our community, but I never knew who it was. If they were, they weren't active. You don't hear about what's happening because I know every other transgender individual in this city knows that you'll do nothing about it. And like I said, when we see a police officer, we don't see somebody to help us. We see somebody who's going to harm us because it's not just here in El Paso.
 or Dallas, California, New York. It happens to us regardless of where we are. I can't even go home. I can't drive home because it's illegal to use the bathroom. And, you know, I just can't hold myself for 24 hours. The laws that the Texas legislature passed are genocidal. I know it. You know it. But nobody wants to take any action. The next speaker is America Sanchez.
 I believe Ms. Sanchez had to leave. The next speaker is Amber Perez followed by Aurelio Valdez, Jr. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. As you know, my name is Amber Perez. I am the Executive Director of the Borderland Rainbow Center and I'm here, of course, to speak on 18 and 19. But more importantly, I'm actually here to speak about the fact that this is such a great opportunity for us to move forward.
 and a great way for us to show that we are continuing a progressive conversation and that we as the Sun City truly do value each and every person in our city regardless of race identity immigration status as so many of our compatriots have spoken about today
 In that kind of vein, I'd also like to acknowledge that just this last Friday, the interim police chief did reach out to three different organizations. We were one of them, so we did sit and speak with them about the need for training. And so I want to make sure to extend that and let everybody know that it is something that they did speak to us about, along with the Center Against Family and Youth.
 Children Violence CASF sorry and the Pride Center as well. It is something that I see that it was a conversation that was beginning right. But in that when I went into headquarters it was the first time I'd ever been in. I can tell you and this is something that I shared at that meeting as well was that my heart started to race.
 And I am incredibly educated, I am a professional, and I don't even speed. But when I walked in, I did not feel like I was surrounded by friendly faces. I felt that there was risk, much again to echo the things that Andy said earlier and the things that Lisa said.
 And for somebody who is incredibly proud of the city that I live in and the city that I'm from, and who wants to do nothing but help the city grow, to feel that way with people that I'm supposed to tell other people to go and turn to for help is a problem. I understand that this is a conversation that needs to begin and needs to evolve.
 So I want to recognize that and I can't thank Representative Vanilla enough for putting this item on this bill or sorry on the agenda today.
 but one of the things again that we have to remember is that if one of us feels unsafe we're kind of all unsafe and one of the things about working together is that it is only when those who feel the most unsafe our most vulnerable populations feel safe and feel like they can come to police can feel like they can come to law enforcement then we are all safe i know like there are some former police officers here on council as
 And I can only imagine what it feels like to hear a group of individuals come and tell you, it's like, you know what, a lot of times we're not going to report these crimes. And 30% of LGBTQI plus community has been a victim of sexual assault. It's like, imagine that number. And imagine for a moment how many haven't reported it.
 This will help to begin the process of making sure that we can report things. Thank you. Thank you. And the final speaker is Aurelio Valdez, Jr. All right. Well, that was fun earlier. Good afternoon. I'm Aurelio Valdez, Jr. I'm the founder of the El Paso Gender and Sexuality Alliance Board. So we combined 18 and 19. Rep. Nelly, you have my thanks for this. This is some good work, especially to IMA Santillan, the legislative aide. Some very good work on that.
 So just reading the two agenda items. If you support that community there's no reason you should vote against it. That's as simple as it gets. So in favor of it vote for it. It's really kind of a vote that shows if you support the community or not. This is really a vote that shows if you do or don't. So thank you. Mayor that concludes public comment on these items. Thank you.
 Mayor Pro Tem. I'm sorry. Yes ma'am. This is Kristin Karam from the City Attorney's Office. On items 18 and 19 we wanted to recommend adding that this Hello. I signed up to speak and I was not called. What is your name? Nubia Reveles. I received an email confirmation. I don't have her on my list mayor. Would you like to? Yes ma'am. Go ahead Ms. Reveles.
 Thank you. Thank you so much. Good afternoon, Mayor Leaser, City Council members and fellow El Pasoans. I represent the El Paso Hub for Equality Texas and I serve as a volunteer at the Borderland Rainbow Center. Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to speak again about issues that affect me, my family and families like mine.
 I'm so thankful for their efforts. I also live in a constant state of fear of the possibility of my children interacting with law enforcement. It may come as no surprise to you that the LGBTQ population is particularly susceptible
 to violence and discrimination by law enforcement. This is from the Williams Institute 2020. In fact, I'm sure you know that the Stonewall Inn in the beginning was a pride celebration slash protest. So I want to take a moment to simply thank you for having these items on our agenda. It is clear that you are aware of the dangers that are facing my family and families like mine from seemingly all directions.
 Knowing that Miami City is taking proactive action to protect members of my community fills me with hope and pride. Let's not stop only at the good intentions. Please let's follow through. I'm also speaking in support of item 19. This item addresses the rampant discrimination on the basis of gender identity and presentation for members of my community and it is not about restrooms.
 much like it was never about water fountains or seats on public transportation. The evidence is irrefutable. Members of the LGBT community are more likely the recipients of hate and violence than they are the perpetrators. There is no evidence to support the claim that members of my community present any danger to others. However, the evidence that supports the idea that my community needs protection is vast.
 As citizens, we deserve privacy and protection. Sadly, we require extra protections as we are extra vulnerable. Thank you for recognizing our vulnerability and addressing this issue. I ask you again to not leave this process in the good intention stages, rather follow through to make this city a safe and affirming city for all.
 and especially for its most vulnerable members. As a mother of three beautiful and tender children who deserve, like everyone else, super office safety and security, I urge you to vote in favor of items 18 and 19. Thank you. Ms. Hamilton. Thank you, Mayor. We just wanted to recommend that both the city attorney and the city manager be directed to carry out the actions that are being proposed in the resolutions. Both of the resolutions, please.
 What did you say? I'm sorry. We recommend that both the city attorney and the city manager be directed to carry out the actions Resolution for number 18 it directs only the city manager and
 And on the portion related to amending Title V, it only directs the city attorney. So we would recommend that the city manager and the city attorney both be directed to amend the ordinance, or to prepare the ordinance to amend Title V and that the city attorney be included in the direction on item 18 to review for the legalities. I'm fine with that. Just, Ms. Hamilton, could you let us know before the council meeting so you don't give me a heart attack? Thanks. I appreciate that.
 mayor pro tem yeah mayor thanks um i want to just go through some logistical stuff really quick um you know i i spoke with legal extensively mr gutierrez about this item before it came up and was happy to know that these were things that the police department was already looking into as we heard from amber earlier
 Somehow I've lost my notes, but I wanted to to clarify when we talk about facilities We're talking about public facilities not private city facilities. That is not something that I was intending To impact at all. I think that if we have private city facilities usually are with a lot of our unions and
 and I don't think that we have the authority to impede or have any policy over that. The other thing is Title V. I want to be really specific, and I've spoken to the Restaurant Association in extension about this, or an extent to this. This is not requiring anyone to change their facilities. It's just saying if they have a single facility.
 stall restroom, that they would change the signage. And happy to be talking with the BRC and the Restaurant Association on how we can work together to raise some funds to provide those signs for people who might need them. But I think we've heard a lot from public comment. I think Ms. Turner really summed it up well. With all of the attacks that are going on in the state, it is really important that our police department become a safe space for trans individuals. Well, there's so much conversation about criminalization,
 it's important that we are up front that our police are a safe space and are supportive and so with that i would make the motion to approve with the amendments there's a motion in a second to bring back and do we have any time limit or no city attorney or title five uh 30 days miss hamilton do you have a time limit where the city manager and city attorney the resolution says december representative the resolution says december i had so many today i couldn't remember all of the guidelines
 Okay, that's fine. Just making sure. We have a motion and a second? Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Mayor Potemanelo, seconded by Representative Kennedy, and this is on number 18, to direct the city manager and city attorney. I'm sorry, 18 and 19. 18.
 the motion is to direct the city manager and city attorney to work with the police department the department's designated lgbtq liaison and a community stakeholder task force to evaluate new policies and training to improve how transgender and gender diverse individuals are identified by the el paso police department to implement a list of bias free policies and to implement a safe place program in the city of el paso
 The action on 19 is to approve a resolution to direct the city manager and city attorney to create a policy, is that correct? Mm-hmm. Okay, to direct the city manager and city attorney to create a policy that ensures access for transgender individuals to freely use city facilities consistent with their gender identity and or expression in city-owned buildings, and to direct the city attorney and city manager to create an ordinance amending Title V of the City Code of Ordinances related to the
 to single user restrooms to require single user restrooms to have gender neutral signage. On that motion. Mayor, this is Carla Neiman. Can I ask a question really quickly before you proceed of Representative Anello? She was clarifying at the end that it wasn't her intention to have Title V apply to private businesses? No, ma'am, that's not what I said. I said when we talk about city facilities, we're talking about public city facilities, not like private city facilities.
 We can discuss that later. We can go into depth. Eric and I have had a long conversation about it, so I'm happy to speak with you about it. Okay. Thank you. Thanks. And then we also, on the resolution, I apologize, the date for the chapter, the Title V amendment is October, and for the rest of the items was December. Thank you. And with that? On that motion, call for the vote. Thank you.
 And Mayor, I think that we need to get, I have a question. I'm sorry. Go ahead. I want to elaborate on the question that Mrs. Neiman brought up because on the comments from Representative Anello, it mentioned private companies or private businesses.
 And so I'd like to understand from legal, so that we can clearly communicate to the business industry, what changes are created with the Title V changes. But particularly with single bathrooms. Single use restrooms? Yeah.
 So the ordinance, at this point in time, the ordinance is not drafted. The ordinance will be introduced at the end of October, and at that point we would have more clarity on how the code will apply and what will be regulated, what will be required of businesses. So the code right now applies to all private entities? Correct.
 i'm not sure there's so in title five there are regulations related to business entities and obligations um this would be a new section in title five related to single use restrooms at businesses within the city limit from what i understand in council to be directing today
 Right, but I'm trying to understand what direction we're giving staff so that, because this will prompt additional questions from the public and so we just want to make sure we're communicating it correctly. Yeah, so Eric Gutierrez with the City Attorney's Office. So Rep Hernandez, the specific language that we're looking at is it gonna be a new section in Title V and the specific language is to add signage for single use restrooms, specifically within commercial facilities, specifically open to the public. And so if it's a private bathroom in the back
 of a business only for employees for example that wouldn't apply to that if it's open to the public this new signage would be required it would be required for single only single use bathrooms right so it would have a new sign that essentially says all genders are allowed to use that bathroom okay and then in terms of you know any concerns or risk you all haven't done that vetting yet
 Correct, so I looked at this, I spoke with Rep. Anello about this. I know some cities in the state of Texas have this type of language in their code. I know Austin has this, and I believe San Antonio might have this as well. I know the Austin one hasn't been challenged, and it's still currently on their books, and it's still punishable by up to a Class C citation if they don't comply with that new sign language. Okay, so that's all really good information. It's new information, so I appreciate all the details. Thanks. Thank you, Ms. Prine. Yes, Mayor, the voting session is open.
 And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number 20. Move to approve. Item 20 is discussion in action to authorize the expenditure of district 2 discretionary funds for fall festivals at Memorial Park Reserve, Sunrise Park, Grandview Park and Seville Recreation Center serves a municipal purpose by fostering community pride and encouraging civic engagement. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanillo.
 Who put this item on the agenda? This is Representative Anello's item. Motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by Representative Piero to approve item 20. On that motion, call for the vote. On the what next item? So, okay, you want to wait for that one? Yeah. Okay. I mean, we can skip this one. Okay, go ahead. Ms. Prine, we have a motion and a second. And the voting session. Okay.
 And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item 21. This is discussion regarding the effect of resign to run by members of city council. The item was placed by Mayor Leaser. Thank you and I put this item on the agenda. I've had a lot of questions about what the charter means, what it says and I'd rather it be an open discussion and people can ask whatever questions they wanna ask about it and make sure that they have the right
 Advise moving forward. So that's the reason why this arms on the agenda because I've been asked more than once and with that I'll open the floor for maybe
 Before we start, can you kind of go over, Ms. Hamilton, what the charter says and what it means? Absolutely, Mayor. Thank you. Kristen Hamilton, Karen, from the City Attorney's Office. The Texas Elections Code and the Texas Constitution actually is the body of law from which the concept of resign to run comes. The City Attorney's Office—
 Again, as you all know, does not provide legal advice to candidates or to individual members of council, but we do provide advice to the city on the effect of when we would have to call for an election. The resign to run concept is that if somebody...
 States that they're going to run for office publicly that for a different office Prior to one year and 30 days from the end of their term. They have effectively resigned from their current term under the Texas Constitution a vacancy in the City Council that has terms of longer than two years that vacancy must be filled
 by election and it must be the election must be held not later than 120 days following the announcement which would result in the resignation from a current office so the city would have to have such election no more than 120 days after somebody announces the
 Texas law prefers that that election be held on a uniform election date, so it does allow for an order for an election to occur immediately.
 no less than 46 days prior to a uniform election date. Forty-six days prior to the November 7th uniform election date happens to fall on September 22nd of this year. When is the ballot for the November election going to be created? Do you know, Ms. Bryan? For the November 2024? Yes, ma'am. I mean this year. When is the election this year? Right, November 7th. And when is the ballot going to be printed? November 7th.
 This year the mayor is referring to the constitutional amendment You're asking when the ballot is created sir for the November certain time limit where the ballot has to be printed I'm just wondering when that time limit is Because you say 46 days. I thought it was prior to 46 days. So what I
 That's the only reason I asked that. I see your question. Well, I don't know the county's obligation on when they prepare the ballot itself. Candidates, if for a special election to call for, to fill a vacant seat for city council, candidates must submit their application for a seat, for a place on the ballot, no later than the 40th day before the election date. Okay, that makes sense. Thank you for that. Representative Fierro? Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 We received many phone calls and emails in regards to this question, and the question was always, is the mayor trying to tell us something? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm trying to tell you that I don't give legal advice. Oh, thank you. We have a great legal department, and that's why I asked that.
 Because I've asked the question that's more than once and again, I don't want to give anyone legal advice or advice that it's inaccurate So as many times I've had it asked I figured it really would be responsible of me to put it on and allow the city attorney to Really give whatever the Charter says and make sure that everyone understands and with that I have representative Kennedy I was just asking for a clarification on the
 The 120-day requirement, were you saying that it tolls for the last 46 days if you're 46 days within within a uniform election? No, sir. It does not toll. The 120 days is
 is the deadline by which an election must occur. The order for the election, if you're doing the election on a uniform date, may be made by council no later than the 46th day prior. I understand. Okay. But it doesn't toll the 120 days. It does not toll the 120 days, no, sir. The 120 days is still run. So you could be in a position where we have to hold a November 1st election and a November 7th election. Yes.
 If somebody had announced to be a candidate more than 127 days before the election. Okay. Again, this is not in the city charter. This is per the Texas Constitution and the elections. Yeah, I just didn't understand if you had it told for that time. Okay, thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Could you repeat that on the –
 Year and a month year and 30 days. They don't have to resign just to make that clear if if a Sitting member of City Council announces that they are going to run for an office different than City Council Prior to one year and 30 days from the end of their term they have resigned to run for a separate office and
 It's one year and 30 days prior. So if they announce earlier than that, they've resigned. Okay. But a year and 30 days, they don't resign? Within the year and 30 days, the resolution. Then they don't have to resign. Right. Okay. Finish the term. Okay. Thank you. Anyone else have any questions? Did that answer all your questions? Anyone else? I'll ask a question. Can you tell us what is considered an announcement? Because we've dealt with this before.
 There are legal opinions on this. An announcement is a person applying as a candidate, making a public announcement on their social media, having a campaign event can be an announcement. It would be a public-facing announcement. Can I read to you what's in front of me?
 So the Attorney General has a...
 opined that an officer announces candidacy for office by making a written or oral statement from which a reasonable person may conclude that the individual intends without qualification to run for office. A statement made in a private conversation does not constitute as an announcement of candidacy for the purposes of resigned to run provision. A statement that a person would seriously consider running if the incumbent resigns or decides to not seek re-election was determined by the Attorney General to not invoke an automatic resignation. And so
 I just want to make clear that those are our rules set by the Attorney General. Those would be applicable. Yes, ma'am. Just wanted confirmation on that. Thank you. Another, I think, point of information is if you do decide to run for a current office that you're holding, you will not have to resign. You can announce it at any time. Correct? I apologize, Mayor. If you're currently in office and you're running for your same office, you do not resign. Right. You can announce it at any time.
 And you don't have to resign because you're holding that office. Correct. Representative Hernandez? I was going to ask Mrs. Hamilton if you had information related to partisan elections. So our city charter restricts party affiliations, but it's kind of vague. Is there an interpretation from city legal if a current member of council registers with a party to run for a partisan election?
 I do not believe we have a current legal analysis on that. I think that we would need to do research and provide legal advice to counsel if something like such as that occurred. Again, the city attorney's office doesn't provide legal advice to candidates on their own personal parameters on their choices to run for office, but we would advise the city on what we would need to do, what the city would need to do should one of those events occur.
 Thank you, ma'am. Any other questions? I'm actually trying to pull that up because I think that it is not what it says. Just give me one second. Mayor, we do have public comment whenever council's ready. Absolutely. So hold on, I think I found it. Ms. Turner. Afternoon, Mayor, Council. As a voter, I would like to say this. If you ran for office and I voted for you, I expect you to fulfill your term and not worry about running for another office.
 Now, if you happen to die in office or get hurt and you can't do your job, it's understandable. But I expect you to fulfill your office fully and not be out running for office. The other thing is, does this agenda item mean that everybody on city council is now running for office? Absolutely not. There's no one that said they're running for any office. But like I said, I've had many questions in office.
 You know, if this and this, and again, I'm not giving legal advice to anybody. That would not be what my job entails. We have a legal department that can tell them, give them the legal advice of the city. I was just curious. And I plan to be here, Ms. Turner, I plan to be here my whole term with you. Good, good. Just for your, since you did vote for me, I plan to be here with you. Most definitely I did vote for you. I was one of the majority who voted for you.
 I'm just saying it because of what I heard Representative Anello say, according to our Texas Attorney General, leads me to believe that every single one of you up there just announced. Well, see, to be clear, I asked for what an announcement was because I didn't want someone to turn around and say that we all just announced. Yeah, but as you read that, it's.
 basically any action that can be construed as running for office and this item on the agenda and Your all's discussion seems to me that everybody up here is going to run for another office Mr. No, what if the job is killing you? Does that come? No, that was a bad joke I said what if the job is killing you? You you die in place you die in office you do the honorable thing die at the podium
 Will tell you when this meeting is over. I'll be running for my office up on the second floor And your last words have to be by a mr. anyone else So to section two point two F It says nonpartisan elections candidates for city elective office shall not be not nominated by primary elections my interpretation is that since it says candidates for city elective office and
 any comments are you you're looking at the charter yes ma'am the city charter yeah two points that's correct city elective offices are non-partisan okay thank you i think the question was whether filing as a party filing with a party whether that is considered yeah so i i mean i just want to go back to the mayor said i've gotten a lot of these questions too so someone has also asked me the same question that representative hernandez has mentioned quoting 2.2 f and so
 i was trying to get that answer for them and it says city election so thank you anyone else dr bonart thank you both dr bonarts and anyone else so we have a motion by representative uh fiero and a second by representative thank you thank you and again i was asked that like i said i just wanted to make sure that everyone got their questions so if you have any other questions please feel free to ask miss hamilton at any time thank you
 The next item is number 22, and this is discussion and action to direct the city manager to evaluate existing ordinances, policies, and procedures related to school zone safety in collaboration with the Vision Zero Task Force and the Mobility Advisory Committee to draft any necessary updates to ensure safe crossings, intersection treatments, and appropriate signage at all schools within the city. This is Mayor Pro Temanello's item. You don't wanna hear me talk, you want me to take the motion?
 Okay, yeah, I'm putting this up because we currently in our ordinance, I believe it says that you will not have like school zones are only 1100 feet. I think Joaquin can probably clarify this for me. I know in my district will have several sections where there are a few there's a school zone and then there's not a school zone and then there's another school zone. I know that 16% of bicycle and pedestrian killed or seriously injured crashes occur near schools and people aged 10 to 19 are over representative and bicycle and pedestrian
 um so just think I've heard a lot about this a lot of concerns about our school zones about the safety um I know we got an email today about enforcement which is also an issue it was actually transportation adjustments and improvements were cited several times in our Vision Zero action plan um and so I just wanted to look at our ordinances uh have Joaquin in the Vision Zero group come back with some recommendations on how we can be approving those school zones so with that I'll make a motion to approve
 You know, Representative Nello, I had a couple, after you put this item on the agenda, I had a few board members from EPISD
 come up to me and talk to me and explain to me the importance of this item and That you know when it's not in continuous school zone people raised you know to the 20 yards to get past someone else and I Know that I had more than one school board member said that their safety was endangered more than once Well while they were in that area, so I think it's a really important item that we need to support just because of
 When I talked to them, they said they have no jurisdiction over public streets, so they would like for us to really look at that and see how we can make sure that we make that school zone safe instead of a 20 yard raised zone. So thank you for that. There's a second? Yes, sir. Representative Rivera seconded. I heard Representative Fierro. We do have public comment on this item. Mayor from Jessica Gonzalez. Ms. Gonzalez, star six please to unmute your telephone. Jessica Gonzalez.
 Star six, please, to unmute your telephone. I believe she's having technical difficulties. Good afternoon, Mr. Rodriguez. So I think the direction's very clear from the agenda item language, but if there's a specific timeline that you'd want us to come back with some recommendations on, that would give us some guidance to move forward. And again, when it's a safety item, obviously the faster the better, and what do you believe you can bring it back in?
 We can come back with a strategy of sort of room for improvements that we see in the ordinances with some specific language But not the entire ordinance package itself probably within 30 days Okay, so we have a motion in a second. Yes, Mary motion was made one second. I'm sorry representative Mullenot Yes, I just want to be make sure we're clear that there's three ease and traffic engineering which
 We may or may not be able to do the enforcement which like representative and Noah says we all received an email where? local police are not Enforcing the school zones already and that needs to change Whether it's passing in the school zone passing the school bus loading or unloading the other part the education component and
 We need to do a better job, I think, through our public affairs people that we need to, it's not just when school begins. I mean, everyone, hey, let's watch for our kiddos out there in the streets. School's about to begin. And okay, that's great. But school is year round now.
 Most of the school districts are year-round. So we always need to make sure that we're doing a better job than what we've done before and Have an education component whether it's through social media through billboards or a website Whatever it takes because one last one lost child I mean we here we mourned the child the band member or excuse me the student from Bowie High School Yes, he's a young man
 be impacted forever. His family is going to be impacted forever. Just imagine a seven or eight year old child. What's going to happen then? Our city is going to be devastated again. So I really believe that we need to have some type of enforcement, or excuse me, enforcement yes, but we also need to do an education component for that as well.
 Absolutely. And just for your knowledge we are working currently. We recently filled the position of our pedestrian and bicycle program manager Ms. Anna Mesa-Zent. She's working with Tammy Fonse and Laura Cruz Acosta's team to come up with some educational campaigns that we can pursue not just as part of Vision Zero but also as part of our complete streets policy that was recently adopted by this council. So we can include some information on those ongoing efforts.
 as well when we come back to you all with some recommendations. Thank you for that. Mayor, Ms. Jessica Gonzalez is ready to provide comment. Hi. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Hi. Good afternoon. Am I coming in loud and clear? Yes. Okay, cool. Again, my name is Jessica Gonzalez.
 I was there all morning. I was the girl with the shades and the Adidas shirt. It was actually, this was my first time attending one of these meetings. And it was my first time in city halls. So you can imagine how important this topic is for me. So school safety is my utmost concern inside and outside of the building. And I know this happens everywhere. Of course, everyone's aware it may happen at every campus, but I just wanna specifically point out Loma Terra Elementary School.
 since my kiddo goes there, I'm actually waiting outside for him to get out of class. And I live right down the street as well, so that's why it's very important to me. But last year, I personally experienced issues with drivers not making complete stops, having rolling stops,
 feeding all sorts of stuff and again i witnessed this happen with kiddos and the crossing guards having to like take out their arms trying to get the the drivers to stop so later that day i called 3-1-1 to get the crosswalks retained i went down to mission and i requested to have higher control this again was in the morning and uh mission uh was actually on top of it and they were there the very next day um awesome response however it was only consistent for about three days
 And so then everybody went back to doing the same thing. And so now this year, what happened to me the other day, now this is in the afternoon. And, again, it's the same story, but, again, later on in the day. And what I did was, again, call 311 to get these crosswalks repeated. I went down to Mission. Again, there was a quick response. They were here the very next day. It was a must-see.
 Mustang motorcycle. It was awesome to see them take care of business. Again, consistent for three days, and now it's just back to the same. However, there's some people that picked up that there may be patrol coming, so they're kind of weary about it. But it is such an issue, not only, again, personally, since I experienced it, but not only with the kiddos, right? It's an elementary school, and it's a main area.
 highway again, I mean highway, street with Loma Land and Yerba Land. And actually now that I remember last year when I had reported this, a couple of days later a lady was hit at Yerba Land on her feet, was hit crossing Yerba Land and Loma Land. And I'm like, wow, here we go. And that could have been anybody. And she was actually coming from the Women's Academy right down the street. She walked her daughter to school that day. So again, thank you for your concern with this issue because it's important for me and
 a lot of the community right here in front of the school. Also, if I have time, you haven't cut me off yet, but another thing I wanted to do was get flashing lights and signage and all of that, so I asked 311 what I could do, and so they sent me paperwork that I could petition or get documentation to get signatures from everybody in this neighborhood to help push, and they also told me, and I've been in contact...
 I'm always in contact with admin, security, the head of maintenance here at Loma Terra. So we're all in communication. But again, I need to get signatures. I need to get the principal to give- Thank you, Ms. Gonzalez. Thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three minute limit. Oh, man, all right. Well, thank you for your time. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you, ma'am. There's a motion made by Mayor Portimanelo, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 22. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Thank you for this Representative Nela. This is a very important item. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 26 and 27. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 26 and 27. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 28. Ms. Prine, did we move 37 to the forefront? I'm sorry. Mayor, would you like to go to item 37? No. No, go ahead. Thank you. Item 37 is discussion in action regarding a solicitation for an executive search firm to conduct a national search for the hiring of a permanent city manager, including but not limited to consideration of the scope of work for a national search. No.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon Mayor and Council Nicole Cody Managing Director with today with Mary Wiggins Chief Human Resources Officer. So if you IT can please bring up the presentation we have a brief presentation for you all today and it's item 37.
 So good afternoon, of course, mayor and council. So we are just reiterating on the executive recruitment that it will be a request for proposal process and we are looking at the following timeline. With council's motion today, if we do have a final scope of work, we would be able to release towards the end of this month in September. That means we would advertise.
 as well as the evaluation period would be, we would have finished the evaluation period in November and hope to award by early December. What we do also need to mention is that this election committee will be chaired by Ms. Wiggins and will include a city staff in this round only.
 And then I'll turn it over to her unless you all have any questions regarding the process. We will get into, she'll get into the scope of work and the changes that have been recommended regarding the scope of work in the next slide and also the in-depth briefings that will occur before any recommendation is brought to council for consideration. Thank you and I know you all did a briefing with everybody and take a lot of consideration of all the information that was given to you all that kind of put it into what we're
 works for everybody based on everything. So you all did a really good job of that. Thank you. Thank you, sir. We appreciate your time.
 Okay, so we just want to kind of circle back and we want to go over the scope of work to make sure we're all in agreement. I know that we had it in the packet, but I'm just going to outline really quick again the items that we added. And just to reiterate, one of the things that we're coming back, we're going to go back again for an RFP, but it's because we changed the scope of work. There were some items that were really important to you.
 that you wanted to be different on the scope. And so we've changed the scope so that we can make sure we get the right vendor.
 So one of the things that we're adding is we're making sure that we're going to add the consultant for the project must disclose any personal or business relationships with any member of the city managers previous within three years or current management team to include interim city manager deputy city managers managing directors or the chief human resources officer and
 Now one thing that we thought of yesterday that we did not put in there that needs to be added is we need to add City manager because we put interim city managers We want to make sure we add city manager and then we didn't include council members So in addition to the scope that you have attached we're gonna add city manager in council members Okay, so we're adding and and those are the ones they have to so what we're saying is that the Avenger would have to disclose those relationships
 We also are adding the vendor will agree that the recruitment will be at a national level and cannot be exclusively the recruiting firm's clientele. So we want to make sure they're doing a true national campaign and that all the ones they bring us are not just from their clientele.
 We added wording for the screening of applicants and recommendation of semi-finalists. The awarded firm must disclose any personal or business relationships with the final eight candidates. So if they have anything they are going to have to disclose that. Then we changed. We had originally we had agreed to up to four different panels.
 for the ones that would be doing the interviewing. We did not define what those panels are yet, but we changed the wording to say, we'll include up to three panels and a general public forum. I think we heard that was very important. We wanted the public to be able to come and be able to partake, so we've changed it to three panels and a public forum. The only other thing, the last thing that we changed
 was in the evaluation criteria. So we talked about, we took some of the scoring down, we went references down to 10, and the proposed approach of the vendor was at 25. And then the last thing is we added a second phase, so the committee will consist of three members, and so they'll evaluate all of the vendors' submissions,
 Everything will be graded and then the top three We're gonna ask to come back and the committee of three will actually interview Do a final interview of the top three just to make sure they are understanding the scope and the expectations Of what we're really asking or expecting for our vendor to do. So those are the recommendations that we've made to the scope
 Any questions on those? Does that outline everything that we all discussed? Mayor Pro Tem. Is that the rest of the presentation? Say again? Do you have more of the presentation? Let me see if there is. I can wait. I believe that was probably it. Can you bring the presentation? Let me see if there's anything left. There's one more slide. Okay.
 So the other thing that we agreed also is that in-depth council briefings. So we agreed that whenever the committee has the final three and then the final scoring, we'll have the one that's going to be awarded. And so we've agreed to meet with each of you individually to go over how our scoring took place.
 It won't have the names of the vendors. It'll have one, two, three, four, five. But at least then we can show you how the committee rated them, why individual scores were rated as they were. So we'll be able to present that to you in a more detailed fashion. Any questions? Well, I just wanted to say thank you. I know that there were some real concerns at the last council meeting from myself
 You know, I talked about doing it internally. I think this is a great compromise. I think you really listened to a lot of the concerns I had. I think this is a very transparent process, having conflict of interest disclosures, adding that public panel are really important. And this really shows that
 just because you ask questions and you stand up for your constituents and actual transparency does not mean that you are saying you don't want to do a process we just wanted to do it the right way and i really appreciate the mayor for supporting us on that and i really support appreciate the work that you all did that so i just really wanted to say thank you thank you we appreciate the input that you gave and and for giving us a chance to be able to to modify that thank you do we have a motion
 sorry I just had a quick question panel for the committee the committee of three so I just want to confirm that's the HR the committee that will be reviewing the bids will be of three so the HR department
 which is a committee of three. Probably three HR. They may not all be in the department at Central, but at least three. We had had the county, the change we're making is we had two city HR and one county HR, and we've chosen this round just to go with all city. Okay, yeah. It says human resources, so I just wanted to confirm that. Correct. That was your team that would be conducting. Thank you. Thank you. May we have public comment? Ms. Turner? Ms. Turner?
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Council. Good afternoon, Ms. Turner. Any selection of anybody, it will be a gender-neutral process. And once you select this search firm and they start looking for candidates and they bring candidates forward, I expect your Women's Rights Commission to be intimately involved with this.
 Unfortunately, we weren't with selection of the police chief We're gonna have a the community meeting and that's why we want to make sure Decisions are we want to make sure everybody has an opportunity. Mr. Turner. We want everybody in the community Everybody to show up and voice your opinion good better indifferent. We want to hear from you We're your women's rights Commission. I expect us to be involved. I
 I also hope you are I want you to also expect that's when we go out it will be a gender-neutral search I would like to point out that the degree that most city managers have is a master's in public administration and for the last 15 years women have gotten 79% of those degrees
 but they only make up about 14% of the city managers in this country, and there's a reason for that. Institutional bias and discrimination, lack of mentorship to women in those cities to get them ready to go. I don't want to see a bunch of men as your selectees, as your semifinalists or your finalists, because I know there's good women city managers out there,
 And if we don't see them, it's because the search firm that you contracted with to do the search didn't bother to go after any. Thank you. Thank you. And to your point, our first city manager was Joyce Wilson. And she did, that's what I'm saying, she did a good job for us. And she was the first one we ever had. I understand, Mayor, but when I hear that, that's like saying, hey, I got a black friend, so therefore I can't be racist, okay?
 that's not in the past i'm looking going forward we want everybody we want to be fair and treat people correctly thank you i'm sorry i heard someone make a motion what was your motion sir to approve and what is it that you're approving is it the staff's recommendation yes ma'am okay yes are you um these are priced
 No, sir. The item just wasn't posted with action, with a specific action, so I just wanted to make sure what council was wishing to direct staff to do. Yes. Yes, sorry about that, Laura. So we're asking council to approve the scope of work as posted on the agenda. Yes, and we got a motion and a second. Thank you.
 Think we had like three seconds on this one. There's the motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Kennedy and this is to approve the scope of work as Presented by staff on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously Thank you. Thank you. May we go back to item 28? Yes, ma'am, please
 Thank you. Item 28 is discussion in action to request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue a purchase order to Leedsman Construction, DBA Traffic Control Specialist Sales and Rentals, referencing contract 2021-1127, Barricade Rental Services. Second. You know, before we do that, so what is the item we're purchasing? Okay.
 The purchase strategic sourcing department, so it's a change order to add additional capacity to the contract I believe the amount is two hundred forty one thousand seven hundred ninety five dollars and thirteen cents This will get us through the August 8. So you're buying the board for the barricades for the asylum seekers and for The contractor was used for some of that some of that capacity was and that's why we're bringing that change I read
 There was a minor initiative in the winter fest. I'm sorry So the winter fest the income that comes to the winter fest goes to destination El Paso I'm sorry. I didn't hear you. What was that question? The ink the income that's made from Winterfest goes to
 So depending on sorry sir. So depending on what income you're referring to so like I guess rental of the ice rink. Yes that would go to Destination El Paso or for the purchase I believe they do provide
 Mr. Rohn can provide additional details regarding Destinational El Paso's role in Winterfest. But this would be the city's portion that we do contribute to Winterfest every year. So we don't they wouldn't reimburse the city but they get the income. At this point I don't believe we've got a reimbursement agreement. That doesn't make sense. If they get the income. I'm sorry. So the barriers these are these are sort of the street closures and things that have to happen citywide to support activities such as Winterfest.
 But not but it's not something that's exclusive to that would be exclusive to Destination El Paso if it's one of their events one of the events that they're sponsoring So, you know that the footprint goes across the entire downtown now So we've got things that happen on the convention center on the plaza there on the concourse. They're responsible for those costs
 and they set that up and then they're responsible for running those activities. Anything that happens though on city streets and throughout San Jacinto Plaza and throughout the city with the barriers and the barricades and that's why it's listed here. There are things that have to happen throughout, you know, how we do street closures downtown throughout the event for the opening day. We have street closures for the parade and all of that. That's what these barricades are for. So no, sir, we are not paying for anything to support their activities.
 exclusively if there's if they have something exclusive they're gonna be responsible I don't agree with that if they're making the income I don't believe the taxpayer should foot the income for if there's a control wherever and then for the asylum seekers if we have FEMA money and are we getting reimbursed to the taxpayers to the city's FEMA money
 Because that's what it's designated for so I want to make sure that we do have reimbursement set up Yes, so we track all those we track all those expenses sir, and we file for those for reimbursements but I think that what's happened is the use over time the programming that was originally put into the contract for the barricades
 The concern is that we're going to run out of what's in the contract before the end of the period. And that's why we're adding the 200,000. They only listed two particular events. They listed the migrant crisis and they listed Winterfest, but those are not the only times that we use barricades across the city. And we don't want to be caught out where we don't have those because obviously it's a safety concern across the community.
 And I understand all that, but I still believe that they should reimburse the taxpayers if they're taking the profit. There's no reason why the taxpayers should foot the bill if someone else is taking the profit. Even though that's our partnership, they are an arm of the city. And I'd like to look at that because it –
 We need to always be good stewards of taxpayers money and I believe that this should be their responsibility for use and I know that it sounds like we do submit for reimbursement from the FEMA funds on any of barricades or anything police or anything we use so just make sure that is part of that.
 we'll do an accounting break out to your point where those costs are coming from the use of the barricades we'll have that discussion i just wanted you to to and you know this it's much more uh... than just the destination el paso piece but but we'll take a look at that yeah i'm just looking at the item the way it was put on the agenda and based on the way it was put on the agenda
 It made me believe that the reason why we're adding additional funding is for those two items and again And I don't believe the taxpayer should be responsible for both items. We already told me they're not for one of them We apologize for the the lack of clarity within the posting and we'll be more careful with that in the future sir and in addition to as
 interim city manager Weston and Stata will provide you with a full accounting to ensure that everything is taken care of correctly sir. I would have a hard time moving forward with this item until that is broken out because I think it's important if we're going to vote for something we understand where the funding is
 why we're voting for it and where the money is going to. Yes sir. Is there going to be staff it will there be an impact or an interruption of two services if we postpone this for two weeks to make sure that all that accounting information is provided. I believe we have this streets department on the line they would be better to answer that question. Thank you. Richard Bristol streets of maintenance yes that is correct. The deputy city manager did explain it correctly. There are other services that used this contractual tool
 During this contract for such reason the balances have been nearly depleted and what we need is this change order to get us from now until where we can get a new contract and the sources of paying this is the contractual tool for the service and
 Now, the funding source, if there's something being done in a specific service that's going to be reimbursed by FEMA, it can be reimbursed by the FEMA money without having to move the contract over. Yeah, we got that clarified already. I'm just concerned now about the Winterfest. And that's the way the item is written and put on the agenda for Winterfest.
 So I understand the FEMA funding, that we will make sure that anything we use will be reimbursed to the taxpayers, and that's always been our agreement. And just the item on here says it's for Winterfest. Mayor, we do have, staff can provide additional information now. They do have it to hand if you're good with them proceeding with that, to continue with the briefing. Would you like to see that now, sir? We have the breakdown based on which departments have used this contract, so you can see how it really is. Okay, but that's not what the item says.
 I'm going based on what the item says. If you want me to start guessing what the item says, then we need to put that on there, guess where it's really going to go. I'm reading the item on the agenda, and it tells me what it's for.
 and now you're telling me that that's not what it's for, that I'm wrong, then that's a bigger problem. No sir, no sir, we're not indicating that you're wrong. We just wanted to make sure that you also see the portion that was going directly to streets as well. No, I see that. So since it is a streets department item as Mr. Bristol had also brought up. Representative Kennedy. My concern is, it's a 24% increase and it's again a project where,
 It's a we have to do it now or we run out of money immediately project. I get concerned when it's, oh, guess what? It's 24% increase. It's last minute. It does cover some revenue events, but we're not sure how much and maybe not just Winterfest. For example, if there's a festival anywhere that blocks streets, there could be food trucks in there that are taking advantage of it, and that's fine for a good festival.
 But I get concerned when there could be revenue events. It's a 24% increase, and it's last minute. I mean, that's my concern, and we're kind of backed into a corner because it's like, guess what? If we don't get this thing approved, we're out of money, and that concerns me. We'll bring it back in two weeks. We'll bring it back in two weeks. We'll bring you the clarity that you're asking for right now to see that broken down, and we'll execute it then.
 Thank you. Senator Hernandez. I was going to ask to see the information if you had it handy so we don't waste everyone's time. We would need to bring it up. We would need to use the ELMO to be able to bring it up and what it is it's the listing of the multiple POs that have been used against this contract. So we track of course any time we track the total amount of the contract and then any purchase orders that are charged against it you'll see which department used it.
 which would include, of course, the fire's use of the contract to assist with the migrant crisis and also Park's use of it to assist with the Winterfest event. Well, I mean, language is clear. You're giving examples, and I don't think it's pointing just to those two activities.
 But did you mention that you can share the information now? We do have it based on the purchase orders requested by the departments if Council would like to see it. Is it electronic? It's no, they'd have to put it on the Elmo. Oh, okay. Well, I mean, I guess you can answer the question. Are all streets the any any time like there's a barricade? It's on a street, correct? Yes, ma'am. Yeah, it's not it's not like on a public property. It's on a street.
 So this is a matter of public safety. So it's a right-of-way, all public streets are city streets. So whatever the event is, Winterfest or the migrant surge, it is the city's responsibility to provide protections to pedestrians and to migrants who are on a public right-of-way, correct? Yes, ma'am. I don't know what this hyper-focus is on this contractor, Destination El Paso, but I'm starting to recognize a pattern. And I think that we need to focus on the business ahead.
 Think it's important that We make sure that we know where the money is going to where we're doing and what is being reimbursable to the city and I think if we're doing for profit and They're asking us to provide a service if they're gonna reimburse us. We need to know that if they're not we need to know that also, so I'm glad that You've agreed to bring it back in a couple weeks. Anyone want to make a motion? I
 Sorry, motion to take city manager's recommendation and bring back in two weeks. All right, there's a motion and a second. Yes sir, there's a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Kennedy, and this is to postpone item 28 for two weeks. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes four to one. Representative Hernandez voting nay, Representatives Kennedy, Anello, Fierro, Rivera voting aye, Representative Molinar not present.
 That brings us to items 29 and 30 may or they're related. May I read them into the record together? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Item 29 is discussion and action on an emergency ordinance extending emergency ordinance number 019333 authorizing the city manager to assign personnel and resources to assist in addressing the humanitarian issues
 and public safety crisis resulting from a mass migration through el paso item 30 is discussion in action on an emergency ordinance extending emergency ordinance number zero one nine four eight five due to a humanitarian security and economic crisis resulting from a mass migration through el paso motion in a second okay let me clear that go ahead ma'am hi chief how are you
 Chief, I'm looking at your presentation, and I want to just be really clear on slide four. You said that we have $45.9 million currently in reimbursements? Yes, ma'am. Jorge Rodriguez with the Office of Emergency Demands. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Yes, we currently have $45.9 million. Okay, when does that expire? So the first portion that is through the Emergency Food and Shelter Program expires on December 31st.
 the new funding for the shelter and services program that one will begin on January 1st you'll expire for the new funding it'll start $45 million before December that's what I don't understand that's the funding that we have available but it expires in December correct okay and so I know
 i was going to read off of these text messages but i'm not going to do that you all are very aware of what's going on and i want to thank interim city manager western because he and i had a conversation on thursday about the overflow of migrants and i know that you all stepped in and you were able to help this weekend but i see that it's happening again correct right and i i want to know what our plan is because i know that you guys you have helped i just don't want to have to get on the phone with the city manager every time there are people begging for help that are our partners
 To get this going more smoothly and I don't know what you need from us to do that I mean, is it some extra action? Do we you know, do we need to give you specific language to be able to do that? Yes, ma'am. I'll touch on some of the actions that we've taken over there over the weekend and the last several weeks Let me meet just making a correction on on that reimbursement That's 25 Million that will be expiring on the 31st. Thank you. I
 So, so just, yes, sir. So we have seen a increase in our numbers over this last month of August, our CPP encounters are averaging about 1000 per day, and Customs and Border Protection continues to do releases to our NGOs, the county's Migrant Services Support Center, and as of this weekend, to the city of El Paso.
 We continue to support the Nensation House Network, the Downtown Shelter Network, and the County's Migrant Services Support Center through staffing, transportation, and sheltering. Like we've mentioned on our last briefing, we have 50 personnel assigned for a multiple of migrant operations seven days a week.
 This includes hotel sheltering, navigation support at the airport, NGO shelter staffing, isolation and quarantine, roving teams who are assisting those families and individuals out on the streets. We also have the environmental services providing daily cleaning and the El Paso Police Department providing patrols near Sacred Heart.
 We have been providing hotel sheltering since August the 12th, and approximately we've assisted close to 2,600 families and single adults during that period. The CBP's Central Processing Center is currently at 5,400,
 5400 in custody and we're currently seeing four streams of releases that are happening across the theater. We have CBP ice releases that are going directly to our NGOs Those are primarily family units and then we have releases going to the county's migrant services support center from ice and CBP and
 And then we also have, as I mentioned during our last briefing, through the CPP-1 releases happening at Paso del Norte, it's about 170. About half of those are going into the NGO networks and the rest have means to travel and don't require any assistance. And as of this weekend, we've opened up a second hotel to help support the
 the sheltering needs during during this period and that's primarily to assist Customs and Border Protection decompress their central processing facilities as we've touched on Previously, we we have three major strategies one is opening up a welcome center to provide more transportation assistance processing Supplemental transportation through charters and then lastly emergency sheltering right now emergency sheltering is where the biggest need is and that's where we've been assisting
 coordination we continue to coordinate with very closely on a daily basis on an hourly basis with the county helping with movements with the migrant service support center we're also in close communication with custom border protection and ice on the sheltering like I've mentioned we have staff embedded with our NGOs through the nunciation house and also through the downtown network and that's been since mid-august to reiterate with hotel emergency sheltering
 We've been sheltering families that are coming directly from the Migrant Services Support Center. If they don't have space to provide sheltering through the downtown network then they fall back on us and we're able to provide that coverage.
 Secondly, we have opened up a second hotel to just receive directly from Customs and Border Protection. So yesterday we took 160 single adults. This afternoon we'll be taking another 100. And we anticipate this is going to be an ongoing operation until we start seeing the numbers to go down. But that's where we're going to be in play, running multiple hotel operations at this point.
 And as mentioned over the last 30 days, since the start of our hotel operations, we have assisted over 2600 migrants. On the transportation piece, this is another area that we're trying to build in efficiencies in the entire system. Through Sun Metro, we're now helping Customs and Border Protection with transportation to the county's Migrant Services Support Center. Since CBP in the mornings is primarily very busy doing the transports to the NGOs, we
 This allows us to get
 the individuals from the central processing center to the county's migrant services support center early in the morning. That's when they are able to secure same day travel and that of course helps the entire system. So that's an efficiency that we built out there. And then also all of the releases from CBP to the city where we're doing all the pickups with Sun Metro and they're being delivered to the to the hotel. So that's just another efficiency that we're building out into the system.
 The county is still working with Houston Catholic Charities and NGOs there to help secure charters for ticketed passengers that move from here to Houston and that primarily helps our downtown shelter network. On the public health side, we're monitoring that closely. Department of Public Health is making sure our congregate settings are free and safe of any type of infectious diseases. I mentioned the environmental cleaning through environmental services.
 We continue to work with the hospital system, make sure that we have plenty of capacity there. We are also updating our migrant dashboard to reflect all of our current operations, so you can look at the dashboard and you'll see all of the movements and numbers there. And lastly, we continue to work very closely with law enforcement, make sure that if we have any security needs in the area, we can address those.
 And then lastly on the cost recovery as mentioned that 25 million is one that will be expiring on the third on the 31st of December but the new program for the Shelter and services that will begin January 1st, and we also just submitted an application For 10 million dollars that the federal government has set aside for for those that were receiving so we're pending decision on that
 Thank you, Chief. I think it's important that everything we do, working with CBP, working with all the agencies is to make sure we have no street releases. And that's been our number one concern. Okay.
 I mean, and I thank you for saying that, Mayor, because that's what my concern is. You know, we're getting texts from the Opportunity Center that says we're going to have street releases because we can't take anybody else for the next three days. So, I mean, I really, I hear everything you're saying. I'm supportive of everything you've been doing. But we're hearing NGOs saying we're going to have street releases because we don't have capacity. And I'm not hearing us say this is what we're doing to alleviate.
 Yes, ma'am. And we're on daily communication with Customs and Board Protection, and they will advise us when they're going to be doing street releases, but that's our goal is to prevent that. So we're in close communication with them. But everything we do right now is to make sure we don't have street releases, and that's why we helped the Lane, Lake Burroughs.
 to open up a second facility so there was no street releases we actually put 65 of the employees that we have designated to go over there yesterday there was somebody happened to dropped off 14 asylum seekers in the middle of the park we went out there immediately and picked them up and gave them sheltering and and that's when we decided to open the the second hotel and
 And then moving the buses, we started doing that just about a week ago where we got Sun Metro involved where we could move them from one place to the other, again, to prevent street releases. And one of the things I told them, I said, I don't care what time of night or day it is, don't send me a text message, call me, and we'll make sure we take care of it. And I call Chief D'Agostino and Colonel Weston.
 All hours regardless of when it is when I do get a message to make sure there are no street releases and the message I got from CBP today. I mean probably an hour ago was that we had 1341 yesterday and Because of what the city's doing there will be no street releases today Thank you to the city for addition for the additional numbers that you've been able to take
 So those are the things we're doing and we make sure and they understand that our number one priority is the safety of our community and our number one priorities that there is no street releases and those are going to be We need to know prior to so we can prevent it and that's what we're doing right now And I just would ask really quick that we we have the same kind of communication with CBP and the NGOs because I think they Have maybe not getting all that communication and so they stress out and
 then we're coming through in the end and i think if we're building up that communication better they're not going to be nervous and calling me all of the time sorry yeah it's i mean it certainly is a capacity issue and i will tell you that we are very actively looking at more hotel rooms bottom line is even when with mobile teams you get to a certain point where you can only staff an ngo
 for the capacity and I've let Mario talk a little bit more about that but but this is an issue that we're very actively working on to build the additional capacity yes yes sir um capacity issues there's only so many beds so we can only put so many employee employees or staffers within the NGOs because there's only so many beds and so that's where we turn to the hotels a big critical part of it and it's the reason why we're pursuing maybe the public
 Possible purchase of the school is to increase that capacity because it truly is a capacity issue When you see the trends as chief Rodriguez talked about a thousand apprehensions a day plus and now a thousand releases a day plus that's that's the current projectory and so we know we're gonna be heavy into the hotel operations and until we can get that large scale facility where we can have it set up and
 we're going to be in these these kind of chasing moments well the good the good news on that though is that we've been very judicious with uh and smart about using the federal funds and so we have the federal funds to be able to to get that hotel capacity up it's a matter of us doing the coordination getting the hotel rooms to be able to take care of that if we have a short-term search
 That's exactly, that's what we're utilizing that funding, that current funding for now, as well as if we can purchase that facility, we'll be able to do the renovations as needed to make it a Prairie Housing. And we've already held three community meetings
 and we had the opportunity to talk to every, and I went to all three of them and I spoke with every resident in the area to listen to their concerns and make sure that we made them feel comfortable in what needed to be done and we had 100% support at the end of the day. I believe we have two more community meetings this September 28th, I believe it is, one in the daytime hours, one in the evening, and that should wrap it up. It should be able to go to the school board.
 Representative Molina followed by representative Thank You mayor Chief Rodriguez, thank you very much for your information. You mentioned we started doing a hotel sheltering on August the 12th So here we are approximately four weeks later. I know you're using the hotel please forgive me the name the 9400 block of Dyer and So I guess very we're receiving many calls emails just say for
 The migrants are, you know, they're people. You know, they have needs. They have a want, so they can't stay inside their rooms all day long. They can't watch TV all day long. And so you have them going from, let's just say, the 9,100 block of Dyer all the way to the 10,000 block of Dyer, and that's a long stretch. But at night, during the day, and in the morning, they are there. And what I mean by they are there is that they're asking for food. They are begging for food.
 They're begging for clothes. They're begging for work. And so some people in District 4, my constituents, are very nervous when they go out at night with their families to restaurants, to businesses. They're concerned because they're being approached by these people. And, of course, there's a language barrier, and sometimes there's not. But they're not sure of what's happening, what's not happening, what you can do. So besides, and I know you mentioned you're going to open a second hotel.
 And is there anything to open a third hotel or even maybe move the people from the northeast to another part of town? And I know that sounds bad. I know that sounds bad. But I'm telling you, these people, my constituents are very concerned on what's happening there because the businesses are suffering. They're not getting the solicitation or the business from the.
 People that are there and so some of them are afraid they're really afraid of going out at night by themselves or with their families Can you address that sir? Well, what I can't say is with that particular one. It's primarily family units and We do work very closely with law enforcement to ensure we have ample patrols. We have security assigned So if there's anything that's out of order will be addressed, but you have any concerns, please forward it to us and we'll I
 Well, we'll address those as promptly as we can. Yeah, because I know in times past you used to have a marked police unit and marked or uniformed officers there at the hotel with a marked vehicle, and you don't see that anymore. Yes, sir. Well, we can look at that. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Great presentation. I've got a question for you. I thought we couldn't use schools to shelter. You cannot use –
 It has not passed the Senate. It's passed Congress. Congress has voted you cannot use current operating schools or schools that have been canceled, and that's why we're buying the school. Okay. So then it becomes property of the city and not a school any longer. I see. So we're going to purchase the schools, the two schools that we used? No, only one. Only one? The only school we're looking at right now is Moorhead. And what area is that? Moorhead. Moorhead? Okay. All right. Thank you. That answers my question. Thank you, sir. Pardon me?
 And a second. Second. There is a second already. Thank you. Yes, there's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Piero, and this is to approve both emergency ordinances, items 29 and 30. Ms. Bryant, can I do a verbal since I just signed out of my computer? On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Temanello? Aye. Thank you. Mayor Leaser, do you consent? Thank you. And the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously with the mayor's consent.
 That brings us to item number 31. Item 31 is a public hearing on a Norton's Vague hitting a 10 foot and 5 foot public utility easement at 904 Fireside Lane. Motion and a second. There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez seconded by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares to approve item 31. There's no public comment on that motion call for the vote in the voting session.
 The motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Anello not present. Item 32 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title IX, Health and Safety, Chapter 9.04, Solid Waste Management to delete the construction and demolition manifest requirement and to delete references to the said manifest. Is there a presentation? I don't think so. We do have public comment.
 I'd like to know whose idea was it to decide we shouldn't know what's going into our landfills that's exactly what you're doing that manifest will tell you what is going into the landfill
 So you don't know if barrels of oil is going in, you won't know if any other hazardous waste is going in, because there's no manifest, there's no check, there's no balance, and again, why? Who brought this forward? Whose idea was it that we should not know what's going into our landfill? I would like to know that. It's putting everybody's health and safety at risk. It puts our water table at risk.
 You have to know these things. Can somebody help me out here? Yeah, Mayor, if we could, I don't know why we don't have our ESD staff person here right now to address this issue. I'd like to be able to work on contact, and if we can come back to the item, I'd appreciate it. We'll postpone it for next council meeting. We'll be prepared. Make a motion. Yes, sir. Make a motion. Make a motion to postpone for June.
 There's a motion made by Representative Rivera-Seguera and by Representative Fierro and this is to postpone item 32 for two weeks. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Anello not present. That brings us to item number 33 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance granting El Paso Bench Hats LLC a non-exclusive franchise for waste containers on sidewalks and other city property.
 We do have public comment on this item. We have Ms. Turner. Ms. Turner. How many of you all want one of these trash containers in front of your house? You do? Okay. We'll make sure you – I'll have them come see if they can pick the one up on Bartlett, where I live, and put it in front of Representative Kennedy's house. Because to me, it makes it look like a dumpster area. I mean, our area is clean. It's not trashy. But there it is.
 And it doesn't even meet the regulations. It's supposed to be at somewhere where there's, you know, a four-way. It's sitting in the middle of the block. And code people drive by it all the time, and it just sits there. It's never picked up. But they also come by and they also pick them up, and they're also limited to 150. All I know is I can't drive anywhere in this town and not see these things.
 See trash rolling out of them because they don't get in if we do see that you need to contact us because their responsibilities Make sure they empty them what they shouldn't be there in the first place. It makes the whole city look like a trash can There's some motion in a second. Yes mayor. The motion was made by representative Fierro seconded by representative Rivera Public comment has been taken on item 33 on that motion to approve call for the vote in the voting session And the motion passes
 4-2-1 with Representative Hernandez voting nay, Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Piero, Rivera voting nay, Representative Anello not present. That brings us to item number 34, this is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating a portion of City right of way over a portion of Mobile Street. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve item 34.
 There's no public comment on this item. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Analo not present. Item number 35 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to execute a subrecipient agreement between the City of El Paso and Pioneers 21 Inc. Move to approve. Second.
 motion in a second there's a motion made by representative hernandez seconded by representative fierro to approve item 35 we do have public comment on this item we have laura butler followed by amir kumar coach and lisa turner good afternoon you have three minutes good afternoon good afternoon i'm laura beller executive director of pioneers 21. thank you mr mayor and council
 We have worked with economic development through this process to ensure that it aligns with city P21 initiatives and of course community needs. Our digital initiatives web and marketing education series will provide 100 entrepreneur support
 with online presence through a holistic approach in marketing education. As an incubator, it's important that we contribute by helping entrepreneurs adopt tech at every stage. The MIHA pioneers,
 MIHA and MIHO Pioneers will help support teens with leadership and entrepreneurship skills. We want to inspire from a young age and understand that it takes an ecosystem to do so.
 Our programs require more staff and the grants do support that. An application process will be required and we will work closely with city staff on the distribution of the application to ensure equity and inclusion.
 P21 has over 67 million out in grant applications including the recent EDA Tech Hub Grant. We built the El Paso Semiconductor Tech Hub Consortium recently. And with me today, I want to introduce you to UBILCorp.
 a aerospace engineering startup that we support. As of September 12th, UBICORP Industries is still the only company in the entire state of Texas sanctioned for contracting work with NASA out of El Paso, Texas.
 Carlos Gonzalez-Rivera is the founder and engineer for Ubel Corp. I also want to introduce you to Amant, the founder of BrightSoul Tech, another software as a service company that Pioneers 21 supports. Again, I want to thank you for your continued support, and we'll be continuing to reach out to you with updates on how P21 is doing.
 I also want to share that you are all invited on October 6th to the Texas Venture Crawl. I am a founding member of the Texas Venture Alliance, and on October 6th, all over Texas, incubators are hosting a Venture Crawl, where you all can get to know more of the ventures that we support, which I like to call the unusual suspects.
 And you can get to know us. This is a program that I am partnering with the MCA with. And please come join us again October 6th. The community is welcome at 500 West Overland. Thank you for your continued support and see you soon. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Amit Kumar Ghosh.
 Followed by Lisa Turner Michelle Hollis and Laura. Hello. Good afternoon. Good to see you art Mayor and the City Council. My name is Amit Gosha I was a faculty at UTEP in information systems and then I started my software business 12 years ago and Working in the city that I love I've been working for 12 years in my business and I have a great partner in pioneers 21 and
 And we are looking forward to diversifying the services to some of the communities, sub-communities in the area that do not have access to technology and information. And that this project is designed to help that. So and also the fact the younger people will be involved would be a great asset. So thank you for your time and look forward to working with you all. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Lisa Turner.
 Afternoon Mayor, Council. My issue here is how this is being funded. This is ARPA money, money designated to help with the health, recovery of health from the pandemic and businesses that were affected by the pandemic. On May 14, 2022, according to your backup, City Council approved the allocation of $14 million to small business recovery.
 from the pandemic and that relief to those businesses. You didn't authorize startup money, money for startups. You didn't authorize training for startups, according to your backup. So I don't think, can you really use this pot of money? I mean, because there's nothing here in your backup that authorizes you to use that money. So that's my question. We're going to answer it for you. She's coming up right behind you. Oh, okay. You sneak up.
 Mireya Crego, Economic and International Development for the record. And yes, these are allowed uses and they're not full, there's no cash that's being dispersed to the small businesses. They're simply getting websites and this is just very vital and important for the digital economy. The businesses need to have a platform in which to sell their products and market their products to expand their customer base. So there's no cash per se to the startups or to the existing businesses.
 Somebody is getting six hundred and fifty thousand dollars It's an all expense as well So it falls under the it falls under an allowable expense even though there's not a there's that cash being given to them There's being a well. I'm not talking about cash I'm talking about but you asked the question ma'am about whether the money is allowable under the ARPA funding for this purpose But I'm looking here in your backup what you have posted here, and there's nothing here that indicates that
 startup funding, nothing here that indicates what's going on here. So that is my question. My question is, do you need another different pot of money? Because according to what you authorized on 14 May 2022, this doesn't meet the standard. I'm just going by what you have in your backup. I mean, that's all I've got. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Next speaker. The next speaker is Michelle Hollis.
 Go ahead, Ms. Hollis. Hi, hello. Okay, great. Can you hear me? Yes.
 Hello. I am. How are you? Trey Hoff. I'm doing great. Thank you so much. Council and mayor. I'm very excited and supported for supported for Pioneers 21. I myself am and a budding entrepreneur in the restaurant space. As you know, during the pandemic, there has been a lot of breakdown in the restaurant industry. Pioneers 21 has been very, very pivotal in supporting my business in a myriad of ways.
 Right now I am in an accelerator, a business accelerator that's really supportive in helping me to break down my idea and actually roll it out. Also I was a server during the time of the shutdown and what I've noticed as coming back into the industry is that a lot of the front of house staff has issues communicating so that's what my business seeks to resolve.
 attended an event with the city of el paso and pioneers 21 at blazing tree brewery and not only did i find out more about their services there i was able to plug into that accelerator and also i've made connections with other culinary
 entrepreneurs that want to raise and do and do great things so having access to the website and digital digitizing their process and having a presence on the internet so that they can engage with the community is going to be a really great asset so
 It's going to be for me, but also for the restaurants and the food services and culinary arts experts that I work with. So I really do appreciate this. I do believe that the restaurant industry is one that was very impacted by the pandemic and that helping them to attract, retain and train quality staff is going to be very helpful. And I got to thank Pioneers 21 for helping me. So I do want to lend my support in that direction.
 Thank you. Thank you. The final speaker is Laura Ortega. No. No? Okay. That concludes public comment on this item. And we have a motion and a second with it. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 35. On that motion, call for the vote.
 the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representatives on a loan not present item 36 is discussion in action requesting City Council support for the submission of the staff recommended grant application to the FY 23 strengthening mobility and revolutionizing transportation smart program for the El Paso Airport City Lab innovation zone project
 Yes sir the motion was made by Representative Rivera seconded by Representative Piero to approve item 36 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session the motion passes unanimously representative Anello not present that brings us to the last item and that's item 38.
 And this is discussion in action on trails and trailheads to include deep programming to proposed trails Alice lateral connection trail and Carolina to Emerson trail transferring funds from deep program trails to Rio Grande Trail north and to place on hold the feasibility study of a Vista Canyon until council recommends an alignment Good afternoon mayor and council you've added none this with capital improvement department. I
 If I could please bring up the presentation for item 38. Thank you. So item 30 item 38 if you'll remember back in August 15th I had this similar presentation and city council requested that we meet with OSAP and get some feedback. So we called a special meeting with OSAP on August 22nd. And here's the presentation with their
 motions that they filed during the August 22nd. So I'll go over the background. You guys saw this on the 15th. So I'll go over it quickly give you the status updates for all the projects OSAP's recommendations and then as Miss Laura Prime read into the record of staff recommendations of what we're asking for on discussion in action.
 So the reason why we are here today is all these trails and trailheads that were identified as part of the quality of life bond.
 It requires council approval to either add or delete the program. These trails were identified working in conjunction with all the advisory committees you see on the right side of this slide. In addition to referring back to plans that have been voted and adopted by the city of El Paso.
 providing the background of where we're at with the quality of life trailheads. What is a trailhead? Basically an area where folks can park while they take advantage of our trails. They have receptacles the kiosk information that provides the location and how the trail meanders through the site drinking fountains and so forth. Here are the locations of the identified trailheads. You'll see some under development and
 and have been completed. And here are the list of the completed projects that have been identified in the quality of life. The Palisades and Bear Ridge those are currently working with collaboration with El Paso Water.
 So as a recap completion of the trailheads we have four completed within Northeast and Westside locations. Here are some of the pictures at a thousand steps to include the shade structure kiosk trash receptacles. You see water fountains water for your four legged friends at Lazy Cow.
 Roundhouse parking that has been identified also provide ADA parking.
 Jen Summerall has the kiosk and trailhead for this entrance. So Palisades trailhead this is one that we have not yet completed we're working in collaboration with El Paso Water as they are looking to do dam improvements and tentatively what they have communicated is construction can start next year next summer.
 Bear Ridge, this is also an area where El Paso Water will be making improvements to their arroyo. And so that area that is circled is the trailhead, but they will be utilizing that to stage their equipment. One thing that we've worked with BOAC, want to make sure that everyone is aware, there's going to be some changes to the trailhead and the alignment. So really want to capture the mountain views, so now we have angled parking,
 We moved the amenities to the mountain views so as you're sitting at the shaded structure you can partake of the views reducing the amount of parking and 180a Identified parking so that brings us to the second portion of quality of life. These are for the trails so here are the 16 listed trails as they have been approved by Council and
 The reason why we added in this timeline is that was the 16, but then you also have approvals that were done in 2017. So that brings you to the Mountain to River Trail and also Bear Ridge that I just went over in brevity of the change to the layout. So these are the four recorded motions on August 22nd.
 So the first one as recorded by by OSAP is to deprogram Ellis lateral Carolina to Emerson.
 and all remaining funds to remain in the master trails account. So as this quality of life project was identified 6 million went to the trails master account and then we divvied it up as the trails and projects were identified into individual projects. So they're saying that this money should go back to the trails account.
 Secondly to recommend council to let the Rio Grande Trail bids expire extend the Mary Frances Kiesling Trailhead Formerly known as Valley Creek Park to the pathway using the existing funds third to make the recommendation to City Council to direct staff to investigate having the mountains River Trailhead paced at Tom Mays access Road and then for to postpone the study until City Council provides direction and
 And so to go over in detail on these items and specifically what I'm asking here for counsel for discussion and action is just to go over the Rio Grande Trail north. This is to the right. This shows where our paved trail it's about 14 feet wide. It ends.
 And so what you see to the left is that continuation of the trail. So this really provides connectivity to Country Club Road. This starts up at Vinton Road. So this is currently an existing eight mile trail system. And so we're looking to complete this project that has been identified in the quality of life bond project.
 So deprogramming would impact approximately 94,000 annual users. And so when we really look at the demographics of where these individuals are coming that utilize this trail system,
 A third of them are within the local zip code. And so that's the picture to the right. Just really understanding that we have a trailhead. I mean sorry we have a trail that is eight miles long. It stops. And so if you are having strollers or a walker or mobility issues you are stuck
 point. So the decision to remove this trail could potentially impact 470,000 visitors to the trail system and that's looking at current 2023. And so the second item for discussion and action is that we had requested to provide a feasibility study and this is for Avispa Canyon. And so just going over looking at the entire project in general.
 The trail the mountain to river project to combine that project both the trail and trailhead to go out to bid. We've completed the design for the trail. The trailhead will be completed I think within the next week. Put this out to bid and then for construction.
 So as a recap what the paved mountain to river trail is it's providing wayfinding along your existing Elizabeth F. Hernandez is I think the technical name but we all know that it's a paved area along Trans Mountain providing a crossing under I-10.
 And then as you have seen that came to council was the agreement with BNSF and that's to provide that crossing at Borderland. So this is the paved mountain to river. The Abispa Canyon would be your natural mountain to river. And so what we're asked, oh sorry, to show in detail the trailhead that we've been working on.
 This is located along the Elizabeth F Hernandez trail. We've been working since 2020 with TxDOT to get this agreement. This is located currently or would be located in TxDOT right of way. We've coordinated with.
 BOAC. They've seen the location of this. We've even walked and been out on site. This is a really good location. You have a protected turn if you're going east or westbound at this intersection so you can access this trailhead. Here are some of the dates that we've provided trail updates and the location of these trailheads and trails.
 So the staff recommendation, what we're asking here is to, we agree to deprogram the two trails, Ellis Lateral and Carolina to Emerson. One thing that we're asking is Rio Grande North has been designed, has been placed out to bid and we currently have a contractor pending your approval we'd like to award that construction process.
 I would like to it's not in the reso but I'd like to come back to council and provide Valley Creek connection as a future trail project and then additionally once when we've completed the Mountain to River package would like to come back to council and provide that for discussion and action would like to remain that into the current location and
 And then number four staff recommendation we agreed to postpone the feasibility study. So one thing a floor amendment which just to make sure I know Laura read this but that whereas city staff recommends that an engineering feasibility study to determine a avispa canyons inclusion in mountain to river be placed on hold pending further direction for final alignment and
 So to deprogram, funds get moved to the Rio Grande Trail and then to also postpone the feasibility study. And that's the discussion in action. If there are any questions from council. We have no questions. Do we have public comment? Yes, sir. We have Dr. Sharon Bonard and Dr. Rick Bonard. IT will need the Elmo for their presentation, please. Let's wait until we get the Elmo up. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
 I looked around to make sure. I don't see an electronic defibrillator, so you might want to add one. In case one of you passes away, we can bring you back. Keep working. You're not supposed to be funny. He wasn't, so you're right. I thought it was funny because you all look so healthy.
 Well except for Miss Representative Molinar who's taking it very seriously. I'm concerned. OK. Let me. I'm not going to start talking yet. IT will you please bring up the Elmo on the screen. I'm sorry I'm giddy because I've been here as long as you have. OK are we ready. Yes ma'am. Thank you. Good afternoon council and mayor. I'm glad to see you all are here.
 considering the conversation that was passed this. Okay, my name is Sharon Miles-Bonard, and I am a member of the Open Space Advisory Board. But today I'm here as an individual. However, I did attend the special meeting on this item that you had requested Open Space have a special meeting because you wanted Open Spaces
 expertise on this item. So let's get started. I do want to give some gives a little bit of background because the very lengthy presentation that staff just gave had mostly information that they had. It did not give the the feeling of what was going on and what happened at that special meeting concerning the.
 EXPERTISE AND RECOMMENDATIONS THAT OSAP DISCUSSED. AND SINCE I ONLY HAVE THREE MINUTES, I'M GOING TO GO THROUGH THIS VERY FAST. I BELIEVE MOST OF YOU HAVE A COPY OF THE PRESENTATION. AM I CORRECT? OKAY. NUMBER ONE, THE NUMBER ONE ITEM THAT STAFF PRESENTED WAS DEPROGRAMMING THE TWO TRAILS AND GIVING THAT MONEY TO CONTINUE AND FINISH THE RIO GRANDE TRAIL PROJECT. OKAY?
 That's not what OSAP was recommending. What OSAP recommended was take the money from the deprogrammed trails and put it in the master trail account with a small amount of that money being used to create the connection between Valley Creek, or Mary Frances Kevesing, and the Rio Grande, okay, the Rio Grande Trail. Number two, we're going to skip one.
 Number two staff recommendation was to include Valley Creek which you'll remember is Mary Frances Kiesling in future trail Projects that's not what OSAP recommended OSAP Recommended Valley Creek connection be done now No waiting the next is number three. I
 Staff recommendation was designed use the designed trailhead for the mountain to river trail that's to be located at Paseo del Norte. Again that's not what OSAP recommended.
 OSAP recommends moving the trailhead to the Tom Mays Access Road, which as you know is part of the Franklin Mountain State Park, and create connectivity to the pedestrian wildlife underpass. If you'll look at the next picture. The next picture is... Thank you, Dr. Bonhart. You've reached the three minutes. Okay, I'm done. Yours? So I'll finish. The next picture right here, if you could bring it up so it's bigger.
 That's Sherry my wife trying to walk from the Franklin Mountain State Park entrance over to the underpass. For those of you who have never seen it this is a picture of the underpass and it's hard to get over there when you're walking.
 So last but not least and what's most important to me is that we want to talk about the ask on recommendation number four. Yes we're in agreement. You should go ahead and cancel the feasibility study because what you really need to do is acquire the property that we need to build that trail. The two trails that are being canceled today
 are because you didn't have permission to build there. And we don't want to have that same problem here. So today what we're seeking from you is a motion to direct staff, and they're asking for the same thing. They want you to help them with the alignment. This is the alignment that we prefer.
 And the reason that it's preferred is because it was also introduced by the Public Service Board. They're the ones that brought this forward first. And it's a great idea, but we just need you to clarify this is where the Mountain to River Trail should go. So if you would please make that motion today, that would be great.
 This item right here. I'm glad to see that you all are very keen on watching the finances because that's what this is all about We're not saying don't finish this extension of the Rio Grande Trail But you prior to this approved a budget of a hundred and fifty one thousand dollars for a sixteen hundred foot long pathway that's pretty much what the normal expense would be and
 The issue is, is that you're now asking to take more than a half a million dollars and throw it at a $151,000 project. That's a 400% increase to do the same thing. What's the difference? What changed?
 Why 400% more? That's not fiscally responsible. And it doesn't anywhere come close to what the National Association of Home Builders says, which is there should maybe be a 25% increase in the last three years. That's way over budget. So if you want to build it,
 Approve the budget at two hundred thousand dollars. That's a twenty five percent increase that gives us more money to do other things So I think it's prudent and financially responsible To know what the cost is limit the cost and then please a motion to direct staff To use the Abyssinian Trail. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Bonnard. No, thank you. Appreciate you Dr. Simulant
 Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to move to address each of these recommendations individually so that they can be properly vetted through us as city council members.
 Is we all know that there was a direction to meet with OSAP. They did have an unscheduled meeting They came back with their own recommendations, which is here So I think taking them all together is probably not sending the correct message or the right message And we need to make sure that we do take into consideration OSAP as an advisory board to us a City Council if I could have a second I
 There's no second. Then I go to Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. In getting the briefings here, Ms. Hernandez, you did say there was a problem with having the one. I do agree with your recommendations here. And those were the original recommendations made
 From the very beginning? The slight change is to Abispa Canyon. So we're agreeing with OSAP and saying let's go ahead and place that on hold. So from August 15th to today, that is what has changed. Okay. And not having one at the, what was it called, the one by the park, that's kind of dangerous there when you gave me that briefing? Yeah.
 Tom Mayes part. Right. So moving the trailhead from Paso del Norte to Tom Mayes that is not recommended. One we've vetted the trailhead location with BOAC with staff we've designed it we've worked on an agreement. Secondly when you move it up to Tom Mayes
 You're coming at a curve. We're already on the slope of coming down I know folks shouldn't speed but you tend to see increase in Space in the speed and then also there is not a protected turn if you are going eastbound to get to that location and
 Okay having said that and having but that is currently not within the resolution right so what we're asking for today is to deprogram to finish the Rio Grande Trail and then to postpone the feasibility study. And I would I am going with your recommendation I would make that motion as well in support of your staff's recommendations. Second.
 Second to accept that as submitted. Ms. Price. Staff's request. Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Hernandez, and this is to approve the resolution as posted. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes 4-1. Representative Molinar voting nay. Representatives Kennedy, Hernandez, Fierro, Rivera voting aye. The motion does carry.
 Do we have a motion to retire into executive session? So moved. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor?
 Anyone opposed and the City Council of City of El Paso my retirement to executive session pursuant to section 3.5 a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas government code chapter 5 by 1 sub chapter D to discuss any of the following Executive session item 1 the city of Houston versus the state of Texas intervener City of San Antonio and city of El Paso cause number D 1 G n 2 3 0 0 3 4 7 4 and number
 03-23-00531-CV under 551.071. Executive Session Item Three, Economic Incentives for Company Expansion and Headquarters to be located in the City of El Paso, HQ number 23-939 under 551.087. Executive Session Item Four, Economic Incentives for the Expansion of a Manufacturing Company located in the City of El Paso, HQ number 23-476 under 551.087. And Executive Session Item Five,
 workplace complaints submitted to the city by chief internal auditor under 551.071. These matters are taken into executive session under 551.071, consultation with attorney, and 551.087, deliberation regarding economic development negotiations. It is 4.06 p.m. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 6.02 p.m.
 Alternate Mayor Pro Tem EX1. No action. Thank you. EX3. No action. Thank you. EX4. No action. Thank you. EX5.
 Motion, September 12, 2023. Motion made, seconded, and carried, that the city attorney, in consultation with the city manager, be authorized to retain outside counsel and any other necessary consultants regarding the workplace complaint, request for grievance process, and notice of whistleblower claims filed on July 21, 2023, and to take all steps necessary, including the execution of any required documents, in order to effectuate this authority. Second.
 And Mayor, we do have public comment on this item. We have Ms. Turner. Anyone else? No, sir. Good evening, Ms. Turner. Hi. Question, was Representative Hernandez in the room when you all discussed EX-5? Ms. Neiman, will you answer the question? Executive session, yes, ma'am. So she was in the room. Ms. Pern? Yes, sir, the motion was made by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Moline, and read into the record, seconded by Representative Kennedy.
 to approve EX5 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representatives Anello and Hernandez not present. That brings us to the end of the agenda. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Aye. And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, September 12, 2023 is adjourned at 6.04 p.m. Thank you.