Ms. Prine are we ready? Yes Mayor I do see a quorum. Good morning this is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday September 14th 2021 present are Mayor Leiser, Representative Shorthbine, Representative Anello, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera and Representative Lizaga. It is 9 o 4 a.m.
 And now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Chaplain Joe Morata. Thank you. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we open today's proceedings by calling upon you. We recognize you as the giver of life and the source of true love. Your word teaches us that if any of us lack wisdom, we are to ask of you. So this morning we are asking God for your wisdom, your direction, and your will.
 Let us be led and directed in our thoughts and decisions with your love and your purpose in mind. Today, we recognize the numerous needs across our city and ask that you would help us to be able to meet those needs. Help us change the things we can change and we ask for your assistance and trust in you for things that we cannot change. Your word teaches us that when the day grew late, thousands of men, women, and children were hungry.
 The resources available were few, five loaves of bread and two fishes. Yet those limited resources in your hands, that when you blessed them, it multiplied miraculously, so that all were able to eat, not just a little, but they ate well with leftovers. So into your hands we commit the few and limited resources that we have,
 We ask that you extend the ability to meet the needs of the people of El Paso. We trust that these resources in your hands will stretch even further than we could hope. May the homeless find shelter, the sick find hope for healing, the vulnerable be protected, the lonely be visited. Let the hungry eat and the mourning find joy. And we ask, Lord, that you also would meet the numerous other needs not directly mentioned today.
 Bless our elected and appointed officials with your wisdom as they make decisions today on behalf of the people. We thank you, Lord, and we praise you in your name. Amen. To lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, we have students from Glencove Elementary. Mayor, I don't believe they've joined us virtually. Would you like to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance? Mayor Pro Temp. To the flag of the United States of America. To the republic for which it stands. Chaplain, thank you. Mayor Pro Temp, thank you.
 Thank you. Just some housekeeping items. Council, per rules of order, you may not use any electronic devices other than the desktop computer. And once you obtain the floor from the presiding chair, you will have to up to 10 minutes for debate. For those of you joining us virtually, please make sure your microphones are in mute to reduce any background noise. That brings us to the mayor's proclamation. So first, before we get started, this prime night, I'd
 have a moment of silence and i'm going to ask represent molinar and then representative rivera to lead us in the moment of silence today represent molinar
 Good morning. Thank you very much mayor. My name is Joe Molina city representative for district 4 I would ask for a moment of silence today the recent passing of lieutenant Terrazas ID number one seven seven three a 26 plus year veteran of the El Paso Police Department Please keep his him and his family in your prayers his services are scheduled today as we speak, please. Thank you Thank you
 I would also like to ask everyone present and listening for a moment of silence for a loss of a 20-year plus veteran, Andy Valenzuela of the El Paso Police Department. In less than two weeks we have lost two officers from this fine department and Andy was the latest that passed on approximately two days ago. Could I have a moment of silence please? Thank you, sir. Thank you. And I know that.
 You know, life is precious and I can only thank all the men and women of all our law enforcements and all our first responders for everything they do and every day when they go out to protect our community. So may God bless everyone. Thank you. Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Gold Out Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. Representative Lusaga? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Good morning.
 Whereas each year many parents hear the devastating words that no parent wants to hear, your child has cancer, we, Gold Alt El Paso, want families to know that they are not alone during this time and they have the community support behind them. We will try our hardest to help families in need in any way we possibly can.
 And, whereas Gold Out El Paso honors all the children and families affected by childhood cancer, we honor all warriors, survivors, and angels that have courageously fought this battle. We honor families affected by childhood cancer because no child fights alone.
 And, whereas Gold Out El Paso will continue to make its goal that the City of El Paso turn gold every September, and whereas children fighting cancer should never feel alone, and with the help of our community,
 All children fighting cancer will always get recognition for Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, for our children are the future. And whereas we ask the El Paso community to join in Gold Out El Paso's motto, when one fights, we all fight. When one cries, we all cry.
 When one celebrates, we all celebrate. We are all in this fight together. And now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that September 18, 2021 shall be known as Gold Out for Childhood Cancer Awareness Day. Thank you, Representative LaSaudia.
 and i know we have representatives from gold out thank you for being here and the next proclamation is 915d oh we got some balloons um proclamation by the city of el paso texas
 Whereas, 915 Day is an initiative of Progress 321, a nonprofit organization created by purpose-driven professionals dedicated to making the Paso Norte region the best place to live, work, and create. And whereas, Progress 321 promotes the Paso Norte's region, economic development, and quality of life initiatives created to promote pride in the City of El Paso.
 And whereas September 15th would be the official holiday of El Paso Pride for those born and raised in El Paso, for those who call El Paso their home. And whereas our organization feels strongly that there should be an annual Day of Pride to celebrate our unique city, culture, history, economic impact, and already designated first day of Hispanic Heritage Month.
 And whereas we hope to see all El Pasoans, regardless of where they reside, share being proud of being raised in a city that has been established since 1873, has been at the forefront of major historical events, and is prospering as a border community. And whereas Progress 321 has established an annual homecoming event, El Paso Everywhere, to bring expats home, to give back and strengthen their ties to the hometown that made them.
 and whereas it would be exciting to celebrate our city as a unified community annually for years to come. And now therefore it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that September 15th, 2021 shall be forever known as 915 day, signed by our mayor, the Honorable Oscar Leeser. Mayor, would you like to take a photo? Yes, sir, thank you. Oh, is that all of us? Yeah. No. I love you. Come on, man. Three, two, one.
 Thank you.
 ms prine you ready yes sir that brings us to the consent agenda all matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda when the vote has been taken if an item has not been called out for separate discussion the item has been approved council may however reconsider any item at any time during the meeting
 Mayor Potem? Yes. Can I have the following revisions? Page 4, item 6, moves with a regular agenda per Representative Rivera. Page 7, item 18, postpone two weeks per Representative Schwartzbein. Page 11, item 29, postpone two weeks per planning and inspections. Page 11, item 30, postpone two weeks per planning and inspections. Also add some others from council.
 you would like to take to the regular agenda. Item 33, postpone two weeks. And then item 25 as well.
 And item 25 would be to postpone for four weeks. We have not been briefed by the water utility relating to this purchase and land sale. Mayor Pro Temp, just to make sure I have this straight. You said item 12 moved to the regular agenda. Yes, ma'am. Item 25 postponed for four weeks. Yes. And there was another item? Item 33 postponed till next council agenda. Item 33 postponed two weeks. Thank you.
 Yes, that's it. Is there any others, council? All right. Which ones? You want me to read all of them again, sir? The last three. So item 25 postponed for four weeks. That is relating to a land sale that El Paso Water has not briefed any of the council with. Item 12, per regular agenda, take to the regular agenda. And then item 33 postponed for two
 is there any other council has mayor anybody viola okay thank you thank you any second there's a motion by mayor pro tem shortsvine seconded by representative rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion call for the vote um i do i do have one request when we're making these revisions can you can you say mayor pertin who is requesting those postponements yes
 because it's not on my revisions backup and so i get confused on who's requesting that okay well in terms of the last three representative vanilla requested item 12 to be taken to the regular and i was concerned about 25 and 33
 i didn't hear what you said mayor proton can you read oh yeah so item 12 uh representative made the request and then item 25 and item 33 um i have some concerns about yes sir thank you i believe represent uh rivera had issues with 25 as well thank you okay thank you representative for a motion in a second there is a motion in this second the voting session is open representative lizadora thank you all in the voting session
 and the motion passes unanimously i t can you show the results on the screen please thank you the motion passes unanimously mayor i am told that the the kids are have joined the meeting the kids for the pledge great if we can do that that'd be great thank you very much for that i t can you bring up the there they are oh there they are thank you so to lead us in the pledge of allegiance this morning our students from glen cove elementary at the invitation of
 Mayor Leaser, this morning we have Lea Romero, Atiana Guzman, Amaris Fernandez, Harmony Garcia, Natalia Rodriguez, Ella Mendoza, Dana Flores, Jerick Shaw, Leila Ortega, Dante Arriola, Madeline Fonte, Melina Cervantes, Nicholas Sarivay, Elina Beatty, Andrea Vasquez, and Emily Bradley. Good morning. Good morning.
 United States of America to the Republic and under God, with liberty and justice for all. I pledge allegiance to the Texas indivisible. Thank you all, you did great. Thank you for joining us. What a treat for us and thank you. You guys did an incredible, great job. So I thank you all for being here. Mayor, would you like to move to the items that were moved to the regular agenda from consent? Yes, ma'am, please. Okay, the first one was item number six,
 and this is that the purchasing director is authorized to notify mirador enterprises inc of el paso texas that the city is terminating solicitation 2021-0509 airport rts due to the parties not being able to agree on contract provisions in order to finalize a contract for the solicitation and that the termination shall be effective as of september 14 2021
 I'm sorry better Thank You mayor thank you thank you um in going revising this agenda last night I felt that I didn't have enough information to make a proper decision on this because I mean terminating on what pretense we were never told I was never briefed on this I feel that I need to be brief before I can make a
 sensible decision on this that's the reason why I pulled it out thank you and I would eventually like to make a motion to postpone but do we have any I'll second that we have a speaker Mr. Ray Mancera I'm not sure if he's Mr. Mancera yes sir no leave it on please good morning sir you'll have three minutes good morning good morning sir my name is Ray Mancera I'm here representing Mirador Enterprises which is the winner of the bid
 And my request to you is to delete, to table or postpone for the following reasons. I sent an email last night with an attachment for the reasons why. But if I may, this bid went out on December 8th of last year. And the due date was January 1st of this year. It was awarded on June 20th, 2021.
 So this council on July 20th agreed with the recommendation of staff to award the contract to my client, Mirador Enterprises, for $1.355,574.24 million.
 August 31st, two weeks ago approximately, there was an amendment to increase the bid for $229,943. And my request here today is that my client is not aware, was not aware that her contract that she was awarded and the amendment that was made that they had agreed upon,
 was being terminated. So we are respectfully requesting that this item be deleted. And if staff has any questions, we would love to have the opportunity to talk to purchasing to see what happened. Because as far as my client is concerned, they made, the bid was submitted, they was the best bid, only three companies submitted three bids.
 They were the successful bidder. And even with the amendment that was added, they still are less than the second lowest bid. So for those reasons is that we are perplexed as to why the request by staff is to terminate when staff recommended approval, staff recommended the amendment. And we are here to ask that city council respect
 The award that was granted and that we proceed with Constructing the
 bus terminal at the airport which is what this contract is about and finally there are federal monies involved they have urged staff to please award it because they've got to spend that money and that is also that you don't want to put in jeopardy those funds I like I'm happy to answer any questions you may have like to ask for deletion so we can have an opportunity to talk to staff staff might come back and say
 You know, yes, we'll go ahead and continue. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Representative Rivera? I've got a question for Mr. Mancetta before he leaves. Do you know how many other, I mean, you said three, but were the other two local as well? Yes, sir. They were local. And my backup speaks about those companies that bid it.
 Actually, I've got them here. Jordan Foster Construction came in at $1.65 million. Noble General Contractors, which was the number two lowest bid, came in at $1.623.
 1,623,000. We came in at 1,355,000. Keep in mind that those figures, when you arrive at those figures, you really don't know what the competition is. You don't know if it's going to be 10, 20 people submitting bids. It's a very, very...
 nerve-wracking process as you can imagine the private sector having to present this and And fortunately my client was a winning bid. It is not the first contract. They have Worked with the city they have received multiple contracts. So they are really ready willing and able to perform Can I speak please sir?
 Okay. Thank you. San Rodriguez City Engineer. Just to give you some background and if you want some additional briefing, we'd be happy to do that, Representative Rivera. This bid is a significantly old bid. This was a competitive seal proposal that was bid out.
 As part of the award process, we entered into good faith negotiations with the highest ranked proposer, which was C.F. Jordan, when the original rankings came out. We did not come to terms with the highest ranked proposer, so we went on to the second highest ranked proposer, which was Mirador.
 And there was no items to negotiate at the time when we went on to the second highest proposer. And that's the recommendation that we took to council based on the original award submitted. That contract was awarded.
 through the execution process, the authority notified us that they would not be able to execute the contract based on the original price that was submitted. As such, we discussed the opportunity for us to amend the contract, and that's what Mr. Monsanto referenced to you that two weeks ago, we did present an item in the contract amendment. However, in discussions and for the integrity of the bid, we did pull that contract amendment back because we do have 65 contracts under construction
 We have received multiple requests from our price increases, labor increases, and we have rejected all those requests because of the integrity of the contract that we have in place and the signatures that have been placed on those contracts.
 We felt in conjunction with Bruce and Bruce can add any additional comments as well as with legal that the best course of action for us at this point unable to execute this contract is to terminate it so that we can put it back onto the street in which we will be able to bid on this contract again. This termination is not going to affect their reputation. They are a good contractor and good standing with the city and will continue to be so after this action is considered by council.
 I'm not sure if you have anything else related to the communications with Mirador.
 The additional communication with Miodore on September 1st, we did provide them a letter indicating that we were not going to move forth with the amendment and stated the reasons why. And I spoke with the president of Miodore because he wanted to know if this termination for convenience would impact their standing.
 So we basically indicated and advised her that we were moving forward with the termination for convenience and that we will re-bid it in the future. And that because we were terminating... I'm able to answer your phone call right now, but if you leave a name and number and a brief message, I'll get right back to you.
 And because since we were terminating it for convenience, as the Mayor and Council are aware, when we terminate convenience it doesn't impact the contractor's record we're staying in with the city. So I personally spoke with the president of Media Bureau. Your call has been forwarded to an automated voice messaging system. Four, six. Will everyone please make sure their microphones are on mute if they're not speaking? Thank you.
 So in regards to communication, one was in a letter and one was in a meeting with the president of New York, where they were advised, we were terminating for convenience, and would rebid so that we could address the transparency and consistency in how we were doing with change orders. Because as everyone is aware, in this period of time, it's difficult for construction companies and companies in general to hold their prices.
 And we basically want to be consistent in how we're treating all our contractors that are requesting price increases. Thank you, sir. Mr. Monsanto, could you come back up, please? I don't know if anybody else has a question for Mr. Monsanto, but I – yes, sir. Go ahead. Representative –
 Mr. Monsanto, I did not receive an email from you yesterday, so I just wanted to ask that you could re-forward that because I would like to read that in full. Thank you. Definitely. And of course, I took the emails that I normally have on file from the city and I really apologize. It's probably our system. I've been getting a lot of bounce back emails lately. Yes, ma'am. If you could just resend that, I would really appreciate it. That's right.
 There were several exhibits that were attached to verify that indeed the process was followed. The negotiations ensued, they came to an agreement, two weeks ago they requested a view.
 Council to reaffirm their contract to Mirador and to increase the amount because of the how long it had taken to come to Council and the prices change. And that's why you all agreed to the change order. And so we were delighted to go forward and perform.
 and we were set back or taken aback by today's item to terminate when we had negotiated in good faith and the city had agreed. But I do have other comments, but I just wanted to address the essence of my request. Thank you. No other questions. Representative Salcido.
 Thank you mayor. I just have a Quick question for clarification You mentioned that the the amendment of or the negotiated price with the amendment that is what's in question It got passed or is there other? Amendments being added to that today. That's correct. So when the contract was awarded on July 20th for the original amount
 uh... uh... or contract from january june twenty four what happens in the real world
 is that things are moving so fast in the private sector that when bids are submitted, bids sometimes are submitted or rather offers of subcontractors really are only for two weeks, three weeks. That is a private sector. So when the city takes such a long time to make a decision, those subcontractors that submit the bids on electrical, plumbing, mechanical,
 they become obsolete. So it becomes very nerve-wracking for a bidder that's a general contractor to stand before you all and take a stab at dark with bids, numbers that were crunched back in January.
 So that's why my client in good faith said, you know, these numbers are off now. The city recognized it and said, okay, what is the best bid now? Because it is best to go ahead and negotiate with you instead of going through the whole process again. And most likely the chance would be that it would be a higher amount. So when they negotiated in good faith and the increase was,
 only 229,000 to close to 230,000. It was agreed to by both parties. And that is what was presented to you on August 31st, a request by staff to amend the contract and my client's happy, city was happy at that point. I don't know what changed in the last two weeks. And so I'm just perplexed. That's why my client says, what's going on? We didn't even know we were on the agenda.
 So there's a lot more information, council, but I'd rather just request that it be deleted and let us have an opportunity to talk to staff and find out what happened. What did we do or what did we not do? And if they feel that they still say
 stand firm on the request to terminate, we'll be back in two weeks at their request. But they might also agree and say, you know...
 ACCORDING TO THE FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION, FTA, THEY'RE RIGHT. WE HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD, AS STATED IN THE BACKUP, THAT THEY MUST MOVE FORWARD BECAUSE THOSE FUNDS MAY ELAPSE AND IT URGES THEM TO SPEND THAT MONEY. SO THEY MIGHT SAY, ALL THINGS CONSIDERED, LET'S GO AHEAD AND PROCEED WITH THE SAME CONTRACT AND LET'S GET MOVING ON THE CONSTRUCTION. EXCUSE ME, MAYOR AND COUNCIL, CAN I SPEAK FIRST COMMENT ON YOUR PART, TO THE SAME DIRECTOR?
 I'm sorry Go ahead sir We
 Initially, as Sam indicated, we were going to do an amendment. That amendment was not executed. So I first want to clarify that the amendment was not executed. Then secondly, I want to indicate that I had a conversation with the president of Meador and advised her why.
 We were not moving forward with the amendment and spoke to her about the consistency that the city wanted to apply to all companies that are currently working that are experiencing price increases. So it's a national issue. And it's not a matter of construction bids being opened in two weeks because when construction
 We want to remind council this was not a low bid, it was a competitive sealed proposal. We initially negotiated with Jordan Foster. After that negotiation was ended, we started the process with Meador. But the president of Meador was notified and we actually communicated the reasons in a letter based on September 1st.
 So I want to state that what is being presented to council, I'm gonna make an amendment to it. Mia Dora was notified. In fact, the president was notified and she agreed that she understood why this city was- Mr. Collins, I'm gonna interrupt you and I apologize, but there's a glitch in the system and people can't hear you.
 At home, so I'm gonna recess the meeting so you can start again and kind of go through your your item because I think it's important that people have the ability to hear this show and Again, I apologize, but you're not going through the link. So we want to kind of start over on it again Miss prime committee recess for how long recess council may we have there's a motion and a second to recess for a
 10 minutes 10 minutes we'll do that yes thank you sir thank you very much anyone opposed the meeting is a recess at 9 43 a.m so move there's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting all in favor anyone opposed the meeting is back in session at 9 56 a.m we're on item number six which is that the
 that the purchasing director is authorized to notify mirador enterprises inc of el paso texas that the city is terminating solicitation 2021-0509 airport rts due to the parties not being able to agree on contract provisions in order to finalize the contract for this solicitation and that the termination shall be effective as of september 14 2021. thank you mr collins welcome down thank you mayor members of council just want to go through rather
 rather directly some of the key issues here in this particular item this was not a little bit it was a competitive seal proposal it was a negotiated contract initially we negotiated with Jordan Foster we could not reach an agreement we went to the second highest ranked firm which was meador
 The item was brought to council because there were no items to negotiate. We brought the item to council. Can we hold again? I'm getting messages that City TV is on mute. No one can hear. Okay. No problem. Sorry, Mr. Collins. I apologize again. No problem. We're going to keep you down here, sir. No, we can. Go ahead, sir. Thank you.
 So the history of this award, as previously indicated, it was not a low bid, it was a competitive sale proposal, a negotiated procurement. We initially started negotiations with the highest ranked firm, CF Jordan. We could not come to an agreement on the price. We went to the second highest ranked firm, which was Mirador. Both firms are local. There were no items to negotiate. The price was acceptable by the city. We presented it to council.
 In between the presentation and council's approval, Meador advised the city that their prices of their subs had increased. So initially we started discussions with Meador to do a price increase in the change order. That was posted.
 After reconsidering the impact of approving that change order to the other 65 active contracts where prices had been requested to be increased, we said for consistency purposes, we were not going to move forward with the change order.
 So for consistency and transparency, we prefer not to move forward with a change order for one vendor and not do it for all the open contracts and just to re-bid it. So it's an issue of consistency and transparency. In addition, for the communication with Miador, I personally spoke to the owner of Miador and discussed because her question was,
 Did we do anything wrong and how would this affect our record? She was advised that Mia Dora did not do anything wrong. The city has decided that we will be consistent in our processes for contracts and not do change orders. And she was also advised that we would terminate it for convenience.
 The difference between terminating for default and convenience, if a vendor fails to perform, it's a default issue. And they're basically put on a list where we would not do business with them as a city for three years. For convenience, they're allowed to continue to rebid.
 This information was provided to the owner of Meador, so we're actually surprised to hear that Meador did not understand why we were choosing to terminate it and re-bid because the owner was in agreement with the city.
 representative Totsito I have a question for you so the approved amendment for the change order or the change price the price increase that we approved that is all that's being asked no we actually did not move forward with that amendment it was deleted so there the city for this particular contract we did not move forward with that amendment we deleted it and instead of moving forward with
 We're asking council to allow us to terminate the contract so we will not have that amendment because once we do that amendment for consistency purposes, the open 65 contracts that we now have in place for construction, we're going to open it up. And every one of those companies are going to get in line.
 Okay, so I guess the intent was there to amend and I guess it kind of sounds to me that that's why the bitter got confused Yes, but we did clarify with the bitter in writing and I personally spoke with the owner to address her questions and concerns about how This termination would affect her company which I advised her it would not she was still with the mere door not she mere door was still remaining good standing and
 And they will be open and encouraged to bid again. Okay, thank you. So let me ask you a quick question. And then we have Representative Molinar followed by Representative Rodriguez and Representative LaSaga. So we didn't move forward. So why are we terminating a contract we never moved forward with?
 So council had approved the award of the contract. Yeah, that was to Jordan? No, to Mayador, sir. Okay, okay, that's what I want to make sure. From the council award to the execution of the contract, this is standard. Okay. Council will approve the award, and then we will execute a contract with the construction company. Yes, sir. Prior to signing the contract,
 the company Mirador indicated that their prices were not being held by their sub. Okay, okay. And so that becomes the point of distinction. Council approved it, but before they signed it, they indicated their sub didn't hold their prices. We had discussions, they identified the amount,
 We have posted it, and then we re-evaluated how would that affect the other 65 contracts that we have open for construction. So do you have a signed contract with Mirador? We do not, sir. They refused to sign it until that price was increased. Okay. That's where I need to make sure of clarification. Thank you for that. Yes, sir. Representative Molinard, followed by Representative Hernandez.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, Mr. Collins. So just so I can fully understand, so the contract was never signed? That's correct, sir. And so had the contract been signed and then the vendor came back to make a change order, that would be proper procedure? If the city agreed to execute the change order, we would have brought it back to council. Council, because of their dollar amount, would have voted upon it. But for consistency purposes,
 staff made the analysis that this would impact the remaining and open 65 construction contracts. So we did not wanna do a special process and be inconsistent. So for transparency and consistency, our recommendation is not, well our recommendation is to terminate the contract and go out and rebid it. Okay, and so when you say staff, it's purchasing? Purchasing.
 purchasing and the city engineering department okay has something like this ever happened before that you're aware of in the last two five years no actually we did discuss it today the city engineer in his 15 years of experience this has never happened and my 11 years with the city has never happened but just to remember
 Because of the pandemic, we have never been in the case where the cost of construction materials have increased from 23 to 28% nationally. So this was something that was discussed at the national purchasing meeting, that construction cost has increased. Okay, and when did you contact by telephone, I believe you stated, to the owner of Mirador? Do you recall the date? Okay.
 Cannot call the date certain but I knows a Wednesday two weeks ago. Yes. I spoke to mrs. Diaz Personally and did you inform her that there was going to be brought forward to City Council at that time? Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you Mr. Collins, thank you. Mr. Cronin. You did say also you notified in writing September 1st. Thank you representative Lundis. I
 Good morning, mr. Collins Thank you for your consistency and and your process that you put in place and I think that's what? gives a lot of confidence to the business community on your Steadfast communication and consistency within your department I do want to clarify though because I I don't want members of the public to to be confused or other folks who are you know going through procurement process and
 Have seen change orders, but that is as it relates not to labor costs in other cases It could be related to construction cost as you mentioned earlier. Yes, so That's not so what I alluded to in the question I answered was Have there ever been a similar situation similar to this and no it has not been that does not allude to the fact that the city has never done a change order and
 But in this particular case, one is before the contract was executed. So in other cases where change orders have been done, the contract was executed. And then for different reasons, changes were brought to council for approval. In this particular case, the contract was not executed and the request to complete this change order.
 We did not feel that it would be in the best interest of the city based upon the fact that it would be, city would say yes to one vendor and for the other 65 open construction contracts, we have already said no. So it's a matter of consistency. If we're going to be consistent with what we believe is the best interest of the city,
 Our recommendation is that doing the change order is not consistent because of the impact and the precedence that it was set with the other 65 construction contracts. Okay. Thank you for clarifying that. And then so contracts that have already been executed, I have seen costs added onto contracts. What is the discretionary authority that the city manager has to approve those? And if it goes beyond the contract amount, what is the process? Is it to come back to council? And what are the...
 what are there like allowable reasons that a contract can increase because in this case it sounds like the contractor just wasn't able to get sound prices from the subs and that's the responsibility of the contractor to hold them accountable to those prices so allow me to walk through your your questions so when they when the construction contract
 brought forth to city council within the language it states that the city engineer has the authority to approve a a change order up to fifty thousand it proves it's a hundred okay it's a i'm sorry it's a hundred thousand a hundred thousand excuse me anything above that amount is brought back to council for approval so if in a review of the records anything above that hundred thousand is brought back to city council for approval
 And if I can add, Representative Hernandez, change orders are specific to additional scope or changing conditions in the field. In other words,
 As an example, you just approved the change order today to add low-profile barriers along the airway to protect the art piece. That was an additional scope that was added to the contract of the median landscaping because that's within the project limits. And so we're allowed to do change orders under the original limits and within the scope of the contract that's awarded by city council. We could not, as an example, go add low-profile barriers or any other scope.
 anywhere outside beyond the project limits of where we're working on and where the contractor has insured and has control of that project area. Those are typically the change orders that you're seeing approved as either change of conditions in the field or added scope by the owner, in this case the city, when we agreed to add any specific items to the contract. We do not and have not processed contract increases associated with material increases.
 that just come about. And as Bruce stated, we have received multiple requests from ongoing construction contracts about price increases, and we have denied those because we do have contract and pricing that has been locked into the contract. In this case, it's different in that we tried to negotiate or proceeded to negotiate a change order on an unexecuted contract, and that's where the consistency in the discussions with Bruce and the legal department came back to the conclusion that it was best
 to just determine the contract for consistency and transparency and just re-bid the project. No, you helped clarify a lot of that, Sam, because I just didn't want the public to be confused when they see these added change orders for us to seem inconsistent, but I do believe it is a large amount that needs to be reconsidered and re-bid. This project goes through my district, so I certainly don't want it to see it delayed.
 So, you know, making sure that we have a well thought out procurement process put into place to make sure it's fair and transparent. I'm certainly supportive of, you know, at the expense of the delay at the project. But also, you know, we're a government and we need to be held accountable for any additional cost.
 And so I don't want the city government to be accused of preferential treatment. So it's important that we rebit this so that we can have a fair process consistently throughout our tenure. So thank you, Bruce and Sam, for the information. I'll support your recommendation today. Thank you, ma'am. Representative Sotega.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Bruce, for coming down here. You said that when you talked to the owner, right, she agreed to what was being proposed to her? Yes, ma'am. Because her two questions, the first question was, did Mia Dora do anything wrong, and how would it affect our reputation and relationship with the city?
 those were her only two questions she was not opposed to this item being rebid okay so i clarified with her that the city had done our internal analysis and for consistency we did not want to establish a president where only one company received approval for a change order for the increased cost of material and the other 65 were denied
 I also advised her that because we were terminating for convenience, that her reputation and standing with the city would not be harmed and it will remain as a viable and responsible contractor.
 Thank you, Bruce. And then you mentioned about you didn't want to open up. Can you just elaborate a little bit about that? So as... With the other 65 contracts. So as Sam has indicated, we currently have 65 active construction contracts. Several of those companies and those projects have made a request for a change order due to the increase in material costs. Those have been denied. Okay.
 So when we say open up, I'm alluding to the fact that of the 65 open contracts, there have been multiple requests for change orders due to material increases. Those requests have been denied. So it's a matter of consistency. Correct, yeah. Well, I think it's pretty simple as,
 Yn ymwneud â'r hyn a ddweud, mae'n dda i chi ei fuddsoddi, ac mae'n dda i chi ei ofyn. Ni allai'r gynhyrchydd ddweud yn y cyfrif gynharach, yn y gwirionedd? Yn y gwirionedd. Felly, bydd ganddynt gyfle i fuddsoddi ar yr aros newydd, yn y gwirionedd? Yn y gwirionedd, Iawn. Iawn, byddaf yn cefnogi chi heddiw. Diolch. Diolch, Prenadol. Yn ymwneud â'r aros,
 Represenadwch Rivera, yna Represenadwch Molenod a Represenadwch Rodriguez. Ie. Yr wych chi eisiau mynd gyda Rep Rodriguez yn gyntaf? Ac yn gyntaf. Gwylio, yn sicr. Represenadwch Rodriguez. Diolch. Felly, fy marn i yw nawr y mae'n mynd yn ôl i ddatblygu, nid yw hynny'n rhoi periwad i Miradwch nawr y mae'r cwmniau yn gynrychioli beth oedd eu datblygu, yn gwybod y niferoedd hynny? Felly, mae'n wir
 Mae'n wir bod yn seiliedig ar wybodaeth cyhoeddus sydd wedi cael ei gynnal, bydd yr holl gynllunio cymdeithasau yn y marchnadaeth yn gwybod y niferoedd. Ond mae hefyd yn wir bod yn cael ein hwylusu ar gyfer prysau ar gyfer gynlluniau adeiladu. Felly, o fewn yr wybodaeth sydd wedi'i ddarparu ar y cyfnod cyflogiol, mae'r niferoedd yn fwyafrwydd yn fwyafrwydd o mis i bob ddwy mis. Mae'r niferoedd yn cynyddu.
 Felly, y cyfnod a gafodd ei gyflwyno a'i gynnal i'r Cyngor yn ddiwedd, o ran y gwybodaeth a'i rhannu yn gyffredinol, bydd y cyfnodau hynny'n newid. Felly, mae'r cost o wneud ystymet ar gyfer prosiect adeiladu heddiw yn mynd i gael cost gwahanol heddiw na'r cyflwyniad 60 diwrnod yn ôl. Felly, mae'r ddau yn wir.
 A oes hynny wedi bod yn gyffredinol lle mae niferau yn newid hynny'n gyflym neu yw'n ei fod yn achos ein sefyllfa bresennol gyda'r cyflog a'r pandemig? Mae'n achos ein sefyllfa bresennol gyda'r pandemig a'r cyflog. Iawn, felly beth rydym yn ei wneud i gymryd y busnesau hynny i'w ystyried?
 gwybod ein bod yn cael y sefyllfa oherwydd y pandemig a oherwydd ymlaen, beth rydym yn ei wneud i ddeall, i sylweddoli bod y niferoedd hyn yn newid yn fwy drastig na'r normaidd? Felly, o ran cynlluniau adeiladu, felly mae yna broses gwahanol ar gyfer cymdeithasau eraill sy'n ffwyd. Felly, ar gyfer cynlluniau adeiladu, mae'r arweinydd y ddyn a fi wedi trafod defnyddio ffodd o ddysgu yn llaw,
 sy'n broses yn fwy cymorth na gynlluniau cymdeithasol. Felly byddwn yn gallu ei gynnal, ei gael, ei ddewis a'i dod i'r Cyngor yn amser yn fwy cymorth. Felly bydd hynny'n golygu rhai o'r amser o'r cyfnod rhwng y brosesau hynny, cymorth yn llaw yn ogystal â gynlluniau cymdeithasol. Felly byddwn yn mynd i'w gyfnodio i'r cymaint o bosibl a bydd yn dda i'r cymuned busnes sy'n ei fuddsoddi arno.
 Iawn, ond i bryd hynny, y fawr fwyaf, dwi'n credu, risg y byddwn yn ei wneud yw, i'r cwmni hon, i leiaf, yw bod eu niferoedd yn agored ac yn agored ac mae rhywun yn gallu helpu nhw. Ac nid oes rhywbeth y gallwn ni ei wneud am hynny.
 Representative Rodriguez, if I can add, um, Sam Rodriguez, the numbers that they have shown in the public are the same numbers that the other two bidders. So everybody's numbers are out in the open. I think this is not the first time that we've been projects. Um, and so it's it's definitely
 Like Bruce said, the changes in labor and material are fluctuating such that they're going to have to sharpen their pencil no matter what to be competitive on this upcoming bid or future bids that we have underway. I think it's important to note that...
 you know, the bidding climate at the end of the day is based on the market as it stands today. As Mr. Mancera alluded to, these bids are significantly old already and that's the rationale that the mirador told us that,
 Stubs were not able to hold the pricing because of the age of the bids. As we're going to expedite this new bid that comes out with a low bid, we should have consistent and current bids based on current market conditions, which are, again, probably not consistent with what has already been published out in the open.
 Okay, so I understand that we're being consistent as far as what we're doing. We're telling the other 65 businesses that are also basically submitting the same complaint that prices are changing, material costs are going up, there's a labor shortage. I understand that we're being consistent, but I think that we need to do something to –
 also us be more flexible as far as understanding the current circumstances that we are, because we've been being very flexible with everybody because of the pandemic. And I think this is a situation that could potentially have been overlooked. And we need to see what we're willing to do or how we're willing to have a conversation about being flexible and helpful towards those companies that have been working with us for many years. Yes.
 Agreed, Representative. In the current situation with the pandemic, at the onset of our response from a capital improvement standpoint, we talked about working with the vendors to extend contract times.
 And we have done that in multiple contracts where they've experienced labor shortages because of the sub went under quarantine. They couldn't show up. We've been able to work with those contractors on that side. In addition to that, we also instituted the release of retainage. Typically, we keep 5% retainage on contracts through the pandemic. We were able to reduce that retainage.
 to allow for more cash flow into the contractors' hands and ultimately the subcontractors. And again, we continue to work with them. The challenge for us and where we want to be consistent is holding the price. And typically what happens under a bid, they will hold the pricing to submit a bid that's good for 60 days, and that holds the contractors and the material vendors
 associated with those to be able to hold those contracts and pricing and they should be executing those contracts immediately after we take these items to Council. It would be very hard for us to recommend opening up and start increasing price contracts based on material because I don't think
 It will be financially prudent or I'm not sure legally that we could do it too, just because we just would have no control over how much those price contracts would be. And that's something that we would just not recommend. No, and I understand all that, but I just feel like we need to have a little bit more...
 awareness of where the prices are at and and mr collins just mentioned that they went up you said 28 so that was part of a national construction study that said from pre-covid to where we are currently and this was from a conference last month that construction costs the cost of materials and labor have gone up between 23 and 28 okay so my only i guess
 Last thing to say is we need, I would wanna have a conversation with you all how we wanna address this better so that we don't find ourselves in these types of situations. And I know this is the first time you said that this has ever happened in 11 to 15 years is what you said since you've been here. That's correct. So that's great, but now it is a problem and we need to figure out how to address it so that it doesn't get to this point. Okay, just one of the other tools that we're using,
 Starting today, the purchasing department and members of LECO and CID will be involved in a Lean Six Sigma Kaizen event to review our process to see how we can shorten it. So we are already taking steps to examine through the Lean Six Sigma methodology how to shorten the process. That Kaizen event starts today.
 So we're already moving toward examining how this process can be improved to address, not even more than just address the cost for the pandemic, but beyond the pandemic once it ends. Okay. So we have that project and it's starting today. Perfect, thank you so much. Representative Rivera, followed by Representative Molanotte. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. So Mr. Collins, let me get you straight.
 First of all, you all keep saying contract. So to me, a contract is something that's already signed, and you're telling us it's not signed. So if this is approved and you terminate it, this company has the opportunity to re-bid again? Yes, sir. How many other, had it not been terminated, or rather, had it been terminated, did you have another person, the third company would be in the following sequence of selection, or?
 So procedurally, after a contract is brought to council and awarded and the contract is signed, if the contract is terminated for convenience, then we're not going to someone else. We're going to start the process over. We're going to rebid it, evaluate it, bring it back to council and award it. And so this would open it up to the others as well, and the ones that were Jordan Foster and the other company that you mentioned.
 So, if this, I'm sorry. No, go ahead. Go ahead. So, if council, when council moves forward with the agreement to allow us to terminate this contract and re-bid it, we're going to re-bid it and we're going to open it up, and that's a procurement term, we're going to make sure that the procurement process is open and fair to everyone. So everyone that viewed it, everyone that previously submitted, and even new companies can bid on it.
 because it will be a low a low bid we'll be using the higher El Paso first local bear preference okay mr. Monsanto is that is that well that that process there about bidding again apparently she was contacted I guess the owner was contacted and notified of the changes and her response was
 that she couldn't meet the changes, Mr. Collins, or what was the deal? So when I contacted the owner of the company, she only had two questions. Okay. And those questions were, did Mia Duret do anything wrong, and how would it affect their standing with the city moving forward? Okay. So after we discussed it, she said she was fine and had no problems with the city terminating the contract and rebidding it.
 Okay, you explain that to her? Yes, sir. Absolutely. Okay, let me ask Mr. Monsanto on that, with the prices changes and all, Mr. Monsanto, the rebidding process, do you have anything to add to that? Thank you, Representative, and thank you, Mr. Collins, for the clarifying many things. And just to be clear, the concern of my client was there would not be any
 retribution against her, would not be anything done for her. She was very concerned and that was her first question. And I'm glad that he said, nothing's gonna happen to you, you're okay. We're not gonna isolate you for three years. That is a concern of my clients. It's a small company, minority owned. But I wanna just to say the following.
 There has been some confusion about he said, she said, and we would not be standing here if my client was not clear on her bid and negotiating in good faith. When this bid was submitted, there was a change in pricing, and the city acknowledges those changes across the board, across the nation.
 So they had the ability to reach out to my client and come to an agreement, and the FDA agreed that it's in the best interest to negotiate it and put this to process than to rebid the whole thing and have a chance of having even higher amounts come in. So my client would like to just make sure that what was told to her verbally,
 was what she understood and that nothing's going to happen to her. And the second thing is that we, my client, does not want any special privilege. Far from it, please. We don't want any special treatment. We want to play by the rules like everybody else. We're not asking for anything other than that they have presented a bid. They negotiated an amount different than,
 And they came forth and this staff came to you saying, this is our opinion is to go ahead and approve this. Why would they have put it on the agenda two weeks ago?
 So I'm kind of perplexed and I respect the decision to be consistent. We want them to be consistent as in our past one. But I would respectfully ask that I'd love to be able to stand here hand in hand, always with purchasing and any department saying we have come to an agreement or we understand the rules. Because we understand the rules and we have played by the rules.
 And the rules were that there was an amendment two weeks ago, and we concur with that amendment. So now that amendment is saying, no, we're going to go ahead and we're going to shift gears and now make a right quick 90 degree turn. We were left like, what's going on? So it's a he said, she said, I would like to ask the following to table this item for two weeks only.
 and allow us, Ms. Diaz, to talk to staff, Mr. Collins, and make sure that she understands, and I will be there, so that we come in hand in hand and say we concur, thank you so much, we'll be out there, or they might come back and say, you know, under the rules, we do have the authority to make those changes. Under the rules, it already sits in place,
 situations concerning the pandemic. And this will not be the first one that we have to change because of the pandemic and be flexible. That in the best interest of the taxpayers, we're trying to get the best price. And right now the best price is this one. So let's go forward with this.
 So I want to be able to walk hand in hand with the city in two weeks and stand before you all and say Either they say let's go proceed with the original contract and the amendment or I say I agree Thank you for the opportunity that you gave us to talk to staff not before you all but rather bring miss Diaz and I
 and Mr. Collins together and come to an agreement to make sure that we understand the rules and we want to abide by the rules, but at least not be up here saying she said, he said, but rather stand before you all with a consensus. Thank you so much. Thank you, Mr. Collins. So just as a point of clarification, we're not saying that Meador asked for any special consideration
 We're just saying that the city wants to be consistent. And the item came before council yesterday for the museum. That company has been holding its prices for over a year at this point. So we wanna say for consistency purposes, this is an action that we're like to take. And we also want to say that what we can do to help expedite this, we will put in writing
 the fact that we will re-bid this, and that because we are terminating for convenience, we will put it in writing that we're terminating for convenience and that we will be re-bidding, and that the Mirador Company, we encourage them as a local business to submit a bid. So we can put that in writing and we can have it to members of council today.
 Thank you. Let me ask you a question real quick. So you guys were negotiating some change orders that were asked. Were those made public or not? The number was made public because in the amendment that was posted, it was posted but not awarded. So that number without these- The change orders were?
 So the change order, the total amount, not the line items, but the total amount is the amount that was posted in the amendment that was deleted. Okay. With that, I'm sorry, were you done, Representative Vanilla? Yes, yes, sir. Representative Molinar? Thank you, Mayor. Followed by Representative Vanilla. Okay, Mr. Collins.
 So you mentioned the number 65. What was it again? I'll place 65 those were open Construction projects that are currently in progress. Okay, so they're open They're not having they have not been fully executed contracts have been executed and those kind those Projects are on their way. They're active contracts. Okay, the projects have started. Okay, but in this particular case I
 There's no contract. There's no contract, and the project has not started. Okay. And then we can kind of point the finger, if you will, to COVID and the delay from December, January, till July. I'm not accustomed to finger pointing. Well, I mean, okay, the purpose and the delay. We were not...
 Let me answer that. Representative Molinar, with this project being a competitive seal proposal, we did enter into good faith negotiations with the highest rank proposal as previously mentioned which was Jordan Foster. In that time, it did go through some time because we wanted to make sure that we were fair and equitable to Jordan Foster. And so that inevitably lengthened the time of the of the evaluation process by which
 By the time we terminated negotiations with the highest rank proposer and proceeded to evaluate MENADOR, and as Bruce stated, we did not intend to negotiate any of the numbers that were received from MENADOR. We proceeded to take that to council. But that was part of the delay associated with this solicitation. Okay, so I just want to make sure that
 forget COVID, but you negotiated fairly with Jordan, CF Jordan at first. They declined, so you went to the next vendor, correct? That's correct. And so there was a delay. The delay has since cost a change order on a contract that has not been fully executed, and so we –
 terminate for convenience today, then we're going to start again from zero, go out to open bids, and we're going to have a delay again, which means if you're saying every two months the costs increase, then we're going to continue that cost. We'll see taxpayer money going up. So one of the things that will happen, as I indicated earlier, we're going to use the most expeditious procurement method that's allowed by the state, which is the low-bid process.
 But either way, it's going to increase the costs. There's no guarantee that when we re-bid it's going to increase costs. Well, you just earlier mentioned it's by every two months. That's correct, sir, based upon the information that was provided at the national conference. But we'd also like to indicate that the interest rates are lower. So we would have to actually wait and see what the costs will be. So the assumption that it's going to be higher, that may be true.
 but it's an assumption and we would have to see the city purchasing and engineering. We're committed to using the most expeditious method possible. And as I also indicated, we're going to be doing a Lean Six Sigma project on how to shorten the time. This starts today. So there's two things in play. We're going to be examining how to make our process more efficient and timely. That study starts today. That Kaizen event starts today.
 But we also have the issue of transparency and fairness that we're also trying to address. Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Collins. Thank you. Representative Anello. Hi, Bruce. I want to say I hear you loud and clear on this. I think there is going to be a lot of amendments coming up for projects. You said 65? Yes, ma'am. Yeah. And based right on what the mayor asked, I think it is important for it to be totally transparent, transparent,
 And you could also argue that it's beneficial to the business owners who are able to negotiate their prices in this process rather than negotiating with you with every amendment that they need, right? So I agree with what you're saying. I fully support you on this. I'm not going to pull my second, though, because I do think that this is a conversation that we could have all had individually with you before this meeting. Okay.
 um you know mr monceta when we see him on a project we know he is going to come to council if he doesn't agree with something right um so you know i just think that we could have been given a little bit of a heads up before it got to this point so i'll respect representative rivera i'm not going to withdraw my my second but i do agree with you on this process i do think this is best um for the community and for businesses so i just want to be clear about that thank you
 Yes, sir. What I'd like to just simply say is that I think there's been a little bit of misunderstanding with regard to the 65 that have been mentioned. We have 65 current contracts in place that are being worked. There's people doing work out there in the community. So they've asked for a change based on the fact that the pricing on these different commodities has changed, and they've been told no to all of it because we have a contract in place. That's the message. And so –
 The way this can be resolved is if the vendor keeps the pricing that they bid, then this is a moot point. And we're like, we agree, we'll sign, they sign, we're done. That's the answer. So we understand pricing going up. We understand, like you understand, we're in a state of COVIDicus right now in terms of how COVID has impacted the communities across America. Right.
 So there's not nothing, you can't like change everything up and say, oh, we're going to make some magic dust happen and then we're going to make it good for all the businesses because their prices are going up and our costs are going to go up in the future. But when we get a bid and we have it in place,
 We expect them to hold to that bid. Now, understanding if we get a bid in the future and they're going to take into account these increased costs, yeah, that's probably going to be an increased cost. But the solution could be they agree to what they submitted. If they agree to that, we're done. Then there's no more discussion. They get the bid. We recommend it, and you approve it. Thank you, sir. Mayor Pro Tem. So the action that my colleagues have proposed, Representative Rivera's, is to postpone the...
 Yes, sir. Postpone for two weeks. And so that would postpone the termination of this contract? Yes, sir. I believe so. And what is, I guess, the hope or the intent of either yourself or the applicant in those two weeks? Because in any of our conversation was the applicant said to have said she couldn't come up with the extra funding on that. So I'd like to give her an opportunity to, if she's got, she, right? If she's got, yeah.
 She can meet the prices or, as Mr. Gonzales said, go on with the contract the way it is. But we need to be briefed in the process whether she did or not. So the applicant wants to see if she can figure out the pricing for another two weeks on this. That's what I see. To see if she can make it work. Yes, sir. But not to ask procurement or the city to change the contract. I think if she has the options available to her, she might decide and we can make a better decision.
 Do you have any idea Mr. Mancera based upon your conversation with the awardee what their intent is for these next two weeks of postponement? We appreciate the opportunity to talk to Mr. Collins and
 purchasing and legal to make sure that we understand what was offered or what was agreed on on the counter offer and whatever decision final decision they make we will respect but we really want to have an opportunity to understand what went wrong what happened that's all we're asking two weeks
 Mayor if I may I would recommend that the members of council not meet with the applicant once the item is deleted For purposes of the cone of silence, so the process needs to go back and whatever negotiations take place will take place directly with Thank you for that advice Yes, and just to be clear we concur with with the recommendation of legal and we will only talk to purchasing but once the item is posted and
 In two weeks then the point of silence is removed. Thank you But the motion on the floor currently is not for deletion. It's for postponement So I want to address the lack of briefings to City Council so normally if there's a protest we make it known in our posting information that we have received the protests and
 The decision not to brief counsel on this particular item is because the owner indicated that she was okay with the process of having this contract terminated. So we did, the owner had indicated that she was okay and understood. So therefore we didn't brief mayor and counsel because the understanding we had from the owner was that she was okay with what was being done.
 And it therefore fell into our normal process. So we previously learned our lesson about not briefing mayor and council, but in this particular case the owner said she was okay with the process. Thank you, sir. So, okay. Well, and one more comment. With regard to procurement processes, council has not briefed on those.
 That's a process that takes place and it's a very strict process. Only if there's a protest do you get advised. And only if something becomes controversial or you have an interest in it, you have questions, you have concerns, then yeah, we'll sit down and brief counsel on an item. But even that gets tricky because it's a procurement item. So I just want to be clear, in order to protect the counsel, no, you're not included in the procurement process. Thank you for that.
 so the motion currently is to postpone for two weeks it's not for deletion right miss Kern what's the motion on the floor there's a motion and a second to postpone the item for two weeks motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Annal thank you so I guess I'm trying to understand because it wasn't it was not a very clear answer from mr. Mancera about what the intent of the applicant was
 because I think it's one thing to go internally to see what numbers are there. It's another thing to go to procurement to see if the contract can be altered or changed and it doesn't seem that there's a clear indication about what the applicant is requesting today.
 You know, you heard Mr. Collins say that I talked to her and she communicated to him. And my client has had a different conversation with me and she's perplexed. So that's why we wanted this table to be able to talk to Mr. Collins and understand what happened and what's going on.
 And that's what we're asking for to be able to find out exactly what the rules are and we want to play by the rules But whatever those rules are to be applied fairly and we're willing to stand on what is fair for everybody, but there's been a lot of a
 hearsay that we want to be able to meet with staff and find out what happened. And we'll be the first ones to be up here and maybe even send a letter that uh what that the item be uh we support the item or the or the we formally object. Thank you and I think Mr. Collins is exactly that's what he said to you and us and everyone else.
 that there's 65 companies out there that are playing and abiding by these rules. And if we do amend the rules, then we have to amend for everybody. So we want you, your client, and everybody that does business with the city to be consistent and transparent and really to protect the city from liability. Would that be correct, Mr. Collins? That's correct. And just an additional point, we did send out a letter September 1st. But embedded in our process, we have what is called a debriefing.
 And in the debriefing process for those companies that have had an adverse action taken, the company is allowed to come in and we sit with the company to explain the action.
 So that's embedded in our process. If Meador would like a debriefing, we can offer Meador a debriefing and go through the entire process as to what happened. So that's part of our normal process that we afford any contractor that does not win or have an adverse action is built into our process. So we can offer Meador a debriefing, allow this item to go forward so we can prepare for the new bid
 Has Mirador at this point, have they rejected the awarding of the contract? Mirador did not execute the contract because they said their subcontractors no longer would honor their prices. Do they still have the ability if we postpone for two weeks to execute the contract at this point? Yes sir, that's what the city manager alluded to.
 So if we were to postpone for two weeks, they can still sign the contract if they want to. But they can sign the contract now. I mean, they could do it today, they could do it three days from now, they could do it within, before we officially. Yeah, I'm just trying to find a solution to this because I understand council's concerns. And so my only point was if they sign it today, it's a moot point. They have some questions. Would two weeks alter the timeline on this project significantly?
 I don't know. I mean, I'd have to defer to Sam, but, I mean, it's been a while since. Yeah, this bid is significantly aged.
 And so again, two weeks is not a huge impact, but it's definitely an impact. I mean, I think we're coming up towards the end of the year. Pricing is always more fluctuating towards the end of the year, even more so. Well, I mean, I think if the intent of the awardee is to look at, I guess, to sharpen their pencils to see what it is, then that would be
 an acceptable compromise if the intent is to alter the contract that really isn't follow our policies and processes so if i can't representative the miador has already indicated what would be needed to be added to the contract in order to go forth with it that was the proposed amendment and without restating the number it was a substantial number
 So they have already indicated they cannot do the job unless that amendment was approved. So what's being discussed is having them go back to a number that they've already indicated is a couple hundred thousand dollars short in order to go forward with the contract. I guess my question is for Mr. Mancera. Why does he feel confident that in the next two weeks his applicant could make the numbers
 And I can stand and answer that question, but I cannot speak for my client because that is her bid. And she negotiated in good faith and that was what was brought before you two weeks ago. And why did staff bring it? That's what we want to find out. What is it exactly that we did wrong? We did something wrong. All we're asking is that this was
 done in January. It closed. It was awarded in June and brought to you again two weeks ago for an amendment.
 I don't think two weeks is out of the ordinary to ensure that a local El Paso company has the opportunity to fully understand exactly what went wrong from her side or if nothing went from her side, it's just more about transparency like purchasing is presenting to you.
 Let us give us the opportunity to talk to them to make sure that we understand and we can stand before you all in two weeks Probably with different with a different type of presentation I really urge you to postpone for two weeks and to ensure that the winning bidder is given an opportunity to discuss with purchasing What exactly the
 the amount was awarded to the amendments was awarded to and And give us that opportunity to talk to them for two weeks. Thank you. Thank you, sir Excuse me mayor council. I just want to bring everyone's Knowledge that if council decided to not let me say it differently when the amendment was posted and
 we had already received letters from some of the other companies that had submitted contesting an amendment to the original price that the company had that miodore had provided so the options that are available to miodore we're we're standing by our recommendation to rebid it for transparency and for the integrity of the process to allow this change order again
 when there's 65 other active contracts and projects that are going on.
 is a detriment to the integrity of our process and Mary you've restated our concern and our concern is consistency, transparency and the integrity of the process. We understand that Mirador is a local company and for those of you that attended the expo, Ms. Diaz is a part of the infomercials. So we have the utmost respect for all local companies. We just want to make sure we maintain the integrity.
 and the transparency and the fairness for everyone. So our recommendation is still stands as to what we would like to have mayor council vote on. Thank you. And with that, we'll call the question, Ms. Prine. And Mr. Monseta, thank you. I know you agree with Mr. Collins and thank you for the great dialogue. We appreciate you. Mr. Collins, of course, thank you for your information. Go ahead. There is a motion and a second to postpone the item for two weeks. On that motion, call for the vote.
 mayor we have a time in the voting session and the motion fails with representatives short fine short fine molinar salcido rivera voting aye representatives anelo hernandez rodriguez and mayor lisa voting name the motion fails so now we need a motion to approve the item so is that right okay so i'll motion to approve second there's a motion and a second to approve the item
 on that motion call for the vote representative salsido thank you in the voting session and the motion passes five affirmative votes representative shortsline anelo hernandez rodriguez lizada voting aye representative molina salsido and rivera voting nay the motion does pass there we now move to item number 12. this was also moved to the regular agenda
 Item number 12 is that the City Council approve the recommendation of the Board of Directors of the El Paso Downtown Management District for the persons listed on the agenda and with the terms indicated. Representative Vanilla? Hi, thank you. I don't know if Mr. Guttenroth is on the call. I don't know if we're still on Teams. Yeah, I can't see it, so I was like, what's going on? Is Mr. Guttenroth on the call? No.
 yes i'm here sorry mr roth i can't see you um so i i was looking through the applications um i do think there is a a much larger diversity than there was previously um but as you know it's kind of always been something important to me to see an actual resident of downtown on the board and i just want to confirm that there is not an individual who lives within the dmd footprint being appointed
 Correct. That's still a challenge for us, but we did take your advice last year under consideration. And so Nadia Bayen is the closest we could recruit to meet that requirement. She is
 a broker for residential properties within the downtown. So she's definitely well aware of what residents are interested in, in terms of moving and living within the downtown, as well as a good understanding of the residential market. So that is, we took your advice into consideration and unfortunately couldn't get an actual resident
 but feel that we did make progress on that issue. Yeah, no, I mean, I think that having someone like her is a great addition, but for me it is really important. And again, definitely, you know, willing to help with the outreach of that. But with that, and, you know, I do actually have some concerns about some conflicts of interest that may occur with some members of the DMD. I'm not very fluent in if that exists.
 but I do have concerns. So I'm not gonna be supporting this today, Mr. Grunerath, I apologize, but again, I would, I'm open to helping you in the future, reach out to some residents of the DMD area to try to get someone on board. I'll take you up on that, thank you. Thank you. And that, we have no other questions. So do we have a motion? There's a motion made by Representative Nizarra, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve on that motion, call for the vote.
 In the voting session, and the motion passes with six affirmative votes, Representative Zanello-Rodriguez voting nay, the motion does pass. We now move to item number 17. Item number 17 is discussion and action that the City Council declares that the expenditure of District 7 discretionary funds to books or gems to pay towards the purchase of books serves a municipal purpose of providing educational and cultural activities to the residents of the City of El Paso.
 Representative Rivera, your item. Yes sir, thank you Mayor. Thank you. Councilor, this is a donation for, it's a worthy donation to the Books are Gems which is located in the valley area off of North Loop. Provides books for children to teenagers from elementary, or from middle school to high school. Provides them an opportunity to receive books and read.
 And it's worthy cause and I urge you all to please support it. Thank you, man. Thank you. There's no other questions. We do have public comment. Yes, sir. We have the first speaker is Miss Emma Costa. Good morning, man. Star six to unmute your telephone. Good morning, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, Mr. Chairman.
 Good morning. I'm Emma Acosta and I'm the director for, executive director for Bookstore Gems. We offer free books from Butler to high school. I would like to thank you for approving the $1,000 donation from City Representative Rivera's discretionary funds. These funds will be used for the purchase of new children's books for the nonprofit bookstore, Bookstore Gems. These books will be given to children free.
 And the mission of Books Are Gems is to reduce the illiteracy rate in El Paso. And studies have shown that children that own and read at least 20 books will do better academically. So today you have contributed to that mission.
 We invite you to our bookstore, Bookstore Gems. We are located at 7744 North Loop, two blocks east of Carolina Drive. And we also invite you to participate in Children's Virtual Storytime on Saturdays at 1030 a.m. We are also on Facebook Live on our Bookstore Gems Facebook page.
 Representative Rivera has been one of our readers to children and also to the attorney Carla Neiman and so we invite you mayor and all the city representatives to be a Saturday storytime reader and read to the children in our community. So again thank you so much for approving these funds. You will bring a smile to a child when they receive a free new children's book. Thank you so much and have a great day. Thank you Ms. Acosta. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Sofia Vega.
 miss vega if you're in the queue star six please sofia vega or mr paul hop star six if you're in the queue miss sophia vega or mr paul hop star six please to unmute your telephone mayor i don't see their phone numbers in the queue thank you so with that that concludes public comment yes sir do we have a motion no sir there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative
 On that motion, call for the vote. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Thank you. The next item is number 19.
 item number 19 is discussion in action to approve a resolution recognizing the contributions and legacy of former texas governor anne richards and to approve informational banners to be placed in downtown el paso and this is representative vanellos item thank you do we have uh we have some people signed on correct can we go to call to the public first yes i have uh miss margaret justice miss justice star six please to unmute your telephone miss margaret justice star six
 Miss Justice, Star 6, I see you in the queue. Star 6 will unmute your telephone. Miss Justice, you're still on mute, ma'am. Star 6, please. Miss Justice, you're on mute, ma'am. Star 6 will unmute your telephone. I believe she's having technical difficulties. I don't see her unmuting her microphone.
 Okay, but while we wait to see if she can do that, I want to thank Ms. Justice as well as Gary Shear for reaching out to my office for this really important project. I think they had a presentation, but since she's not on the call, I don't think we have to do that. But they are leading a project to honor the second female last Democratic governor of Texas, Ann Richards.
 They are doing fundraising and I also want to thank city manager and city attorney and the DMD for working with them to be able to get this project up and going. Some of the comments that I know that she wanted to make was kind of recognizing Governor Richards.
 and how she really opened up her committees to diversity, to many women and several individuals in El Paso. And so I'll list those off for Margaret. And one of them is Deborah Castron, who was the executive director of the Texas Department of Commerce
 Romero Guzman was appointed to the General Services Commission Charlie via was appointed to the Texas higher education coordinating board Alan Khan was the chairman of the Texas Department of Commerce and Bob Geyer who we know passed away this year was appointed to the Texas Department of Human Services board and he was the first person with disabilities appointed to this board ever those are all Opasowans who served under Governor Richards
 And I'm very proud and happy to be honoring her with this project. Thank you. And Representative Nello, I actually had the great pleasure of meeting Governor Richards
 and I coached Tony Lama's grandson for football and baseball, played for me. And she came down and toured Tony Lama and bought cowboy boots, and I had the opportunity to tour it with her. I did have an opportunity once to see her collection of cowboy boots. Did not get to meet her, but she's a big fan. That's very exciting. Thank you for sharing that. And my daughter was about five or six years old and she couldn't wait to go down there. And now she's 39, so she couldn't go down there to meet with her and get to meet
 and got to take a picture with Governor Richards. So it's a big memory for us. Thank you. She's on the line. Okay, go for it. I saw a little bit of her fire. I apologize. I'm happy to call back. You're on now, Mrs. Hicks. Tell me when to go. You can go ahead now. Oh, good morning. Hi. I hope everyone can hear me. Good morning, representatives. My name is Margaret Justice.
 Austin-based communications consultant. I served as Governor Richards' deputy press secretary from 1989 to 1984. It was 30 years ago that Ann Richards was sworn in as the 45th governor of Texas, and to honor her, the Ann Richards Legacy Project...
 on a mission to inspire the next generation to embody her spirit and courage to lead, wishes to bring the Ann Banners to the city of El Paso. As you can see from Matt's helpful visuals, I hope you can see them. I don't know if you can't yet, but he was going to put them up there, some photographs of the banners.
 which went up earlier this year in Ohio, Houston, and San Antonio. They can be displayed on city light poles and consist of a series of 12 photographs of Governor Richards throughout her lifetime, along with 12 of her famous quotes, quotes such as, a life isn't fair, but government must be. Another one would be, teaching is the hardest work I've ever done, including being governor. Of course, she was a former teacher. Another one would be,
 And another one is I get a lot of cracks about my hair, mostly from men who don't have any. And during her 1990 Good Retail campaign –
 hard to make government look like the people of Texas when she did just that. Governor Richards appointed an unprecedented number of women, people of color, LGBTQ community members and folks with disabilities to state boards and agencies. You likely know that Governor Richards was extraordinarily popular in El Paso. While she lost her reelection bid in 1994, she still carried El Paso by 12 points in that election.
 She also appointed dozens of El Pasoans to state boards and commissions. And a few of those include Deborah Castron, who served as the Texas Department of Commerce, Romero Guzman, who was the General Services Commission board member, Charlie Diaz, who has served on the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, and Bob Meyer, who is the Texas Department of Human Services Board. Bob was the first person with disabilities appointed to that board. He passed away earlier this summer.
 And finally, you may know El Paso Eastwood High School grad Chuck McDonald. Chuck served with me as Deputy Press Secretary for Governor Richards. His mother, Anne McDonald, spent many years representing East El Paso in the Texas legislature, including several terms as Vice Chair of the House Appropriations Committee. So if approved, land banners will be printed in El Paso, and for printing and installation will come from local and private sponsors.
 And that's it. And so, sorry, I hit star six about five times. Didn't really come through, but I'm happy to answer any questions, and I hope you guys can hear me. Thank you for that. Thank you. Thank you very much. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, Mayor, there is a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 We now move to item number 20. This is an operational focus update from the Police Department on ordinances. Good morning, Mayor and Council. This is Assistant Chief Victor Sarud. I'll be presenting on this PowerPoint along with Assistant Chief Basias. Good morning, Chief. Can you please bring up the PowerPoint? Chief Basias and Chief Sarud, good morning. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor.
 We're just waiting on the PowerPoint. As they're bringing that up, I'll give y'all some time, gentlemen, okay? I have some comments I'd like to make. Is that all right with y'all? Yes, sir. So I shared several ordinances with legal seven years ago and then also shared those same ordinances with some members of the council and also with Ms. Neiman. And those ordinances were put in place in another city that I managed
 And we put those in place because we were having a lot of issues with apartment complexes, dilapidated structures, which were our apartment complexes that we had a lot of police calls out there to. We also had convenience store issues. So all that said, we put like three or four very tough ordinances in place. At the time when we introduced those to the city council, they did not want to do those because they were very aggressive.
 But then they were running for office, and they were getting picked on by some of the things that the community was telling them that weren't getting done. And so then the will was there to do some of these ordinances. Now, those same kinds of ordinances, we're not doing them verbatim here. But some of those ordinances do attack some of the problems that we have here. That take up a lot of time that our officers deal with in areas that might deal with beer runs, as an example.
 So some of the day-to-day things that you wouldn't think about or maybe you would think about that need to change are some of the things that they're looking at in terms of making changes. And the other city that I was referencing as an example in convenience stores, what we did there is we caused them to have better lighting. There were some convenience stores that didn't have very good lighting at all in the way they were set up. And you're thinking, well, that should have already been in place. Well, it wasn't.
 It wasn't in place in our zoning. It wasn't in place in the way we approved these items in that particular city. Also, product at the store, what I mean by product, the beer being right there by the window, you can just walk in and grab it and run, right? That's why it's called Beer Run. So we forced them to move all those products to the back of the store.
 because whenever the police officers would drive by a convenience store, they couldn't tell if somebody was being held up or not because all the product was in the front. So it was a lot of common basic sense type of things like that. On the apartment complexes, we made them do deadbolts
 We made them again improve the lighting, we made them make improvements to the site, just a lot of different changes. That led to demolishing lots of dilapidated structures, that led to making a lot of these changes in the new convenience stores that would be put up, and the older ones, having them go back and modify their stores.
 So I'm not suggesting that we're doing that exactly like that here, but those are the kinds of ordinances we've asked our staff to look at. I think that because of a lot of what's going on here and the way things have been done here and the way we continue to do things here, and I'm talking about bars in certain areas of town,
 Other things we're looking at is should we do moratoriums in certain parts of town that maybe have too many bars? So we're looking at everything everything's on the table So they're going to present to you all some of the things that they've looked at as a police department Legal has also has had eyes on this they have probably some commentary that they'd want to share with you as well and we want to get your input and
 I want to get your input on these ordinances and how you feel about them because they will have a reverberating impact to some of these businesses but it will improve safety and it will do it through the power of the pin so to speak with some of those changes that I mentioned
 Again, you might hear from businesses, if we go forward with some of these ordinances, that's the reason why I stopped to kind of maybe explain some of these common sense approaches that are changes to the way things currently are here in this community, which again, is not different from a lot of cities of what they have, but when you do make those changes, you do see a dramatic difference.
 That last city I was talking about, we were not even on the radar about being a safe city. And we went from being nowhere on the list to the fifth safest in the United States.
 So the ordinances and some of the other things we did, a combination of a lot of things made that result take place. So we're interested in doing more aggressive things here because we've heard you loud and clear, but again, we want to get your input. This might be a very good case where maybe we get some council input and maybe create another CFT with council so that we can have council help us navigate through some of these ordinances.
 So I wanted to say that. Gentlemen, I know that the PowerPoint is up now, so I hope that gave you all enough time to prep. Yes, sir. Mayor, if I may, can I speak briefly? Chief, can you give me just one quick second? I just wanted to follow up with the city manager. Yes, he is correct that we've been working on this for a few months. What I'm interested in hearing from the council is once you hear these presentations, we will need to do additional work.
 buy-in and feedback from our stakeholders, which would involve not just our business community, but also our municipal court judges. As you can imagine, my office has a lot of interaction with the municipal court, and our prosecutors have been actively working on these ordinances, and they spent a substantial amount of time determining whether or not these cases can be prosecuted. I think that this council is very familiar with the noise ordinance and the issues that we went through,
 in order to put that in place. However, as Mr. Gonzales stated, based on his experience in other cities, it's been really important that the work that the CFT team has done in terms of gathering the data really fit what El Paso needs and the demands that our community places on us in terms of nuisances and noise violations. I think that that's a work in progress. I don't think there's a one size fits all.
 So once you see the work that the chief, Pasillas and Zarur are presenting, I'm really interested in hearing back from you all what your approach may be and what you're hearing from the community because we also need to go back out and do some more work with the municipal court judges to get them on board as to what the strategic plan is and what your constituents are facing in each of your districts that it's important for them to understand what,
 What we're trying to address with doing these ordinances. Thank you. Thank you chief. You ready? Yes, sir. Thank you Mr. Lee sir, if we could go to the next slide, please So our presentation aligns with goals two and six next slide, please
 So like City Manager Gonzalez and Ms. Neiman mentioned, we've been looking at crime prevention ordinances. We're gonna talk about two of them. The first one's gonna be on open container ordinance, and this is an amendment to it. The second one's a convenience store ordinance that Mr. Gonzalez talked about, and we're looking at coming back in November of that. And then Chief Basias is gonna talk about the noise ordinance enforcement, as well as the nuisance abatement team. Next slide, please.
 So back on August 3rd, we talked about an amendment to the open containers and staff reviewed this. We listened to council. Next slide, please. One of the things that we found out was KBC section 109.35. This is the section that regulates the state and gives the authority to a municipality of an incorporated city to add additional
 options under this ordinance. One of the ones we do have currently right now is the Central Business District. I'll cover that in a short time. But we also looked at the position of an open container or an alcoholic beverage within a public street, public alley or a public sidewalk. And the option we have here is having an amendment to our ordinance within 1,000 feet of the property line of a homeless shelter that is not in the Central Business District. Next slide, please.
 So just to refresh everyone here, our current ordinance does specify that it's within the El Paso Central Business District. We have the map up here on the screen and the yellow. It's the section of the business district with the red boundaries.
 In 2019, police officers issued a total of 1443 citations in regards to the open container ordinance. And the following year, we had 1429. For the first six months of this year, we've had a total of 505. And the reason we want to talk about this is this is basically what would be applicable in the areas we're talking about, the homeless shelters. Next slide, please.
 So what we did as a team along with the city attorney's office, we looked at the definition of the homeless shelter and it's taken directly from the TABC section. And it basically means that it's a supervised publicly or privately operated shelter or other facility that is designed to provide temporary living accommodations to individuals who lack a fixed, regular, and adequate residence. So,
 The amendment to the ordinance would be applicable from the boundary lines within 1,000 feet of the property line for any homeless shelter that's not located within the Central Business District. A violation under this ordinance would be a classy misdemeanor, plus initial bill of $2,500. So basically what we've been doing as a team is we've been reaching out to the Homeless Coalition and looking at other areas as well.
 Basically, one of the things we want to show, if we could go to the next slide, please, is calls for service. Now, keep in mind that the city of El Paso, particularly PD, only has statistics where this ordinance is currently enforced, which is the central business district. So we wanted to look out, reach out to the areas we're looking at to see if the data supports this. And we've used here as an example, and there's no intent here to...
 to target the homeless or anyone. Basically what we looked at here is we're looking at photographs that were taken within 1,000 feet of the boundary mentioned earlier in regards to the containers that have been out there. So looking at the Opportunity Center, or OCS it's commonly referred to, we've had a total of over 570 calls in the last couple of years there. The majority of these calls have been in regards to welfare checks or subjects disturbing. We feel that
 Next slide, please. We feel that by having this tool, it's not just protecting individuals in the area, the residents, the shelter, but it also protects the vulnerable individuals, those that are homeless, from being enticed to any other criminal activity that can be occurring. We feel it's our duty to also protect everyone, including the homeless. And basically, this...
 This screen here will show you more or less the outbanks we're looking at. Now granted you see them as circles here, but the boundaries would be from the line. So you're probably going to see more of a square on these areas. And what we're doing with our fusion centers, we're mapping out the locations that we have identified as homeless shelters per the definition. And as we progress on it, we're going to bring all this back to you.
 the 28th of this month for the first hearing and discuss it further as to the implementation on the ordinance. And if we could go to the next slide, please. The following slide, please.
 So this section of the presentation Mr. Gonzalez spoke about earlier has to do with the convenience store ordinance. One of the things that we're looking at with this ordinance is to protect the health, safety, and the welfare of our citizens. It's been a cross-functional team with everyone working on this to make sure that the data and what we're requesting is applicable to what we need out there. One of the things this ordinance does is establish a registration program for the convenience stores related to convenience.
 surveillance camera systems, video recording, alarm systems, safe security signs, height markers and store visibility like Mr. Gonzalez mentioned. It also talks about the safety training programs and also trespass affidavits. Next slide please. So
 When we talk a beer run, basically a beer run is when an individual leaves a convenience store without paying for the product. Most of the time, it's going to be under $100 in value, and this falls as a classy misdemeanor. But there's always a potential that could go up higher. If it costs pain or suffering to anyone, it could be a robbery, or if it's serious bodily injury, it could progress to an aggravated robbery. Most of our beer runs fall under this amount in regards to the 100 thresholds.
 Next slide, please. And what we wanted to do here is the number CC up here are the total beer runs in the city of El Paso at all convenience stores.
 For the last three years, 5,777. And if you look at 2020, not much of a difference from the previous years when we look at the impact we've had with COVID-19. So this is a breakdown per year. And as we progress with the project and the identification of a convenience store, we've also identified that those that have that gas pumps option due to the high traffic and all carry a majority of these fear runs.
 Next slide, please. This is a mapping of all the beer runs we just talked about in the 5,777 throughout the city. The problem's not isolated to an area of town. As you can see here, it's everywhere in the city of El Paso. Next slide, please.
 So when we talk about efficiency and changing our old ways, like Mr. Gonzalez mentioned, I was fortunate enough to go through the Lean Six Sigma training a few years back. And one of the things we did was take a survey from our patrol officers and our detectives that handle these beer runs. So when we look at this, we took a survey from patrol officers and detectives, and we had a 99 percent success.
 And under Lean Six Sigma, you're looking for 95% level of confidence, so we're above it. When you look at officers handling the investigation, it's taken an average of one hour and 49 minutes.
 Taxpayer cost is $67.03. When you look at the investigation part, it's a little longer, a lot longer actually, with three and a half hours, and that's $131.00 change. Approximately $199.00 here. The reason we want to point this out is though.
 And I want to be clear of this. The police department is not looking to get away from responding to larcenies at convenience stores or the beer runs because we feel they could also progress in whether you've got juveniles stealing alcohol or individuals driving with the product they stole from the store and leading to a drunk driving incident. We wanted to show what our investment is because we feel that the convenience stores,
 also can be our partners in solving this. So when we talk about a convenience store having the proper equipment, surveillance camera and all, you could see by the survey we took that it's taking us a lot longer going back to these stores trying to retrieve the evidence that we need to put out to solve the crime in a timely manner. And when we look at the comparison, you look at our investment of $198.64, and we have a case number there with the location, date, and time
 with the property taken and the value there was $2.75. So basically this, we feel that this survey highlights the need to have a better, more efficient process as noted through our survey and search. Next slide, please.
 Before I turn it over to Chief Pacilla, so what we're doing on the survey and the convenience store, we form a cross-functional team. We brought in IT to assist us in regards to the type of cameras we need and such at locations to make sure that the product we're asking for is relevant and also the data associated with this.
 So we're open to listening to ideals obviously and taking any information you like as we progress with this project. And I'm going to turn it over to Chief Basileus and if there's questions afterwards we'll come back on it. Thank you. FRED PODESTA. Thank you Vic. Good morning Mayor and Council. We're going to be covering the entertainment district operations. Next slide please. VICE CHAIR GINSBURG.
 Basically, we've spoken about this before. We are using interagency collaborations to address these different situations in our entertainment district. And one of the key stakeholders, along with TABC, the fire department, fire marshals, city inspections, is Fort Bliss. The commanding general there has put places off limits to soldiers that are...
 of detriment to his personnel. And he has also instituted a courtesy patrol that goes out with higher-ranking military officers to help deal with the military personnel at these different locations. Next slide. Right here, we wanted to talk a little bit about what NUSA's abatement is.
 is and we are working very closely with the county attorney's office who has jurisdiction over the noose and abatement portion of Texas statute. What it is, it's a civil procedure to address criminal conduct to help reduce criminal activity on property.
 And what it does is it helps hold accountable the businesses and or the business property owners as to what's happening on their property. Next slide. So basically what they fall under is the Texas Civil Practice and Remedies Code, specifically Chapter 121, the TABC Code, Section 101.01, and the Texas Occupation Code, 754.55.
 and what we're working on is saturating the bar area, focused with investigations for the criminal nuisance abatement cases. We're, like I mentioned before, focusing on the businesses and not the people committing the crime. That's not to say that our officers that are out there working these entertainment districts aren't addressing specific crimes committed by people and making arrests if necessary or issuing citations.
 must have a visual specific criminal activity in order for the civil suit to be filed. The county attorney may establish be able to shut down the bar once the case is submitted, but that's on the county attorney's side.
 and must prove criminal activity by a preponderance of evidence. So it's basically 51% is the way it works. It's not beyond the reasonable doubt like in the criminal courtroom.
 What they can do is being the district attorney, I mean the county attorney working through the court system is issue a temporary restraining order for an immediate shutdown, temporary injunctions setting a bond or permanent injunction that would close the business for one year. Next slide, please. This is some of the activity that when we started the entertainment district operations started late in April, pretty much the last week.
 and working with the code enforcement officers. These are the numbers of self-initiated checks when it comes to the nuisance type crimes and specifically the noise level that's out there. The average decibel reading throughout this operation thus far has been 62 decibels.
 And what we found when we were going through this is issues or notices of violations or citations that were issued, as you can see, May was a pretty heavy force. And that was, we were taking enforcement, but we're also educating the different establishments and very quickly started to gain compliance from them and working with a team, as a team. Next slide, please.
 And at this point, Chief Zarura and I are available for any questions. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez, followed by Mayor Potem. Thank you. Thank you. So, Ms. Neiman, this question is for you. I'm looking at the, for the beer runs, the classification is a Class C misdemeanor. Is there any way we can...
 higher or make that classification, make the punishment a little bit more excessive to further discourage these beer runs because it almost feels like
 they're just getting a slap in the hand really nothing is happening it's costing us more money based on what the presentation that we just had than anything else and now we're asking the convenience stores to to help us out by having surveillance cameras but now people are going in with masks so it's really not doing any good to anyone at this point um is there any way we can do to anything we can do for that misdemeanor to be a
 I don't know what the term is, a greater on the scale or more punishable, I guess. So the classification is a Class C citation based on the value of the property that is stolen. So that's why it's a Class C misdemeanor. Most of the times these thefts are under $100. That's why it can't be a Class B, which would bump it up. So it's based on the value. That's the difficulty that the business owners are also facing, right, because they have such a low value
 Theft? I mean, but it amounts like if they're having multiple of these types of crimes, that amount is going to cost them a lot more than under the $100. Like eventually they'll add up. So I don't know if there's a way where we can help the businesses by helping, by saying not so much the cost of the product but the actual crime, which is the theft. Okay.
 Right, so we would need to be able to reclassify the type of theft that you're discussing, but that would need to require a change in our state law to do that. So the intent in doing the ordinance as it is, it's to ask that the businesses change the way they display the merchandise so that the likelihood of a theft happening lowers. Right.
 Does that make sense? That's why we're attacking it in that fashion because we know that it's still going to be less than $100 every time this happens. And how long have we been asking them to do that? We don't have that ordinance in place yet. Okay, so we don't have any statistics as to like how that would impact. It goes back to what I was saying earlier about it sounded like a very common sense, simple thing. Y'all were probably like, yeah, Tommy, that's easy. Why are we doing that? But we're not.
 And because if you're a convenience store, if you're just a store, you want to put your product where people can see it because you want to sell. And so that's just a marketing ploy. And so we're suggesting, well, let's take care of your product. And so we're getting into their business. But it has to do with statistics that we have relative to the number of beer runs that we have. That's an issue. So how can we address it? Well, we have no statistics to show if we did.
 What we did in that other city I talked about, and we do it here, is going to work, but it worked in that other place. And everybody in the North Texas region copied us, or tried to, tried to copy all the different ordinances. So we feel strongly that if you do make some of these common sense changes, and you have an ordinance that allows us to force them to do that, that it'll end up, like to your point, helping them. And that...
 that we have proven cases that it's helped somewhere else, maybe it can help them as well. So that's the idea of why we're presenting these different concepts to y'all. Okay, thank you. Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks, Mayor, and thanks again for the presentation and the hard work. I think first of all, I think these discussion about ordinance changes, additional ordinances is a very much needed step in this conversation about,
 how to balance citizens needs and business in this community. And I think it's absolutely important that we talk about these ordinance changes. And I think the couple that were brought up is definitely a step in the right direction. I hope sooner than later, additional ordinance changes and ideas can be brought up. I know that I've had residents that have brought up the ideas of conditional use permits, additional noise, additional nuisance.
 ordinances that can be discussed and researched and I know that staff is looking at those as well but it's absolutely imperative that we use the tools we have at our discretion it cannot be something with our entertainment districts specifically an issue that law enforcement deals with
 looking at what we can do long term short and medium term to deal with some of the issues that are there I did have a couple questions relating and some observations as well if we're actually looking at at some of that kind of feedback here on slide six was a map of what was being proposed for a no alcohol area is that can we bring that up mr. IT sir mr. or mrs. IT so
 Um, two questions I have with this. So this is referred to, I guess, as a, a proposed note, an alcohol free zone. So what is the current law state when it comes towards open container on any city street or sidewalk? Assistant Chief Sarut again. Um,
 To start at the beginning, so the map we're looking here is the current ordinance that's applicable to the Central Business District, plotted decades ago through the TABC section. As far as open containers, there's many layers on this, Mr. Petersworth, so for example,
 If you're underage obviously it's going to be an offense. If you're near a park or school you're looking at other issues. If you're in front of a convenience store that have a has a sales permit but not for off offsite consumption it could be a class B as well. If you're in a vehicle.
 It's classy to those that are in the vehicle as long as it's not the driver and the driver's not intoxicated. So there's numerous layers. The question has come up before, can an individual actually walk down the street with an open container? If they're not in the central business district and it doesn't apply to those other layers and others that I talked about,
 The answer is yes. But again, every situation is a little different based on their proximity to include churches as well. So there's numerous layers out there to enforce it. What we're doing on this ordinance is taking that to other areas where we feel it'll help the community and not just the residents, but the homeless population as well. I hope I answered your question.
 Okay so if I understand you can in some areas of our city walk with an open container legally That's not intoxicated underage and the other factors covered correct Well this is a public meeting right so that is you learn something every day
 The only time the city as an incorporated city can go in there with the layers we've added like the central business district or hopefully with the homeless shelter when it's an option given to us through the state under TABC. So I would go and make a suggestion that in addition to this alcohol-free zone and areas identified relating to
 relating to the homeless shelters. I also would think it would make sense for staff to look at an additional area relating to the university,
 Cincinnati current place area as well. You do have a lot of events that are going on around the university. You have a lot of activity and specifically on the residential streets that abut Stanton, Cincinnati, Baltimore, Boston, as well as Robinson. You also have a lot of problems with people dumping cans, reckless behavior, drunken behavior
 And so it would seem to make sense to have an additional area that could extend as far east as Florence and as far west as Oregon Street with a northern boundary of either Mississippi or Baltimore and the southern boundary of Boston.
 That sort of area is one where we see a lot of nuisance, where we hear a lot about reckless behavior, about drunkenness, about trash being left weekend after weekend. And so I think that that would be another area to consider as well.
 I know that there's a challenge of enforcement. I know currently that the police department has said that they don't have the abilities to enforce the parking decal districts that abut the Stanton area. And I've told that to the residents there along Robinson, Baltimore, and Cincinnati, along Kansas, Campbell, and Florence. But I think that a multi-prong approach would be something that would make sense
 as well and this isn't a new idea this is something that relates to the idea of the broken windows theory as well that was something that was discussed before so that was just one observation I had another one relating to slide 20 so the average decibel reading is currently it says at 62 decibels do you know where that average decibel reading is being taken
 This is for citywide. We've been working three different areas across the city, the Far East side, central and the Cincinnati district. So these were averages from all over the city. So I guess my question is more specifically when those decibel readings are being taken by an officer or
 someone where are those decibel readings being taken at? Is that from the entry of the property? Is it from across the street? Where are our officers being instructed to take those decibel readings? They're taken from different locations, mainly adhering to the Sydney ordinance and the distance that's required there at about 300 feet.
 So 300 feet from the entrance of the or from the property from the from the entertainment district area. So each one of them is different based on the geographic location throughout the city. Okay another another and this is along the lines of representative Rodriguez in terms of how to make these
 ordinances and the punishment towards them i guess stick a little bit more um i don't know in terms of our noise uh or nuisance ordinance if there is a sliding scale that is if there is a business
 that was to violate say, three times within three months or I don't know what the term is, that would be a sliding sort of scale where that punishment would rise based upon how many times they received a violation or a warning.
 that would be something there I don't know if if there's an ability to raise that fine but that should be something that that could possibly be looked at as well again to try to encourage the behavior that we're trying to get with these noise and nuisance ordinances which is
 not to have loud music playing every single weekend, but to try to encourage more responsible behavior from our business community. So that is something again, as an observation as well that I have. The other one that I had relating to slide 20 is the violations found may look to be like a pretty big month. And then I don't understand what happened in April, June, July and August.
 We still continued our operations and still taking the readings as far as it goes and we've had officers, police officers and code officers out at the entertainment districts looking for all violations. But this one is specifically we're talking about the noise ordinance and monitoring.
 and once enforcement action was being taken, we started seeing the establishments cooperating with the noise ordinance as it's written and the ability to enforce. So we had 120 violations in May and then none after? Correct. Okay. And then can you help us understand what is defined as a self-initiated check?
 that's where there is not a call that comes in that the officers whether it's the code enforcement officers or the police officers that are out there that they're actively looking for violations specifically in this case noise ordinance violations Okay I think another thing too that would
 be productive and i know that the our city manager had mentioned um some reference to possibly a cft but i also think too in terms of of looking at processes and processes we can look at
 what is the process and what we can do to improve enforcement of some of these no parking and decal districts that we have throughout our community it's something that i think speaking for myself there's a number of areas in our in our district in district one but i'm sure that there's others in other districts as well where those um
 no parking districts or parking with a decal is not being regularly enforced i understand the challenges that we have right now in terms of staffing
 and I'm very proud to be part of a council part of councils that have taken the hard choices to bring back up our staffing levels for the police for our police department and to provide the necessary funding to do that but we do hear about these issues about these no parking districts not being enforced
 from the residents perspective and so it would be I think helpful to be to have that as something as a possible future CFT but also as a possible update as well to understand how many violations are being reported and to really understand on a granular level how the process works in terms of PD and code enforcing those districts those no parking districts
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. So to answer your parking question, Mayor Pro Tem, just in the Cincinnati Entertainment District area, from the beginning of this April 22nd to the end of August, there have been 483 parking citations issued.
 Okay. Well, like I said, I hope that we can have a further conversation in the in the months ahead of about this and and Appreciate everything that you and every single officer in our police department are doing to keeping our community safe To your line of questioning and then his response I think it demonstrates that there isn't a problem and we're doing something about it but that we need to be even more aggressive and that's the reason I
 that we're talking today about these types of ordinances where it can be even more aggressive because even though they are doing a lot and there's even been discussion about overtime, the police officers are working in these specific areas. We've had that discussion as well publicly. These kind of ordinances are designed to address some things maybe at the root cause or maybe before it becomes a problem and it gives them more ability to take more swift actions.
 So that's how we're looking at it. And I think the reason I brought up the council having a CFT on this is because this is fraught with policy decisions and it's just kind of like the Eastside Regional Master Plan, that was fraught with policy decision and it would help us expedite things and I think council would also feel
 to be involved in those kinds of matters because y'all can that input that y'all give us is really valuable so that we know we're not wasting our time going down different rabbit trails because you could go down all kinds of trails on these particular issues and no pun intended i know you like trails thank you sir representative nandus i think uh thank you i just have a question uh mrs neiman regarding what would classify by state statute and entertainment district because the only thing i can find in the local code
 um under chapter 309 is arts and entertainment districts which would only be applicable for populations over a million residents so i'm just curious when we're going to officially formalize these entertainment districts um what the exact boundaries are and then that way we can start you know thinking about how we're funding and putting some policies in place
 specifically as it relates to responsible serving, beverage serving, other things and policies that we can consider because the complaints, and I get a lot of Representative Schwarzschwein's constituents who email us and they are desperately looking for solutions.
 So I'm just curious if you have any information to share about entertainment districts. So we were having that conversation with my lawyers about what Representative Schwarzwein is suggesting in terms of an entertainment district. When we talk about the open container allowance under state code, it doesn't specify an entertainment district. It says a central business district.
 I think that we would need to go back and look to see what the intent was in terms of identifying an area like Kern as an entertainment district and what that would look like. We can certainly go back and look through the legislative intent there and figure out where these areas would fit into the best or if necessary, we would be able to create a different area of the law for us in terms of what we're doing in terms of addressing these issues.
 I hope that answers your question. Yeah, it does. And then, I mean, I guess the other question would be...
 if we can get support not only mapping, but putting forward together recommendations and policies that go beyond what's being recommended today. And I do agree that those policies should be enacted, but given the amount of dollars that are going to respond to these districts, I think there needs to be just more of a concerted strategic effort to
 identify the entire region, formalize it, bring it to council, and have opportunities for public comment because it's kind of like we're retroactively responding to what naturally occurred through land use policy and zoning policies by previous councils in this council. So the unfortunate thing is that you have a high density of borrower's and it's conflicting with the usage of residential areas
 And so now we're, now we're struggling with these policy concerns about like, well, what do we do to reduce and mitigate nuisance and noise and alcohols and beer runs and parking issues? And so I do believe that if we're going to spend any dollars to the entertainment districts that we need to formalize it. And then also.
 I would be willing to have a conversation about funding the creation of these entertainment districts through a consulting process, through a procurement process, similarly how we do our planning documents for corridors. So let's have that direction, that conversation to that.
 so that we can establish those districts so that we can start to put together these policies to help these residents. I think that's an excellent thought process and what I would just simply add is that
 and Carla, Ms. Neiman has already been working diligently with Carrie Weston on the moratorium discussion and an overlay district discussion so that you can at least stop the bleeding while you do have this dialogue so you can at least hit stop, hit the pause button and start working on the things you just outlined. No, so to do that in tandem. So yeah, I certainly agree. I just do wanna say based on the complaints I'm hearing from specifically law enforcement
 is that there's a great concern on not only the dollars being spent, the number of hours that are going on out there. So if it comes down to proportionality of funding, and so who is putting funding to respond to these entertainment districts, and I would venture to say the majority is going to property taxpayers. And so there's gotta be a discussion about proportionality, equity, and making sure that the funding that we're putting to these districts
 are going to not only be supported by this council, but by the public. And you already know my position on this, Tommy, because I've explained to you in the past, Mr. Gonzalez, I do have a concern with the amount of dollars going into districts for overtime. And so we need to have a discussion about the equity and fairness, because multimillion dollars are going to these districts,
 And I can think of a number of other ways to grow our force with those dollars instead Yes, ma'am and I think that in response to that concern and other members of council share that same concern as do residents that y'all heard from is I believe that the Moratorium the overlay those are things we can do immediately I think that in reference to what you're referring to the only thing I can think of and I'll get with our team with miss Neiman and
 and Colonel Weston on the other items relative to strategies, but the one thing I can think of right now and what I mentioned to you when we had that discussion were public improvement districts. Now, the only limitation with that is you need over 51%
 who's being taxed to agree to it in that respective district so that they can help pay for some of those costs. But I think if done, as you pointed out, strategically, and we enter into those discussions in a fruitful manner with those businesses, we might be able to get there. That might be part of the solution is to have that in place. But it has to be said that there is attention that's needed in those areas.
 in relation to the activity that's going on. So that disproportionality by virtue of the zoning and the way things have been put in place and the way they've continued to be put in place, as you pointed out, with the current council and administration, we haven't made those changes, right? So I mean, it's ours now to fix. And so that is something that has to take place in order
 for us to see measurable change. Otherwise, we're gonna continue to have to have those kind of costs. So it's not gonna be something that's gonna be able to be fixed overnight. I'm just respectfully sharing that with you because it's an issue. It's gonna take the council, it's gonna take some different tools that are gonna have to be changed in order for us to get to a better place.
 And the last thing I wanted to add is that while we are in this planning phase, I do know that we have an agreement with the county to, you know, we cover what's in the city limits.
 but i also think there may be an opportunity for the county to adopt what we do to to open up that response to sheriff's constables so that that sole uh responsibility is not just on police officers to do you know night shifts um but you know other sheriffs may be looking for opportunities for overtime as well i think that's uh that's an excellent suggestion
 Representative, if I can follow up with what you were just mentioning. At a future council meeting, we'll come back and do a more thorough presentation to you about the regulations that are in place through TABC that create some hurdles and obstacles for us to do something more proactive. But we've also learned during COVID that the resources of the TABC could provide to us something that maybe we need to be more diligent and use them as our stakeholder.
 to get us to a better place in terms of how we regulate those areas that have a high concentration of bars or places that create these nuisances. So it's a work in progress. There's a second layer of this that will be coming back, but it's certainly something that will continue to work. And then I've also instructed my folks.
 In a future meeting, we want to be able to articulate to you the work that goes in through the prosecutor's office to get us to where we are. Because I think that the difficulty is you have the laws on the books and you may have officers issuing citations. But what happens in the courtroom is what matters at the end of the day. Right. And that's where I think.
 I want to be able to show what that looks like and where we're making strides and where we still need to do a couple more changes to address those issues. Okay, thank you for that. And one more point, Mayor, that I wanted to bring up. With the new state law change, Governor Abbott made the beer to go. So I think we have over 550 mobile food vendors and they are eligible to apply for TBC licenses to distribute.
 We don't have, to my knowledge, we don't have any ordinances that would restrict them to park in front of a high school and essentially sell alcohol. And so it goes further beyond just bricks and mortars. Now we need to have a discussion about enforcement on mobile food truck vendors. So at least as it relates to where they're gonna be parking and putting those things in place. Maybe putting some provisions that you can't sell
 you know, alcohol near schools, new churches, new daycare facilities, maybe near homeless shelters, adult and foster care locations. So there's a number of things that I would also like for you all to review as we're putting these comprehensive policies in place. Thank you. Thank you. We have Representative Molinaud, followed by Representative Anello.
 Thank you very much, mr. Mayor, thank you sir cheap I see us chief Soto. Thank you very much appreciate all your work Great presentation a couple of things I bring to point is the videos whether they be in bars restaurants convenience stores and things like that number one the placement of the cameras and the angle that they're facing
 And of course the quality of the video that is taken. Have you taken into consideration? Sir, Sarut again, yes sir. Actually on the cross functional team, we brought in IT, city IT to guide us on the specs in regards to textiles, locations and all. And we actually updated it to having three cameras on site under the current proposal.
 and they were great in assisting us in regards to the technology available out there to assist us on this. So they're definitely part of the team and we're working with them as well. Okay, thank you very much, Chief. I just wanna be sure, because as you all know, Class C theft could turn into a robbery, aggravated robbery very quickly. Moving on, reference the Class C citations. I'm not sure if it's possible, and Ms. Dimen, you can help us on this, whether...
 the policy for the procedures manual for the El Paso Police Department for Class C citations that include their number one person is fully identified, they're willing to sign the citation, they're not intoxicated, they live in, reside in the El Paso County or employed here in El Paso County, things like that. Because a lot of people probably get misinformation as far as, hey, I can get a citation for that, but what does that really mean?
 Eric Gutierrez, are you on the line? That's a very specific question that I don't have an answer to, but he can answer.
 Sure. Eric, with that is for the record, representative, this is something that our cross functional team with Chiefs Outlaws is looking at. We're making sure that we have good contact with the managers and we have clear information from them. And that includes all the clerks, their their addresses for subpoenas and stuff like that. So it's all being addressed through the ordinance to make sure that we have that information long term when we need them for the prosecution of the case.
 Okay. Thank you, sir. And my last point is for a reference what mr. Neiman mentioned the Municipal Court I'd be curious to know in that whatever slide it was that one beer that cost two dollars and seventy nine cents, I believe That person paid that citation the fact that how much the actual cost of the citation and the municipal court fees associated with that and
 in other words what the final disposition like if you can't provide it right now but it's just be curious because you know this person is going to get the citation and when is that person going to actually pay for that beer twice sure and representative molinar um so the amount that the person would pay is set by the municipal court judges it's the bond amount so if they get a citation and they want to go pay for it they could pay for the bond amount i think for the classy thefts i want to say it's around 2 240. um
 And that's not including court costs which are about 130 so it's less than the max 500 But that's really outside of our hands when these cases are being pled out at the arraignment level, which is the first appearance Right and that goes to my point is and I'm not here to criticize any municipal court judges But I know in my past history a lot of times municipal court judges. They saw hey, it's one beer It's one pack of cigarettes. It's two sodas and a bag of chips and oh, you know
 You know, we're not gonna do anything for that child or that person and we're just gonna dismiss the citation or the bond amount or the Fee amount is going to be very low. So thank you. I think you're you're spot-on. Mr. Milne or that's what miss Neiman was talking about earlier with regard to including the municipal judges and and they need to understand the council's
 focus and the concern for the residents and how we can re-utilize these resources that the police has in different areas that are a higher need, a higher priority.
 thank you very much sir appreciate it thank you now representative anello do you uh did you remove yourself or would you like to speak i'm sorry i apologize mayor i'm having a hard time trying to articulate kind of how i want to respond to some of the issues but i'll say this um you know i've had a little bit of a heartburn um with these entertainment districts and how they're being dealt with and i've shared those with the the city manager so i don't need to get into firsthand experiences here what i will say is i think you know
 I'm gonna look at myself and Representative Lasada, I have five points and Representative Schwarzbein has Cincinnati and those are very different entertainment districts and I think that part of the issue that we're seeing is we're dealing with them in the same way, whereas those neighborhoods and even the establishments are there are very different. And so I just, I do really like the idea of there being a CFT and I hope that we can put one together where there's, you know, we're looking at those areas.
 kind of from everyone's perspective and coming up with individual solutions for the individual areas versus a blanket situation which is maybe not working the very best for every district so thank you all for the presentation i do appreciate it thank you um thanks mayor um thank you
 Um, no, I, I echo some of the comments as well with, uh, with Representative Vanello, and I don't know if it's appropriate for the Council to tell the Department or Advisor's Department of how necessarily to enforce these areas. I do think though it's, that it is appropriate to recognize that these are, you know, areas that, that, you know, are business areas as well.
 that. I do have a question relating to moratorium and some of the areas relating to, I guess, alcohol licenses. That is something I think would strongly make a lot of sense at this point, especially within some of the areas that we're seeing continuous problems about.
 I don't know the legal issues relating towards what is what's within the purview of the state versus the municipality, but something needs to be done. And I'm wondering in terms of looking at that, if there's any sort of timeline that our city attorney can give us when we could see something introduced. So
 We've been working on that issue since probably two weeks ago. I spoke to mr. Weston about well how we would roll that out We'd still need to see what planning is recommending in terms of a moratorium Moratoriums are permitted under state law But council would need to pass an ordinance that states that we aren't issuing these types of permits in Hawaii So there's a public hearing process involved as well. I
 because i mean i do think that again none of the members here on council have been part of any sort of parking variances or parking reductions in any sort of business areas whether that's five points whether that's the cincinnati area those parking variances and parking reductions were granted
 least decades before any of us were here and so i think it's important to understand that with that being said it's it's not acceptable we don't go and look at what the reality is now and think about what we can do to drive and encourage different behaviors and a wider variety of uses uh within this area um the last point that i wanted to make and remember can i say something before you go to your next point yeah i'm on the timer but yes
 I think they've already gone through every one and you're back. But in any event, what I was just going to share is that the reason I brought up the CFT is I really think that this is very policy driven. So we're asking council for the policy guidance and direction.
 input there so I think it's very appropriate I'm not suggesting you're saying that it isn't I'm just not one to make clear for the rest of the council and for you if you're not clear and for the community that I think it makes a lot of sense as you're pointing out for y'all to kind of take a look at where we are today and then what kind of policy shifts can be made in order to make it better going forward and I would I would say just in terms of moving forward I do think that having these
 these updates especially as it relates towards our police department I think would be more appropriate and better handled to have it on a work session just because it gives the council the flexibility to really go and take a deep dive on this sort of stuff.
 one of the things that we know based upon the percentage of our budget that's dedicated towards public safety and police how important it is to our constituents and we also know loud and clear that probably one of the biggest responsibilities we have as a government is to provide public safety to adequately fund our police and fire departments and so my
 giving up the mic it relates towards what representative hernandez said in terms of the establishment of any sort of districts i do think that one of the things that should be looked at as well probably will have to take a bigger legal dive is any sort of funding mechanisms whether it was pids terzes
 special districts like the DMD where there's a mechanism brought into into it where there is some sort of compulsory funding mechanism attached to establishment of one of these districts you know we have the uptown parking benefit district that has funds
 dedicated funds from those parking meters that go back into security but when you're talking about an established district like this we haven't seen the participation from the private sector in terms of volunteer you know voluntarily stepping up to fund some of these additional security issues
 that are in the area but more importantly around the area especially as it abuts residential areas and so i think that absolutely needs to be part of the conversation as well so there's more skin in the game from these business owners as well would that be an easy thing i don't know but it's a conversation that needs to be had so i appreciate everybody there and i appreciate again um chiefs for your presentation today and all the work that you're doing to keep our community safe thank you and god bless
 thank you chief um thank you uh miss neiman mr gonzalez and uh there's neiman you're right we need to continue the dialogue and bring it back so thank you for all the comments thank you very much and with that uh miss prime yes sir we now go to call to the public
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance and participating are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have six people that signed up to speak.
 The first person is Ms. Wally Sheck. Ms. Sheck will be followed by Mr. Judd Burgess, followed by Mr. Arnulfo Hernandez. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. You have three minutes, ma'am. We can just, Ms. Pryne, we can, yeah, please. Hello, Ms. Sheck. God bless America. Yesterday was the 13th of September, where it happened.
 New York, a cross was found 20 foot tall out of steel. Yesterday at 1 o'clock, I had delivered a 20 foot steel cross at my house. This is the fifth cross I have paid for, and this fifth cross goes to Austin,
 at the Capitol. I will not give for a whole year. I try to get a hold of the governor. His help is lousy. They don't get my letters. I send registered letters. I made phone calls even on Friday last week.
 Leave a message while I'm leaving a message now from El Paso, Texas with all of you who I'm going to take my teeth out. Excuse me. I tried for a whole year and you, every one of you represent El Pasoans regardless of
 of Republicans or Democrats. We are Americans. All right. You write in the police at your own time to the governor that I'm here today begging for El Paso to get this gift of 9-11. 21 years out of evil, we're making good.
 And I wrote to the bishop, October the 13th, I would like for him to have all the parish say a special prayer for this coward business. But this is another story, I come back in two weeks, to get the cross to Austin.
 Last year they had 66 pages of newspaper with names. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. Thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three-minute limit. Forget this. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. Forget it, forget it, forget it. We're moving on to the next speaker, ma'am. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. The next speaker will be Mr. Judd Burgess. We'll see you in two weeks, Ms. Sheck. Thank you for coming. Thank you, ma'am.
 Thank you, Ms. Schack. Thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. All right, thank you. Thank you, Ms. Schack, again. I know, nice to see you. Thank you, bye-bye. Nice to see you, Ms. Schack. Burgess Topping, Class Latino Cultural Center.
 The next speaker is Mr. Jed Burgess. His topic is world-class Latino cultural center. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, sir Three years ago this coming Saturday I was falsely arrested and illegally banned from City Hall after pointing my fingers and speaking my mind to a handful of public servants and city employees including the politically eviscerated ex mayor de Margo
 My trumped up arrest is a badge of honor for me and my family because it came as a result of standing up for something I passionately believe in. The realization of a proper and world-class Latino cultural center befitting a city as uniquely positioned and qualified as El Paso. A border city comprised of an 83% Latino population, just a stone's throw across the Rio Grande from our Mexican sister city of Juarez.
 With a Mexican culture and heritage as deep and proud as ours, just how did we get to this point where culturally ignorant city employees were allowed to insult, neglect, and give the figurative finger to the vastly Latino citizenship of El Paso by severely underfunding the cultural center while at the same time increasing the $19.5 million budget for a children's museum to over $75 million?
 City employees have stupidly managed to create a lose lose situation that affects 83 percent of the population along with library visitors and employees to say that shoe horning a 16 million dollar Latino cultural center into a large percentage of the main library as a positive for El Paso shows an utter lack of common sense and sensitivity while displaying a contemptuous arrogance that will become the scarlet letter that will be worn by those responsible.
 And we, the Latino community, get nothing but stale crumbs for what would otherwise bring so much more of those elusive tourism dollars that you continually chase in all the wrong ways. A baseball stadium that perpetually loses money, trolleys with no ridership or few riders unless it's free, an El Paso sports arena that will surely balloon to a near half billion when all is said and done.
 We didn't vote for a sports arena. And if that dead horse somehow rises and it's built for anything over 180 million, it will be a clear illegal breach of contract against El Paso citizens.
 While it may be moot at this point, I strongly suggest that it be best to temporarily scrap the plans to build a poorly funded and short-sighted cultural center that is forced to be housed in our main library. To build it as planned would be a monumentally idiotic civic move that will cost El Paso in ways you can't even begin to understand or imagine. It's lose, lose, and more losing for the generations yet to come. Let's say the Latino Cultural Center.
 for a later day when responsible, sensible, and culturally aware leaders are here to actually serve the voters who elect them. Thank you, and Mayor Leaser, it's good to have you bringing integrity and common sense back to the mayor's seat. The next speaker will be Mr. Arnulfo Hernandez. Mr. Hernandez's topic is Mexican American Cultural Center Company E-Monument. Good afternoon, sir, you have three minutes.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. Mayor Lee, sir, and members of the council, my name is Arnulfo Hernandez. First of all, I want you to know that my wife and I are fully vaccinated, Pfizer vaccinated. We practice social distancing, we double mask, and we try to stay home as much as possible. But these issues are important, important for me to come forward today. First is the monument to the men of company.
 I am the author of the Man of Company E co-author. I think Mr. Molinar may be the only one who may not be aware that I've shown this before. I am also the primary sponsor of Company E Memorial Highway, a hat of which I wear in that, that's a stretch between Montana and Americas. And Mayor Leister, your administration was the one that made that happen.
 your administration can also be the administration that makes the monument to the mexican-american company happen i understand both of these items the monument in the maximum mexican-american cultural center are back on the on on on the budget and i would hope mayor that the city council in the american user influence with uh... i believe the gentleman that who has this thing is uh... mister ben five
 uh... the director of the arts and cultural department who says it may take two to three years before that can be completed that's totally unacceptable uh... i think now is the time to honor these men for what an american stands for they bled they fought and many died in the suicide drop of the river so i hope that you push forward and make this happen the money is there the uh... the wax
 frames have been put into a non-degradable cast, but they await the city to put its base where it's going to go. Your sculptor, Julio Sanchez de Alba, has expressed an interest to retire soon and go back to Costa Rica. I hope it happens after the monument. The cultural center.
 Our last president said that Mexico does not sense as best, it sense criminals, it sense drug addicts and rapists and he said a few I guess are okay. Well this is a way the cultural center will display the beauty of our culture, the great contributions that we have made. In fact, Lea Lisa you are a prime example of that born in Mexico came to this country and we are very proud of you.
 It is important that the legacy of the cultural center go forward. I understand other folks, including my gentleman who spoke before me, my good friend, Judd, that it's not exactly what we wanted, but it is a start. And from there, we can always expand the goal into other places. So I would hope.
 that you use again your powers and sits back in the budget, that this becomes, Mayor Lisa, the legacy of your administration and those that sit here, that the Mexican-American Cultural Center comes to be. Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. And that the monument becomes a reality. Thank you, and have a nice day. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is joining us on the phone. His name is Mr. Jose Hernandez.
 mr hernandez's topic is health hazards raw sewage mr hernandez star six please to unmute your telephone mr jose hernandez star six please thank you you have three minutes mr hernandez you're cutting out sir sorry can you hear me now yes sir
 Beautiful. Awesome. Thank you so much for your time, guys. Good afternoon. My name is Jose Hernandez. This message is for the raw sewage that's being released out here on the west side and into the Rio Grande River. It's horrible. It's disgusting. It's a health hazard.
 I'm not too sure if you guys have been out there or live on the West Side. The smell is horrendous and it smells like bleach. It burns your eyes and we don't need a study to find out that it's a health hazard. Not too sure how many of you guys are aware what happens when you release sewage and untreated water into riverbeds. It has a drastic effect on the ecosystem. We are on a dying planet.
 The biosphere collapse is imminent. The sun burns your skin faster. You know, we don't need scientists and studies to figure that out. The sun is burning your skin faster. So anyhow, I digress. Raw sewage is a hazard. I urge council to pass a resolution or find the common solution to avoid releasing the wastewater into the Rio Grande. That's all I have. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Carol Henry-Bowl. Her topic is Restoring Funding to El Paso Coalition for the Homeless. Good afternoon, ma'am. Star 6, you have three minutes. Can you all hear me? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council, City Manager.
 Last Friday, I emailed each of you a letter requesting that grants provided to the coalition and approved by council on June the 22nd be reinstated to reflect the original scope of work and related deliverables that support the network of provider agencies serving those experiencing homelessness.
 That letter was endorsed by numerous member agencies of the Coalition that value our work and recognize the contribution we provide to the City of El Paso and the entire region in addressing homelessness. I wanted to speak today to provide some context regarding this request and the consequences of eliminating or reducing funding.
 Since 2004, the City supported the Coalition through a planning grant, enabling us to provide intensive training and technical assistance to agencies working directly with the homeless, supporting our work in addressing chronic homelessness and homelessness among veterans, youth, and families.
 This grant has been completely eliminated as the Department of Community and Human Development incorporated deliverables that were outside of the scope of funding and department leadership was not agreeable to negotiate what was realistic and feasible.
 In 2012, the city decided to support the coalition's homeless management information system, enabling us to provide HMIS services of training, technical assistance, and health desk support for recipients of the city's ESG program and further allowed us to offset fees paid to the HMIS vendor so we could essentially provide free HMIS services to homeless assistance providers.
 This grant is currently in jeopardy as deliverables were recently added to the agreement that are not only outside the scope of the funding source, but that we don't have the funding or capacity to address. These deliverables are burdensome on the coalition and will essentially pull our efforts away from the agencies that we are here to support.
 As the infrastructure planning entity and HMIS administrator for El Paso's continuum of care, we are federally mandated to provide these services that were supported by these city grants. So the loss of funding won't fundamentally affect the coalition, but will financially impact the agencies providing direct services to the homeless.
 My request today is for these public support grants to be reinstated in their original form through a clean process, allowing a coalition to focus its services on the provider agencies and that deliverables conform to the scope of those services and the specific funding sources. Thank you, Ms. Holden. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Michael Castro. Mr. Michael Castro.
 Mayor, I don't see him in the queue or in person. So that concludes call to the public. Thank you and thank one for coming down here and calling in. I really appreciate it. Mayor, would you like to continue on the agenda or will council like to take the break? The 30 minute break? It's up to you. Whatever you want. Continue. They want to continue. OK, so we'll continue. Yes, sir. Well, on page eight, we're on the introduction of ordinances. These are items 21 to 24.
 Move to approve. Thank you. There's a motion made by Representative Shorthwine, seconded by Representative Lizada to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative, thank you. Representative Salcido. The screen's not popping up, but aye. Your vote was aye, ma'am? Yes. Thank you. IT's on their way to assist you. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 we now move to page 10 item number 26 this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from rf ranch and farm to r3 residential north of yarborough drive and east of hampton road second there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative does anybody have any questions at this time all right call the question yes sir there's a motion and a second to approve on that motion call for the vote
 And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. We now go to item number 27. This is a public hearing on an ordinance approving a special permit for a 29% parking reduction at 1019 and 1039 JC Machuca Road. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Lizada, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve on that motion. Call for the vote.
 in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 28. This is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for a professional office at 11061 Vista del Sol Drive. Move to approve. Ms. Prine, point of clarification. Do you prefer for us to verbally make a motion or to use the buttons? I prefer both. If you'll verbalize it and then note it here, that would help.
 so so is it better for us just to verbalize it if you'll verbalize it i can populate it in the system okay thank you so for this one representative rivera first make the motion seconded i see in the system by representative rodriguez on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 The next item is number 31. This is a public hearing on an ordinance annexing real property at Berryville Street, south of Montana Drive. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. In the voting session, and the motion passes with seven affirmative votes, Representative Anela voting nay. The motion does pass. The next item.
 is number 32. This is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating the 20-foot alley west of St. Rain Street and north of Paisano Drive. There's a motion made by Representative Lizárraga, seconded by Representative Rodríguez to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 34. This is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign an agreement for professional services
 between the city of El Paso and BRW Architects Inc. for a project known as Fire Station 38. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinato. Approved on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 And the last item is number 35. This is discussion in action on a resolution that the city reviewed and approved the issuance of unlimited tax bond series 2021 by Paseo del Este Municipal Utility District number seven. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve on that motion, call for the vote. End the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 Move to adjourn. Second. There is a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, September 14, 2021 is adjourned at 1235 p.m. Godspeed, Rep Rivera. Thank you.