representative has requested to be excused representative kennedy is virtual this morning we'll start with uh chaplain we'll start items that don't require quorum yes sir now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by el paso police senior chaplain david mayfield
 Mayor Lisa, members of the council, thank you once again for allowing me to come here and pray for you and for our city. I invite those present to join in prayer in their own tradition as I will pray in mine. Creator God, author of all, we ask that you bless the gathering of this council today. Guide us as we deliberate over plans, the plans to improve and prosper the city, and plans to address the problems that result from...
 people living together. Bless each member of this council and help them to govern with wisdom and compassion. Help them to do the hard job of working for everyone who has come to live in this city, regardless of origin. And finally, Lord, I pray that your mercy and grace would flow to our city as we work toward the benefit of those who live and work and play here. We ask all of this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.
 and may god bless this council the city of el paso and the united states of america amen good morning this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday september 26 2023
 Mayor Leaser is present and presiding inside council chambers along with Representative Hernandez, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Fierro, and Representative Canales. Representative Kennedy is joining us virtually this morning. Representative Anello has requested to be excused, and Representative Rivera is running a few minutes late. It is 9.03 a.m.
 This morning, to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, we have veterans of foreign wars, post commanders, Natividad Lopez, Jr., Robin Johnson, Michelle Crittenden, Ron Zolomki, Billy Michaels, Wayne Strickland, Salvador Rodriguez, Raul Reza, Luis Navarro, Robert Lawler, Luis Valdivia, and Ephraim Sins. The United States of America.
 For the record, Representative Rivera is also present in council chambers. If you're in teams, please make sure your microphones are on mute. Mayor Lee, if I could say a few words.
 Also, the Veterans of Foreign Wars has been in existence for over 100 years. I'm very proud of the fact that my father, the late Gilberto Molinar, began post-8919, which is in District 4, northeast El Paso. So I am a member of VFW post-8919. It's a very proud moment to have these men and women here representing our country, the sacrifices that they made, and leading us in the Pledge of Allegiance today.
 Mayor, city council representatives, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for allowing us to come and participate in your meeting this morning. I believe they're indicating that you should have seats. It is indeed an honor for us at the Veterans of Foreign Wars to participate in any way in government. The way that we gained admission to our organization is by fighting to defend.
 country in our institutions including government at all levels and so being able to participate now as citizens is very special to us especially reciting the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag under which we fought and our compatriots died
 The Veterans of Foreign Wars was, as Representative Molinar mentioned, founded over 100 years ago. It was actually founded in 1899. It was founded here in Texas in 1921.
 And here in El Paso, only five months after it was founded in Texas, our first post was formed. And so we've been active here in El Paso since 1921 for over 100 years, and we continue to try to serve our communities as well as we can. Our mission is to serve our veterans, their families, and our communities. Every post, and we have seven of them,
 Here in El Paso, more than in most communities, every post has requirements in order to continue as a chartered organization to not only do activities which honor our veterans and their families, but also to serve the community. And so we try to do that to continue our legacy of service. And so we hope that we are active participants
 and that we provide value as we continue in that legacy. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ms. Prine. And I do wanna thank you all for serving and protecting our community, our country, and all the veterans that are here today and all the veterans that represent our community. You know, because of you all, we have an opportunity to become elected officials. You've given us our freedom, and we wanna thank you for that. And today,
 I believe that it's Veterans Day every day because we respect and salute and admire all the veterans, all the people that really were willing to protect us. So I want today to everyone have their own thoughts. I'll have a moment of silence for those who gave it all for our community and those who are still in our community and our country. I want a gratitude of thank you again for that. Thank you.
 Thank you, and may God bless everyone of you. And every time you all come up and every time I speak to you all, it gives me a fond memory of my father, who was a World War II veteran. So thank you, and may God bless everyone. Ms. Prine? Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation this morning is Disease Intervention Specialist Day. Who has that one? Is that yours? Representative Molinar.
 Good morning. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health HIV STD Unit Investigates, Diagnoses, and Treats Sexually Transmitted Infections, STIs.
 And whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health collaborates with local hospitals, physicians, clinics, community health centers, Fort Bliss, Doña Anacani, New Mexico, Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, and other organizations to promote a healthier, safer community through community education on STIs.
 and whereas case investigation of STIs is essential to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and whereas the Department of Public Health joins the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in recognizing the importance of disease investigators in controlling the spread of STIs. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso
 that today shall be known as disease or excuse me October the 7th 2023 shall be known as disease intervention specialist day signed the honorable uh mayor's Oscar leisure good morning good morning mayor Eliezer honorable council members my name is Luis and I am one of the supervisors for the disease intervention team on behalf of our HIV STD unit I thank you today for this recognition and I would like to emphasize our ongoing commitment to this labor that has been entrusted to us
 We are humbled to bring hope to all Pasoans in their time of need by exhaustively conducting contact tracing So we may provide free testing to individuals who have been exposed to a sexually transmitted infection As well as refer those facing such an affliction to the treatment they deserve Finally, we also educate and serve people living with HIV and AIDS such that they may take more empowered approach to their health and live more fulfilling lives and
 We at the HIV STD Unit are proud to lead the fight against the stigma associated with these conditions by championing the idea that sex is meant to be one of the more enjoyable aspects of life and by encouraging others to embrace their sexuality so they and their partners can make more informed decisions in a more positive manner. After all, it is open and informed communication based on love and trust that serves as our greatest weapon against these diseases.
 Finally, I would like to thank our amazing team standing behind me for their tireless dedication and endless display of compassion on the line of duty. Without whose unrelenting effort, none of these would be possible. Thank you all. Thank you. Will you all introduce yourselves please? Come up one at a time if you don't mind. Come on up to the microphone. Good morning everyone. My name is Bernadette. I'm STD surveillance for the County of El Paso. Thank you. Good morning. Sarah Serra, Assistant Health Director, Prior DAS. Thank you.
 My name is Chisla Marvila and I'm one of the supervisors for the unit. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Chisla Chaparro and I'm a DIS. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Sabina Abhauzola and I am a DIS. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Denise Murillo and I am one of the DIS here. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Heather and I'm a DIS as well. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Brenda Sosa and I'm a DIS. Good morning. Good morning everyone. My name is Jacob Ortega, health program manager for the unit. Good morning and thank you all for being here. Have a great day.
 And if everyone will remain in chambers this morning, the council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once all the ceremonial items have been completed. The next proclamation is Buddy Walk for Down Syndrome Awareness Month. Mayor, thank you so much for allowing me to read this into the record.
 Whereas one in 700 babies born in the United States is born with Down syndrome, and whereas El Paso County has the highest rate of Down syndrome in the state of Texas, whereas people with Down syndrome are active participants in education, occupational, social, and recreational circles in the community. Whereas the Down syndrome coalition for El Paso invites everyone to join on Saturday, October 7th at...
 At the 2023 Buddy Walk to celebrate, promote acceptance and inclusion, and raise funds for Down Syndrome Coalition for El Paso.
 EPCC Scholarships for Students with Disabilities and the National Down Syndrome Society. And whereas Down Syndrome Coalition for El Paso Buddy Walk will take place on the EPCC Valle Rueda campus, participants and donors can take part in registration at epbuddywalk.org. And whereas Buddy Walk will bring together individuals, families, and agencies to raise
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council that the City of El Paso, the month of October, shall be known Buddy Walk for Down Syndrome Awareness Month. Signed, the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Councilman. My name is Amelia Rao, and I represent the Down Syndrome Coalition of El Paso, and I'm here with our partners from the El Paso Community Foundation as well as El Paso Community College. And again, we are excited and enthusiastic for Saturday, October 7th, in which we will walk in solidarity with family members and individuals with Down Syndrome and other developmental disabilities for a better society, a more inclusive society, and we appreciate your recognition for this work.
 thank you thank you good morning Mary good morning council individuals it's thank you so much for having us here today well I know many of you in a different working capacity one of my other most important jobs is being a mama and I have a 10 year old with Down syndrome the coalition has always been really dear to my heart so I especially thank you this morning for the recognition and the awareness of Down syndrome thank you thank you
 morning councilman I'm Adam tierce I work with the El Paso Community Foundation and it has been a privilege to work with these individuals and these groups for the last year or so I know the buddy walk has been going on for 14 years in partnership with El Paso Community College and Jim Heine and it is just fantastic to see the work that's been doing in the that's been done in the community and the collaboration of all these these groups coming together and putting on events like this and
 services for people with disabilities in our community. Thank you. Thank you and the final proclamation this morning is Tom Lee celebration month All right welcome Proclamation city of El Paso, Texas whereas Tom Lee a native El Paso and chose to live and work in El Paso is
 And whereas this year marks an extraordinary milestone of the Tom Lee Institute, an El Paso nonprofit, offering the community Tom Lee celebration with the theme Launching the Tom Lee Trail app, which is a season of firsts. First artist named Trail in Texas, first Texas Historical Commission Heritage Trail in 12 years, and first officially recognized trail of its kind in the United States.
 A new state-of-the-art website enlivens the history of 12 communities through historical videos, sound effects, storytelling, and the art of Tom Lee, an unsung genius of his time. Whereas, the Tom Lee Institute partners with other non-profit organizations and cultural entities in the community to provide fun and educational activities that highlight the quality of life in the region. Overall, there will be 17 events held, with El Paso being the capital of the Tom Lee Trail.
 And whereas there are events scheduled at nine El Paso sites, including the El Paso Museum of History, at which Tom Lee's paintings are paired with a live performance of music from three decades, Tiguan natives will dance and present about the significance of the war bonnet with Pasaron Por Aqui at the International Museum of Art. A chamber ensemble plays original music composed by a Tom Lee fellow at UTEP. These are only a few of the exciting events that enliven the history and culture of the region.
 And whereas Tom Lee Celebration offers a series of unique events centered in El Paso designed to attract tourists and inspire El Paso citizens. The Tom Lee Trail, officially designated by the Texas Legislature in 2017, has brought visitors worldwide to El Paso events. In addition, El Paso is the hub of the Binational Trail in Texas, New Mexico, and the state of Chihuahua, Mexico.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of October shall be known as Tom Lee Celebration Month. Signed by our honorable mayor, Oscar Leaser. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Holly Cobb, I'm the executive director of the Tom Lee Institute and this is my wonderful staff that basically the three of us plus another half person put all of this together every year. So we're small but mighty. We want to thank you for hosting us here today and allowing us to have the proclamation.
 I don't know if you realize that Tom Lee's art hung in the White House of both President Johnson and President Bush. How many artists do you know?
 who've hung in the two White Houses, let alone one White House, and he's a native El Pasoan, as was said in the proclamation. His art, World War II art, The Price, hung in the Pentagon in the Joint Chiefs of Staff office to remind them of the cost of war. Again, an extraordinary accomplishment.
 And the Tom Lee Institute is dedicated to bring exciting events, things like walking tours of downtown El Paso, art maker camps for students, and free curricula that are embedded in public schools, including EPISD.
 We are very very dedicated to helping people to come to love El Paso Just as Tom Lee did he loved this region and portrayed it in many different ways this year We were offered ten walking tours of downtown attended by 50 to 60 people each Event we ought to offer free events celebrating the history and culture of the borderland and you all have copies of the brochure and
 which includes all of our listing of free events here in El Paso as well as around the state. If you take a look at these events, these events attract visitors from out of town, actually out of the country even. And so we're really celebrating El Paso, bringing awareness to El Paso in a very positive way. We do all of this
 by raising our own funds. We're not on the tax rolls, you know, being funded by citizens. We do all this with our own funds, partnering with city museums as well as local restaurants and hotels to bring them new audiences. And the people who attend our tours and events often comment, I thought El Paso had nothing to offer.
 I'm sure many of you've heard that too and nothing to do but now I realize what an amazing history We have and we love these events and we've learned to love and appreciate El Paso Thank you for making the proclamation and supporting the Tom Lee Institute. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you again, Miss Pryor Can we go to item 16? I
 is discussion and action to approve a resolution recognizing Saúl Armendariz, better known as Cassandro, for his illustrious 35-year career in lucha libre, becoming one of the foremost exótico luchadores in the world, and to commend Cassandro for sharing his life story, which contributes to the vibrant culture shared by the sister cities of El Paso and Ciudad Juárez. And this is Representative Hernandez's item.
 And Representative Salcido. Thank you. Yes ma'am, please. Mr. Armanades, please come to the podium while I read the resolution into the record. I finally got a chance to watch the movie last night and I have to say I was just like really excited to learn more about you and like your name, my name was selected from a novela. My mom loves novelas and that's how I got my name. Now you know.
 The resolution reads, whereas the electrifying world of Lucha Libre carries a legacy dating back to 1863, transcending borders and cultures to become an iconic part of Mexican and Mexican-American heritage and captivating fans worldwide. And whereas Saúl Armendariz, affectionately known as Casandro el Exótico, graced the world of Lucha Libre as one of its most celebrated figures,
 And whereas much like the Board of Presidents of Lucha Libre, Cassandro was also on the ropes of two nations, born on May 20th, 1970 in El Paso, Texas, and often shuttled between El Paso and his family's hometown, Cedar Juarez. And whereas at the age of 15, Cassandro embarked on his wrestling journey, training Lucha Libre in Cedar Juarez, he made his professional debut in 1988 under various rings personas,
 including the masked Mr. Romano and Rosa Salvaje, ultimately embracing the iconic identity of Cassandro. And whereas Cassandro's courageous path as an openly gay luchador stands as a shining testament to the resilience and the perseverance of a trailblazer. And whereas the extraordinary life and career of Cassandro has now been captured on the silver screen in the film so aptly named Cassandro.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the City Council recognizes Cassandro for his illustrious 35-year and lucha libre becoming one of the foremost exotico luchadores in the world and commend Cassandro for sharing his life story which contributes to the vibrant culture shared by the sister cities of El Paso and Cedar Juarez. And I'm very proud to make a motion to approve.
 Motion in a second. And I know, Cassandra, you have a hard time speaking, but Representative... I just wanted to say that I'm very proud for you to be on the national stage. Estoy muy orgullosa que eres un producto del paso y que nos hiciste muy orgullosos ahí. Y muchas gracias por todo tu trabajo. I want to also say that I know that with all this, you've gone through so much adversity, and we thank you for just showing how resilient our people are. And thank you for that, and thank you for everything you've done.
 Thank you and thank you for being here. And I know for the opening premiere, that we were able to award you with a star on the mountain. And congratulations and thank you for being here and thank you for representing this great city of El Paso. And with that, thank you. There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve the resolution on item 16. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Kennedy.
 Thank you. And the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. We want to approve the consent agenda. Did you want to recess for photos at this time, Mayor? Yeah, we can do that. We can recess for photos. Move to recess. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 9.29 AM in order to take photos with this morning's honorees. Motion reconvene.
 There's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 946 a.m. That brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Temo-Linar. Good morning.
 This is the revisions for September the 26th, 2023 at 830 in the morning. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse absent city council members. Representative Alexandra Anello. Page 6, item 12, move to the regular agenda and revise per representative. Will he not? And that revision is on the district. It should read district 1, not 4. Page 12, item 26, move to the forefront of the regular agenda after council items for economic and international development.
 is there any other revisions for item three can we bring to regular please item three move to the regular agenda any other items mayor we do have public comment on the consent agenda items miss turner yes sir miss turner has would like to speak on item one and this is the minutes for the regular meeting of september 12 2023. good morning council it disturbed me last meeting
 Representative Fernandez, I long, confirmed by our city attorney, was in the room during the discussion of the EX-5. It is the city attorney's. What is that? I'm sorry. I'm trying to find what item we're talking about. EX-5. It's on the minutes, sir. It's in the minutes. This is the minutes from the last meeting. I understand that, but we're talking about the consent agenda, correct? Yes, sir. So that's what I'm wondering. What item on the consent is this one? Item one. It's the minutes.
 This is where you approve what you did. Okay, okay. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Mr. Turner. My concern is that I ask that question, you all look to our city attorney. Our city attorney confirmed that Representative Hernandez was in there during the discussion of EX-5. Representative Hernandez is named in the complaint. So my question is why was she present? And since she was present and not knowing if the other individual was present, I have to ask the question.
 Can you really approve what you did last meeting and not have to bring it back and go through the motions? Now one of the things that I also noticed is and I thought we had settled this when it came to cell phones I noticed representative Hernan has came out of the executive session phone in hand and talking explained to me why cell phones are allowed in executive session
 whether they're on or off. Because if somebody turns one on, they can record what's going on in executive session. There should be no cell phones whatsoever in that session. If they want to get their cell phone, then they need to go get it out of their office. It should not be in executive session for security matters. But that's off topic there.
 Thank you, Mr. Turner. Mayor, do you need a response? Go ahead. Yes, ma'am. So in regards to the issue as to who is allowed an executive session, those are issues that are vetted before council is briefed in regards to whether a member of council is allowed to remain. That happens whenever an issue comes up regarding a member of council, and that happened on EX-5 at the last city council meeting. In regards to the use of city cell phones,
 Council has had a long-standing practice that the City Clerk collects all members of Council's phones Prior to starting the meeting and they're kept in a box that she safeguards during the council meeting If representative Hernandez or any other member of council walked out with their cell phone That's because they're allowed to retrieve their cell phone from the box after the council adjourns an executive session and leaves the room
 I was calling to prepare childcare for my children. Oh, I did. Just so you were. See, I didn't know if you were, because at the meeting, y'all didn't get out until 6 o'clock, and this was 1733. And that's the time that my children, my children need to get picked up at 5, and so I have to coordinate. So I do get my cell phone, I walk out, I come back in, I don't record, and I strictly just organize for my children. I'm not saying that you record. Because I'm a mother, and I have to do that, yeah. Okay.
 You know as far as I knew you could have been ordering pizza because it was six o'clock and you wanted something to eat as Soon as you got home because nobody got really lunch that day But my concern is that for the city that if the cell phone is in there It may cause an issue down the road when somebody tries to challenge your decisions so it would it not be safer if those cell phones were outside and
 Because I see you came out. You're talking. I don't know what you're talking about. Like I say, you could be ordering pizza. It was late. Obvious thing to be doing since nobody had lunch. So those are my concerns. Thank you, Mr. I'm not picking on you, Mr. Hernandez, in that issue. It's just I see something.
 security wise for executive sessions and thank you for your engagement thank you mr. Turner mr. Turner also signed up to speak on item 10 and this is a notation of the p-card transactions from mayor City Council representatives and staff thank you mr. Turner and with that we have a motion in a second to approve as amended yes sir motion was made by a protein Molina seconded by representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion call for the vote
 Representative Kennedy? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session? And that motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the regular agenda. Mayor, would you like to take the items that were moved from regular, or would you like to proceed with council items first?
 Pardon me, I'm sorry. Mayor Farah. Would you like to take the items that were moved from the consent to regular? Thank you, sir. Yes, ma'am. As in order. Thank you, sir. Item number three is a resolution to authorize a city manager or designee be authorized to sign the Third Amendment to lease and concession agreement for the development and operation of news, gifts, and specialty retail concessions at the El Paso International Airport with Paradis El Paso LLC. Motion to approve. Love that.
 Do you have some questions, Representative Nunes? Yes. Mr. Rodriguez, thank you for bringing this item forward. The only question that I was more of a statement is some of the products that they sell or some of the goods.
 A lot of them are not El Paso-centric, and so we have a lot of great vendors, local vendors, that could sell. And I know there's a shop with Destination El Paso, and it's a small one, and they're very limited hours. But when you go to the other concession stands, you can't really find a lot of El Paso-centric items.
 specifically streetcar items. And so again, I just wanna reiterate over and over again that when you go to other airports and other communities, you can buy streetcar memorabilia for El Paso, but you can't buy it in our airport unless it's under very limited hours. And so I don't know how the agreements work, but if it's just a request or if we could just urge them to sell more El Paso-centric items, that would be great. Will do, thank you. Thanks. Thank you. We have a motion and a second.
 Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item number three. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Kennedy? Aye. Thank you. End the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. The next item that was moved to the regular agenda is item number 12, the motion.
 Item 12 is the award of solicitation 2023-0310 Rio Grande to Country Club paved trail to Allen Concrete LLC. I was just to correct the district. Is there a public comment? Yes, sir. All right. Can we take that? Yes, sir. We have Ms. Sharon Bonnard signed up to speak and IT Wilneithy-Almo, please.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Sharon Miles Bonard. I'm a member of Open Space Advisory Board, and I'm not speaking on behalf of the board today, but as a participant in the Open Space Advisory Board. Back in the day, Council approved $390,000 for the Country Club to Rio Grande Trail. In April, five months ago,
 The bids were open and everyone knows that the winning bid was for $400,000 for this project. Two weeks ago, staff came to City Council and requested another additional $500,000 for this project.
 Why that means that this project now has almost a million dollars It was originally as shown here for three hundred and ninety thousand dollars What happened? What was the why was the increase with this amount of money? you could build double what was originally for this trail and
 What will be done with the overage on this? If it's only $400,000, what's going to happen with the other quarter, half a million dollars? According to regulations, that money has already been approved for this trail, for this project. It can't be used for something else unless city councils goes in and,
 changes their mind, approves it for something else. Why isn't this money, as OSAB said, your advisors suggested that this money be put in the master trail account and then dispersed accordingly. Next slide, thank you. My husband and I have been to many, many trail meetings and at no time have we heard anyone giving major support of this trail.
 Even in just casual conversation, no support for this trail. Conversely, your advisors on OSAP say things such as, it's a sidewalk to nowhere. There's no parking. There's no connectivity. It's of little value. And my favorite is it's being funded at two and a half times
 the identified price for what it should be, $900 million. Why? Why the change? Why not put this money into the Master Trail account? Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is...
 Mr. Rick Barnard. Yes, just to reiterate basically what was said is back in the day you guys approved and allocated with council's action $390,000 for the project that was pretty much on target because months later you got bids in and the winning bid like she stated was $400,000
 Five months goes by and right now you're asked two weeks ago to sequester another $500,000. Why? You only needed $13,000. So that locks up that money and that's ridiculous. The other thing that I want to bring up, and I'll point this out to you, you were shown this slide two weeks ago. And if you'll slide it over a little bit, in the slide it says,
 If you don't approve this quarter-mile trail, which is a small fraction of this project, that you're going to negatively impact 470,000 people. That's two-thirds the population of El Paso. The only way you could affect them with such a small project was if you blew up part of I-10. That's ridiculous. That's not normal. And when you're presented with those kind of puffing facts, you've got to question the nature of it.
 The second thing is, and I'm not sure why the Elmo goes off, but check this out. This is actually the project location. And you can see that long green strip at the top. Well, this is only a continuation of that, a very small fraction. And then you have that long red section. All those red sections, they don't have permission to build yet. So you're connecting to nothing. The next connection from that is 17 miles away.
 So why you need to spend $400,000 to connect a quarter mile to Country Club when you can't even cross Country Club because there's no crosswalk there? It's a ridiculous project. We've asked you multiple times, please do not do this. There's better use for this money. It's like you said in the paper. We have limited resources. We need to use them to the best advantage. And this is not that.
 So we're asking that you reject all bids at this point in time. Not because the bidders did something wrong, that's not it. It's because the project should have never been bid. Thank you. Thank you. The only question I do want to answer, which is not for dialogue, but that when you say 470,000 visitors, that's not unique visitors. Somebody may have been there
 200 times over the year. So that's what I'm saying. But it's not unique visitors. It's total amount of visitors. You ever visit it? Often. That's what I'm saying. So every time you go, we count you one. But often is like five times a year. Well, I know. That's what I'm saying. So you wanted to know why it said 470 visitors or wasn't unique because that wouldn't be two-thirds of the population. It would be somebody may have been there 300 times in one year. Okay. Anyway, that was just the answer to that.
 And I'll give you that but sir you've got to understand that I do go there And I understand the utility and that's why when we come to you with projects We're the subject matter experts. We're the ones that actually use they're gonna they're gonna answer you right there right behind you and We're gonna hopefully have a good answer for you. Thank you very much for being here. I
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Good morning. I'm Ivera Nendez with the Capital Improvement Department. If IT could please bring up the presentation for item number 12. Thank you, IT. Item number 12 is the construction ward for the Rio Grande Trail North Trail.
 The location is part of the Rio Grande River Park Trail System located within District 1. Total budget $689,003.68. So this goes to the question of the $900,000 that was stated.
 So when the projects were set up back in 2012, as you'll notice, the funding source is from the quality of life. 151,000 was established in PeopleSoft. That's our accounting software. And so the 390,000 that was presented, those were the times that we went either to OSAB or to BOAC because those were the estimated cost. So if you look at that, that's what we were estimating the cost to be.
 The first inception of this program without design, without the inflation cost, was 155. As you might remember, last council, council did approve the transfer of 537. So we have the PeopleSoft account of 155, the 537, and that's where we get the 689.
 Being that it was the voter-approved quality of life, we did work with various organizations to be the Bicycle Advisory Club, the Capital Improvement Advisory, the Community Development Committee, OSAB, BOAC.
 throughout the duration of this project dating back to 2018 if you'll remember we presented last council that we went specifically to osab approximately eight times to discuss this uh this program oops i'm sorry uh so the scope of work um is the construction of a paved trail from the existing rio grande trail this is approximately 1625 linear feet
 This will provide amenities such as benches, trash cans, receptacles, pet waste stations. So these are typical amenities that you do see on city trails and also in working in collaboration with IBWC as part of their requirements. This is a low bid procurement.
 The property location, so this is just a snapshot. This is your 1600 linear feet.
 If you notice, it's a little bit darker midway up. That's your termination point. So right there, that's where the river trail system terminates. It ends along the river bank. So for mobility purposes, if you're utilizing this eight-mile trail, it does start from Vinton Road and it stops right here before Country Club. So able-bodied strollers, they would be terminated in the middle of this location.
 Also, if you'll notice, based upon this picture, it's within a residential area. So some of those reported users are from this community, and then having that connection to start at Country Club Road does allow them to continue as much. I know I can't walk eight miles, I'll get there one day, but if they are that able-bodied to utilize this trail system.
 Additionally, if they require parking, let's say they're not within this residential, just a mile and a half away is your Mary Frances Kiesling, where we have built additional parking, a trailhead. We're currently looking to work with IBWC to make that connection from that trailhead to this river park system.
 So we look at the procurement. As I made mention, this was a low bid procurement. This advertised back in February and we had seven firms submit, all of which were local suppliers. So the construction ward, as made mention, is the $403,421.31.
 So the question becomes, why did Mr. Hernandez stand before city council asking for that budget transfer of 537-141? Those were the remaining balances on Alice and also Carolina, and so it's been transferred over to this active project that we're ready to construct.
 And so if you look at what the industry standard soft costs, I'm not just funding the construction. So during the construction aspect, we have management, inspection costs, contract compliance, material testing. And then also there is a contingency that we award for all of our construction projects should we have unforeseen conditions. And then also, as you know, we've been in collaboration with IBWC.
 So the request today is to have Rio Grande awarded. If there are any questions, I will take them at this time. Oops, sorry. Yes, thank you. Representative Moulinard. Thank you, Mayor. I'm trying to picture. I know you have a picture of the map on the screen.
 slide four but 1625 linear feet. I'm not really sure in my head that I can picture what it is And I'm not gonna ask you to describe it. But to me it's like Not very large or long. I should say what is the width? 1410
 10 feet across width? Okay. And the rest of the trail that's already established at that same width as well? Yes, sir. It's a continuation of the trail. Okay. And what is the, besides concrete, is there any other composition to that? Is it like a mixed concrete?
 Is it mixed concrete? Yeah. In other words, is there any other substances added to the concrete to make it more durable, more pliable, or anything like that? It's your typical concrete paved. Okay. And the rest of the trail, does it also have trash receptacles, PEDWEST stations, signage, and things like that? Yes, sir. Okay. All right. Thank you. Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Is there a motion? Okay.
 there's a motion in the second thank you there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative canales to approve item number 12. on that motion call for the vote representative kennedy aye thank you and the voting session and the motion passes 6-2-1 with representative molinar voting nay the remainder of council voting aye thank you next item would be next item is number 14
 This is discussion in action to authorize the expenditure of District 5 discretionary funds for the Office of District 5 to attend and participate at the 2023 Texas Municipal League Conference in Dallas, Texas, serves a municipal purpose by enhancing education and government participation. This is Representative Salcido's item. Motion approved. There's a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 14. On that motion, call for the vote.
 representative kennedy aye thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 Item number 15 is discussion in action requesting that the mayor send a letter on behalf of the city of El Paso To the Texas Historical Commission in support of the National Register of Historic Places nomination of the proposed downtown El Paso historic district the boundaries of such as originally proposed by El Paso County on June 29th 2020 this is representative can analysis item Thank you mayor
 almost every city particularly those similar to us in size have a federally designated historic district in their downtown and I think this is the case for a good reason and
 National Historic Register district designation is a really important step for a downtown like ours in terms of preserving cultural heritage driving economic development that's that's historically sensitive and fostering pride in our community and in our downtown the designation helps to ensure the unique character of our downtown
 and make sure that that is maintained for future generations to enjoy. It also has a big impact on tourism. When you visit a place, you want to visit their historic downtown. Of course, possibly the most important benefits here are the potential direct benefits to the private property owners within the proposed district.
 those private property owners will become eligible for federal grant funds and federal historic tax credits that can help them with the cost of either maintaining or restoring and upgrading their buildings.
 So trust me, I understand the complicated past of this pending application for the designation. To this point a lot of the process has not been very straightforward. This step is very straightforward. For private property owners within the proposed district, there's no downside.
 I know there's been some confusion in the past about potential restrictions on their properties, so I want to clear up that misconception. The National Park Service administers the National Historic Register, so directly from the National Park Service website FAQ page for the National Register of Historic Places, I want to read, there's a question, what are the restrictions, rules, regulations for historic,
 property owners and the answer that the Park Service provides is under federal law the listing of a property in the National Register places no restrictions on what a non-federal owner may do with their property up to and including destruction unless the property is involved in a project that receives federal assistance usually funding or licensing and permitting
 And then similarly directly from the Texas Historical Commission's website, they also have a National Register FAQ page. Similar question, how does National Register listing affect my property rights? What changes can I make to the building? And their answer is, as long as there is no federal money or permit involved, the National Register regulations do not regulate the actions of private owners. Owners do not need permission from the federal government to make alterations to listed properties and can treat or dispose of the property however they choose.
 The National Register regulations also do not prevent demolition or destruction of listed properties. So I think it's very clear, this designation is about 90% ceremonial, right? It allows us to place historic district signage and things like that. And the other important part of this is that it does make available federal funds, both in the form of federal grants or historic tax credits to the private property owners within the district.
 Of course, properties within a National Historic Register District are still subject to any applicable local historic regulations. And the city of El Paso has had a local historic preservation ordinance that was at best unclear about our local regulations and how they would apply here.
 It has in the past been very clearly stated very publicly here in the City Council meeting by our legal department that any restrictions described in our ordinance don't apply to the private property owners in this case.
 regardless that ordinance is being amended as we speak it's already gone to the the applicable committees who have advanced a recommendation to the council to make a clarifying change to that ordinance and that will be coming before us in the next few weeks so with regard to this item I would be perfectly comfortable again this is this item just requests that the mayor send a letter and I would be perfectly happy if the mayor wanted to delay the sending of that letter
 until the City Council approves that ordinance change just so that it's absolutely clear to all the property owners within the proposed boundaries of the district that there will be no restrictions on their properties and they can they can have faith that this won't affect them except in potentially a positive way if they want to take advantage of the federal funding opportunities
 So I urge my colleagues to support this item today. I think it's a fairly simple step forward in this process. And again, because the situation has changed with regard to the properties in the district from 2019 and 2020 when this was first being discussed, I think now there's a clear path forward to this that doesn't impact the private property owners within the district. So what's your motion, sir? I make a motion to approve. Second. Thank you, sir.
 And do we have some call to the public? Yes, Mayor, we do. We have Ms. Veronica Carvajal. I saw her a little while ago. I don't see her in the queue. Okay, I was going to say I said hi. She did submit a statement, and it reads, Dear Mayor and Council, my name is Veronica Carvajal, and I live in the Manhattan Heights Historic Park.
 neighborhood and district two please vote to authorize mayor lisa to send a letter on behalf of the city of el paso to the texas historical commission in support of the national register of historic places nomination of the proposed downtown el paso historic district the boundaries of such as originally proposed by el paso county in june of 2020 many el pasoans have deep ties in our historic downtown for instance four generations of my family have worked in downtown el paso beginning with my great grandfather in the early 1900s
 Downtown and surrounding neighborhoods hold the history of the working class El Pasoans who built this community. Their history deserves to be recognized, protected, and celebrated. Our downtown is rich with buildings that tell the history of El Pasoans, including those of Mexican-American, blank,
 indigenous, Jewish, and Chinese ancestry who work hard to provide for their families and also fought for a more just and equitable city. Please do not allow this history to be erased, and instead please support efforts to nominate our downtown to the National Register of Historic Places. Thank you, Veronica Carvajal. The next speaker is Joe Guttenrath. And he's right here coming up. Followed by Jose Rodriguez, Clay Barron. Good morning, sir. You have three minutes.
 Good morning, sir. Good morning mayor council city staff. Joe gudenroth of the downtown management district. I
 Thanks for bringing this item up, Councilman. Thanks for letting me vent a little bit to you recently. As you mentioned, it's been a kind of a challenge to get to this point and the idea of preservation and development, as you are all aware, is a kind of a contentious issue, not to any fault of you all, but that is the reality we're facing. So what I'm here today is simply to ask that,
 Either you place conditions on this letter or postpone approval of sending this letter until the city code can be amended officially so that it's a, I think it's a gesture of goodwill to the developers, the property owners. As you know right now where this issue stands at the state is a majority of downtown property owners oppose this.
 So, like I said, although it's no fault of your own, this kind of contentious issue we're facing, I want to enlist you to help us kind of build some goodwill amongst all the sides to bring people together to facilitate historic preservation and ongoing investment in our community. I think that would be a great gesture going forward, and I hope you consider that. Thank you all. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Jose Rodriguez, Clay Barron. Thank you.
 No, ma'am. Ms. Grossman submitted a statement.
 It reads, Mayor and City Council, as a career architectural historian and member of the Board of Directors of Preservation Texas, I urge you to vote yes on Agenda Item 15, which would ask the Mayor to write to the Texas Historical Commission in support of adding downtown El Paso to the National Register of Historic Places. There are currently six National Register Historic Districts adjacent to downtown El Paso, including Sunset Heights, MacGuffin, and most recently, the Segundo Barrio. It is time to establish a National Register...
 district in the heart of our community in our downtown where scores of historic buildings are in dire need of attention. We are one of the few major Texas cities that has not yet taken this step. There are currently 26 individually listed properties in downtown, including the four that have been restored by Paul Foster using federal and or state tax credits. The proposed historic district would increase that number to 191 buildings which would become eligible for tax credits that could pay up to $1,000
 45% of the cost of renovating them without imposing regulations on their owners. Twelve of these properties are within the former arena footprint in Duranguito, which I spent more than six years litigating to save from destruction. My effort will come to nothing if you sell those properties to investors who will demolish them.
 them. The best protection against that is to support the county's nomination of downtown to the National Register so that the resulting tax credits will attract private investors who want to restore them and put them back into productive use. Let me be clear, without adding the Duranguito properties to the National Register, investors will not want to invest their capital to restore them and there will be no practical solution for the neighborhood. Registering them individually, as Paul Faustor did
 for the Crest Building could take more than a year, whereas the county's plan could add them to the National Register in as soon as two months. There is absolutely no downside to the proposed plan, which has the full support of the county and is not opposed by the Downtown Management District or any organization. Creating the proposed district will encourage property owners to restore scores of downtown buildings, like the DeSoto Hotel, which could have received more than $1 million in federal and state assistance,
 Supporting item 15 is the biggest no-brainer in the history of mankind. Please support Representative Canales and vote yes. Thank you, Max Grossman. The next statement was submitted by Evan Thompson, and it reads, Dear Mayor, Lisa, and members of City Council, Preservation Texas, the only non-profit member-supported statewide historic preservation organization in Texas, strongly supports listing the downtown El Paso Historic District on the National Register of Historic Places.
 We have long believed that El Paso's historic architecture is one of our state's most valuable cultural resources, not just because of what it teaches us about our past, but because of the economic development opportunities that it will create for El Pasoans in the future. Historic districts are preservation investment zones.
 The 191 properties that will be added to the National Register will be eligible for combined federal and state historic tax credits worth up to 45% of the cost of rehabilitation of a listed building. Additionally, property owners in the National Register districts will qualify for valuable federal income tax incentives.
 tied to the voluntary donation of conservation easements. Historic districts in Texas and around the nation, once rehabilitated, have proven time and again to be economically resilient places that drive private investment, draw heritage, tourists, and grow their local tax base.
 They make use of existing buildings constructed with valuable raw materials and traditional building skills that are otherwise unavailable or impossible to afford in today's modern economy. We look forward to working with city leaders and property owners through our new West Texas Regional Office in El Paso to support the Downtown El Paso Historic District, which will open in January. Your endorsement of the nomination is essential to the building and the growing momentum for El Paso's downtown renaissance.
 sincerely Evan Thompson executive director of preservation Texas mayor that concludes public comment on this thank you thank you mayor I had a question for for John Joe Bill John's his middle name and I was trying not to butcher his last name I butchered the first name mr. Jones how are you today I'm curious if you would share
 that list of six recommendations or whatever you mentioned earlier, if you could share it through the mayor's office and they could, or I'm sorry, the city manager's office, and he could share with us as a whole, please. I'm sorry, I'm kind of. When you spoke a few minutes ago, you said there was six or seven items that would make it people more comfortable.
 I think the main one today would be aligning the approval or conditioning the approval of this letter with the changes to the City Code Chapter 2020 or historic preservation.
 That's primarily what I would ask for you today. As far as building better relationships, a more productive, cooperative relationship, there's probably a list of 100 things I think we could all do to work together. So mainly it's aligning that.
 That one item correct and that is on track like representative can always mention it is on track to come to you in the near future So we're just asked for that alignment So I'll clarify that because I've been briefed on this and we have every intention of bringing that that ordinance back to the City Council Within the next month. Can you um, mr. Neiman? Can you read what that ordinance is? I know you have it by memory. I
 I can pull it up mayor. I don't have it by memory, but the ordinance is in our zoning ordinance and it's part of the historic Regulations that are in place currently as it reads it requires that any property that is listed on the National State Registry have to come into compliance with our local historic regulations
 So in the past, that has been some of the opposition by the downtown property owners within the survey, that their concern is that being listed on that register will automatically require them to come into compliance with our zoning ordinance regarding the historic regulations. Thank you for that, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
 i've been called worse i've been called worse i'm sorry i'll sit next to the terrorists right here but anyways so so let me understand you right so the public can understand you right you're in support of this it's just a fact that we have to along with their with the other owners of the buildings but they'd rather have everything in one neat package
 Yeah, I think, you know, I'm representing the downtown management district. Now, all of these properties are within the DMD, but I can't speak for all of them. From our perspective, it is clarifying that specific – removing that specific item from local code.
 does address one of the major concerns property owners have because I think we're all aware Incentives are important to downtown development and the current economic conditions We're in and this is an economic incentive. I would just say on the on the other side of things. We can't lose sight and
 that we need to continue to do things to improve the economic conditions downtown. It's one thing to renovate a building. It's another thing to have a tenant in that building who can run a successful business. So that's above and beyond, but that item that the city attorney just mentioned is a major issue. And I think it's only a fair weight that I agree with you to say that the whole package can come together and it would be...
 unanimously supported on this thing but uh i i totally agree with what you're saying and i'll let my colleague know that that i you know i support it but i also want to i want a complete package to say that those rules are already in place all together when when we decide to uh list this place as historic thank you mayor thank you representative molyneux followed by representative canales
 You're free to leave, sir, but you can stay. Thank you. You've got an easy name to remember. Yes, sir. My Tokayo. Tokayo. Anyways, good morning. Thank you, Mayor. I know you and I have had discussions on this item way before it came up to this meeting agenda, so Representative Canales, thank you very much for putting it on the agenda. I do support it. I would ask that you humbly do write that letter and send it through. So thank you. Thank you, Representative Canales.
 Thank you, Mary. Yeah, I just wanted to clarify one more time. As I mentioned in my comments, this doesn't put a hard deadline on when the mayor is requested to send this letter. And I think it would be perfectly acceptable if the council passed this item today that the mayor could just delay the sending of the letter until the local ordinance is changed. Thank you.
 No, no. Again, the item today is just a request that the mayor send the letter. And so if the mayor wanted to delay the sending of the letter until such time that we're able to see the ordinance change and pass that as a council, I think that would be perfectly fine. Today's item is just the request to the mayor to send that without a timeline. Thank you, sir. Representative Adnundas, and then we'll get to our state senator. Thank you.
 Um, Representative Canales and and members of council. I too have shared the same concerns um as raised by the downtown management district. Um I'm happy to support if we can add or amend your language to say it's contingent upon the change of the code. Um but uh that that is I'm happy to make that motion too. Um I'm just I wanted to open it up for dialogue so see if you were comfortable with that. Yeah, I mean I think that's fine but again uh in in the way that I worded this left
 broad latitude to the mayor to send this whenever he feels it's appropriate and so um i think we're hearing i i don't want to put words in your mouth mayor i think we're hearing for the mayor that it would be okay to delay the letter is that no i think we do need to as mr neiman stated we do need to clear clean the language up because it does create a lot of conflict on one says one thing and then it still has a lot of restrictions on it as miss neiman kind of stated
 So I see there's two options here. You can put the language in now that's contingent upon the change of the code, or you postpone into the code and vote on them concurrently. I think we can add the language in today. I'm also, I mean, just personally, I'm happy to take the mayor at his word that he will delay the sending of the letter. But if you're more comfortable with including the language in, that's perfectly fine as well.
 so welcome welcome then i would move to um add a friendly emotion amendment to your to your main motion um that it the letter uh to be sent would be contingent upon the change of the city code um i don't know the chapter number or the title 20. um i don't have the provision right off in my head but it's the the historic uh regulations the historic regulations in title 12.
 Title 20. Excuse me, Title 20. Thank you. And that's the motion for an amendment. So you accept it? I think it was a proposed amendment, right? It just needs a second. Did you remove your second? This is an amendment, so it just needs a different second. I'll second it. Okay. So with that, before we take the action, our great state senator, Jose Rodriguez. Mm-hmm.
 good morning mayor council i apologize for being a little late here coming in in the middle of the discussion uh which i found to be uh very useful i'm here because uh just personally i'm a strong supporter of historic preservation but as a former state senator
 I looked into these issues. There was a lot of information provided to us. I noticed that you had the Tom Lee Trail item earlier. I passed that bill to establish that trail throughout the state, again, because of my interest in historic preservation and heritage tourism. So what you have here really is an opportunity, which we've had for quite some time.
 I might add, an opportunity to use historic preservation and designation of many places in El Paso as historic places to develop not only heritage tourism, but to use as a tremendous economic development tool. And I think Joe will agree with me. I think he just alluded to that, that that's what happens when you renovate
 old buildings, old homes that have historic value. It increases the property values. It attracts people from out of town to come in and view some of these wonderful structures that we have here in El Paso that really are unparalleled in the state of Texas. Anybody who comes here would tell me you have some incredible buildings downtown.
 And we've seen people like Senator Foster and Gaddy with his hotel do the renovations of old structures using tax credits, federal and state tax credits,
 which would be available to all of the property owners if they wish to renovate their buildings and take advantage of the tax credits that are offered, up to 45% of the remodeling cost. That's a tremendous assistance to any property owner. And so,
 I have seen as a member of Preservation Texas, I'm on the board, it's a statewide nonprofit organization. We're opening up the West Texas Regional Office here in El Paso in January coming up. We have a regional office in Central Texas. I just came back from a summit on what they're doing there in all of the counties in Central Texas. We have one in East Texas.
 And what we're going to be doing as a West Texas regional office is not only promoting historic preservation, but offering assistance to property owners, guidance on how to access the tax credits. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. So I hope that you vote to support this. I think it's overdue. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you for bringing up the item. Thank you, sir.
 And with that, Ms. Neiman? Mayor, before the council takes a vote, we would like to brief you in executive session in regards to the city-owned property and how it might impact that property before you all vote. Move to retire into executive session. There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? Yes.
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may return to executive session pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551, Subchapter D. To discuss Item Number 15, Discussion and Action, requesting that the Mayor send a letter on behalf of the City of El Paso to the Texas Historical Commission in support of the National Register of Historic Places nomination of the proposed Downtown El Paso Historic District, the boundaries of...
 such as originally proposed by El Paso County on June 29, 2020, under 551.071, consultation with attorney. It is 1037 a.m. Do we have a motion to return? Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 12.04 p.m.
 I want to note for the record that Representative Kennedy is also present in Council Chambers. I think also for the record that he did attend Executive Session. Yes, Mayor, thank you. He arrived at 1101 in Executive Session. Thank you. Representative Nunes, I don't know if you have your... Yes, I do, Mayor. Thank you. I have a motion, an amendment on the floor now, and I wanted to provide additional amendments to that. So the motion was to...
 um if you can read it mrs prine i have the amendment was that to add the language that the letter will be contingent upon changes to the city code historic regulations contained in title 20. correct and then further to that sentence comma and to carve out the existing city-owned properties in union in the union plaza area that was
 that's gonna be my entire amendment okay together point of clarification so is this gonna be a revised amendment or a second amendment would be to add to the language that the letter will be contingent upon changes to the city code historic regulations contained in title 20
 and to carve out existing city-owned properties in the Union Plaza area. All right, we have a second and a motion. Can we take a vote? Yes, sir. There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera to amend the language that the letter will be contingent upon changes to the city code historic regulations contained in Title 20 and to carve out existing city-owned properties in the Union Plaza area. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Kennedy.
 Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes 6-1. Representative Canales voting nay, the remainder of council voting aye. Can we take a motion? Yes, sir. There is a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Molinar, and this is to approve the item as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Kennedy, thank you.
 And the motion passes 6-1. Representative Canales voting nay, the remainder of council voting aye. The motion does carry. Mayor, may we go to call to the public now? Thank you. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a...
 A requirement of City Council, all persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have three members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Elizabeth Crawford. Her topic is National Abortion Victims Remembrance Day. She will be followed by Ron Como and Sherry Medellin. Good morning. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you. This month we have honored the National Day of Remembrance for babies that have been slaughtered by abortion in our nation. The statistic is that worldwide 73 million induced abortions take place each year.
 Many would argue that the number could very well be double, that when we consider unreported abortions, when we consider abortions that can at times even be caused by the morning after pill, after the moment of conception, from the moment of conception on, life is a gift from God, a holy God. We as a nation are guilty before a holy God. We have blood on our hands.
 Since 1973, as we know, this has been happening legally. I was born that year, by God's grace, 50 years ago. My parents chose life in a high-risk pregnancy, but it's 50 years, 50 years of legal abortion. What do we do with guilt? Our human nature is to try to justify it, to try to excuse it. That's human nature.
 Within Roman Catholicism, there is a doctrine referred to as redemptive suffering, where a person can, through suffering, pay off some of their sin debt. The problem with all human solutions, human religious solutions even, to eradicate guilt is that they don't work.
 This month, as we know, is being celebrated within the Jewish community, Yom Kippur, which is the holiest day, the day of atonement. God set the standard in the Hebrew scriptures, Leviticus 17, repeated in Hebrews 9.22, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission, no forgiveness of sins. God set that holy standard of sacrifice today.
 the blood offering for forgiveness. Where is the sacrifice? Those sacrifices were pointing forward to the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. There's only one sacrifice sufficient to pay for the sin of abortion or any other sin. We're told in John 1, 29 that John saw Jesus coming unto him and said, Behold.
 the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. The Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, is the only one who can forgive the sin of abortion or any other sin that we have committed against the Almighty God. Thank you so much. Hope you have a good day. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como. The topic is Animal Services Advisory Committee and Animal Services. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. Again, I want to thank everybody for yesterday. Glad to see everybody actually showed up today. As you know, I'm a member of a certain committee, and I'd like to bring out a few facts that really bother me. I'm being told that we follow Robert's rules in our meetings, but then again, we don't really follow Robert's rules. We follow what we want. We follow the city's meetings rules.
 But there and again, we follow the ones that we've decided to follow. We have an issue. I'd like to read out of the ASAC manual. Each term, we're talking about ASAC members, each term is four years and expires with the term of the appointed city representative. There's a two-year term maximum, which is aligned with the city representative's term as well. Okay, so we know that we have a couple of reps that have issues.
 members that have exceeded their term limits we also have one rep that has failed to put a member back on the board and it's been vacant for several months and he does have people would have asked to join the committee one of the things I'd like to bring to light is for four months I've asked on the agenda item to have a conversation with what is the director doing about increasing adoptions and rescue considering
 If you look at the first seven months of 2019, our live outcome was 12,663 strays went out the front door. In 2022, 6,038. In 23, 7,213. To me, these are alarming numbers, and part of the ASAP committee is to advise on ways to make things better. I think we needed, I think we deserved this.
 to have this conversation, to find out what everybody thinks about making an increase in adoptions and rescues instead of staying with the way things are running. Obviously, they're not working. We're three years over COVID right now. You can't use that for an excuse forever. You know, it's time. We need to get off our chairs. Thank you.
 and come up with a solution and as long as i'm being told that we can't ask questions and even though it's put on the agenda we still can't have a conversation on it we have a problem with our committee if we are going to help the shelter we need information and we need to communicate and we need to come up with solutions to the issues this is a major issue and needs to be corrected immediately thank you yes sir thank you
 The final speaker is Sherry Medeghi. The topic is border crisis with migration. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. The wisest words came from my father. When I was young, he said, you don't work, you don't eat. Calluses on my hands from having worked on the farm throughout the years. My father taught us ethic, discipline, choose good, don't cheat, don't steal, and don't lie. With those same ethics,
 I have raised my eldest son, my youngest one being on the autism spectrum doesn't understand the things. And I tell my son, I want you to be better than me, etc., etc., etc. Having moved to this community six years ago, we fled the violence from the MS-13 in Laredo, Texas, which has spread all the way to East Texas to save my children from that kind of lifestyle. I believe that we are all the same. Our blood is red.
 you're the same as me i'm the same as you i am firm believer in if you want to come into this country and you want to work bienvenidos welcome however that is not the same for our venezuelan community i am a gig driver so i have driven the spark platform doordash uber etc etc etc the venezuelans have been banned from the spark platform for committing fraud
 I'm going to give you a recent incident. I drive also Instacart where I go to local grocery stores, and I shop and I deliver people's groceries. Sunday afternoon, the Montana Albertsons, there's a large group of Venezuelan men outside harassing the employees of the Albertsons. They target the elderly Mexican who do not speak English,
 preying on the empathy and compassion of your good kind of not everybody but there is too many of them for comfort the your law enforcement which is the backbone of this community and i have held with high regard because they're out there without ceasing trying to protect this community from crime from drugs and etc etc shorthanded you see them out there trying to
 clean up the mess that's been created. So I would ask that the city look particularly at the migration part and the criminal part. Nobody has the right to harass and to commit a crime upon another person. It doesn't matter where you're from. There are videos out there that the gringos, you know, $100, $50 bills and
 but when you call your roofing company it's a mexican person up on top of your roof fixing your roof it's not a venezuelan thank you i do support you you've reached the three minutes my i know my last comment is just that when you look at thank you you know leading this company or the the city ma'am particular thank you though thank you when we go to the next item mayor
 may we go to the next item please thank you item 17 is discussion in action on a resolution that the City Council declares that expenditures of district 2 district 4 and district 6 discretionary funds for the use towards the construction and installation of a trailhead sign at the NAP property serves a municipal purpose of enhancing El Paso's quality of life this item was placed by representatives an LL molina and Fiat
 There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item number 17. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Kennedy, thank you. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item 26 was moved to the forefront of the agenda.
 Item 26 is discussion and action requesting city council support for the submission of the staff recommended grant application to the FY 23 distressed area recompete pilot program phase one for the border plex region workforce Recompete initiative We do have public comments we have miss Leyla Melendez I
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council Layla Melendez, CEO of Workforce Solutions Borderplex. I'm excited to say that we are a co-applicant along with the city for this very competitive, very large, re-compete application to the Economic Development Administration and we look forward to receiving it successfully and furthering our workforce development goals here for the community. And this fund in particular, if we are granted it, will support
 job seekers and businesses in the community that our typical workforce funds don't support. So it's a fantastic investment in this community, and I'm looking forward, and it's been a pleasure in working with the city staff in developing this application. Thank you. Thank you, and you do an excellent job. Thank you for that. Diana Hastings, good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Leeser and honorable members of the council. My name is Diana Hastings. I'm the executive director of the Underserved Communities Foundation, or UCF. The Underserved Communities Foundation is committed to reducing poverty by empowering the underserved. UCF defines underserved communities not as areas in our city, zip codes or census tracts, but as individuals and families facing additional barriers preventing them from breaking the cycle of poverty.
 UCF strongly believes that the key to economic development of underserved communities is significantly influenced by the intentional incorporation of diversity, equity, inclusion, belonging and accessibility policies and practices designed to offer equitable opportunities
 I am here today to express my support for the city's grant application for the 2023 EDA distressed area recompete pilot program phase one for the borderplex region. I command the city of El Paso for actively pursuing economic development opportunities and for partnering with organizations such as the underserved communities foundation to incorporate
 Diversity, equity, inclusion, belonging, and accessibility strategies to represent and include underserved communities in our region. Thank you for your time. Thank you, ma'am. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Great. We got a motion and a second? Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 26. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Kennedy, thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 item that brings us to the first reading of ordinances these are items 18 to 20 there's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Fierro to approve the first reading of ordinances items 18 to 20 on that motion call for the vote representative Kennedy thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to item number 21
 This is discussion in action that the Managing Director of Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing Department be authorized to issue purchase orders to Sub Aquatics Inc. DBA Breathing Air Systems, the sole distributor of the Responder Series Air and Light Trailers for the Fire Department. Who's to approve? We have a motion and a second. There is a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve item 21. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Kennedy?
 Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you. Item 22 is discussion in action to request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue a purchase order to Leedsman Construction, DBA, Traffic Control Specialist Sales and Rental. Motion approved. Second. Motion and a second. There's a motion made by Representative Fierro. Fierro seconded it by Representative Canales.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Kennedy, thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Item number 23 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title IX, health and safety, solid waste management, to delete the construction and demolition manifest requirement and to delete references to said manifest.
 Good afternoon Nicholas Ibarra with the environmental services. This is to remove the CDM manifest from title 9 This was required when the city was going after flow control about a decade ago, but it got voted down at the time We had not we have not been collecting the CDM manifest for over 10 years and we still follow all the procedures through TCEQ documentation of all solid waste that enters the greater El Paso landfill and the McCombs landfill and
 and we do have public comment on this item we have miss Lisa Turner thank you miss Turner public comment has been taken motion made by representative Fierro seconded by mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 23 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 Item 24 is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating a 940 square foot public utility easement at 12077 Banner Crest Drive. There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 24. There is no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Item 25 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to execute a quick claim deed conveying all right title and interest to Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, the parcel at 5173 Montview Court. Move to approve. There's a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 25. On that motion, call for the vote.
 in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to item 27 and this is discussion in action on a resolution that the city reviews and approves the issuance of the unlimited tax bonds series 2023 by paseo de lista municipal utility district number four with the acknowledgement that the issuance of such bonds does not constitute debt issuance by the city of el paso second there's a motion made by representative hernandez seconded by
 Mayor Pro Temo-Linar to approve item 27. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item 28 is discussion and action that the city manager or designee be authorized to sign an advanced funding agreement between the City of El Paso and the State of Texas.
 Through the Department of Transportation for the Design and Construction of the Transportation Alternative Set-Aside Program, grant improvements McRae Shared Use Path from Albem to Montana Phase 2. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Canales to approve item 28. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 is there a motion to retire into executive session i'd like to uh take a lunch break and then go into executive session so no we'll take uh 45 minutes that way i know it'll take us that long to and then we'll be ready by 1 30. it seems always does that mean does that mean we'll have to come back here do we can we retire into executive session or do we need to come back here you can you can just make the motion to take lunch
 Now and retire to executive session at 1.30, Mayor, you said, or 1.15? 1.15. At 1.15? Okay. So let's do that. So there's a motion and a second to recess the city council meeting at 12.30 and retire into executive session at 1.15 p.m. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso will retire into Executive Session at 1.15 p.m. pursuant to Section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss Executive Session Item 1, Complaint Against Elected Official, Matter No. HQ No. 1453, under 551.071, Consultation with Attorney on 551.074, Personnel Matters,
 It is 1231 p.m. Council will retire into executive session at 115 p.m. after a short recess. Do we have a motion to return? I think we're still in executive session. Is IT ready? Yes, sir. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The City Council meeting is back in session at 348 p.m. We're on EX1. Representative Canales. Mayor Potem.
 Motion made second carried that the City Council accepts the preliminary findings of the investigation directs the city manager to arrange for the conduct of further investigation With a broadened scope and that the attorney for the official be given the opportunity to provide further response This is a September of the 26 2023 There's a motion made and read into the record by Mayor Pro Temo Lina seconded by representative Piero pardon me I
 Sure. Do you have the motion or you want to read it again? I do not have it, sir. You do? No, sir. Okay. Motion made, seconded, and carried that the City Council accepts the preliminary findings of the investigation, directs the City Manager to arrange for the conduct of further investigation with a broadened scope, and that the attorney for the official be given opportunity to provide further response September 26, 2023.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor, I made a request to speak. Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead, ma'am. Before I voted, I just wanted to share my comments. I'm voting no specifically because I think the investigation is adequate. I don't believe an additional investigation is necessary, and so I just wanted to make sure that I justify my vote today. Thanks. Thank you, ma'am. With that. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy, thank you. And the voting session.
 and the motion passes five to two with representatives hernandez rivera voting nay representatives kennedy molinar salsido fierro and canales voting aye the motion does carry do we have a motion to adjourn there's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting all in favor anyone opposed and the regular city council meeting for tuesday september 26 2023 is adjourned at 3 50 p.m thank you council