okay thank you good morning this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday september 28 2021
 Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine is present and presiding and also in chambers. Present are Representative Hernandez, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera, Representative Lizárraga. Representative Anello is participating virtually today. It is 9 07 a.m. Mayor Lizer has requested to be excused.
 And now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police, Fire, and Ministry Coordinator for the Sheriff's Office, Chaplain Sam Ferroni. Good morning, everyone, and God bless you. And if you care to join me in bowing your heads, we'll pray together. Heavenly Father, it is with gratitude that we begin this meeting today. We are truly thankful for a new day of life.
 new opportunities and new challenges. As this meeting commences, it is with the realization that discussion will take place, that important decisions will be made, decisions that will affect our city, our future, and our populace. Would you grant us here today your presence, your guidance, and your wisdom? God, you know our country is in turmoil with division, anger, untruth,
 So I call upon you to shed your light upon us, that we can truly see what is good, what is right, and what is necessary to bring healing to our land. I pray for my mayor, city representative, and all whose responsibility it is to ensure the safety and best possible future for our city. Theirs is not an easy job, so I pray for your grace to be upon them. May each one of us today...
 Make it our heart's desire to make this city, and yes, even this world, a better place. Lord, watch over and protect all of those who protect our freedom and all of those who keep us safe. In the name of the Lord, I pray. Amen. And may God bless you. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem, we now move to Pledge of Allegiance.
 of the United States of America and to the republic from which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. We now go to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is El Paso Music Friendly Community Day. So thank you again, everybody, for being here. Proclamation from the city of El Paso, Texas, whereas on June 17, 2021, Governor Greg Abbott announced that El Paso
 Having completed the multi-step certification process has been designated as a music-friendly community by the Texas Music Office. And whereas a music-friendly community program seeks to foster music business-related economic development in Texas cities,
 communities and whereas destination El Paso and the El Paso International Music Foundation sought out to achieve the coveted designation for the city of El Paso and the local music community and whereas partnership made up of local music leaders will convene on a regular basis to establish programs initiatives and share ideas to further market the music talent musical talent in El Paso and whereas the El Paso community
 celebrated the designation at Star City Studio, and whereas, El Paso joins more than 20 other Texas cities that have received the official music-friendly community designation, and now therefore be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that September 28, 2021 shall be known as El Paso Music-Friendly Community Day, signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Do you want to take a photo real quick with the folks over here? What?
 Oh, sorry. Do you want to do the photos after both? Whichever. Would you like them to come up to take a photo with you? Is that okay? Okay. Sure. Thank you. Uh-oh. And the next proclamation this morning is Teachers Day, El Paso Teachers Day. Thank you, Ms. Prine. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Whereas El Paso's future strength
 depends on providing a high quality education to all students. And whereas our teachers have demonstrated great resilience, adaptability and creativity during the COVID-19 pandemic. And whereas teacher quality matters more to student achievement than any other school related factor. And whereas teaching is a noble and often
 unappreciated vocation, and those who enter it do so for the enrichment of our youth and the betterment of our society.
 And whereas this community supports its teachers in educating the children of El Paso and seeks to recognize their service. And whereas hashtag teachers can is a statewide movement supported by more than 125 partnering businesses.
 and organizations committed to elevating the teaching profession and honoring the critical role teachers play in the success of Texas.
 And whereas the city of El Paso joins hashtag Teachers Can, raise your hand, Texas, and all of the partnering entities across Texas in the celebration of World Teachers Day.
 And now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that October 5, 2021 shall be known as El Paso Teachers Day. Thank you. That brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Yes, so we have the following revisions as of September 20th 2021 at 830 a.m Page 3 item to request to excuse absent council members excuse mayor Leeser
 from this meeting, September 20th, 2021. Page three, item five, delete per purchasing and strategic sourcing. Page seven, item 23, delete per city manager's office. Page 13, item 34, move to the forefront of the agenda per Representative Zaraga.
 Page 13, item 35, move to the forefront of the agenda per Representative Lozarga. Page 16, item 44, delete per capital improvement. And those are the following provisions I have. Are there any other from council at this point? Mayor Pro Tem, we also have item page nine, item 25, move to the end of the agenda. Okay, great, thanks. And then Representative Inejo, do you have anything? No, thank you. Okay.
 Yes, on page nine, item 25, move to the end of the agenda. Okay, all right. And may I pretend we do have public comment on items number four? Okay. And this item number four is to approve a resolution establishing the entertainment district's cross-functional team to include representatives from districts one, two, five, and seven. We have Ms. Lisa Turner this morning. Okay. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Talk with this on or off?
 on please thank you thank you uh what is the scope of the work of this committee this team what's it going to do what's its responsibilities it's up for a vote so somebody should know what's going on somebody should be able to answer could you list all your questions mr turner
 Number four, you are creating. No, I understand that, but could you list all of your questions so that we can respond to all of your questions? I'm assuming you have other questions other than just that one. Well, we'll take one at a time. Number four, what is the scope of the work? Dionne Mack, Deputy City Manager for Public Safety. Can you hear me, Ms. Turner? Ms. Turner? Yes, I hear you.
 Okay, so we have been working on strengthening our policies and procedures and really looking at our city more holistically in terms of how we grow. And so this cross-functional team will give us an opportunity to bring our city council members as well as our staff together to continue to evaluate the best ways that we can move forward in terms of some of the strategies.
 I'm sure you've heard from community members and others that as our city grows, we continue to have issues and concerns with parking throughout. We want to make sure that there's a balance of development in terms of how we look at our entire city. As you can see from the membership that we have there, we're wanting to make sure that we're looking at the entire city more holistically. So we have Districts 1, Districts 2, Districts 5, and Districts.
 As you may have heard at the last meeting, those districts are developing very differently in terms of how we think about these commercial districts. So the teams will be bringing everyone together in terms of developing what we call our charter for our cross-functional teams. That will give us an opportunity to hear from all the members in terms of how we determine what our highest priorities will be. And as you saw in the backup and the resolution,
 it really will be bringing forward some recommendations with further study for the full council's recommendation once we start our work in this area. So it really is about betterment of the city and a full understanding of how we should be moving forward in terms of growth, looking for short-term improvements and opportunities for our city overall as we've been hearing some concerns from our community for quite some time in these areas. So basically you're going to address parking?
 noise Litter all the common things that come with bars and restaurants in residential areas. I
 Those have certainly been ones that have been on the top of the list that we've heard quite frequently from the community. We also have feedback from the business owners in terms of some things that they'd like to see happen. And so it's really an opportunity for us to take a comprehensive look with a variety of voices at the table. And how will this, because as the city grows and continues to grow and develop, especially in District 8 in the northwest part of El Paso,
 Are we gonna be looking at that too, or are we just concerned with these four districts? So the membership is going to be representing the entire city, as city council does as a whole. Our cross-functional team will also include our planning and inspection department, bridges and economic development, the city manager's office. So really it is about talking about- Lisa Turner's back. We're talking about the things that we're,
 that we're concerned about now, but what we've heard from council is that we really wanna make sure that we have policies and procedures and we're thinking about how we build our city moving forward. So it's about the future look for the entire city
 Not specifically just the districts that are listed. We had the membership that are listed here willing to participate with us We have several cross-functional teams that involve the City Council members I think the group we have here have heard a lot of diverse Issues and concerns come in through their offices And so we welcome their voices to the table to help us to come up with solutions That will be not only built on the issues that we have right now, but help us to be better in the future Okay. Thank you very much
 thank you mr welcome thank you mr turner and miss turner also has a question on item number six which is a resolution approving a detailed site plan at one two three zero zero mountwood drive my question here is basically every time these things come from the zoning board or these plants come up they always go through the psb to say what's your concerns
 And I came here in 1981, and since that time, the PSB has always said we had no concerns. Well, in 1981 when I got here, we had flooding on Donovan. We still have flooding on Donovan. We still have flooding at intersections with I-10. Nothing has changed. So I'm asking you to make a change in how this works.
 From now on, anything that comes forward, they show how the water is currently being funneled through that area and the impact on that water flow after it's developed. Who will be impacted downstream from the water? Because development means concrete asphalt. That means it's going to run somewhere, which is our streets. So maybe we should start...
 Looking at that because with the climate change and changing the storms are going to get worse and this year's monsoon May look like an easy one in the future because basically we all know when it rains here We become a giant lake unless you're up on crazy cat So now it asked that the council look into that and maybe consider that for the future. Thank you. Thank you Thank you. Miss Turner that concludes public comment on the consent agenda
 There was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anello? Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine? Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously. We now move to page 13, items 34 and 35 are companion items. These were moved to the forefront of the agenda.
 item 34 is an ordinance changing the zoning at 4625 delta drive from r5sp residential special permit to c2spc commercial special permit conditions and imposing conditions this is a 211 case item number 35 is an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for a small contractor's yard on the on the property described as 4625 delta drive
 Do we want to hear public comment before presentation? We'd like to hear a presentation first, council. Presentation? Yes, can we have a, do we have the presentation for this item? Yes, sir. Good morning, Mayor Pro Temp, Council of Oversea, Planning and Inspections. I'm gonna go ahead and share my screen as there is a minor update to the presentation.
 So again, good morning, Council. Again, this is items 34 and 35, a request for a rezoning to C2 commercial, as well as a special permit to allow for a small contractor's yard in a C2 property. And this is for property located at 4625 Delta.
 This is the area of the subject property. It does currently have an existing building, which was formerly a boys club location. The property does consist approximately of 1.2 acres in size. This is the current zoning of the property, which is R5 residential. It does have an existing special permit for a cell tower that is also currently located on the property. That special permit was approved by City Council in 1998.
 This is the Future Land Use Map designation, which does identify this property as G2 traditional neighborhood. This is the proposed Detail Site Development Plan that's part of the special permit for the small contractor's yard. As you can see, it does include the existing building to be modified. No additions are proposed to the existing building. The building will be divided into the
 one building for the small contractors yard and the second building for our second area for a proposed office that will be servicing that small contractors yard. The site plan also shows landscape buffers abutting the
 R5 area that is to remain R5. So there will be a 10 foot landscape buffer located there as well as the proposed 10 foot landscape buffer along Barney Drive. Sole access for this property will be from Delta. There will be no access permitted on Barney Drive, which is the residential street with the residential homes on the other side of Barney. This is a shot of the subject property.
 And then surrounding uses and districts to the north, we do have R5 residential. And a little bit further to the north, about 200 feet, there is existing C2 commercial. To the south and to the west is an existing M.
 and one zoning, my manufacturing, and that is the existing wastewater treatment plant. And to the east is we have existing residential composed of single family homes and apartments, zone A2 and R5. So just to provide a bit of context in terms of the history of this item, it has been come before CPCN council at several occasions
 The applicant did meet with one of the neighborhood associations, the Valverde Neighborhood Association, on several occasions. So just a bit of a timeline to indicate the history of this item. At the end of the day, the applicant did meet with the community a minimum of three times. Those meetings were held with the community.
 In terms of public input, we did receive one petition with 59 signatures as well as six letters in opposition to the rezoning request. We also received one petition with 200 signatures as well as 34 letters in support of this rezoning request.
 And an update, as of yesterday, we did receive two additional letters in support, which is one of them is a second letter from the El Paso Chamber of Commerce, a representative from that office, as well as a letter in support from the El Paso Community College Contract Opportunities Center. And again, those were just received Monday and yesterday.
 So with that, staff in the City Plan Commission does recommend approval of both the rezoning and the special permit with the following conditions. And again, these conditions, they'd come about as a result of those meetings that were held between the applicant and the neighborhood. That a detailed site development plan be provided prior to certificates of occupancy. The current site plan will satisfy that condition.
 There was an issue with proposed potential for apartments, so residential uses are prohibited. Access shall only be from Delta in order to mitigate any impact from this development on the adjacent residential.
 Also a six foot masonry wall on Barney Street, again, in line with mitigating the impact on residential, as well as that additional 10 foot landscape buffer along Barney. So along Barney, along the residential street, there will be a 10 foot landscape buffer, as well as a six foot masonry combination wrought iron wall. And then the final condition, the required 10 foot landscape buffer adjacent to residential uses and or districts. And thank you for my presentation.
 Okay, miss Frank we hear a public comment on this Council if you have any requests to speak, please press the crest Ron. Thank you. The first speaker will be mr. Francisco Ortega, mr. Ortega star six, please to unmute your telephone. Good morning. You'll have three minutes sir. I
 Good morning. My name is Francisco Ortega. I'm an attorney with the Scott House Law Firm, and I represent Voltra Electrical Construction. I have the honor of serving as the chairman of the Board of Commissioners for the Housing Authority, and in that capacity I'm extremely familiar with the Val Verde neighborhood.
 Eric Dijerina, the owner of Vulture, is a native El Pasoan and a UTEP graduate. He started this company from the ground up and now employs about 80 workers, including his parents and siblings. He purchased the property to relocate his business to a more centralized location. With your permission, he intends to use the property as an office for 14 employees in a small contractor's yard. No construction or fabrication will be performed on site. The business will operate Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m.
 The property, as you heard, is on the former Boys and Girls Club on Delta Street. No one, as far as I know, in the history of that neighborhood has ever built a home on that site. Not one single person in over 70 years. The property is on a major street with heavy traffic. Immediately in front of the site are commercial and industrial properties that stretch over a mile long.
 If someone wanted to build a home there, they would have built one by now. In fact, at the CPC hearing, your own city staff said that if they were able to redo the zoning on that property, they would have never designated it as residential.
 Now, you've heard from Mr. Garcia about all the concessions that Volterra has agreed to make if you approve the C2 zoning change, but we're also willing to agree to potential use restrictions on the property. In light of the property's close proximity to homes, the size of the parking lot, and other uses that would require special permits, Volterra's only other potential uses, as far as I understand, with C2 would be a tattoo and massage parlor in certain automotive shops.
 Vulture would be willing to agree to restrict these other potential uses under C2.
 Now, in seeking this zoning change, we've tried to be a good neighbor. We've sent letters and done presentations to residents. We've knocked on people's doors. We've collected hundreds of signatures. We did an open house on site. We now have the support, as you heard, from the Valverde Neighborhood Association and over 200 neighbors, all of whom were once initially opposed. Unfortunately, despite having tried for one year, the Washington Delta Neighborhood Association never allowed us to attend their meetings.
 They never accepted our invitation to meet to discuss their concerns. In fact, we even pulled this agenda item from the last city council meeting in an attempt to meet with them, yet they have declined without offering any reasons. And that's been something extremely frustrating because as I've said before, we have had very good luck with the Valverde Neighborhood Association.
 allowed us to attend their neighborhood association meetings. We've been able to give them presentations, to send letters, to make these types of concessions in an earnest attempt to be a good neighbor. Now, if you deny this application, Voltra will lose its investment of over $700,000, which will likely cause them to file for bankruptcy. About 80 workers will lose their jobs. Thank you, Mr. Ortega. You've reached the three-minute limit, Mr. Ortega. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Quirino-Villa.
 Mr. Villas, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Guirino Villa. Good morning, sir. You have three minutes. Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Guirino Villa. I am a property owner and resident living on Kyle Street, which is the street adjacent to 4625 Delta Drive. I am also on the board of the Washington Delta Neighborhood Association, and I am here representing our association opposition to the proposed
 rezoning of 4625 delta drive our association is against further commercial encroachment into the neighborhood our position on this matter has not changed we are very concerned about both the immediate and long-term impact this will have on our neighborhood this proposed change is out of place with the established character of the neighborhood which is predominantly single-family
 furthermore changing the sony to any commercial designation will allow for future uses that may be more intensive and incompatible with the neighborhood more commercial sony will be used to continue to justify future commercial development and that is something we want to avoid
 We want to preserve the character and walkability of our neighborhood. Our association is multi-generational, and we want to preserve the residential qualities for our current quality of life and for our future generations. When this matter went before the city plan commission, everyone that called in, in opposition to the zoning change were residents living in the neighborhood.
 only three people call in support of the zoning change including the applicant's attorney and two others who do not own property or reside in the neighborhood they unlike us do not have to live with the compromises they are asking residents to make i am asking mayor and council to oppose the rezoning of 4625 delta
 We ask you to consider the quality of life and ask yourself if you would be comfortable living directly across a contractor's yard. This change will negatively impact our neighborhood for generations to come. We ask that you stand with the community and vote against this change. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Alicia Villa. Ms. Alicia Villa, star six please to unmute your telephone. Ms. Alicia Villa, good morning ma'am. You have three minutes.
 Okay, thank you. My name is Alicia Villa and I oppose a rezoning of the 4625 Delta Drive to a commercial because
 The people that oppose this is because we care about our neighborhood and our residents. And I was born and raised in the neighborhood, and in seven decades it has been a quiet and peaceful neighborhood. A contractor equipment storage and contractor yard will bring noise and heavy equipment traffic to our neighborhood. It also will bring in materials that will bring to our –
 to the contractor yard will also bring in spiders, cockroaches, and mice, and these critters won't stay in the property. They will travel to our neighborhood and will create a health problem to our residents. They also stated that they will use Delta Street to enter and exit their business. It will also create a safety problem for our neighborhood pedestrians that attend services at Our Lady of the Light Church.
 because they have to walk in front of this property. The youth of our neighborhood that will attend confirmation classes and the children that also attend catechism classes. And also the people that support this zone, they don't even live in our neighborhood, so it won't affect them.
 And Ms. Carol stated before that her family has lived in the neighborhood for 100 years, so has my family, with one difference. My family has always protected and helped our residents in our neighborhood. I would like to ask the members of the city council, would you allow a contractor yard to move into your neighborhood? Thank you and God bless you. Thank you, the next speaker is Ms. Desiree Manzarez.
 Ms. Desiree Manzanares, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good morning ma'am you have three minutes. Good morning mayor and city council. My name is Desiree Manzanares and I am the public policy advisor for the El Paso Hispanic Chamber. We are asking you to approve this measure for Mr. Tinajeda's business. In over 70 years no home has been built on this particular part of land.
 his business is willing to give 90 people employment within the area and given the economic climate in el paso that is something that we consider to be pretty fruitful
 Aside from the concerns of some neighbors, the Val Verde Neighborhood Association has approved this. These are people who live within the area, and even though they want this approved, they have been convinced by Mr. Tinejera and all of his work that this is a good thing for the community. The El Paso Hispanic Chamber asks that you please approve this measure and allow for business to thrive within this area, thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Linda Zavala. Linda Zavala, star six please. Ms. Linda Zavala, star six please to unmute your telephone. Linda Zavala, Anastacio Zavala, Ms. Linda Zavala or Anastacio Zavala, star six please. Ms. Petra Licón, Ms. Petra Licón, star six please. Hello?
 hello can you hear me my name is petra licon yes miss licon you have three minutes please thank you my name is everyone else please meet your telephones please I live one house over from Barney Street a walking distance from the old boys club at 46 25 Delta
 I grew up in this neighborhood. Now I am a homeowner. I am here expressing my feelings regarding this building because I live 200 to 300 feet from the boys and girls club. And this rezoning is going to be greatly, and this rezoning will greatly affect me. Mr. Tijerina has met our demands as far as the neighborhood. We've all agreed that he has done a lot of work to help us. He also has
 a tower for the telephone which is one thing that we never wanted which he has agreed to get rid of as soon as their contract is over the fact that he will offer close off barney and open delta will make it easier so that we have less traffic through our neighborhood and he is willing to work with us he agreed not to build any apartments or build a medical building and their office hours are going to be monday through friday which will make it easy for us
 And I do live right here. And I hope that you all will agree with us that he has done his part to comply with us and approve with us his work to fund. And we've already worked hard trying to get this going through for the rezoning that I hope that you will not let our work go for nothing and help us approve this rezoning for Mr. Tijerina. He has been really good for us.
 And I don't want to go through this anymore. We've gone through a lot for this rezoning. Please approve it for our neighborhood. I think it would be a good thing that we get. Like I said, I live just down the street from, and I've lived here all my life. Thank you for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Julia Oñate. Ms. Julia Oñate, star six, please. Ms. Julia Oñate. Ms. Julia Oñate or Carolina Carrera, star six, please. Ms.
 Ms. Julia Oñate? This is Carolina Carrera. Ms. Carrera, you have three minutes, ma'am. I also wanted to say that I'm here with the other members. If they could just use my phone to speak. Linda Zavala, Anastacio Zavala, and Julia Oñate.
 they're having problems with their phone it's an internet phone and their internet just went out thank you miss carrera go ahead and i'll call the other speakers after you thank you okay good morning mayor pro tem and city council my name is carolina carrera and i'm the volunteer admin for the neighborhood association well i will refer to as bbna i am one of the two speakers that spoke to cpc
 I want to make clear that my parents have lived in the Val Verde community for 60 years, and they currently own a property here. I have seen the transformation from initially opposing the rezoning to supporting the revised application, followed by a 4-1 in-favor vote at the CPC, and then hopefully resulting in a positive resolution today. This was a direct result of a collaborative effort with a new owner, Mr. Tijerina, and his representative, Ms. Tortega.
 In the past year, all of us have endured a crash course in this rezoning process. From this experience, I realized the importance of a board being held accountable to provide thorough and correct information to its membership. And now misinformation can spread when the board doesn't. Misinformation may not allow an option for residents to make their own educated decisions. I can personally attest to how this misinformation was disseminated by the community when they shadowed the members canvassing the neighborhood.
 Some of the residents had already been approached by the opposition and were not fully informed of Mr. Tejeda's revision. We heard the same misinformation being repeated by the opposition at the CPC meeting in July. So you will see some of the same signatures on the petitions from the residents against
 and then for the rezoning after we presented the full story. In addition, all of our petitions were clearly marked with VVNA at the top. The opposition petitions were not identified by either association. This caused further confusion because some of the residents thought they were signing for VVNA. VVNA made countless times Mr. Tijanina and Mr. Ortega and sometimes Mr. Raul Garcia from the CPI.
 Not all meetings were pleasant, especially at the beginning, but Mr. Tejeda never wavered from returning time after time to meet with the residents and to answer hard questions. They listened, responded, and then followed through. Mr. Garcia was instrumental in clarifying countless rezoning questions and concerns.
 Our supporting attachments of over 100 documents reflect that effort. This includes 200 signatures. Over 70% of these signatures are obtained within a one-mile radius of 4625 Delta Drive, 36 support letters, and correspondence between VVNA and city officials addressing the validity of some of these signatures obtained by the oppositions.
 In closing, we trust that Mr. Tejeda has acted in good faith. We don't believe a 10,000-square-foot building will keep its residential zoning, and we fear that any future investors will not be as accommodating. We ask that you please waive the supporting documents, uphold the 41-4 from the CPC, and approve this rezoning application. Thank you for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Linda Zavala. Ms. Zavala, good morning. You have three minutes, ma'am. Good morning. Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 Hello? Yes, we can hear you, ma'am. Yes. Good morning, Honorable Mayor Pertam and city council members. My name is Linda Zavala. I am the vice president of the Valverde Vecinos Neighborhood Association and a longtime resident of this community.
 I am a homeowner at 401 Francis Street with a corner of Barney Street. My uncle, Anastasio Zavala, owns the property next to mine on the right side at 423 Francis Street. Our family has lived in this neighborhood over 100 years. Both our properties are adjacent to 4625 Delta Drive and occupy three-fourths of the land behind it.
 The only thing separating us is a changing fence. So as you can see, we are the major ones affected by this rezoning. We all grew up, along with the majority of Alverde, attending the former Delta Boys Club. This was a place for children of all ages to go to. It was a very positive environment and kept kids off the streets and out of trouble.
 We were all sad to see it close down. It remained vacant for a couple of years until it went up for sale. That's when Mr. Eric Tijerina, owner of Vulture Electric, purchased it. When I first heard that they were going to apply for a C-3 permit and build a two-story apartment complex, I was very opposed to it. I did not want that in my backyard.
 We had fought the cell phone tower located on this property since 1997 and lost by one vote. Larry Medina was our representative at that time. These cell phone towers emit electromagnetic waves and are a threat to our health. They can cause cancer, and we have lost several people to cancer, including some in my family.
 Now, due to the fact that Mr. Tijerina agreed to meet with residents and ask what he could do to work with us, changed my previous decision. He was willing to do what our community has always asked for and needed, transparency. We held several meetings with Mr. Tijerina and invited our members and neighbors. What he brought to the table was humbleness, honesty, and truth.
 and he was very willing to give us something in return. After these meetings took place, we heard both sides and asked our members for votes.
 we decided to vote to support him all votes were unanimous i have seen how our neighborhood has changed and i participate and anticipate many more changes to come most of our neighbors are seniors and long-time residents of alvarez and it is very difficult to survive these changes at this age therefore i am supporting mr tijerina along with my family and other vvna members
 We would like to work together to empower our community and to be good neighbors. We are asking City Council to please support us in resolving this rezoning issue and to consider our heartfelt request and vote yes. It has consumed our lives for over one year, and we would like to thank the officials who are all involved during these very, very difficult times.
 We are living on borrowed time and who knows what tomorrow may bring. Thank you very much for your time and support for us, your contributions. The next speaker is Mr. Anastacio Zavala. Mr. Anastacio Zavala. This is Anastacio Zavala. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Pro Tem and city council representatives. My name is Anastacio Zavala and I was born in 1933.
 was raised and still living in Valverde for over 88 years. The Zavala clan has lived in Valverde for over a century. I attended Bergeron Way School and graduated from Jefferson High in May 1952. I am a Korea War veteran and the last surviving, the last living male survivor from the second generation of Zavalas
 still living in Valverde. My concern is to have the zoning changes be supported for the former Boys and Girls Lab at 4625 Delta Drive, as I own and live on the property right behind it. Mr. Otegarina was aware of our concerns and has met with us on several occasions. We came to an agreement suitable to both
 for both parties, mainly that the cellular antennas contact not be renewed and no apartments will be built. Mr. Tejerina has promised to work together with the Valderde residents to be a good neighbor, respect the rights of others to live in peace, and to respect the right to our life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
 I wish Mr. Tejerina success in his business venture and his creation of jobs is a big plus. Please support this vision. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Ms. Julia Oñate. Ms. Julia Oñate. Bueno. Sí, Ms. Oñate, tenemos una intérprete que le va a asistir. Por favor, pause después de cada frase para que pueda traducir el intérprete. Buenos días. Sí, señor. Buenos días.
 Buenos dias, mi nombre es Julia Oñate. He vivido en la comunidad Valverde por mas de 30 anos. Yes, my name is Julia Oñate. I've lived in the Valverde community for more than 30 years. Soy dueña de dos propiedades en el vecindario, uno en la cual esta ubicada directamente al otro lado del Boys and Girls Club 4625 Delta Drive.
 I have two properties on either side of the property in question, 4625 Delta Drive. La otra propiedad está ubicada en la intersección de la calle Barney y Dolan, que es donde yo vivo. The other property is located at the intersection of Barney and Dolan, which is where I live.
 Ambas propiedades se encuentran entre 200 a 400 pies de 4625 Delta Drive. All properties are located within 200 feet of 4625 Delta Drive. Estoy satisfecha con el proceso que tomó la Asociación de Vecinos de Valverde para negociar con el dueño de la propiedad del señor Tijerina.
 I am in agreement and satisfied with the arrangements and the work done by the community association to work with Mr. Tijerina. I was not able to attend every session, but I was well informed and kept up to date.
 This resigning has lasted a long time. Mr. Tijerina has lost a lot of time and money to not be able to open his business. Yes, this rezoning thing has been going on for a long time and Mr. Tijerina has lost both money and time in not being able to establish his business. And this has caused my neighbors and me a lot of unnecessary stress.
 We are quite old and we don't need stress over everything else. Yes, this has caused a lot of my older neighbors and myself a lot of stress and anxiety that we don't need to have or shouldn't be having to go through. It is not right that we have differences from others who refused to be part of the process. They only know half of the story.
 The only people who were opposed to the project only know half the story. Personalmente, lo sé porque tuve información de mis vecinos que originalmente firmaron la posición de lo que realmente estaba proponiendo el señor Tijerina. I know that because I've talked to people who were opposed and now support this with Tijerina.
 Después de enterarse de que había cumplido con todas nuestras demandas, enviaron cartas de apoyo. After knowing that he would comply with all the requirements, they gave letters of approval or support. ¿Cuántos más hay que no conocen la historia completa? How many are there that don't know the entire story? Mi hijo se ofreció como voluntario del Bosque en Cross Club cuando era niño. Ahora está criando una familia en casa directamente a la otra calle.
 Yes, my son was a volunteer in the Boys Club as a young man, and now he lives in one of the nearby streets. There's an entrance on Barney Street, and I would be grateful if Mr. Tijerina would close it up for the safety of the people there.
 I'm also happy that Mr. Tijerina's company uses the building as an office space and maintains the office hours. Yes, and for him to also maintain office hours, a schedule compatible with office hours and maintain it as an office.
 No estarán ahí cuando nuestra comunidad se vaya o regrese del trabajo y tenemos suficiente ruido de las X en Juárez y los fines de semana. Yes, we are not going to be around during their comings and goings and we have enough noise coming from the X in Mexico. La oposición ha dicho que cambiaría el carácter del barrio si se puede evaluar su notificación. ¿Puede repetir eso, señora? Sí.
 La oposición ha dicho que cambiará el carácter del barrio si se aprueba la razonificación. The opposition has said that the character of the neighborhood is going to change if it is approved. Eso es lo único que estoy de acuerdo, porque ahora es una monstruosidad. Ese edificio ha estado abandonado durante años. Espero que con el interés de las mejoras que está haciendo el señor Mijerina.
 Yes, I am in agreement, and the building has been an eyesore, a nightmare, and I know that Mr. Tijerina's improvements will make it better. El señor Tijerina, actor de Buena Fe, nos preguntó qué queríamos y cumplió. Creo que será un buen destino para nuestra comunidad.
 Mr. Tijerina is acting in good faith, and he's done whatever we've requested, and I think he'll be a positive neighbor in our community. Gracias, Senora Oñate. The next speaker will be Ms. Oñate. Ya se terminaron sus seis minutos. Gracias. Muchas gracias, señorita. Muchas gracias. I'll stay. The next speaker is Ms. Annette Baeza. Ms. Baeza, you'll have three minutes, ma'am. Thank you very much.
 Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. You can't listen. My name is Lynette Bonita. I reside at 416 Francis Street. I live in between 200 and 300 from the Boys and Girls Club. She can't hear you. Can you hear me, ma'am? Yes, we can hear you, Ms. Baeza. Okay. Ms. Baeza, I'm sorry, we can't hear you. Hello, can she speak from our phone? Yes. From the 920 phone? Go ahead. Can you hear me now, ma'am? Yes, that's much better.
 Oh, I'm so sorry. I can see the barren and abandoned building from my... May I start over? No?
 My name is Annette Baeza. I reside at 416 Francis Street. I live in between 200 and 300 feet from the Boys and Girls Club. I can see the barren and abandoned building from my home. I am in support of Mr. DeGeneres purchasing and occupying this property for his business. For five years now, the Boys and Girls Club has been vacant. There have been no signs of remodeling, upgrading, restructuring, or even the use of this property for any reason.
 No excitement, no children hanging out to play and enjoying some together time. When it rains, the property becomes filled with weeds that grow taller than me and I am 5 feet tall. It is of great concern to see such neglect. We must wait for any cleanup crews to come and clean up the area. It will be a great and positive change to see this property come back to life. Mr. Tejeda has stated that he is going to invest quite a bit of money to landscape the area. It is going to look beautiful.
 It will be a breath of fresh air to have this beauty and a coming back to life in our neighborhood.
 We have a work order request for speed bumps here at the intersection of Barney and Francis. Mr. De Jadina has been considerate and reasonable enough to have the entrance to his business on Delta Street and not Barney. This will help us tremendously and will not add more traffic to the problem we already have. I am in full support of his endeavor. He has been gracious enough to hear our concerns and rethought his plans and made changes to eliminate our worries and fears. I foresee no problems in the future.
 with this addition to the neighborhood. Instead, I do believe this to be a plus. A tremendous amount of work has been exerted in an attempt to get this rezoning approved by DDNA. As stated before, Mr. Tejeda has bent over backwards to meet us with our concerns and suggestions. It pangs me to see that while at the latter stage of this process, it is being now blocked.
 Heaven help us if this rezoning does not get approved and we end up encountering a not-so-community-conscious entity like Mr. Tejeda. Please approve Mr. Tejeda's rezoning request and our support for him. Thank you very much. MS. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Miguel Juarez. Mr. Juarez, you'll have three minutes, sir. Mr. Miguel Juarez? MR. Can you hear me? MS. Yes, sir. Good morning. MR. Hello.
 Okay, good morning, Mayor Pro Term and City Council members. My name is Dr. Miguel Juarez. I'm an advocate for the neighborhood, Barbera Neighborhood Association. The neighborhood association is a historic neighborhood. The residents of this neighborhood had ancestors who were displaced by the creation of Paisano Street in 1948.
 and before that they were the former stormsville residents stormsville is what now is rim road uh in the last year as residents have passed away and their properties have been sold uh one of those properties uh uh and i'm not talking about the property for the rezoning but another property in the neighborhood already had a commercial designation
 And as a result, they're building apartments on that property. So the statement that Mr. Carino made from Washington Delta that they don't want commercial property, there is already commercial property in the neighborhood. And I feel there will be efforts to rezone for commercial zoning as more people pass away in the neighborhood and as more time goes by.
 There seems to be a buying frenzy in the neighborhood, I think associated with the MCA and Texas Tech. I stand in support of the Valverde Neighborhood Association in support of their rezoning. And I want to say that also some of us have...
 Washington Delta has stated some of us don't live in the neighborhood, so they don't understand why we're supporting the rezoning. Well, some of their residents actually are fixing up a property, and they don't live in the neighborhood, so there's inaccuracies on Washington Delta's site as well. And I want to say for the record,
 Mr. Tijerina and Mr. Ortega have sought to meet as late as last Friday with members of the Washington Delta Neighborhood Association. And they just were stringed along and there was no meeting. At least I think Washington Delta should have met with Mr. Tijerina and Mr. Ortega to hear their concerns.
 because Mr. Tijerina has invested a lot of time and money. We've invested a lot of time and money in support of the rezoning. And unfortunately, this situation has been politicized, and I don't know, that's not a good thing. Okay, thank you. Thank you. And the final speaker is Ms. Corrine Solis-Williamson. Ms. Williamson, if you're in the queue, star six, please. Ms. Corrine Solis-Williamson, star six, please. Ms. Corrine Solis-Williamson.
 I don't see Ms. Williamson's phone number in the queue or anyone else unmuting their microphone. Mayor Potem, that concludes public comment on these items. I want to thank, first of all, I want to thank everybody from the public who signed up to speak and took the time this morning to help inform this council on their decisions. I have up next to speak Representative Rivera, followed by District 8 Rep. Rivera.
 Thank you, Mayor. Mayor Pro Tem. Before I ask Mr. Garcia a question, I'd like to say that having been part of that area for a long time, having lived there for a long time, having been born there in the area just south of this particular boys' club that used to be there and well attended back in the heydays, the area was okay with it. Since the closure, as most resident supporters stated, since the closure of that boys' club,
 There was a Boys and Girls Club. That place has been an eyesore, never really taken care of by the owner, so to speak. And so the area had to live with us. I can attest to the weeds that grew in that place were ginormous. And so, you know, it's really an eyesore. And for people to say that the business there would cringe in the residential –
 area it's it's uh kind of untrue because just north of that on comanche and francis you have a mom and pop run business store convenience store for the whole neighborhoods i'm aware of the apartments that they're building there just adjacent to to the this convenience store which used to be a vacant lot for a long time and uh right behind the convenience store you have a roofing company that stores its material there so there is commercial in the area there's a
 multitude of safety avenues that can be taken for worshipers of the Our Lady of the Light Church. Again, having been there, have experienced that, and it wasn't until a few years ago that that vacant lot, which used to be vacant directly in front of the church, was developed into a great residential area for the, a great residential neighborhood for the area, so to speak. So
 If this gentleman has gone above and beyond to accommodate the people that live there, I think that speaks volumes for him. Now what I have a question for is Mr. Garcia, is there assurance that there's not going to be any kind of fabrication other than offices? Could you bring up those conditions again, please? Yes, sir.
 There isn't going to be any type of fabrication in that area, right? It's just going to be offices? That's correct, Mr. Rivera. Any type of fabrication would not be permitted in the C2 district. Okay. And assurance, again, that the only entrance and exit will be from Delta? That is correct, sir. That is one of the conditions imposed on the property that will run with the property, not with the current owner or proposed owner, but that condition will run with the property, with the loan.
 thank you sir as uh as most people stated and i can attest to that if mr dino keeps his word and uh and does develop his business there this will be a great addition to the area and um i will be supporting it thank you mayor pro tem thank you um up next is representative lazarga followed by represent vanilla followed by representative molinar thank you thank you mayor pro tem uh i also want to thank all the callers that took time to call in today
 In just looking at the case history on this case, anyone can see that it is a difficult one. It had to go to the City Plan Commission multiple times. There was considerable feedback from the neighborhood associations, and it is now being heard before this council for a second time. And it is a 2-11 protest case because of the amount of opposition.
 I truly feel for the property owner, Mr. Tijerena, and the situation he finds himself in. He runs a good local business, and he has already put a lot of money into this residential zone property that he purchased. Voltaire Electric has done some very attractive renovations to the building. It is very unfortunate that all of this work and investment was done,
 before the property was rezoned for the commercial use that the property owner intends to use it for, leading to the situation we are in now. Initially, both neighborhood associations that overlap and cover the location of this property were completely opposed to the rezoning.
 At that point in the process, and because of the circumstances of the property owner not securing the necessary zoning in advance of completing their work on the site, I told both associations and the applicant that it would be difficult for me to support the rezoning unless both associations were in favor.
 Previous postponements were made to this case in order to allow time for the property owner to work with the neighborhood associations to try to address their concerns. Now the Valverde Neighborhood Association has received concessions that they are happy with, and they have decided to support the rezoning.
 The other association, however, the Washington Delta Neighborhood Association, remains completely opposed. As much as I wish for the success of Mr. Tijerena's business, a good local business, I have to be sensitive to those residents of the neighborhood association who still oppose this.
 I've done everything I can to propose compromises and bring everyone to the table, but at this time there is still not agreement between the two associations. And I think that it is clear from the public comment we have heard today.
 Well, I think that this proposal does have the potential to be a good project for this property. I'm not going to be able to support this rezoning or the associated special permit when there are so many members of the community still in opposition. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Okay. Representative Anejo. Thank you. Well, I have quite a few questions. So this is currently zoned, I'm sorry, residential property?
 That's correct, ma'am. R5 residential, which would allow single-family homes or duplexes. And is that the common zoning for something like the Boys and Girls Club? It is. It is considered a civic use, which is permitted in any zone district. Sure. Okay, so some concerns I have, right, a lot of people have talked about what's happening in that neighborhood with Texas Tech, with new apartments coming out, and really want to make a decision that is going to protect
 the residents in that area from being pushed out later. And I do worry that in the future, apartments or something going there will be,
 add to the gentrification of the neighborhood. But I will say I'm a little uncomfortable that this is being brought to us with two neighborhood associations kind of fighting with each other because whatever happens today, they're going to be at odds and that really doesn't benefit anyone in that area. And so I would hope that maybe neighborhood association services can kind of help mediate the relationship with whatever happens today. That wasn't a question for you, Raul. That was just a statement. But I do have a question about the cell phone tower. Sure.
 So my understanding is that the property owner has agreed to remove the tower once the contract is up, correct? Yes, ma'am, that is correct. And I know that, I mean, I don't know what happened in the 90s when that was put in, but I know now that those contracts are for a very extensive amount of time. Do you know what the current contract with that cell phone tower is?
 Just generally from discussions with the applicants, I believe it's anywhere between three to five years remaining time. But again, don't quote me on that. Is there anyone here on the line that can talk to that? Because, I mean, am I wrong? Well, right now they do contracts for, you know, 50 to 60 years. So I'm just wanting to make sure that that's not a promise. I believe representatives, sorry to interrupt, it's like a 50-year contract.
 So yeah, I guess is the property owner on the line that can speak to when the expiration date for that contract is? Yes, I believe his representative is Mr. Ortega. Yeah, I'm sorry, Mr. Ortega, are you able to answer that question?
 I am. Unfortunately, Representative Anello, we haven't been able to get a copy of the lease. Our understanding is that the lessor of that or the lessee of that specific cell phone tower entered into that contract way before the Boys and Girls Club.
 became an owner. Uh, so we, we haven't derived any economic benefit. We think it's a nuisance. We think it's an eyesore and we want to have it removed, but we're trying to get the information to, to make sure that we get that removed. Yeah. I mean, I understand that. And I guess that's, that's what's concerning to me because I feel like the Val Verde neighborhood really came to the table because of that, that commitment. And I don't think that the property owner is lying to them at all. I believe that he, he has that commitment. Um,
 and genuinely would remove it. I just wanna understand if he's even able to do that within a sufficient amount of time, because I don't wanna hear a few years from now, the Val Verde neighborhood upset that that's still there. I wanna just confirm that that is a reasonable negotiation made with this neighborhood association. And if that can't be confirmed, it makes me a little bit uncomfortable.
 We're trying to get the information so we could determine how long that lease is for. We want to make sure that we respect the neighbors. I'm one of your constituents. I live in Manhattan Heights. We believe in historical neighborhoods, and we try to the best of our ability to work with the residents. I mean, this is certainly something outside of our control, but to the extent that we could remove the cell phone tower, I mean, that's our commitment, and we've put it in writing.
 but without any understanding of the actual possibility of it. Can I interject? I'm sorry? Sorry, go ahead, whoever's on the line. I'm Carolina with the Valverde Neighborhood Association. Is it?
 And we actually have members on the that spoke earlier, and we have several residents, several members from our association that were actually have all the paperwork for the original petition when they fought it. So it's our understanding that that cell phone tower is going to expire in 2023.
 And we didn't submit that as backup, but all the members, the original members, are in our association, and they can provide all that information. Thank you. I appreciate that very much. That helps. And the cell phone tower, it comes with the property, or it still will belong to the person who's currently under that lease? I believe it's the owner of the cell phone tower.
 and it's going to, like I said, it's going to expire in 2023. So we're just waiting to see about this rezoning. We have no idea who owns it at this point, but they do have all the paperwork. Okay. And just for clarification, Mr. Ortega, I believe I know this from reading the backup, but you have purchased the property and are rezoning it, correct? That's correct. So you would take over that tower? Yes.
 The contract is something based on what we understand in talking to the Valverde Neighborhood Association and my experience dealing with these types of issues in my line of work.
 Those leases typically don't necessarily run with the land. They run with the person or the company that entered into those contracts. Right now, the cell phone carrier has the ability to enter our building in order to maintain the cell phone tower, but that's something that we're obligated to do under that specific lease.
 And do you or Raul know if they're able, because I know a lot of these contracts come with, you know, automatic extensions or extensions. Is that person able to continue with an extension after the contract runs out, even if you own the property?
 It would be something that would be dependent on the lease. My, again, based on my experience, usually on these types of things, there's a specific provision by when, if the parties are not, don't have the intention to renew the term of the lease, there's usually a period by when you're supposed to send notification and writing to the other side to express that intent. And that's why, as we've said before, our intent is once we approve
 that time period comes about, we'll send the requisite notification to ensure that that cell phone tower is no longer there. I'd just very quickly like to add, Representative Anello, that there is another cell phone tower that is probably about a block away that's behind somebody's home in that neighborhood. So there's already another cell phone tower, but we, as I've said, we've got the commitment to make sure that that cell phone tower is removed when we get the ability to do so. Yeah, I think the cell phone towers in that area are a real –
 and so I just want to and it's very complicated these contracts and leases are very complicated and so I again just want to understand that yeah I understand you guys have all you've made a commitment to the neighborhood but want to be able to make sure that that's actually something that you can fulfill I don't doubt that you have every intention to do so within your ability but we just want to understand what what the realities of that are so those are my questions for right now thank you
 Representative Agnelo. All right. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you. Representative. Miguel Juarez comment on the cell phone tower. Well, I actually wanted to add Representative Lizardiga a question. So I'll wait till you finish with the topic and then. Thank you Representative Schwarzman. Thanks. Representative Molinar. Thank you. Alternate Mayor Pro Tem.
 I listen to both sides. I've done some research on this. It's a very battle of who got there first probably. Having been a prior neighborhood association member and president for multiple years, I see that there's the power in a neighborhood association. Unfortunately, you have two competing neighborhood associations that are trying to get their way. And I respect both of the neighborhood associations and for what they're trying to do.
 I had some questions reference the cell phone tower. However, they've been answered already so We'll continue. Thank you very much, sir. Okay up next is representative Hernandez Question for you I'm looking at I heard mr. Ortega the representative of the applicant state that they're looking into other concessions so that's looking at restrictive uses under the commercial district and so I
 I was looking at the zoning permissible uses and I just can't find it at this moment. So can you help me understand? So if we were to make an amendment on the floor today to add those restrictive uses to include
 You know, I remember seeing, I think it was a recycle yard that can be used in, I think it's C2. But what I would like to do, and I would hope that members of council would be okay with that, because it sounds like the concerns from the other neighborhood association who's not in agreement is concerned about the future uses after this applicant leaves.
 And so if we can add that those restrictions to the to the zoning change Then I would be amenable to that and supportive of it But I just don't know what they are those higher restrictive uses allowed, right? Was previously mentioned
 So there are a litany of uses permitted in the C2. What an important thing to notice is that a lot of those, as was mentioned previously, either require a special permit or have certain restrictions or prohibitions or distance requirements that essentially by default kind of...
 eliminate the potential for that use on this property. Another thing to think about as well as parking, right? If there's a high requirement for parking, generally this property is not well suited for that based on the relatively small size of this proposed commercial property. So we did take a look at that.
 As was again was previously mentioned automotive uses. There are certain moving goals type stuff minor automotive repair that would be permitted by right in the C2 district.
 So that's one use that was discussed. And again, as Mr. Ortega mentioned, tattoo massage parlor. Again, that's another use that was also discussed. But yeah, there's a lot of, there are a lot of uses, but again, you gotta think of, remember a lot of those
 just would not make it here based on certain design or dimensional requirements or distance from residential considering the adjacent residential there across Barney or will require a special permit that will require them to go through the same process and go before council for approval. So I see residential uses is prohibited. This also include apartments?
 Yes, ma'am. Okay. Apartments, duplexes, quads, all types of residential uses. Right. And so far what I'm hearing is automotive, tattoo, massage parlors, and apartments residential. But based on your comments, you feel like the others would not qualify under this rezoning because it would not meet the design standards and also the parking requirements.
 That is correct, ma'am. Board will have to come before council for approval. Could council take an action that says we would restrict uses and that a site plan or development site plan would be necessary or required prior to receiving a certificate of occupancy or something of that nature? Yes, so that condition is actually already proposed. That's condition number one.
 Oh, okay. I see it. And the site plan presented today is the actual site plan that will coach or satisfying that condition. Okay. So for the residents who were opposed, who are concerned about future uses, that could be, you know, heavier commercial uses. No new business can go in there to receive an official certificate of occupancy, which is your permission to open your doors.
 without city council approving the detailed site plan? Is that the condition that's been placed there, or is it CPC? It is CPC, which is the, you know, per code, the default authority on detailed site plan is city plan commission. However, that is something that council can also look at.
 and requiring a higher standard of review for the detailed site plan. Okay, so I mean, I would definitely make that a requirement that it come before council as opposed to CPC. And so that would be my first motion is that to amend the conditions that would require a site plan approval per city code be approved by city council prior to an issuance of the certificate of occupancy? Yes, ma'am. And my second motion would be,
 I mean automatically I do want the I do want the the zoning restrictions to include my second motion will be to Exclude out of automotive uses tattoo massage parlors, but residential is already there. So I don't need to add that So my second motion would be to restrict out of most automotive uses and tattoo massage parlors so in addition to requirement for a detailed site plan and
 so those are my two motions on the floor i would second that okay um are you uh done representative yeah no i just finally sorry i went straight into the technical stuff but again thank you all to the residents who have battled this whether in favor or against and i think the outcome is going to be a better proposal and so i hope that these amendments will help alleviate their concerns
 Representative Lazaga? Yes, thank you Representative Hernandez. We had tried to do that. Washington Delta wanted all restrictions to be included. Is that what your motion is? So I would. Restricting all other uses? The restrictions would be automotive, tattoo, massage parlors and apartments.
 um but then the first motion i have is to require city council to approve a site plan which would essentially give council the the like the the permission to give a new business um so it would essentially be a zoning but it's not a zoning it's just another condition another bureaucratic process you have to come to council to get that permission to have to open that business so the the restrictions i propose is that plus
 the automotive uses, tattoo, massage parlor, and apartments, just as like a fail safe, just in addition to. So council would have to actually reverse this action in the future. Can I ask Raul a question? Yes, ma'am. Yes. So if a new use would be allowed without coming to council, if it was on the table or permitted uses by right for C2?
 Yeah, so if the use is permitted by right, it would be permitted. However, the applicant will need to go through the detailed site development process, show those changes, amend the current detailed site plan, which would have to be presented to City Council. Okay, thank you.
 So I don't see anybody else signed up to speak right now. Does anybody else have any additional thoughts? Representative Inello?
 I do. Yeah, I actually have a follow up question for Representative LaSada or follow up to her question for the Washington Delta Neighborhood Association. Representative LaSada just said that that was one of their concerns. I don't know if that with Representative Hernandez's amendment, if they have any comment or feel comfortable at all, if there's anyone on the line.
 No? Okay. I mean, all I can say is they wanted to restrict all other uses. Yeah, which it's not doing, but it is bringing it to council if another use is requested. So, yeah, I don't know if Dr. Juarez is still on the call or somebody. Can I speak? Yes, can I speak? Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Yes, my name is Karino Villa. I'm with the Delta Washington Park Neighborhood Association.
 I'm sorry, Council. Mr. Villa has already spoken. He's already spoken during public comment. Can I motion to suspect? What was the question you had, Representative? Well, I just wanted to hear from the Washington Delta neighborhood how they felt about that amendment that Representative Hernandez has proposed, if that changes their feelings at all, because Representative Lasada has expressed that was a concern of theirs. Is there a representative from the Delta neighborhood
 Yes, this is Mr. Villa. Yes, Mr. Villa. Okay, yes, that's one of the items that we talked to Ms. Lizarra and we couldn't get an answer in return.
 That's basically our concern is that if this property owner in the future sells this property because it's a zone C2 automatically, whatever covers that C2, these people can walk in into that building. And that's the concern that we have from the very beginning, that we don't want any more businesses coming into our neighborhood.
 And so, Mr. Villa, what Representative Hernandez, the amendment that she has proposed would say that if, you know, when this property owner does vacate or sell or leave, it would have to come to council for another use. Does that, are you more comfortable with that? Does that kind of alleviate the concern that you have? It alleviates the concern, but, you know, it alleviates the concern, but I would have to take that to our,
 to our board you know so that we can speak i'm only one person but yeah we did bring this issue up and it wasn't taken care of and that's by the attorney mr ortega uh we we we did uh pass this through miss isarraga and uh we were left out in the dark we didn't we didn't get an answer
 That's one of the items that we were asking for that if this property gets sold in the future Just because it's a c2 property then whoever gets it walks in and that's whatever he wants with that property that Point of clarification
 Okay, Mr. Villanueva. Thank you. Before Representative Lazard comes up, I just have a question for staff. Is there ability to postpone this item so that some of these, there can be further clarification on some of these amendments? Yes. You can always ask for a postponement for additional time.
 I haven't made much of this question of clarification. Mayor Pro Temp. Yes. I would recommend that if council is seeking to make any motions that you fold them into the detailed site plan process as opposed to restricting uses that are permissible under the zoning.
 Traditionally when a case comes before you, if it's allowed to be used under a C2 for example, all of the uses are permitted. So additional review is, I would recommend that additional review of the site would be allowed through a condition that says that the details I plan come to council for approval. That way you can regulate the impact of the proposed use as opposed to carving out uses that you don't want to have on your zone. Thank you.
 Representative Lozarga, I don't know if you're. No, I was just gonna clarify that we did explain to Ms. Renteria, they did get an answer. The answer was that any use permitted by right in situ would be allowed without coming back to council and asked if requiring them to bring a detailed site development plan back to council was possible and Ms. Neiman had said no.
 But you're saying yes now? So the detailed site plan can always be requested at council. My recommendation was that we didn't impose any restrictions to only allow it to one use. But the detailed site plan is always an option for council. Okay, thank you. I ask if you could have that representative. I'm sorry, Representative Lozarga, it seems that there's a number of issues that are being brought up right now. Would you wanna postpone this item?
 So there'd be further clarification from staff about some of the other items being proposed by Representative Hernandez? Yes, we can postpone the item. Okay, so I withdraw my motion. Okay, I'd like to make a motion to postpone How many weeks? How many weeks, Representative? Two weeks. Two weeks? To postpone two weeks? I'll second.
 So there is a motion and a second to postpone. And this is both items 34 and 35, correct? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. To postpone items 34 and 35 for two weeks. Call for the vote.
 Ms. Fine, can I ask a question before we vote? To Mr. Villa, I know that there's been some conversation about not being able to meet Washington Delta and the Val Verde Neighborhood Association, but we are postponing to be able to have this conversation. So, Mr. Villa, can we get a commitment from the Washington Delta Neighborhood Association to meet with staff and the representative in the next two weeks? Mr. Villa, are you there?
 Or Dr. Juarez, I know you're part of the neighborhood association. Can you hear me? Yes, Mr. Villa. This is Mr. Villa. Hello? Yes, go ahead. Okay. Yes, Ms. Anello, Representative Anello, you know, we did try to go through Ms. Lizárraga, Representative Lizárraga, when we asked those questions about what we're talking about, that if this property gets sold,
 And because it's sold under C2, it automatically gives the rights to whoever buys that property. That's what we're afraid of, that they might come in and do whatever they want without us having an input. And like Ms. Salas said, they told us no, that we couldn't do that. So, okay, if we have an opportunity now to litigate this again, yes, yes, we can speak to that.
 Because that's our concern. Okay. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Can we call the question now? Yes, there is a motion and a second to postpone items 34 and 35 for two weeks. Council, the voting session is open. Excuse me, could I make a comment? Representative Añelo and Representative... I'm sorry, the voting is in session. The voting is in session. Representative Añelo, your vote. Thank you. It's not showing up for me. I vote yes as well. Thank you.
 thank you and thank you for everybody from the from the public as well for for coming in and speaking on this item as well in the voting session and the motion passes with seven affirmative votes representative rodriguez voting nay the motion does pass thanks um so i just wanted to uh see if we can go um one of the things i think is really important is some of these updates that we have
 relating from our operational focus updates, especially as it relates towards the sort of capital year and review report as well. So I'm hoping that we can have item 26 next with the TxDOT updates followed by 27 and then 28. Thank you, Mayor Pochette. Thank you. And we return to page nine to the regular agenda, operational focus updates. The next item is number 26, and this is a presentation and discussion on TxDOT project updates.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council Assembly, the City Engineer. With us today, we have Jennifer Wright from TxDOT, who will be providing the council and the community an update on the projects that they have going on and what they've got coming up.
 Our goal for this update is to invite TxDOT as our partner to be able to provide these updates on a regular basis. So as we move forward, you should be hearing some of these updates quarterly or biannually from our partners. So Jennifer, you want to share your screen and then I'll turn it over to you. Thank you. Thank you so much. It's a pleasure to be here. Good morning, Mayor Pro Tem, Council, staff and friends. Let me just get my screen going here.
 Okay, is that visible to everybody? Yes. Okay, great. Thank you so much. Well, I am going to go through this rather quickly, but if you have questions, please feel free to answer them. There are numerous slides, but some of them will only be on for a second or so, so don't be alarmed by the size of this presentation. We have a lot going on in El Paso right now, and I'm just so pleased to be able to share it with you.
 As an aside, before we get started, if anybody does have questions about a particular project anytime, and this is anyone, they can always go to text.gov and click on, or put in, enter in the search word, project tracker. And it will take you to this site.
 which shows an overall map of the city. And you can, it actually shows a map of Texas and you can click on El Paso and zoom in as closely as you want and then,
 highlight any, click on any of these lines that indicate a project and you will get the information on the project. So that is a resource that's always available to you and I just wanted everyone to be aware that Project Tracker is very robust and will, definitely a great resource if you have questions.
 Just as an overview as to what we have going on, I know you cannot read this list over here, but this is a listing of current projects by our East Area Office, and it's 25 projects. And on this page, the West Area has 22 projects active. These green dots show where they are.
 And then we have our downcountry, our alpine area, and all of these yellow markers indicate the 13 projects happening downcountry. So that's a total of 60 projects representing $667,584,421.92 happening now.
 Our letting volumes over time are reflected in this screen here. You can see there was a big bump in 2019, and then next year we're projected, this fiscal year, we're projected to let $334 million worth of projects in our area, and some of those are what we're going to see today.
 The I-10 Connect project drawing a lot of attention. It's been going on now for a little over two and a half years or right about two and a half years. And this project, this is a rendering of the finished project that shows these additional ramps that will take you from I-10 and US-54 directly down to Loop 375. This project had a lot of changes to the...
 ramping, but we took advantage of existing infrastructure and basically were able to widen ramps. We did not change the footprint much. We are adding some lanes on the I-110, which will add additional storage there. The other thing that's going to help out mobility is the fact that these decision points of where you
 peel off from if you're headed southbound into Juarez or if you're going to go to the I-110, I mean to the US-54 or Loop 375. These decision points got pushed further back, separating out traffic southbound for the I-110 from traffic that wanted to get somewhere else but was unable to due to the congestion.
 A lot of the work right now is centering around this Paisano area, which used to look like this, and upon completion will look like this. It looks a lot like this right now. We're still working on the final touches, putting up a concrete barrier, doing the landscaping along here, and we're still working on these lanes underneath. Here's a fairly recent photo that shows
 the aesthetics underneath. Over here you can see a little golden eagle. It's actually large in person and then at the other side of this underpass is the bald eagle representing the United States.
 This is over here is just a little bit of the aesthetics gives you kind of a preview. Of course these are room for plantings in here and then this is the hardscaping going on and another feature is going to be these pillars here which also echo the eagle motif on them. This project is really scheduled to be
 appreciably complete by the holiday season. Definitely by Christmas, we expect the majority of it to be complete. We'll still be doing punch list items. They expect to finish milestone three by Thanksgiving. So that's going to be a big relief. Although I have to say the Bridge of the Americas is experiencing a lot of congestion as it always has.
 And while when we open up the lanes on the I-110 that are still under construction, that should add a little bit more storage in that area, which should provide some relief. And then we can open up the westbound exit from I-10 west down to the I-110.
 Montana Avenue is another big project ongoing. This $144 million project is turning Montana into an expressway and adding frontage roads. This has not been very disruptive to traffic because we were able to use Montana, build the westbound frontage roads, and now they're open and the eastbound frontage roads is a current Montana area.
 This is going to be in three phases. In phase one, you see on the screen is this turquoise line, which is bound to be complete by next winter.
 The pinkish line represents Phase 2, where we'll extend the project from Tierra Este to past Zaragoza, and that project should let in fiscal year 2026. Phase 3 will add these direct connectors at Global Reach and to and from Loop 375.
 This is just a preview of some of the aesthetics that we have going on there. What you see at the bottom is – are the new main lanes, and you can see the traffic over here to the left is – that's the westbound frontage roads that are now open, and you can see along there trees that have been planted along there. And then traffic continues to flow over here on the existing eastbound lanes.
 The LOOP 375 project, Bob Hope to Zaragoza, this is the system out there that we have. This is a couple of phases and it shows here kind of how it's designed to fit in with the city's wind road project, which will help take truck congestion off the main lanes. This project has done ramp reversals, continuous frontage roads, and lane widening.
 You can see here this is phase one that is just now wrapping up. This is the operational improvements, ramp improvements on the lower half of this project. Again, just getting ready to wrap and then we're already started phase two, which is the widening happening all the way from Bob Hope down to Zaragoza.
 again the continuous frontage roads which is important in this area because we have an area between North Loop and Alameda that has a railroad track and a canal running through it and without those frontage roads traffic wanting to get over that had to get up on the main lanes but you can see in this picture that
 So in case you are unaware or unfamiliar with the area, this now is open and ready to go. This is the frontage road bridge that takes you over that railroad track and canal.
 Southbound from North Loop to Alameda. Here's where the Walmart is and that's a really busy place. And this means that no more backing up of traffic on the frontage roads trying to get that Alameda exit because it at the Alameda exit is now earlier and you can this is actually a frontage road.
 That would take you and then this is part of the phase two on this project that shows you the bridge. This is a couple weeks ago, but so they've already progressed further on this bridge deck. But the contractor is working hard to get that completed so that it can also serve as a detour when they go to.
 complete the rest of this project. This will be filled in because the widening is happening to the center. So they'll also be constructing a bridge here. So you can see why they would need to use this. The project has been working from the south end northward on the bridges and from the northbound southward on the lane widening.
 Trans Mountain Road Rehabilitation undergoing now. It's – we're getting ready to open up the eastbound lanes. A closure will begin Sunday night. The eastbound lanes are –
 now paved, you can see in this picture, and as soon as they're striped and ready to go, they have to move some barrier and they will be starting that process so that we will have eastbound lanes open. They will still be working on guardrails, they'll still be working on the center median, but we can expect all of the pavement done on that project by the end of October. So that one is coming along.
 Mesa, everybody's favorite project. I know because I get a lot of feedback on this project. This project is also, we're seeing some light at the end of the tunnel on this. The northbound lanes have their final lift of asphalt pavement. The southbound lanes finished getting their final lift of pavement yesterday, and they will continue paving the center median turnbays.
 this week and then continue on with the rest of the right turn bays on the southbound lanes as soon as they're done with the center medians, which we all know have been pretty rough lately. And then striping will follow. They'll begin striping the northbound lanes as soon as they can and then do the southbound lanes. But I think those tabs are pretty effective right now in delineating the lanes and so we're all going to be
 hugely relieved when this project is finished. I-10 widening East Lake to Horizon. This is a big job that's just getting underway. It is
 widening I-10 from four lanes to six on the east part of town, which is seeing a lot of congestion and backup because, as we all know, that area horizon and thereabouts is bumping. And so with that great growth that we've seen in there lately, we also have seen a lot of traffic backing up. We just don't have the capacity on the roadways. So this is a welcome project.
 that is currently underway. I will mention it too is an RMS 2020 project. We'll talk a little bit more about the RMS coming up. Another project underway is the Loop 375 at Sargent Major, which is basically intersection improvements at Sargent Major, which is also an RMS 2020.
 project. So we've also undertaken quite a bit of preventative maintenance in El Paso and current projects there is the
 happening in Anthony on Donovan to Antonio Street. I mean, it's actually, I think it is Antonio Street, and it's Donovan to I-10 there. Loop 375, Cesar Chavez is getting ready to start. Alameda, east of Loop 375, is also getting resurfaced. That's underway. Zaragoza from Sunfire to Montana.
 is coming up and Loop 375, Pelicano to North Loop also on the way. And this is basically mill and fill resurfacing, mill and inlay where we take up the old asphalt and put down the new. This photograph is actually from the project that we did on I-10, which if you all noticed driving out on the east side, there's fresh new asphalt out there and it's very nice to drive on.
 Our End the Streak and Road to Zero projects. This is sort of an overview, and I'll drill down in the next couple slides about this. We're adding raised median, sidewalk, pedestrian rail, illumination, safety improvements, and
 several different locations, about 11. We're installing a wrong-way driver system on Loop 375. We have median concrete barrier going in at Pine Springs because that's a windy road and we don't want drivers departing their lanes in that area. Ramp modifications are almost nearing completion out there on US 54 from Martin Luther King to Sean
 Hagerty, which moving the ramp back will help prevent some rear-end crashes. And we've got the pedestrian hybrid beacons and rail, which is going in at – on North Mesa. From Baltimore down to near River, we'll see improvements in that whole area, and the installation of hybrid beacons. Also, Dyer from Harrison to Flory was ongoing at the time of this slide, and it's expanded.
 I have a little bit more detail on that. We're also putting concrete traffic barrier on I-10 from Executive near the university in that area. This photo shows you the completed, one little section of completed project on Copia. And then this again lists the other locations that are getting these raised median safety projects. I wanted to mention that
 This is what
 This illustrates how it reduces conflicts, potential conflicts, because when you have that center turn lane that's bidirectional, you have all of these conflict points represented by these red dots – conflicts with pedestrians, conflict with cyclists, conflicts with other cars – and a driver has to be aware of all of these potential conflicts when pulling out. But when you reduce it by adding a raised median,
 you greatly reduce the chance of conflicts here in the conflict points. This shows Dyer. This is the length of the project on Dyer. The yellow and white running along the center of these three lengths of roadway represents the new median that's going in.
 And what you see overlaid are the crashes that we've had there. These represent the crash data from 2016 to 2021.
 Black ones being fatalities, red ones being serious injuries, and then the rest are less serious or possible injuries. And then just others are where people were not – the dark brown is where people were actually not injured, but there was still an incident. So this represents a lot of –
 a lot of crashes that have happened along there, and some of them are with pedestrians. And so I think you can see why we chose the location in order to remedy this, because in just five years, the 281 incidents of crashes is huge. So that type of analysis was used in choosing all of the locations where these raised medians are going.
 This is just wanted to point this one out. This is another area on Montana that's getting the raised median. It is also in line for green ribbon funds coming up for fiscal year 2023. So you might notice that this is
 happening right in front of the Oscar Leaser's Hyundai store on Montana, but he was very pleased to see this going in because he himself has witnessed crashes and near misses out there in front of his project. And he, upon seeing the project, he thought it was great, asked for no special dispensation at all.
 On Loop 375, I mentioned the wrong way driver advanced technologies that are going in, and this is on basically from downtown where the border highway, border west expressway meets the border highway, and then running along this way to avoid
 those wrong-way drivers and the system is basically designed to detect a vehicle. It has flashing signs that will alert a driver that they're going the wrong way and then we will have CCTV cameras in there so that we can verify that there is a wrong-way driver and then send an alert so that we can alert with this illuminated sign here that there is maybe a wrong-way driver coming and
 drivers that are just making their way on that roadway can then pull over or get out of the way. And certainly you know that if the wrong-way driver is coming on a road, they're more likely in the far left lane because they think they're going the right way and that in a non-divided highway situation. So it's a way for people to be alert to that and get out of the way. This here shows the changes that we're making for the ingress and egress
 at Oregon Street. So drivers exiting are going to have a raised curb that will channelize them northbound onto Oregon. And if you're coming southbound on Oregon, we have another robust system to channelize drivers to head westbound again
 in that area so that of course that to if you are going to go the wrong way you really really want to go the wrong way. It's going to be very difficult for a driver to actually do that but we do have this robust system coming in there. Median cable barrier projects. Now this one I just mentioned because some of us do like to take road trips across Texas and we had two projects that started in 2018.
 The last project should complete this October. This addition of median cable barrier that will cover any gaps where it didn't exist, or naturally, of course, there are some natural barriers along that way, but it's a 186-mile stretch of I-10
 rural El Paso, Hudspeth and Culberson counties. This is purely preventative as it will prevent crossover crashes which almost always result in fatalities and serious injuries and you can see that it's going up along that in that area. Here is just a quick slide that shows you last winter when we had the terrible snowstorm I-10 near Sierra Blanca. All of these trucks, all of them,
 were at risk of crossing over, but you can see that the cable barrier held them back. And this is several that hit that barrier and did not cross over into oncoming traffic, which would have surely been a disaster. Again, you can sort of see it here and here, holding these vehicles back. Even though there's numerous vehicles and the cable barrier was stretched, it did hold them back.
 We're also replacing the safety barriers I mentioned before and adding high-mass lighting on I-10 near the UTEP area. That's what's narrowing down the lanes there and making our rush hour commutes a little bit slower, although people have seemed to cope with it fairly well. By now, they should already have the cages put up there, the forms, so that they can pour that cast-in-place concrete barrier
 So that's underway now. And the RMS 2020 is something that I mentioned earlier. Our Metropolitan Planning Organization, the MPO, of course that's made up of all of our state elected officials, representatives from the City of El Paso, the county, the outlying other small municipalities in our area all have representation on that.
 This plan was designed and voted on by them and adopted by the MPO. And this map illustrates all of the sort of future and current projects that we have going on in that area. I mean, some of them have already let, some are letting soon. But TxDOT as an entity, you know, we follow this plan. We do.
 work with our city and our county and the surrounding areas, which includes New Mexico, to come up with the best possible projects for our area.
 One of those is the I-10 widening west, which we're very excited to know, to tell you guys about, because it is widening I-10 from four lanes in each direction to six from North Mesa up to the state line, so that now when you cross into New Mexico, the lanes will match.
 and it's widening to the inside. So it didn't require a lot of right away. We are including operational improvements. We're reversing several of the ramps, which means that the merge action will be happening on the frontage roads rather than on the main lanes adding friction this
 Incidentally has like 38 bridges along there that will be affected. Maybe I've got that number right. Maybe I don't. Maybe the next slide will tell me, but it's $194 million project that is letting in October. So construction on that should begin early in the new year. And because there are frontage roads along there, it, you know, we have a way to get around it when there are closures. And that is good news.
 29 ramps will be reconstructed, that's 37 bridges will be widened and brought up to the current height standards of 18.5 feet, and this will really help with the congestion that we're seeing there,
 When you get to Sunland Park toward Mesa at 5 o'clock, it's a pinch point because it narrows down from three lanes to two, and then that congestion persists for several exits, and this will alleviate that.
 The Loop 375 widening and frontage roads project from Spur 601 to Montana is widening that area of Loop 375 and adding frontage roads which weren't there before. So that will let in May of 2022. That's also coming right up. Some of the key priority projects for the MPO are shown here.
 And I'll go into each of them really briefly. The Artcraft interchange is, we all seen, or maybe not all of us, but many of us have been stuck behind fan blades or large oversized cargo that comes through the area from the port in New Mexico. So this project goes from the New Mexico state line west of us to 178 is Artcraft to I-10 with a,
 these proposed improvements including these direct connectors that you can see here. Do not screenshot this and think that that's the final product. We're still engineering this to have, we're still evaluating how to have the fewest possible impacts there, but of course there will be some impacts. There'll be from Upper Valley Road and Westside Drive, there'll be,
 grade separated interchanges, which of course are always much safer. And then we'll have other access control measuring, reconstruction and widening, and extending the frontage roads in both directions. So we're only at 45% of the schematic at this point. We expect it – the environmental is at 30% and we expect it to be cleared in fiscal year 2022. This will not let until 2023.
 Here's an example of those oversized loads that are holding up traffic. And often it's not just one at a time. It's often two or three coming through at a time. So if you get stuck there, you can be stuck there for 30 or 40 minutes while they make their maneuvers to get through those intersections.
 The Borderland Expressway is something that has been in the works for a very long time, and this would be a new roadway going from Luke 375, peeling off from Luke 375 and heading.
 north, all the way up to the New Mexico state line, meeting up basically with around Martin Luther King, incorporating then on the New Mexico side, their 213 to their 404, which is the Anthony Gap. So a lot of people have been asking about this project, having an alternate relief route that would take people through.
 El Paso without having to go through downtown, people who have no intention of stopping. Now that it is a small percentage of truck traffic that we see, for example, on I-10 is not local traffic, but it still will provide some relief, especially because the only alternate route, or I should say the only alternate routes include
 the border west expressway or the border highway loop 375 or Trans Mountain loop 375 Trans Mountain, which is an 8% grade, whereas the Anthony gap is only a 3% grade. So it's much more attractive to truck drivers to take that. So if they're if
 truck drivers, cars are not going to make a stop in El Paso. This kind of gets them out of the core of our city. It has the schematics at 100%. We're going to have our public hearing on this, we expect in January 2022, and it will be let in phases. And so phase one is only $20.4 million. Whoops, okay, well anyway,
 My computer was a little slow. Sorry, I went back because phase one would be just this portion. And then phase two would be basically a super two going the rest of the way. My computer, I'm sorry, is suddenly bouncing around. Thank you.
 I-10 Segment 2, or also known as Downtown 10, is under development now. It's 5.6 miles of I-10 from Executive to Copia, and there is a strong purpose and need for this, providing long-term solutions for the El Paso region to improve mobility, long-term congestion management, improve incident management, and bring the facility up to current design standards.
 The proposed improvements include reconstruction of the main lanes and you may have seen and know that our main lanes there are at the point of needing a lot of maintenance. They take up a huge portion of our maintenance budget. We're constantly doing spa repairs in that area and
 This will – they just – they've reached the end of their pavement life, basically, and so they do need – that does need to happen. So what else can we do with this to help better necessary changes? Well, it would include bringing the bridges up to current standards, ramping improvements, and –
 We have three viable alternatives at this point that we're still evaluating. We have the environmental assessment ongoing. We expect that to be cleared by summer 2023. We have already had two public meetings on it.
 We've also had numerous stakeholder and other meetings. We have public meeting number three slated for spring 2022. The estimated development target would be 2025. Subject to funding, we think it's going to be about a $750 million project. This is sort of a preview here. Oh, there I go again. Sorry, hot fingers on the mouse. Yes.
 I'm gonna get, yeah, now these are moving. This is just sort of a sneak peek about what we could expect to see at the public meeting. I think we have bandwidth issues that are making them a little, here we go, not so jerky now. This is just a downtown view of some of the three alternatives that were kind of made it through the decision lens and we're at D, G and H. I'll just let this play for a second so you can sort of get a sense of what it could look like.
 what the different alternatives offer. So the alternatives themselves are not set in stone at this point. There can still be modifications made during this next round of public meeting and after that before we go to reach a final recommended design. We've also taken the no-build option through the environmental process to evaluate how that would work for our city.
 This project is designed for the future as well. We're looking at traffic volumes for 2042 and how that would affect our city. We all have lived through what happens when we wait to do something because it's never fun to undertake one of these large projects, but if you wait until you're in the midst of more congestion, it just gets worse.
 You can stay up to date by visiting our Downtown 10 webpage, which you can reach at reimaginei10.com. And you don't have to remember the slash Downtown 10, but you can actually go there and there are images of the Downtown 10 site.
 You can see the logo there you can click on when you scroll down on the page. You can also email us any comments, questions at downtown10 at techs.gov and we can help you out there if you have questions. But this website is there you can see everything that we have put out to date on there and learn about the project there. Then we have current, this is my last slide, so we have current
 corridor studies, some that we've completed and some that are still underway, that include the Reimagine I-10 project study and the North Mesa or SH-20, it's not just Mesa, it included Doniphan and down to, all the way down to, in three segments, Doniphan, Mesa, and Alameda, all SH-20, Artcraft, Horizon, and the US-67 corridor that happened downcountry.
 So now if anybody has any questions, I want to thank you all for the time. I hope I went through it at a good speed, not too fast and not too slow. Thank you again, Jennifer. That was really great. I have some questions, but I know that there's council members that signed up.
 Question number, I think Representative Nello is first up and then followed by Representative Molinar. And we also have public comment whenever you're ready. Can we hear public comment first? Yes, sir. We have Ms. Lisa Turner. Hi, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Ms. Turner. You have three minutes now. I have some questions. First off, these oversized loads, can we restrict them?
 to a time frame when they can access our roads, like midnight to 4 a.m.? That's a great question. We can and we do, but we are not an enforcement agency. And so we have just been looking at this recently and trying to get
 some cooperation or some input from local law enforcement to see what it is that we can do. It's a challenge. They drive a very short distance in Texas before they're on I-10, and so we are looking into that, and thank you for bringing that up because that is a –
 That's a thing that we are looking at. My concern is when they start crossing these intersections, you're talking no emergency vehicles can move. You're talking huge backlog in both or all directions and all of a sudden no police, no fire, no EMS can access the area. So these things should be no more on the road during the day, midnight to 4 a.m. when there's very little traffic.
 Why is it there are always ponds on I-10 when it rains? There is drainage in place and TxDOT's responsibility when it comes to drainage is to manage the runoff from our roadways. That's what we design for. We have ponding areas and we have a certain amount of, you know, square footage, so to speak, of impermeable surface and we design our roadways to manage that.
 However, you know that there have been some overwhelming rainstorms and by overwhelming, I mean they have overwhelmed all the systems in place, whether they were the city stormwater, county stormwater or TxDOT's own, you know, amount of water. So it we our job is to keep the roadways safe and passable. And we do.
 that and when a roadway becomes impassable because it's flooded, we try to shut it down and then get out there and remediate it some way, whether we're pumping water off or clearing a drain or, you know, doing what we can. If we can't, we shut the roadway down, let the waters recede, and then we get out there and clean them up and make the roadway safe and passable again. What I'm trying to say is it seems to me that our roads are designed for it never rains. Right.
 i mean mccray at i-10 has been flooding for 40 years that i that i've been here in el paso that's 40 years folks and nothing's been done and we've got ponding on i-10 you've got people in this town i'm sorry i know they don't know how to drive because it hardly ever rains and then when it does thank you miss turner it's 70 miles an hour to a puddle then they're in somebody's other car
 Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That concludes public comment on this item. Okay. Uh, represent vanilla followed by representative Molinar. Hi, Jennifer. Um, I love it. How are you? I think it looks really amazing. It's great on you. Oh, thank you.
 So Ms. Twitter brings up a great point. She talked about I-10, but I want to talk a little bit about 54. Because with the first storm in July, my husband and I were actually stuck on 54. And I can tell you that road is not designed to be safe or passable. And mediating, I mean, we literally on our way back saw men with brooms
 water to their waste, pushing water off of it. And I think Ms. Turner brings up a really great point. You know, this council has been having conversations with the water utility, but Tech Start also needs to be part of that conversation because it does impact not just our drivers, but also people who, or individuals who live off of 54 or I-10 and that runoff that's happening has become very dangerous for our constituents.
 So would love to hear from you at your next presentation on any kind of mitigation that TxDOT is planning. Thank you. Well, I will say this, that we are working closely with El Paso Water and these storms that we just had, of course, they were unprecedented. I think that I heard Mr. Schubert say that it was the last time that we had
 record rains like this was 1881. So we definitely will start looking at the roadway, but any forms of mitigation we could take, but we are taking into account El Paso Waters master plan when we design roadways so that we know what is expected. And we're also kind of our mandate is to not interrupt historical water flows, but we're not a water,
 a flood management company. But what we do is we manage the water runoff from our impermeable surface that we have, but water that comes from everywhere else, again, by not interrupting historical flows, the water typically for, you know, in many, many storms, in most storms, runs on by. But again, you know, you just, we're going to have to start looking at, you
 but if there's anything that needs to be done when we're having the volumes of water that we've had this last summer.
 which is an interesting conversation with 54, right? Because that was historically an Arroyo that we built a highway on. Um, so we did just by the creation, interrupt the natural water flow. And so things do need to be done. Um, I think water utility would also say the same, right? They have to build their master plan based on tech stock. So I think it's good to hear that there's a working relationship, but there, there does need to be some mitigation because I know, uh,
 Alan said it's been 100 years since we've seen that kind of rain. I don't think it'll be another 100 years. So, you know, I don't think we're going to have to wait that long to see these impacts again. My next comments, I'm absolutely sure you know what they are. If you could go to the slide about Copia and Dyer.
 I'm going to be honest, I really don't want to have this conversation today. And for Council's information, we've been talking to TxDOT a lot about this. So first with Dyer, you know, when you first presented that at your last update, I was very happy to hear that y'all were addressing the issue
 But one of my concerns is the public was not involved in this process. And our latest concern about this project has been from the ADA community and how their needs have not been taken into account. It has made it very difficult for the ADA community to access businesses across the street. I'll actually ask you to go to the slide that lists all the upcoming projects. I think you have a list of all the projects.
 with copia you know uh miss turner brought it up right emergency vehicles has been a concern but people actually not able to access their homes and their driveways um so i would just encourage uh any of the council members if you have a project on the street i would try to do some public outreach for it because texas you know
 you know, doesn't, their response to me has been they do not need to seek public input on these projects. And we're hearing a lot of concerns from business owners. We're hearing a lot of concerns from residents. I'll also say, and I've shared this with your engineers, I am disappointed that when you talk about pedestrian safety, lightings, crosswalks, and sidewalks were not something that was considered. And also that these medians were not even landscaped.
 You know, you just have these kind of very ugly and non-aesthetic medians impeding people's residences that they can now not access, and they're also just visually problematic. So I don't know if Texas, I know they've met with us, they've met with our state rep as well as our state senator. I don't know if there is a different response than we don't need public input and the project is done.
 Well, in the case of this project, there were a few things that happened. We had a shortened timeline because this was a statewide competitive selection process
 some money came available for these safety projects. We are trying to reach, we're on the road to zero. We're trying to end the streak of fatalities. I think we've seen a lot of illustrations of those what can happen out there just in the last few days, but because this crashed out of here indicated that there was a huge safety need. You know, we
 got the money, it was a competitive process, it had the NEPA clearance, it was a categorical exclusion, did not require public input because we aren't acquiring any right-of-way. And the goal in mind with these raised medians is to end this, is to stop this. So we are channelizing pedestrians, including, we have ADA compliant, but we are trying to encourage them to cross at a safe place.
 So that is what is going on. Actually, you know what? I have just received word that our district engineer would like to speak to this. I can tell you that when it comes to safety, that's our priority, and aesthetics fall to the wayside. And we can accommodate certain aspects, but when it succumbs, I also want to say we are not...
 preventing anybody from accessing their property. No matter what they say, it might be inconvenient, but it is not preventative.
 There are people who are having trouble backing in and out of their home at Copia, and the response from TxDOT was, this is a state highway. You can't back on this road. It's not our problem. But remembering that those homes have been there for 100 years, you know, it wasn't a great response, but I'd love to hear from the engineers again. Okay. I think Mayor Pro Tem is – if Tomas has –
 tomas trevino our district engineer has access to this can he speak um yeah if if he's on the line miss prine i don't know if he's on the line i would i would be okay with with him uh adding comments to uh to represent menezes questions oh he's there i see you we're mr trevino how are you sir good mayor for crow tim i just uh i just kind of wanted to interject a little bit uh
 Thank you for the opportunity. You know, so we did meet with Representative Anello's staff and like we expressed to him,
 We're willing to meet with some of these property owners on a case by case basis. Some of these we can address and some of them we can't. If we have somebody reversing across two travel lanes from the center turn lane, that is an unsafe maneuver. And regardless of our medium project, we do not think that that maneuver would be safe.
 But we are willing to work with any of these property owners to address some of these issues. We've met with folks out in the field and done some adjustments. One of the gentlemen had a limousine business that we were able to accommodate and work with, and we're willing to do that on a case-by-case basis. As I expressed to your staff, Representative Anello,
 you know, we're not gonna say that we're gonna accommodate everybody 100% and some of these medium projects will probably cause an inconvenience, but it is all in the purpose of safety. And now to your point of not addressing sidewalks and ADA,
 We did incorporate a lot of these issues. Now we might be channelizing them into an area that's safer to cross. We may be affording them POP systems that allows pedestrians to cross at mid blocks in a more safe maneuver. And again, it might be more of an inconvenience, but it is gonna be safer.
 The other thing is the lighting that you mentioned that we weren't incorporating. All the projects have lighting, or majority of the projects have lighting. Dyer itself may not have lighting at this point, but that's not to say that the medium will not afford us the ability to incorporate lighting along this corridor at later dates. So again, I just wanted to express some of our points. Again, these projects were meant to enhance safety. You can see by this slide, we had 281 incidents
 fatals, eight serious and all of them being something that we can do about it by reducing some of the congestion. Some of these corridors have...
 simply outgrown the traffic that's using them. And when you get to an ADT that's, you know, about 10,000, you really should be looking at something with a corridor to afford them a raised median that allows some of these, controls some of these access points. Anytime you have a driveway or an intersection, it's considered an access point. And we have a lot of access points along some of these corridors.
 that basically a left turn lane, a left turn bay just cannot accommodate anymore. So, again, everything we've done is in the interest of safety. And not to say that it won't be growing pain, but we're willing to work on a case-by-case basis. And if you'll just send them our way, we'll be willing to talk to them about anything they may have. Well, and I know that you've, again, I think Dyer is a different situation because it's more of a commercial and there has been a lot of,
 of issues, but I still think that the issues on COPA exist. I know that you're not required to have public comment for these projects, but I think it's just a courtesy. And again, I encourage the other city reps who have projects on that list to reach out before the project happens, because TxDOT is not going to do so. So my last and final question- Representative Manalo. Can I address that a little bit as well? So we did have a condensed timeline in developing these projects.
 We work with city staff and afforded them the opportunity to give us their input at 30, 60 and 90% plan completion.
 So I mean we'll we'll take more of a concerted effort to reach out to city reps in the future whenever we have projects like this. But we did we did make a good faith effort to work with city staff to get the word out that these projects were coming and were in the pipeline during during their development. So we learned from this project that unfortunately staff is not always updating the reps.
 Representative Vanilla, I know you have some other questions. Representative Vanilla, I know you have some other questions. We just want to give the opportunity to the rest of council to ask their questions before returning back to you, if that's okay. Mayor Patel.
 We'd like to make one comment. Yes, sir. I just would like to say that through Vision Zero, the one where we did update council, this is in conjunction with that. So we did update the council. We'll make an even more concerted effort to brief all of you, including Ms. Anello, so that we make sure we address any concerns that you all might have. But this is connected to the Vision Zero presentation that we gave to the council. Yes, sir. Representative Molinar? Yes, sir.
 THANK YOU, SIR. APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY. JENNIFER, GOOD MORNING TO YOU. GOOD MORNING, RICK MILLIONAIRE. NICE TO SEE YOU. I UNDERSTAND YOU'RE ALWAYS RIGHT. I TRY. ANYWAY, GOOD MORNING. IF YOU COULD GO TO SLIDE 13. I'M SORRY, WHICH ONE? 13, 1, 3. YES, SIR. RIGHT THERE. THANK YOU. AS YOU CAN SEE THAT ON MY SIDE, MY LEFT SIDE, THE SCREEN DEPICTS A VERY NICE POPPY, A MEXICAN GOLDEN POPPY. SO WHERE IS THAT EXACTLY RIGHT NOW?
 This is on Montana. This is Montana from Global Reach to just past Loop 375 and these they have ocotillos and poppies and other native flora or that theme goes through here and I know the northeast owns the poppies but this was an aesthetic plan that was put in place. All right you read my mind. You're a mind reader.
 Not only are you right, you're a mind reader. But yes, true to form, true to fact, you've lived here long enough in El Paso, the northeast seas, the poppies bloom. Maybe not as well as every year, but with those significant years where there's enough rainfall and everything else goes right in Mother Nature, we do have the golden vines.
 Blanket of poppies and it's just a sight to behold So anyways, I would request from the district engineer and yourself anybody else Please if you can and any future projects that coming up in the Northeast, please use that. It's great. It's aesthetic it says Northeast El Paso all over it and It would be a really really nice thing to do. I
 Thank you, Representative Molinar. Will do. One other question or comment I do have for the Borderland Expressway. I really wanted to make sure that project goes off and comes to fruition for all of El Paso. It's a regional benefit for everybody, and so I stand behind that 100%, and thank you for everything and all your efforts, ma'am. Thank you. Yes, it is in the Unified Transportation Plan, so that's good news. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Representative Molinar. Representative Anella, did you want to follow up? I know you said you had a couple more questions. Yeah, I just have one more question. I'd like to have some information on segment three of I-10. I know that wasn't in the presentation at all.
 Well, that's because it's not in our 10-year forecast. It's not – it hasn't – it has not made it into – it's listed as a priority project, but development has yet to begin on it. And it is more than 10 years out, so you will not find it in our planning documents as yet. Development has not started on it. We don't have a –
 That segment will likely be broken up into many smaller segments and emerge as different projects coming down the pike, but we're not working on it to that extent yet. But there is a design for it? No, I would say that there isn't a design for it. We did the corridor study and there was some ... In a corridor study, we really ...
 It's your opportunity to design, you know, like, oh, what would be the best possible thing that we could have, but that isn't always reasonable, feasible, and constructible. It's just like how would we solve all of the problems in this corridor? And so, you know, you look at a grand scheme, but what you can actually do are often, you know, different than that. But, no, there's no design work.
 been done on it at all. Sure. And we will let you know when that starts to kick off. Well, last time I had seen the corridor plan, I'm sorry, I said design, I guess I misspoke. I know that there were going to be some adjustments, so I just look forward to seeing those adjustments as soon as possible.
 Well, I mean, you say adjustments, but again, the corridor study was just like, you know, it was reimagining, literally imagining. And so when it comes time to, you know, sharpen a pencil and start designing, again, it'll be a completely, you know, start from zero type of process, beginning with public meetings again, identifying what are the issues that people see and, you know, what can we do to remedy them.
 So, you know. Okay, I'm going to see the adjustments at Techstop so that they would show me. So hopefully we can see those in the next update. Thank you, Jennifer. I, I, there, don't hold your breath on that. There, there really will not be, it's not something that we're, uh, have embarked on yet. May I pretend?
 Yes city manager. I'd like to correct something because I think earlier with my comments. I want to make sure they're not misunderstood Miss Sunilla was not made aware of these changes ahead of time and I think the only comment I was making is in reference to that this that the project that they presented earlier does support the vision zero concept and
 And that's the only comment that I was making but she was not made aware We need to do a better job of making her aware and others because she did not know about those changes And I think that's what she's referring to. So I just wanted to make that clear for the record I think when it comes towards these these projects that involve TxDOT and the city and collaboration between different departments. I don't think you could probably over communicate. Yes, sir I agree. I don't know represent Maneja. Did you have anything else you wanted to add? I
 No, that was it. Thank you. Okay, thank you. So I just had a couple comments. Again, if anybody else from council has any questions. First of all, thank you again.
 miss right for these i think uh these quarterly updates or or whenever they are i think they're always well received um from the council i think it's it's a great opportunity also to help the the the public know as well um you know a big big project for for me and my district is this widening of i-10 um it's not a question about whether or not um we see the need for it in the future we see the need for it now the fact is is that there's a backup past
 Mesa Street almost sometimes reaching the Sunland Park exit on I-10 East, especially in the morning, especially in the afternoons when people are coming home from work. So while it will be a multi-year pain for a lot of residents, I also think that they've seen the value, especially if they've seen the exemplary work on the Gotek, on the
 on go 10 as well as the loop 375 west border expressway as well that were completed do you have in as much as possible detail information about when these troubles are going to start for the west side
 Well, it will let in October, meaning that it will go out to bid. We'll have a contractor on board, and then it usually takes them about two or three months to gear up and get their plan of attack, and then they will start early in 2021. But it just depends on the contractor and their approach as to what exactly we'll see. I would imagine – I mean, actually, I can't even imagine. They can either start working on ramps
 and get the ramping done and then move to the main lane so they can move to the widening of the main lane. Some will just set up barrier and work on the main lanes behind barrier. So it will become apparent early 2022. Okay. And by then hopefully we'll have more of these updates in the coming and one maybe in January or February where we'll be able to
 shed some light on that. Great, I'd be more than happy to co-host any sort of community meeting to let people know when it's eminent there and of course working closely with your office and the district to make sure that we get those evening closures and weekend closures that we're all probably anticipating for this project to be properly communicated to the public. So I wanna thank you for that. Another project that looks like it's wrapping up as well is the albatross known as Mesa Street.
 So you're telling me that striping will be started or completed by next week is the anticipated date for that?
 It's actually possible that they'll start – they're trying to get the – okay, I know a little too much about this, but they are trying to get the contractor – is working to get the striping contractor out there as early as this week. But, you know, they'll be out there at their earliest convenience. Again, they're working on those problematic inside median turn bays, and then they'll complete those this week, hopefully, and then move to the right turn –
 turn base and they can begin striping the northbound lanes as soon as they can get a contractor on board great so one part of the project that that I've noticed I remember in being at those meetings with mr. Bielek and others with giant maps of Mesa Street
 When this project was being discussed as a reconstruction project were the outlets on Brentwood and at the intersection of Brentwood and Mesa that would alleviate some of the Speed and runoff coming down Brentwood and then cascading into the parking lot of Hoppy Monk and other commercial facilities so I
 yesterday we had an update with the Public Service Board and with with El Paso water and they said we gave the money to text out it's on them so that's right now that we have text out here my question to text out is what's going on with these outlets and when is it gonna get done so we did roll that project into our project and so it has the same contractor
 We have been lately pushing for the lanes to be get their final pavement. So that's what their focus has been, but they, they,
 Haven't heard from them exactly when they plan to start that part of this project But it cannot be soon enough because I know that when we have these discussions the idea was They're gonna do these improvements on Brentwood They're gonna do these improvements on Mesa all the traffic headaches all the concerns all the pile up all the traffic all the the yelling all the troubles it's all gonna be done at the same time and then boom in a year and a half and
 you're going to have a brand new street with outlets and no more water problems. And so from what I understand right now is not only will the outlets not be done at the same time with Mesa, but we don't know when the outlet project is going to start. It would only be logical that they would begin, you know, as soon as they have the manpower available to do that portion. And how many other projects does this current contractor have on their plate right now?
 well at at least two others with us and i don't know how many with the city is there any way we can find out a loose timeline about when those brentwood outlet improvements were i don't know if that's a your question or maybe we can ask city staff to inquire with the contractor but it would i'm happy to i'm happy to make the inquiry and get back to you great
 That would be wonderful. So some of the other questions I have, again, just going along the Mesa theme of the last two minutes was I'm very happy to see the Mesa corridor improvements going on. These are much needed, especially as it relates towards pedestrian safety and encouraging people to use the eight-story parking garage that is built on the corner of Glory Road and Oregon Street, which would help to improve.
 Encourage people parking away from the residential neighborhoods in the current place area Which I can tell you seems to be a pretty significant issue for a number of the residents Big part of that is making sure that that those patrons to those restaurants and other establishments feel comfortable crossing a state highway also affectionately referred to as Mesa Street and
 So these pedestrian improvement projects are extremely important, especially along the corridor on Mesa between Cincinnati and Baltimore. I'm just curious in terms of what that final answer.
 design is going to look like. I know in the Mesa corridor study that this is that these improvements are based off of there was mentioned for that median to be landscaped and or even have a public art component. So I'm curious if you could help illuminate us to what what that design is going to look like.
 So you mean the future vision for it, not necessarily the current project we're undertaking? No, the current project that is based upon short and median term solutions from the Mesa Corridor study, which calls for an elevated landscaped median between Baltimore and Cincinnati.
 Okay, so when we did that corridor study on Mesa, we again dreamed really big what it could be. And so one possible solution there, which would be definitely a long-term solution, that's not something that would happen in the near term based on the funding that is available, but would be one of the solutions.
 themes that was looked at one of the visions for it was the possibility of tunneling under in that segment uh to no i i hear what you're saying i'm asking about what y'all are building right now is it just going to be a concrete slab uh and a median or is it actually going to be what's it going to look like well what we're adding uh there now is basically it's the same as these raised medium projects where we're going to have uh
 pedestrian railing going in in some locations to channelize pedestrians. And then we're adding in-pavement lighting at the crosswalk, as you and I, I think before, had talked about one time, like at the crosswalk at El Paso High, it has lights that illuminate the sidewalk in the pavement so that it helps cars see that there's something going on.
 But this project that we're doing right now is strictly safety funds. So what it will include is more robust medians that will provide for a safe landing, this pedestrian railing that will channelize pedestrians. There will be two locations that have the HAWC system,
 for typical mid block crossings where a pedestrian like at Schuster where a pedestrian push a button and the lights will flash so so are you following are you following design that was laid out in the Mesa Street corridor as it relates towards the raised median between Cincinnati and Baltimore and Mesa Street
 There may be some similarities there, but what we're following right now is the basic safety design that we're implementing in other places in the city. If you're looking for shrubbery, that's not what you're going to find there. All right. So then one of the most important –
 Let me just, this is a short-term solution. What we were looking for was we had these safety funds available. I get that. I get that, and it's not your fault, but I just think it's important to understand that this State Department, in one of the busiest commercial corridors next to a Tier 1 university, UTEP, next to a number of existing residential neighborhoods and commercial districts,
 is going to basically put in a concrete median and some rail.
 Well, it's going to be way more than that because it will be robust systems in place and safe landings. And it's going to be as attractive as we can make it. And now look what you've done. No, I understand. You've gotten Tomas back on the line there. I understand that. I just, the kind of, I know, and there's Mr. Trevino. And I actually, my first meeting with Mr. Trevino, I took him to this intersection because of how much of a danger it was. And I remember that.
 and i appreciate him taking the time it's just when the state when the state when it comes to el paso when it comes to the state like doing the bare minimum i mean we shouldn't even have to wait these many decades to get these kind of pedestrian safety items into this into this commercial corridor onto mesa street and the fact that the design is literally bare bones um
 for a safety concern and I get that but not going above and beyond is just it's very disappointing. We beg to differ. It is not bare bones. It's robust and impavement lighting is unprecedented in a tech stop project like this. But I believe that my boss here, our district engineer, would like to weigh in.
 So if you don't mind me interjecting. So these are safety funds dedicated strictly towards safety, and landscaping is not allowed under that umbrella. Not to say we can't come back with green ribbon money at this particular location. We've made the commitment to do that.
 along Montana where we're doing a raised median project that we don't have any landscaping in the median. We made that commitment already to come back and do some landscaping in there. So we'll look at this area as well and look at doing some landscaping improvements in there too. With the dedicated funding that we are,
 allocated to do specifically that. So we've got some green ribbon money that we can dedicate to it. I'd be more than happy to share with you y'all's designs as well from the Mesa Street corridor to remind you kind of what was presented to the public as well. I just had a couple of few things I understand that I need to wrap up right now.
 One thing is I'm encouraged to see the different alternatives for the downtown i-10 project I just want to again stress on the record and in public that the frontage roads being sensitive to being in an urban environment It's our historic urban
 corridor within downtown and having a design and having speeds of what you would see on a gateway Boulevard on the far east side or the far west side is simply not appropriate for a historic core for downtown or urban core and I think that it really, really, really, really, really needs to be considered in terms of that design. Love the fun facts.
 Ms. Wright on the presentation who knew that Mesa was built in 1924 and then the other thing as well is the art craft issue is continues to be an issue it's been an issue since I was first elected in the summer of 2015 I understand that y'all do not have any enforcement guidelines as it relates towards our craft and Piedumichi Highway from the Santa Teresa port of entry however in
 It is not acceptable to this community, and it is a clear and present danger, as Ms. Turner had pointed out, to have these long, oversized wind turbines going in the middle of the day, in the morning, and in the evening during rush hour.
 there and so to the extent that that's possible there is a contact that I can reach out to on behalf of my office to ask for them for some for some consideration for our community I'd be more than happy to help out but it just seems to be a really big problem to have these to have these intersects to have these oversized you have these wind blades out there like that
 And then the other thing, Ms. Wright, in relation towards the RCAP project is I know that there's a number of very eager residents who would love to find out when you're going to start to have public meetings to communicate the RCAP improvements to.
 Okay, we're looking at Raul there, who, by the way, was nodding his head when you were making your comments about the Downtown Town project. He's the head of our Transportation Planning and Design, and he was nodding his head in response to your cautionary remarks about that project. I think there were six release I used there, so it really is a concern of mine. So thanks again, Council. Thank you again. And does anybody else have any other questions or concern? Representative Rivera?
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. It was our pleasure. And again, we'll see you quarterly if that's what you all want. Happy to do it. And that to your concerns, Ruffinello, you know, we're here now and we're going to make a better effort to communicate what's happening on our projects by regularly scheduling these updates with City Council. Thank you so much. Thank you again, Ms. Wright. And thank you, Mr. Trevino and the staff at TxDOT. Thank you.
 ms prine can we uh have uh listen to call call the public now we need to wait until noon i have 1202 oh it's 11 55 on this other clock yes okay would you like to take a five minute recess sure okay may we have a motion to recess so moved second there's a motion and a second to recess the city council meeting all in favor aye anyone opposed the motion passes and the meeting is in recess until noon it's 12. mayor pro temp it's 12.
 Yes. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Yes. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 12.01 p.m. We now go to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of this city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon, we have 17 members of the public that signed up to speak.
 Each one shall have three minutes. We'll begin with Mr. Dayup. Mr. Dayup's topic is economic development director selection process. Good afternoon, Mr. Dayup. I've been actively engaged in our community for close to 30 years in trying to grow it and make it a better place for all of us. So the subject is the vacancy that's been recently created by the departure of the economic development director.
 the recent vacancy has created i think an excellent opportunity for city council and the mayor and city manager to begin a process to identify someone nationally recognized to take on that position at at the city many of the states with whom we compete have one or two major metropolitan areas that their state
 their governor, their state government can support them in economic opportunities. We are, some would say, at a slight advantage, some would say at a disadvantage. We have basically six major metropolitan cities in the state, and because of the way our structure is set up today, the governor really can't overtly support a particular community one over the other in economic development growth.
 San Antonio was a prime example years ago with the Toyota plant. Once the company identifies a location it wants to be located in, then the governor and his office can engage and participate in the process, offer incentives, and negotiate contracts. The other major metro cities in the state, all of which you know, Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, Austin, Fort Worth,
 They're already high on the radar screen for economic development recruitment. We have a disadvantage here, being out here in far west Texas. And so what we need in this position is an individual, man or woman, who has been nationally recognized, someone who has the capabilities to pick up the telephone and call a site relocation consultant, get them on the phone, invite them down here, and work with them,
 to bring that credibility to the process and so we want to encourage the council and mayor to direct the city manager to look for a search firm hire a search firm and do a national search for an economic development director that can really well represent our community i've provided you each copies through laura and i will send them to you also digitally
 And I think you'll be receiving if you haven't already done so letters of similar Messaging from the business community in El Paso as many business leaders. Thank you one last line Would very much like should you go through that process to be a part of a selection committee to help advise you? Thank you for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is miss anguilla
 Her topic is the awful situation from residents due to bars and patrons.
 from the Cincinnati Street Crime Area. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. As you said, I'm Ann Jan Julia, resident of the Kern Place near Cincinnati Crime District. You should know my name because I've already emailed the council as well as the mayor multiple times, but I've never gotten a single reply from any one of you with the exception of Representative Anello's office. So I want to thank her for her courtesy and compassion.
 I'll cut right to it. The bar lost and found has somehow by this city's laws and this council's created noise ordinance,
 Been allowed to continue to violate my and my neighbor's right to peace and quiet for over two years now. Four days a week. The noise ordinance is a joke. 70 decibels is too high. Six police officers at my backyard and neighbors five blocks away from the bar all agree. We hear bass thumping music and cannot sleep in our own homes. Let that sink in. Peter knows this.
 He's done nothing to fix this ordinance, as we should hear a level of zero in our homes. Next, zoning is out of control. Six establishments that never served alcohol before Svartsbind took office now do. This has ruined a neighborhood six times as much trash, crime, property damage by six times as many drunk patrons wandering around our homes at night, all illegally parked. Peter knows this.
 Residents police our own homes at night. Recent newspaper articles citing decreases in noise and lawlessness are lies. Trust us. We residents are here 24-7. We know what we see. We live here. Residents must have the say and more of a voice than bar owners who have their bottom line profit in mind and not our community, not our children's quality of life. We demand an end to bar impunity. Your ordinances are flawed.
 and insufficient. Law-abiding citizens are punished four days a week while offending bars continue to offend week after week. They're not forced to contain or turn off their noise. A bar with open slats for walls is allowed to open across the street from residents. That's insane. Fix it.
 Enact an ordinance where a decibel reader in my home is zero or at an ambient level. That is my right to peace and quiet, not 70 from a bar property line. Make bars inform their patrons to not park in the neighborhood. Make them validate UTEP parking garage parking. Anything less is you allowing my neighborhood to be trashed. It's happening on your watch.
 okay we demand a council meeting with this topic on the agenda not a mere three minutes we residents have spent countless hours emailing filling out notarizing tabc county no nuisance forms all with zero results zero relief all of those entities point us back to you our district one rep our city council members peter
 No more band-aids. Thank you, ma'am. No decorative lighting. Thank you, ma'am. We're up to three minutes. Next speaker. I'd also like to ask my neighbor, Ray Davis. We have the next speaker, which is Mr. Jaime Vasquez. I just want to also comment that I've pleased you. Next speaker. Next speaker. I just want to give that.
 that's not how it works ma'am it's not how it works there's a lot you don't know how it works we'll call the next speaker which is miss gloria cron miss gloria cron she will be followed by mr stephen strummer miss lisa turner mr colt de morris good afternoon miss kron you'll have three minutes miss kron's topic is personal case regarding community development first time homebuyers program thank you thank you beforehand
 a case that has been going on for more or less six years. I've been trying to fix the matter. I have been spoke, during these years, I have been spoken to Ms. Patricia White, Ms. Briones, Mrs. Briones, Mr. Art Rubio, many times with Ms. Moraima. I have Sergio Rodriguez,
 and James Martinez and their supervisors also. My name is Gloria Cran. My sister is Luz Camarillo. I live at the 11049 Spinnaker and my sister Luz is the owner. She applied many years ago, she applied for a loan to the city and the city approved and they made some fixtures in my home.
 They applied the roof, they put the roof in the house, but it was a T-lock roof. And no insurance here in El Paso will ever insure the home. All these years we've been without an insurance.
 And I've been trying to fix the matter, as I say, but until now, I have no answers. I would like to please ask for your help in this matter. My sister Luz already passed away in April. And now...
 This matter will be coming to me. The city tells me that I owe them $7,000, a little bit more. But I don't know for a reason that that amount came to $3,000. I don't know why. Maybe they should tell you why. And this $3,000, I've been trying to fix.
 and do and there's been no response from them. And now that Luz Camarillo, my sister passed away, now that's matter is gonna be, is coming to me now. Please I ask you, six long years coming in appointments and going and asking and
 and it's been very bad for me. As I said, please, I'm asking for your help in this matter. Six years is more than enough time. And to me, I mean, it's- Thank you, Ms. Cron. Excuse me? Thank you, ma'am, you've reached the three minute limit. Thank you. Are my three minutes over? Yes, ma'am. Oh. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Mr. Steven Strummer.
 I don't see Mr. Strummer in chambers. We'll move to Ms. Lisa Turner. Ms. Turner's topic is El Paso Electric Rate Increase. Good afternoon again, Ms. Turner, you have three minutes. Good afternoon. I attended one of the in-face meetings with El Paso Electric in the Northeast. I was informed by the CEO that this rate increase was gonna be shared. It's a sad thing to note that when I got the information,
 It's not being shared. Out of the $41 million in change rate increase that they're asking for, residential customers, you and me, get to pay over $38 million of that. Now tell me, how in the world is that shared? Can somebody help me with that? I mean, we used to have a public utility regulation board, but the last board did such a good job, council got rid of it.
 Because neither the gas company or El Paso electric got what they wanted They got what they were legally allowed to have but they didn't get what they wanted and here we are again today 41 million dollar request 38 plus million paid for by residential customers Business getting off Government's getting off. We're stuck with the bill. I hate to break it to you folks. I
 and I'll tell this to El Paso Electric. You get that amount, then one of the refrigerators in my house will come out. That means I can't store my hatch chili, I can't be making bourbon balls come up winter because my other refrigerator will just be filled with food, and I will also have to cut back on other things. Every dollar that El Paso Electric will take out of
 My pocket is a dollar I cannot spend at any business in this city. Everybody needs to stop and think about this. People like me on a limited income, we only have so much money. You keep taking it out for everything else. Guess what? I can't eat. I can't go to the doctor. How am I supposed to pay an electric bill to run the electronic devices that keep me alive if I can't afford the electricity? Why isn't there a special cutout for those of us
 who need this medically. But no, we're going to charge all the residential people $38 million and change out of a $41 million rate request. And everybody else gets to get off scot-free. The rest of us are having to pay out of our pocket. Think about all the elderly people you all have in your districts. How are they going to stay cool in the summer? They're going to die from our heat. They're going to die from our heat. And it's going to be on you all and Palsy Collective.
 thank you the next speaker is mr colt de morris he will be followed by michael castro mr de morris's topic is marijuana reform good afternoon sir you'll have three minutes uh good afternoon council uh mayor pro tem schwarzwein um i'm here to say we're going in the wrong direction to continue to arrest and prosecute marijuana crimes in our city will leave us on the wrong side of history and continue to dominate or damage future generations
 As other cities across Texas continue to take a proactive approach to fixing our unjust marijuana laws, El Paso continues to perpetuate the failed prohibition of cannabis, inflicting more harm on our community than the plant itself. I myself am now a patient in the Texas Compassionate Use Program. That makes me a legal patient in two states. I also manage a medical cannabis dispensary 15 minutes from here.
 that in seven short months will be selling legal recreational cannabis to El Paso adults and 21 years and older who come to New Mexico to seek a safer substance than their state will allow them to have. I don't care who you are, we all have someone in our lives who will consume cannabis and that person will try the new legal market that is basically still in their city separated by an invisible boundary. That someone might be your cousin, your niece, your aunt, your grandma,
 Let's get proactive before it is somebody you guys know. Let's change these before it gets to the point because that point is coming. Thank you guys for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Michael Castro. He will be followed by Sabrina Soto. Mr. Castro's topic is marijuana reform. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, City Council. I'd like to read you a section in an article written by the New Mexico Albuquerque Journal.
 Economics have projected more than 11,000 new jobs, 300 million in annual sales, and 50 million in new revenue to the state's budget of New Mexico. This is all of cannabis recreational sales. The New Mexico University is also partnering with Greenflower, which is an educational source to prepare people for their careers in the cannabis industry.
 The recreational cannabis industry can play a major role in rebuilding New Mexico's economy and in ways benefit every corner of the state, including Sunland Park, New Mexico, which is our sister city. Like Colt mentioned, it's an invisible line. With that being said, I'll say this again. It is easy to obtain cannabis in this city, whether it is legal CBD hemp, you can buy it at any smoke shop, or whether it is illegal high THC cannabis, which is about to be highly available
 5 minutes away from the border of New Mexico, Sunland Park, New Mexico and El Paso, Texas. There's gonna be several dispensaries that sit on the line. Do you guys know that? City Council, do you know that? Are you listening to me? Do you know that? City Council, the El Paso Police Department and the city itself has done nothing to keep cannabis out of this city. Years and years and years, you guys will do nothing over and over again to keep cannabis out of this city.
 all the police department will do and all the court systems will do is continue to arrest, prosecute, and hurt the people of our city, hurt the culture of our city, and hurt the Hispanic culture of our city over a plant that is currently legalized in 36 states medically, 13 recreationally, New Mexico being one of them. The Hispanic culture in California is currently thriving off the cannabis industry and other parts of this country with the Hispanic man and women
 not include also including black women white men and women every single culture every single race is in this industry we're obtaining actual careers and an actual education on this plant will the El Paso Police Department will cities will court systems continue to put people behind bars over a plant that people are making money off of do you understand that
 Keep in mind, the El Paso Police Department, if you guys pull me over, City Council, you guys pull me over, I run a legal CBD hemp farm in El Paso, Texas. I carry around ounces of CBD with me. If you guys pull me over and arrest me, and you send my product off for testing and you do not take care of it correctly, if that product is valued at $20,000, $10,000, and you ruin it in your possession, you will 100% receive a lawsuit.
 the el paso police department will receive a lawsuit the city of el paso will receive a lawsuit because that is my legal product thank you sir thank you guys you'll have a good day thank you i'll remind the public to please you need to display
 civility and be respectful when participating in this forum. The next speaker is Ms. Sabrina Soto. Ms. Soto's topic is EPPD, Request for More Funding to Test on Cannabis. Good afternoon, ma'am, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, city council. My name is Sabrina Soto. Today I'm here to speak about the El Paso Police Department request for more funding to test for THC percentages in cannabis. The budget request started at $72,000.
 which has been approved. Now they're asking for the budget to be raised to more than a quarter of a million dollars, $360,000 to be exact. If this funding is approved, El Paso is going backwards when we should be going forward. It is no longer 1915, it is the year 2021.
 cannabis, marijuana, it doesn't matter what you call it. There has been so much research done since 1915 that shows the benefits of using cannabis as medicine, which is essentially what this plant is, medicine. Cannabis has helped veterans, cancer patients, and so many people. Again, I ask you to take under consideration the cannabis community that is here in El Paso fighting for cannabis rights and cannabis reform.
 The fact that the police department is trying to get a contract with the New Mexico testing facility is moving us backwards again because the cannabis New Mexico is going to be thriving off of in April of 2022 when recreational sales start is the same cannabis El Paso wants to prosecute us for. The states surrounding Texas whether it be recreational or medicinal are making millions yet El Paso is going to waste millions of dollars in tax revenue to arrest us
 $360,000 is a gross misuse of taxpayer dollars, which doesn't need to be wasted on arresting people over a plant. I strongly suggest that you deny this increased funding request. Thank you for your time, City Council. Have a good day. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Carlos Mireles. Mr. Mireles is participating via telephone. Mr. Mireles, star six please to unmute your telephone.
 Mr. Medela's topic is eppd request for more funding to test on cannabis. Good afternoon, sir. You'll have three minutes Just wanted to say thank you for your time I want to talk today about reform about El Paso Police Department wanting to charge or not charge them they're to get more funding a month and
 I think it is a waste of time as many people before me have been saying that it's going to be pushing us in the opposite direction to the whole United States. Everyone seems to be going forward. Everyone seems to be improving, not only financially, but with the people and the community as a whole.
 i see that the this reform is under to protect and the community um i don't believe this is going to be helping that community i believe this is just going to be hurting us for the everyday working people who are actually going to be paying for this or the ones that are going to be punished like the same people who probably go to work every single day pay taxes probably are you never know if it's the teacher who's probably stressed out
 who's probably stressed out, someone who actually needs it. Everyone is just trying to benefit from it. And when El Paso Police Department gets this funding, if you guys do prove it, the only thing they are going to be doing is hurting the community by sitting in that invisible line that people are talking about. They're going to be going right here by Anthony, Texas, getting real close to right on the line so that when people are coming back from New Mexico, they'll just sit there like vultures.
 wanting to just hunt down anybody that they could get their hands on just so that they could test me the way people's times and money put them in jail make them make money from that instead of actually putting people in jail trying to get revenue from putting people in jail and forcing them to pay to get out for their freedom why don't we use this money for something beneficial like
 the waterworks or I know recently we had this flooding that occurred and you guys sent El Paso water out into the news to explain to everyone why all these flooding happened, how we needed to fix it. This is this. This is that excuses after excuses after excuses. When instead we can use the same money to solve those same problems.
 benefit our community and not put people in a position where they have to force empty out their bank accounts just so that they can have freedom when our neighbors 15 minutes away are enjoying marijuana sales from recreational medical you have with 95 year old grandmas over there enjoying it while someone over here who's stressing now going to college just wanting to relax is going to be punished for doing the exact same thing that that person is doing 15 minutes down the road
 um that's all i really have to say i just think it's a really a waste of time i know new mexico is the one that's going to be giving us the lab testing um they now that they're going recreational i feel like they're not going to be using that that's basically garbage and what better way to make profit than to sell our garbage to people that want it and that's the tech we're basically thank you sir you've reached the three minutes sir thank you the next speaker is miss wally shek
 Ms. Sheck will be followed by Dora Villanueva. Ms. Sheck's topic is to right a wrong. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. You have three minutes, ma'am. God bless every one of you. Help me save America. Last time I was here, I was cut off.
 not being able to explain that the 90,637 are passing all money to the city for whatever they've done wrong. And I wanted to know that this was last year, not this year. They cut at that time the speakers off because of the virus.
 I would not give you people a black eye, and I mean it with the sincerity of my heart. I give my life for every one of you special mayor-leaders, because I would not do wrong to El Paso.
 And Mr. Rivera, would you please, after this meeting is over, I need to talk to you. I wait for you, okay? And I give you credit this time, okay? God bless every one of you. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. The next speaker is Ms. Dora Villanueva. She will be followed by Elvira Ortega, Martha Roybali,
 Christina Alarcon, Julio Aleman, and Jose Barriga. Ms. Villanueva's topic is senior centers. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, everybody. Ladies and gentlemen, we're happy to be here with you. Hopefully you can hear our message. My name is Dora Villanueva. I am a member at Hilos de Plata Senior Center. I am here to represent members from all the parks and recreation senior centers.
 Today it is only a small group that came with me, but in two weeks we would like for you all to please set up an agenda for us so that we can bring in at least 100 to 150 people, if possible, if you would let us know. We are here to request the following on behalf of all of us. We seniors wish that you would help us return to our senior centers five days a week with all activities.
 We have been given one day, and barely today we started with all activities. It's been going on since June, since July the 6th. We have been having meetings, but up to now we stay at the same place we had been offered. We would get better days,
 during the week as time went by, but at this time, it's not happening. We're only getting one day and another day rotated every month and a half. That's not enough for us. We, the seniors, have been used to walking, exercising, singing, dancing,
 And the thing is that now we're heavily medicated because we have not been doing our exercise, our health is deteriorating, and that is the reason why we come to you all asking you to please hear us out. We like to get together. We're a big family. Some of us live by ourselves. We have no family. And when we get together, we enjoy our time.
 That's all we want you to understand, that it's very important for us to be healthy in our own way. We used to work. Now we don't work. We went through a lot, and now we're just waiting. We know what's going to happen. We know we're here today. We don't know about tomorrow. But as long as we're here, we're asking you to please, please give us a good time. Give us hope.
 time to go and get ourselves a little bit healthier, because that's what we really need, exercise, dancing, making the heart happy. Instead of taking so many pills because the pressure is going down or it's going up, we just want to be happy. I hope that you all understand what I'm trying to bring to you because there's people that have died, and at every one of the centers in mine, it's been 27 people within the past year,
 when we used to have only two to three people a year. Now it's been going way too far. Number 27 is too much. Thank you, Ms. Villanueva. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Elvira Ortega. She's also speaking on the senior centers, followed by Martha Roybali. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Okay.
 Good afternoon. My name is Elvira Ortega. I attend the San Juan Senior Center and I am here representing all the seniors that attend the centers. Okay, first of all, I would like to thank the city of El Paso for making us a priority and taking care of us and making us a priority to get our vaccine first.
 On June 17, we got good news that the center would be opened, but it was only opened for a partial schedule. Five centers would open on Tuesday, and five would open on Thursday. The hours were from 9 to 12. There is very little that we can do in just three hours. We need the centers open five days a week.
 We look forward to socializing with our friends and playing bingo and doing all the activities that are offered, especially the exercise. You know, we need to exercise more than once a week. And like a lot of us, we don't have families. That is our family. The center is my home away from home.
 So I would like all of you to help us. We have been told that you are on our side. If you are on our side, I am making a call of action to help us open the centers October 18th, five days a week with full activities. Please do not forget us.
 Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Martha Roybali, also speaking regarding the Senior Center. She will be followed by Christina Alarcon. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good morning, everybody. My name is Martha Roybali, and I'm an active senior from the Grandview Senior Center. But today I'm here representing all the seniors. So I want to ask why you don't have enough personnel assigned to the Senior Centers to be open five days a week today?
 and the regular hours, working hours. In the last meeting, we were notified that there is enough budget for the senior centers since September 1st for this fiscal year. Furthermore, I believe that now you have a surplus budget since no money was used during the 2020 and the past seven months of the 2021 year.
 You told us in the last meeting that you have enough money to employ 20 people. Therefore, you should be able to open the 10 senior centers that we have in El Paso. On June 16, we were notified that you will start hiring personnel to fully open the senior centers. Now, three months later, we are still hearing the same thing and nothing has happened.
 We, the seniors, do not have enough options to spend our spare time other than the senior centers. In fact, the three hours per week that you allow us to be there are not enough. The closure of the senior centers during this pandemic has had a devastating impact on our lives. We have been affected mentally, physically, emotionally, and psychologically.
 Therefore, we need the senior centers to reopen full time. We need to reconnect with friends, which for some of us are our only family. We need you to give us the opportunity to continue pursuing personal development, learning new activities, exchanging information, and contributing to the cultural awareness. We need to retake our different activities to feel alive,
 to be happy. We do not want to continue being depressed at home alone. Please think about us. We want to continue being a valuable population, not a forgotten population. We know that you are on our side. Now show us that you care. The money is there. The only thing that you need to do is act.
 Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Ms. Cristina Alarcón. She's also speaking on the senior centers. Good afternoon, Ms. Alarcón. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, members of city council. My name is Cristina Alarcón, and I represent the San Juan Senior Citizen Center and all senior citizens of El Paso who attend the senior citizen centers.
 The directors and sub-directors who work at our senior citizen centers are still active employees. When COVID-19 was detected, almost everything closed down. As health authorities started to study and find out about the disease, it took steps to protect the general public.
 Health authorities realized that it affected the elderly population more. As the vaccine rolled out and the city health authorities took steps to vaccinate the elderly population first, which we are very grateful for. News media stated that a good turnout for senior citizens was reported and were more than 80% fully vaccinated, which means we have reached herd immunity.
 As cases went down, the city government opened up some rec centers and splash parks. The directors and sub-directors who worked at the senior citizen centers were relocated to work at the rec centers, which means that the employees for the senior citizen centers are still employed and available.
 What you are short on is staffing for the rec centers since the splash parks are closed. As senior citizens, we have earned our centers by paying taxes. The majority of people at the rec centers still have a ways to go. Give us back our directors and sub-directors that work at the senior citizen centers and limit the hours at the rec centers.
 We need our senior citizen centers open for companionship and emotional support. Our employees are still actively employed, so give us back our employees. Thank you very much. Thank you, the next speaker is Mr. Julio Aleman. He will be followed by Jose Barriga. Mr. Aleman's topic is also the senior centers. Good afternoon, sir, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, Mayor Burt, Thamon City Council. I really shouldn't be here.
 I really should be in activities at our senior center, which is Memorial Park, along with other seniors also. And the only problem is that we're closed down for five days a week, for four days a week, except for one Tuesday or Thursday. It all depends on the center. Now, the thing is, all these times have been, we've been involved, the seniors have been involved for 30, 40 years already.
 Now all of a sudden we find ourselves with our centers closed without no activities. All right? And then also we have the activities are there for different purposes, dancing, exercises, socializing, activities.
 you know, being, sharing, being involved with other persons of our own age, exclusively around our age. We cannot share with younger people or kids. But apparently, our centers are being provided only for bingo on Tuesdays or Thursdays, one morning. And our city Parks and Recreation Administration and staff
 They think they're doing us a favor. They're not doing us a favor. We've done favors for them because they have a job, and they have to promote what we have, what we need. So the main thing is now here, the activities provided also help with physical and mental health.
 with socializing, with being involved with so many other folks that we can share our time having fun at the same time and enjoying ourselves, addressing all kinds of depressions or loneliness. So our centers are needed. We need them five days a week, and that's the main thing because of the activities and nothing else.
 Now, we can be creative. Yes, we can do a lot more things than just the activities that are provided as in arts and crafts. We can do many things that we can plan for ourselves. The thing is, we're asking city council members to help us with this issue and not get us out of this deplorable situation and have our centers with the activities open five days a week. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 And the final speaker is Mr. Jose Barriga. His topic is public perception. Mr. Jose Barriga, good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Yes, good afternoon. It's been a while since I come out here. A couple of days ago, I saw a video, and actually that's what I'm looking at right now. And it was really deceiving and really disappointing, really depressing when I see an individual who has a service dog
 He doesn't have a place to stay. And he actually gets treated like he's a human cockroach. When somebody who's a professional, he has a polo, who has leather shoes, who has, you know, it seems like he has slacks, it's stomping on him. I mean, that's really, I don't know if that's a professional behavior.
 But I'm not here to question anybody's way of controlling their people. However, that actually opened a kind of warmth. I was actually at one of the stores, and I was just crossing the street. I guess somebody actually had probably had an issue with the police, and there was a squad car. And I was crossing the street, and the gentleman, I usually carry a camera with me.
 Well, because I was pushing the cart, I just looked to the right and the cart was there. And the guy was opening the trunk. And the first thing that I saw, that was an M4 or a carbine. That was, I don't know if it was secured or unsecured. But the problem is, if it wasn't secured, hopefully you take the proper precautions that you ensure the proper rack is actually bolted. So if somebody would have steal the cart,
 you know, wouldn't commit the, you know, an atrocity or the courtesy of the police. So, like I say, that actually brought, you know, just thinking about what happened here at the downtown, brought open a can of worms to me because it made me think about it, you know. I see a gentleman right here with a polo, right here. He's in civilian clothes. And the only thing I can think about is just what happened downtown. It had nothing to do with it. But the problem is this, what actually the perception of what occurred, you know,
 If you guys actually see somebody with a dog, they're seeing that somebody's been there for the longest, you know, and then suddenly you have so many individuals coming out of nowhere, you know, what it made me think is that they're looking at the cameras. But you may want to hire other individuals that actually they can look at those cameras and have those police forces actually patrolling. I think that will be more efficient rather than being sitting there and then just coming out of nowhere and then just stomping and, you know, tossing themselves into somebody.
 You know, that is, I don't know, that's unacceptable. Have a great day. Thank you, sir. Mayor Pro Tem, that concludes the call to the public this afternoon. Okay, thank you. So I think we'll recess to lunch until 1.30 if that works for the rest of the council. So I thought that was, sorry, I had this clock says 12.55, so 1.15. Okay, may we have a motion to recess for 30 minutes? Yes, sir.
 Second there's a motion and a second to recess and for 30 minutes all in favor Anyone opposed and the City Council meeting is in recess at 12 46 p.m. And we'll convene in 30 minutes. Thank you There's a motion and a second to reconvene the City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed
 And the meeting is back in session at 1 21 p.m. All right, Ms. Prine, can we go with the continue with the operational focus updates at number 27, the police incident investigative process? Yes, sir. We're on page nine, item 27, an update on the police incident investigative process. Good afternoon. Dionne Mack, deputy city manager for public safety.
 Today's update is going to be part of our Safe and Secure City CFT continued updates to City Council. While the Police Department will not be going into detail regarding any open investigations, we do want to use this opportunity to share publicly detailed information regarding the strong processes in place to ensure fair and equitable investigations of complaints and cases that involve the department.
 Data regarding internal investigations are included as a part of the department's annual reports. And as the CFT has previously reported, the department continues to strengthen both officers' training and work processes. As you may recall, the staff reported during our training updates that we're expanding our mental health courses.
 for our officers with a plan to expand the crisis intervention team curriculum to the entire department. As I think we've demonstrated through those presentations and we have a continued process through this year with those presentations, we're committed to process improvement and also improve communications.
 We welcome this opportunity today to offer a briefing on the internal review process. And I'm going to hand that over to Assistant Chief Paseas to walk you through that presentation. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Pro Tem and City Council. Can I get the PowerPoint pulled up, please?
 As Ms. Mack indicated, I'm going to be going over how the El Paso Police Department investigates administrative cases and how the public can file an administrative complaint against an active employee of the El Paso Police Department. Next slide, please. Thank you.
 The mission of the Internal Affairs Division is to accept, register, and investigate complaints of alleged misconduct by an employee of the department in an objective and impartial manner to ensure justice and fairness towards the department employee and the citizens of El Paso. The purpose of the Internal Affairs Division is to ensure professional conduct by all department employees and to maintain a high level of overall integrity for the department. Next slide, please.
 The cases that Internal Affairs investigates are the serious allegations, but it's not just limited to these, but these are the most significant. Officer-involved shootings, critical incidents involving death or serious bodily injury, alleged constitutional violations, alleged racial profiling or discrimination, dishonesty, drug use, sexual misconduct, allegations of any violation of law.
 allegations of excessive force, allegations of misconduct involving more than one division within the department, complaints by employees of discrimination, sexual harassment, or other unlawful employment practices, and cases referred to the chief of police or the command staff see need to be investigated. Next slide, please.
 On the El Paso Police Department web page, if citizens wish to file an external complaint, they can go to the Internal Affairs tab, and this is what they'll see. Within this page, anybody can file a complaint in English or Spanish. It has to be signed. That's regulated by state law government code, Title VI.
 They will need to bring it down to either any station where it can be notarized for free, or they can take it directly to Internal Affairs. If they take it, get it notarized,
 They can email it. They do not have to go to Internal Affairs. The other way that a citizen can file a complaint is they can go to any regional command to speak to a supervisor to file a complaint. It'll be taken in writing from them, which will initiate the investigation also. Internal Affairs is located at 211 North Florence. Next slide, please. Then the way the investigations...
 go through the department is the alleged misconduct is identified whether internally or externally. Externally, if a complainant comes in, the means that I described either through the web page
 or any station or internal affairs will be taken in writing and they have to sign it. Internal affairs will then gather all the evidence they need to identify witnesses. They'll obtain sworn statements from the witnesses, and then the accused employee or employees will be called in to internal affairs to provide their sworn statements.
 Once the case is developed and a supervisor has reviewed it in Internal Affairs, it will be taken to the Discipline Review Board, which consists of six civilians and six sworn officers who will deliberate on the case. Then the case will be sent over to the chief of police with the recommendation from the DRB. Next slide.
 And these are the governing documents that all investigations have to go by. The procedures manual for the department, Texas Government Code Title VI, that's the one I was stating where they have to get the complaint in writing and signed. Civil service rules and then the collective bargaining agreement between the city of El Paso and the El Paso Police Association.
 And with that, the next slide, I'll open it up for any questions. Mayor Pro Tem, we had a speaker sign up, but I don't see her in chambers. Yes. Representative Inola, did you have anything you wanted? I think I got a request from you.
 Yeah, I mean, thank you, Chief Pacias. I know that you're not going to talk about any open investigation, but I think that it would be worth noting to the public how y'all are responding to the incident that many people saw online last weekend. Yes ma'am. You're talking about the incident in downtown, Representative Vanello? Yes, sir. Yes, that is Carnack.
 investigation the internal affairs have already spoken to the complainant in this case who was the arrestee and obtained a statement from him and we're going through the rest of the progress of the case like I described with witnesses gathering evidence and obtaining statements from those involved okay and that's the only statement y'all want to make on that situation
 Yes, ma'am. I'm not going to comment on an open investigation. And what if the person, the arrestee, hadn't filed a complaint? What would have happened? It's still a use of force case, so it would have been investigated internally. Okay. And so internal affairs will do their investigation, and then who will the report go to? Okay.
 From there, once the detective or officer, whoever is assigned the case, will present it to their supervisor. And once the supervisor reviews it, if it needs more work, he'll send it back to the investigating officer. That work will be completed, and then it will go to the Discipline Review Board. And there will be no public update on this for anyone? Once the case is determined and the chief has signed off on the case, we can come back and inform.
 Okay, and is there, I mean, there probably isn't an answer to this question, but do you all have a timeline on how long these things usually take? So from the date of the incident, yes.
 from the collective bargaining agreement, they have 180 days to complete the investigation. So this case just depends on how many witnesses and how much evidence they have to gather on how long it'll take for it to get through, but it has to be done within 180 days. But after that, I can go back for further review, correct?
 I don't understand your question. After what part? You're saying after Internal Affairs does a review, they send it to the supervisor who can send it back for further investigation? Yes, if he sees that it needs further clarification maybe from somebody, then the investigative detective or officer, whoever is assigned, would try to get that clarification from a witness or an accused employee.
 And once the case is presented, are ready to go, then it'll go to the Discipline Review Board to be presented and for them to make a determination as to the facts of the case.
 Okay, and how often are those discipline review board meetings? Will they call specifically or is there a set schedule on them? They're twice a month. Okay. They're typically scheduled twice a month. On certain cases, there might be a special board that's called, but typically they're twice a month.
 Okay. I mean, I know that I've had this conversation publicly. I do think there is a need for an independent oversight review. You know, we've all received many calls about the situation. I know the video only shows a portion of what happened, but people are very upset about it. And I had shared my concerns with the city manager, and I do think that it would have been beneficial for the police department to have just informed the public after the incident that there was an investigation happening
 Because a lot of people don't know that that is what the process is and they don't know what happens. And so we heed a lot of those phone calls without a lot of information. And I do think there needs to be an understanding with the public that something is happening and we are looking into this.
 because it's hard when it's us taking these phone calls and then relating them to someone else, and I think a lot of that could have been mitigated on the front end, having those conversations publicly. I'm not asking anyone to come out and say, these are the details of the investigation, this is what we're found, but just the mere fact that we as a department, we as a city, are concerned about what everyone saw, and we're doing the best that we can to figure out what happened.
 We agree, ma'am. I did have a conversation with the city manager last week, and as a process improvement, those messages will be coming out immediately from my office. You know, as we say, we can't provide a tremendous amount of detail in terms of ongoing investigation, but there certainly can be an acknowledgement, particularly, you know, with the types of things that we see on social media that we're aware of it, that we're looking into it. And so that was something that we discussed as a team last week, and that will be happening moving forward. So I appreciate your feedback.
 Thank you. And then I guess, I mean, I just would ask about kind of what our use of force policy is. I know that we covered this about a year ago, I think that we had this conversation, but just kind of revisiting that so the public can understand. Because from the video, it is really confusing to myself and a lot of members of the public, you know, what is considered use of force by the police department and what kind of triggers an internal investigation. Yeah.
 So any use of force that an officer has, any type of force that an officer has to use to bring somebody into custody. So if somebody just stiffens up and the officer has to use what we call strong empty hand tactics, that is required to be reported to a supervisor, which would initiate a use of force report that goes to Internal Affairs.
 for investigation and then it goes all the way up through all the other levels of force whether they use their taser and All the way up to deadly force. Okay, that's all I have for right now I thank you for this presentation and I I do look forward to a follow-up after the investigation has done I know it won't be 180 days from now, but hoping closest to that time as possible Yes, ma'am. Thank you Representative
 Chief Macias, thank you very much. Always a pleasure when you're here. You've already answered the question, how often does a board meet? Can you tell us a little bit about the makeup of the board? You don't have to name any names. However, how are they selected? How are they vetted? Their length of term that they serve?
 Yes, sir. Thank you, Representative. So the Discipline Review Board consists of six civilians from the public. Typically they come from the Citizens Advisory Boards from the Regional Command. They do have to go through the volunteer application process so that they're vetted because they will be viewing
 law enforcement documents. So they would fall under the CJIS rules, the Criminal Justice Information System rules, which is required by the state of Texas and the federal government. Once they are vetted, they will receive training on use of force, case law, decision making type things that are similar to what our officers go through.
 and then they're put on the board to, uh, um, hear the cases that are put in, uh, out by the investigating detective officer from internal affairs. At this time, there is not a term limit for the, um, um,
 The civilians that are volunteering for this, as presented in the CFT presentations that we've been going through on the El Paso Strong Resolution, we are working on a strategy to be able to get more citizens involved as part of our Discipline Review Board.
 And then the other half of the makeup of the board is a sworn personnel. It starts from the lowest rank, which are typically our patrol officers and detectives. So you have a peer involved in that, a sergeant, a lieutenant, the training lieutenant, and a commander.
 Once they hear the case, anybody on the board can ask further questions of the investigating officer. If the board sees fit and wants to speak to witnesses that are available or the accused employees, they can do that.
 The employees still fall under the internal affairs investigation, which means they have certain contractual rights and fall under the Garrity provisions as ruled by the Supreme Court. Once they have done all their discussion, asking questions, each member will be polled as to what their determination is.
 on the board, which they can select from not sustained, sustained, exonerated or unfounded. And then that vote is registered. And then that recommendation goes to the chief of police. Should they sustain the allegations, then they have to determine a category, which goes from a minor infraction all the way up to severe discipline, which could also include termination.
 Those whichever the way the board goes, those recommendations are provided at the chief of police, who is the final authority on the signing off on the discipline. Chief, thank you very much. That's all I have. Thank you. Representative Rivera. Thank you, sir. How you doing, Chief? I'm just back. Great presentation there, sir.
 and it's very informative. And I know Representative Molina was in here when you mentioned that we were briefed on this earlier, on the use of force, and you even invited us to go participate in the class. I don't know how many of my colleagues did, but that gets you to see what actually happens during the arrest. Getting back to what was viewed by the public today,
 Again, I only viewed a portion of it, and it never shows the actual initial contact with the subject, does it? Is this appropriate to talk to in an ongoing investigation if we're going to say that? If we're going to continue with that, then we shouldn't be talking about what the video did or didn't show. Representative Anello did. No, she didn't. She had viewed the video. She had viewed the video. I'll let the Chief respond.
 So that's why in that part of the PowerPoint presentation where I talked about the flow of the investigation, internal affairs will canvas the area and obtain as much evidence there is. So if there's multiple camera views, if there might have been witnesses in the area, they're trying to track all that down so they can put together as many of the facts from witnesses and or electronic means. Okay.
 Thank you. And what I was trying to lead up to before they interrupted here was the fact that there have been instances where even though the collective bargaining insists on 180 days, that timeframe has been extended just to complete the investigation, correct?
 That would have to be a discussion between the association president and the chief of police. But typically that would be for if the internal affairs investigation determines that there are potential criminal allegations, the 180 days can be told up to two years. Okay. And so I know the representative not asked about the consistency of the board that is made up of the review board.
 Once they sign that intent, since they're going to see police reports and other information, sensitive information, do they go through some background checks? Yes, sir. All volunteers go through a background check, and they're considered a volunteer for the police department. Okay. And my final – well, it's not a question to you, but it's a matter of fact of a statement to this body is the fact that, again, this is a –
 an instance and a situation, very serious situation where I believe that if the officers had been equipped with body cameras, we would be able to judge from the initial contact all the way through the arrest as I'm sure the department would be greatly assisted in these kind of issues or any kind of issue that might be brought on as a complaint, correct?
 Any use of technology that can help the police department would be beneficial. As we all know, we're trying to find funding streams in different areas by different parts of technology to help the police department. Okay, thank you, sir. And just like everybody else on this council, we want to find out what the real truth is, and so that's the reason for the comment, and thank you very much for your presentation. Thank you, Mayor Putnam.
 Thank you. Thank you. Is there anybody else who wants to speak? Okay. Well, I just want to address a small comment to city staff.
 You know, with an issue like this where there's an ongoing investigation and there's a perception of a lot of problems or at least issues with going on right now when we have a high functioning and well-trained police force, I think it's really important to be as proactive as possible in communicating and having days of silence with no official statement from the city whether there was going to be a routine investigation of use of force or anything like that.
 damages the public's trust with our institution with the police department and so I think
 to the extent that it's possible that does not jeopardize an ongoing investigation. I think it's important city manager that city staff work with the police department to issue a statement not and not days later but recently. These kind of these kind of incidents are unfortunate they need to be thoroughly investigated which they are by our police department that by the policies and processes but to have
 days without any sort of comment, whether from our own PIO office, whether from the police department does not build trust within the community and the police department. And so I don't know what can be done there to address it. We have one of the best performing police departments in the country. We have some of the best police officers in the country.
 And something as simple as sending out a simple press release or sending out a simple statement that we are aware of the incident that occurred in downtown, it's currently going through an active investigation and we have nothing to comment at this time, I think would have gone a long way in building these bridges of trust that are so desperately needed in different communities across the country.
 So we've heard you loud and clear regarding this issue and as I said in response to Representative Bonello's statement, my office, the Deputy City Manager's Public Safety's office will take the responsibility of ensuring that we get a message out there as soon as, you know, facts are known to me. I appreciate the Council's ongoing commitment to strengthen the Police Department, you know, as well as the ongoing support you have given.
 Many of the things that we have talked about today are a part of our Safe and Secure City CFT and the work we're going to continue to do. We will be coming back with 2U talking a bit about the composition of the boards, how we can strengthen some of those pieces. We've also been talking about clarification in terms of understanding some of the terms, conditions, policies, and procedures as a part of that work.
 as well as engage in the community. So right now I'm working on some community engagement pieces in terms of some feedback, and you will continue to have these pieces come forward that allow for us to continue to have a dialogue about further understanding and further strengthening the things that we could be working on to make our city even better. Clearly recognizing that we have a strong department, that we have strong processes, but I think all of us have room for improvement and these conversations certainly help us to continue to be very focused
 on our work and making sure that communications is as strong as it should be to maintain community's trust so i thank you for your ongoing support and for your continued feedback to help us to be even better just curious are you familiar with how many days it was till we till there was some release of a statement relating to the incident and the investigation relating to it no sir i didn't i didn't do a backwards plan on this okay made a commitment to how to move forward
 Well, I look forward to hearing more about the investigation and ways to improve. Our department is really one of the best functioning ones in the country, and I think that we all recognize how fortunate we are to have a police department that keeps our community safe year after year. Representative Henry, did you have anything you want to add, sir? Oh, sorry. It's pretty much covered. Thank you. Okay.
 Thank you again and thank you Chief Pacias for taking your time this afternoon. Mayor Pro Tem, since all the commentary is over, I did want to make brief remarks regarding some of what was discussed. First of all, I want to thank the Council for reaching out to me, Representative Anello and yourself and others on this Council. Thank you all for reaching out with the feedback that we received. That's very, very helpful. We have been getting information to you all out in as real time as possible.
 the reason why information wasn't sent out on this one is because they were still gathering the information but I but I think that representative anello's comment about Sending something out just to make the community aware is is is good feedback and one in which? We've already made some and taken some corrective action on it. I would like to add that this council and over the last Seven years really the last six years We have added more officers We've added
 several divisions to address a lot of issues like in safety. We added a traffic division that we didn't have before because of the number of officers had decreased dramatically over time.
 today we're barely where we were 20 years ago with regard to the number of officers that we had 20 years ago if if if anyone can fathom that that we barely are at the same number of officers we were at that given point we've had tremendous leadership from the council with regard to like the cit program the body cameras been things that y'all have championed that we're working on that have been added and we're working to get another grant for more body cameras because i know representative
 I made a comment to me, had we had those, there's more information, more data points, and you get the entire scene, and you get all the information, not just what was captured by maybe the public or however that video was put together.
 The council also put a resolution in place in which it was very introspective, not only in the police department and their activities, but also the city overall, in terms of what we can do to make things better and make adjustments and corrections and better alignment with the community needs and interests. And that has sought and received input from the public, and we're still getting input from the public. You've had updates on that, and Deon Mack and the team will be back to give updates, more updates on that in the future.
 I did also want to point out we do have a cross-functional team, an internal team, to look at all these different areas that have made different adjustments, which have added more numbers in terms of the academy having a higher level of scrutiny and training. They've added more training months to that process. So those are things that have been done. We do take this seriously. And I do think the comments that were made were very, very helpful. We appreciate the feedback.
 and and i agree with the comments about you know we do have a great police department and we also have very good processes in place in which we immediately uh did address some of the things that were they were asked about i know i typically don't send y'all information until i have all the facts and this particular event kept
 from time to time in terms of the information that I received from the police department. So I didn't want to send anything until we got something that was complete. And even as early as whenever I did meet with police and with Dion and some other folks, they had been receiving additional information. So the facts in this case are still being monitored and received, and so we'll let the investigation take place.
 and then we'll be back to give you an update whether it's in public and or an executive session depending on The type of information that we receive and what we are able to get approved through the legal process. Thank you Yes, sir, thank you very much mayor pro-tem I think the city manager touched on one point there that really resonates a lot and
 This is wherever you saw it, on the news, social media, whatever. It is a snapshot in time, the video. The video does not depict properly what happened prior to the filming. It does not depict what happened post the filming. So depending on which news media or outlet you saw, depending on what social media platform you observed it in,
 It's just a snapshot in time, and I believe it really should be taken at that point. Later on, just like you said, the internal affairs investigation will be, the incident will be investigated by internal affairs, and that's what we should wait. But thank you very much.
 That reminds me of another question that I have. The parking meter attendants, in terms of their training and in terms of lessons learned, are they trained through the police department or a separate entity in their training and dealing with the public? I believe that training –
 Go ahead, Dion. Were you going to say something? Yeah. I was going to say that the parking attendant unit is actually a part of the police department. Okay. And so their training would be structured very similar to the way that we do for our code enforcement. Okay. I won't follow up with anything because I am sensitive. This is an ongoing investigation. I just requested clarity. And I just, again, city manager, I appreciate your statements and comments.
 I just I think what what the overarching statement that I think that myself and Representative Nello brought up is is not about us being updated as a individual council members or as a body but how but how the city and
 communicates with the public when there's an incident like that with a lot of high visibility and the need to sort of be proactive without, again, investigating the – without jeopardizing any potential investigation, but again letting the community know that they're aware that something occurred. It's being investigated. We're being – we're allowing a fair process, a transparent process that's defined by our CBA with our police officers, with our police department.
 And I think that was one of the troubling aspects was that there was a vacuum of information coming from the city after this incident occurred. And I think that's one of the lessons learned from this. Representative Manolo, did you have something to add? I think you were hanging to me. You're good? Okay. Yeah, I'm fine. Thank you. Thanks. Thanks.
 Okay. Anybody else, is there anything else to add? Representative Rivera, that's a great blue tie. Ms. Pratt, can we go to item 28, please? Yes, sir. Item 28 is a presentation on the FY 2021 Capital Project Year-end Review Report. Good afternoon, Mayor Pro Tem and Council. IT, can you pull up the presentation and please make sure the audio is on. There is a video embedded in the presentation.
 Good afternoon. I'm Jerry DeMuro Assistant Director of Capital Improvement and I'm here to present the year end update of our Capital Improvement Department accomplishments. Next slide please. Next slide please. This is what we're going to go over. CIP history fiscal year 21 recap fiscal year. I'm getting a lot of feedback is is everybody muted. CIP history FY 21 recap FY 21 results.
 accomplishments and highlights and next steps. Next slide, please. Our strategic plan alignment, the 25 by 25, we want to enhance El Paso's quality of life through recreational, cultural and educational environments and enhance and sustain El Paso's infrastructure network. Next slide, please. We've adopted here at CID a culture of continuous improvement, accountability and ownership. We have been open and transparent with greater council oversight, CIP implementation and funding community priorities.
 We provide updates of scope and estimates and cleaning up of old projects. Our controls are in place to monitor scope, schedule, and budget, and we're updating processes and procedures and training our staff and management and staff continuously work to improve production and results of our portfolio. Next slide, please. From September 20th, September 2020 to August 21, there were some major events, March 20th,
 In response to the COVID pandemic, we established available resources, prioritized projects, completed contracts that were under construction, temporarily deferred projects, reduced costs, and lowered the budget, and we did not hire any new staff. In April 2021, Council approved $141 million for continuation of the CIP projects focused on streets and public safety projects.
 And again, in August of 2021, $180 million was approved for completing all the capital plans and public safety bond projects. Next slide, please. This is us continuously working on improvements, ranging from project managers, processes, vendors, user departments, and the public. Next slide, please. So here's for our results. Next slide, please.
 So from 2015 to 2017, we did approximately $153 million worth of projects. That's about $50.9 million a year. From 2018 to 2021, we did $562 million, or 140 million projects per year. That's a difference of $409 million in our performance and an increase of 368%. Next slide, please. Impacts on spending.
 Approximately 55,950,000 is spent on labor. And next slide, please. Next slide, please. Jobs supported with the CIP since 2011, we have supported 37,882 jobs with 5,914 in 2021. Next slide, please. Spending and employment, the spending impact for 2021, direct and indirect and induced,
 is 178 million, and then employment impact is 8,871 jobs when you take into indirect and induced jobs. Next job, next slide please. I know you can't read the text on this. These are active construction contracts in FY21. We had a total of 298 contractors and subcontractors involved in construction of our projects. Next slide please. Some accomplishments, next slide.
 We completed 82 projects in fiscal year 21. Next slide, please. These are the locations of the projects. The blue dots are CID completed projects. The green dots are FY21 CID completed projects. You will notice they're widely distributed across the city. Next slide, please. These are the completed projects. You can see a number of libraries, the COVID clinics and COVID lab, recreation centers, and a number of streets. Next slide, please.
 These are some renderings of the recreation centers that were recently opened or still they carry on will open in the near future. The others are open and open to the public. Next slide, please. This is a picture illustrating the water parks that opened this summer to a resounding success. Next slide, please. For streets, we've reconstructed 55 streets year to date and we have nine in progress. Next slide, please.
 This is an illustration of the resurfacing that has gone on since 2013, 424 resurfaced streets. Next slide, please. Our active project summary in August of 21, we had 18 projects in pre-design, 67 in design, 73 in bidding, 65 in construction for a total of 223 valued at $725 million. Next slide, please.
 These are future program projects. There are 30 projects in pre-design, nine in design, one in bidding, and one in construction. Next slide, please. 305 total projects were managed over the course of fiscal year 2020 versus 2021. Next slide, please. It's super cool to come.
 and they have like little chairs so you can kind of lounge and the kid is running around it doesn't look like an adoption center it looks like an exhibit awesome it's into the north it's something very positive so our money well spent and i think everybody enjoys it like i believe they work hard for this bridge i love this one i go to like a bunch of them around and i mostly like to come to this one because it's big and brand new yeah and it's close to home too
 It's a beautiful facility that we're going to be able to cherish here in El Paso. I thought they did a fabulous job on the cement work and on the pavement on the road. This is just another tool and the city looking out for us. I think with the recent weather, it's serving its purpose. It's been a very positive improvement. Yeah, it's really awesome out here that somebody took the time to give people a place to play with their kids in the shade.
 I think it was a good idea, you know, because before we did now, especially a lot of times people wait for a bus. Traffic used to be flowing way better than it was before. It's great. Right on. That's what they did. I think they're an awesome addition to the park. As you saw, there were quite a few accomplishments and kudos to the capital improvement staff for being as productive, especially during the pandemic. Our next steps for FY22. Next slide, please.
 Residential street resurfacing, there's $20 million for resurfacing. We plan to complete the projects from a two-year program approved in 2018 and then triple the number of streets completed, 64 additional streets. There is also 1.1 million recommendation list for surface treatment to extend the life of the pavement. We are also in the process of awarding the Pavement Condition Index study contract that should be brought to Council in October. Next slide, please.
 That's all I have. There are a number of slides after this thank you that provides additional details should you wish. Does anybody have any questions? Anybody else? Does anybody have any questions at this point? I don't see it. Anyways, Representative Rodriguez. Thank you. So I have a really quick question. The list that you'll be bringing up in October, is that something that we can participate in as far as submitting streets that we need in our own districts?
 The resurfacing program is run by our streets and maintenance department. I believe they have prioritized streets already. I'd have to get back to you with the exact answer, or if Mr. Bristol or Mr. Cooch is on the line, they may have an answer. And, Ms. Rodriguez, I think I can answer some of that question while somebody else wants to chime in. The list of streets are already –
 totaled up or they were already consolidated based on the CPI that was done, the PCI rather, the payment condition index. And so you have a list of streets, and I think I mentioned before that the way more streets get done is to council to set aside more money for them. And I know some of those were done with COs, some of those were done with
 i think all of them were done with ceos quite frankly if i remember correctly from the 2012 back in 2012 those were ceos and then in 17 and 19 and then here recently all of those have been ceos for the other streets to be done so that's all from the payment condition index so if you've got a list of streets then they have to just look at the payment condition index and see those streets are up next on that list because the council voted
 to go off of that PCI list because that PCI list is based on which ones are in the worst condition at that given point. So they're going to update that list this year. Y'all set aside, we set aside money and the council approved it for us to update the PCI and so we're going to be doing that and some streets might change based on that PCI and or there might be other streets that are added as a result of it. But I guess my question is, is every single street
 in the city on that list? They have, I'm sorry, somebody wanted to say something. You can jump in here in a second. Let me just make this one comment, that whenever they've done the list, they've taken a gunshot approach and looking at all of our system. And that's where Sam has come back and said, hey, we need $44 million a year
 in order to catch up from all the neglect that happened over the past decades. So I know that that's a source of frustration, I think, for this council, I think for the community, and then that's a rub against when we talk about budget or when we talk about certificates of obligation, because those are the things that pay for them. If you want, those can be put in front of the community. They can vote on them, but it would be the same result. We'd have additional funds for those streets that are on that list. Now, I think there was a couple of my folks that wanted to make some comment. I don't know if that was Sam.
 or Bristol or Mr. Koontz there. Carol. Yeah, Senator Uria is a city engineer. Representative, all the roads, when we did the PCI study, all the roads were reviewed and inventoried. And we have a website link that we can send to you that shows you, you can type in the address, and it'll take you to that road and show you the PCI study and the PCI value for that road. But every single road was inventoried, every single road was evaluated and given a PCI value.
 Of course, we're going to be updating that this year, as Jerry mentioned, and our recommendations to council on the final list for resurfacing. And some roads may need reconstruction, as we have done in the past. And as you all saw today, we also included $1.1 million to start some surface treatment to try to keep that good pavement and good repair so that it doesn't go into the more expensive maintenance treatments of melanoma and reconstruction. Anything else to add, Harold?
 sir herald kut street maintenance department uh... on the execution of the resourcing program in which you uh... funded
 We are starting the residential roadways in District 6, continuing the trend from the deferred program because of the pandemic. And the collector of copia is currently in progress in concrete stage at this time, as has discussed. So that's the current activity as we speak.
 We are rectifying and getting the program back on schedule. And like I said, because of the funding reallocation, we're riding the program and getting back into the groove to get back into schedule. And future dedicated lists are going to be using the data that is going to be acquired through this new PCI study. Thank you, Mr. Coutts. Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Gonzalez.
 Are there any other questions? So I guess to continue on with that question, Sam, you said that you're going to email me that link. So essentially my constituents that are calling me and telling me like, hey, my sheet hasn't been resurfaced in 70 years was the one I heard yesterday. I can direct them to that website and they're able to put in their own address and see where they stand or if they even stand.
 Yeah, it'll give them the PCI value and it'll give you an idea of where, like how much, where the value is from zero to 100. And of course, that's how we derive our recommendations. We start with that list and then from that list,
 We also look at neighborhoods and trying to complete neighborhoods because that's the other frustrating part that we hear from the residents is you just did my neighbor. My road is just as bad and you haven't done mine yet. So we've taken the approach of trying to complete neighborhoods as we proceed, understanding that the need is vast and large in our community. And that's where Mr. Gonzalez was mentioning about, uh,
 looking at how we're going to be funding this program in the future and adding some additional resources to catch up on the neglect for streets and to really get in a proactive program to to catch up on some of these roads you know one of the things that that harold and his team do a good job on as well is every time they go through they also upgrade the concrete work so if there's ada ramps sidewalks they address those and add and repair those concrete structures as as they proceed so that we're taking care of the full infrastructure while we're there
 But yeah, that's the answer, Representative. We'll get you the link out to the Folk Council so that you can share with your constituents. And of course, that's how we derive the recommendations to you as we bring those lists forward. And you mentioned the scale 0 to 100, 100 being good or bad? 100 being the brand new pavement and 0 being completely...
 Dirt, yeah. And so typically our model works in a way that, as I mentioned before, some of the different regions in the city deteriorate at different rates. So portions of the valleys, upper and lower valleys, we have a lot of clay material, so the roadways tend to not last as long. You see a lot of heaving up and down type of motions.
 where some of the central, some of the rocky areas closer to the mountain tend to last a little bit longer. Even if the pavement is cracked, the roadway doesn't heave or have depressions or subsidence, if you will. And so that all gets modeled into,
 the model itself and the deterioration or if you will, the model of progression of PCI values gets modeled into that process. So we can predict in the future how fast these roads are gonna deteriorate and when we need to inject additional resources. But again, we understand the need is large in our community for pavement rehabilitation. And one of the big problem areas that I have on the east side is,
 Rojas, Rizal, Sol, and Pelicano, where they go up and down like those hills, and then you have the semi-trucks going through, and then every time it rains, it gets really bad in that area. In this website, or in this link that you're going to share, do you kind of narrow into these areas and say, hey, we're fully aware that this is a problematic area, but just as you mentioned, this is why it's a problematic area, and we're aware of it?
 Yes, I mean it doesn't give you to that level of information. It's got some basic info as far as how the pavement deteriorates. Obviously those arterials or collector roads are
 are not eligible for the residential. And this is where we look, where we started addressing the top 25 arterial program with the pavement. But obviously that's already five years old. So there's a new list and the collective funds are being allocated to some of those arterials as well. And that is an opportunity for us to look at some of those roads like Rojas to start addressing that pavement in the near future.
 So I think it would be kind of a good idea, right, as a resource where people can go and they say, hey, why does this street, every time it rains, it's a mess, and you all come and you cover the potholes, where it kind of, like I said, narrows into that one area and says we're fully aware of this problem. It's, you know, going to be fixed in whatever amount of years. And just as an extra resource for people so that they're, you know, they know that we're aware of it because a lot of them think that we're not even aware of it, which I'm sure you are.
 Yeah, we are, because we get the service requests. I mean, a lot of the data that Richard captures in the 70,000 potholes, I mean, that all gets plotted into the GIS layers, and we understand where some of the worst roads are in our community, and part of it is just the funding. How do we create the mechanism to fund these, whether it's COs or an ongoing maintenance service fee that
 we can put in place that would allow us to have the resources to address these roads because again it's quite a few in our community for sure. The other thing that we can do is I'm going to ask staff to maybe do an analysis with respect to our flooding situation because that is integral to the pothole repair issue
 And so we can do that from our end and work with the water department to figure out if there was the funding that was in place in order to address these things, would we continue to have the number of potholes in these same specific areas? Because typically once you redo a street, let's say you reconstruct it, I mean, obviously that's gonna be a better situation, but even in resurfacing,
 If you resurface an area and it doesn't flood, it should last a period of time that is reasonable that people won't see potholes like two months later as an example. But in areas where you continually see this flooding problem and it's not addressed, then that is going to exacerbate these problems on these streets with respect to potholes.
 In that same regard, are we looking at the type of materials that we're using? Is there more innovation in materials to say, hey, this is more water resistant than others? Because we all know that water is a very powerful force. So clearly, you know, better materials are going to be more expensive. But are we looking at those options to say, you know what?
 taxpayers you want this to stop like this is what's going to cost you and you know we can probably guarantee that it's going to last a lot longer than the two years it rains and then mottwood's another good example where it was resurfaced and now there's potholes all over the place so you see like new surface and then you just see patches of potholes everywhere
 So I'll let staff respond on the specifics relative to the detail. But in terms of the technology and the innovation, we do not hold staff back in terms of using the latest and greatest tools at their disposal, but I'll let them speak to it. Yeah, just a great example is Hawkins that we just opened up. Hawkins is, by history, and the history that we know of it, is a big river, went every time it rains down across the gateways and down into, as you go down to the community college.
 we could not do that in asphalt because it was not gonna last very long. So we pushed ahead and did that in more expensive concrete because we knew I needed it. The flows on Hawkins through that segment and the steepness of it really demanded that we do the more expensive treatment on that so that it could last longer. So yes, we look at that amount of rain that comes through
 And of course that all gets taken into account as part of the design what we do for reconstruction The challenge for us is when we do milling overlays, you know We don't have the ability to go in and really rework the grades or add Drainage infrastructure as it sometimes needs it because it's a much much most cost effective way of resurfacing the actual pavement but in situations where we do have
 have historical issues with drainage, we do add underground storm drainage systems, or in the case of Hawkins as an example, we do put it in coffee so that it makes sure that it would last through the rain. Okay. Thank you. Ms. Rodriguez, I do want to make one other comment because I think a lot of people don't realize this. When you resurface a street and it's in a flood-prone area, you are going to have potholes. That's just a... Just regardless of the material? Yes, ma'am. You're going to have those. That's just...
 to your point about water and and how forceful it is and the fact that resurfacing is not it's not guarantee no no it's it's not um perfecting the street
 When you reconstruct it, you complete the street. You redo the entire thing. When you resurface, there's layers of it that over time have deteriorated. And so when you resurface it, all you're doing is covering up. You're band-aiding the problem. You're putting band-aids on it. So all these streets that have been resurfaced, they're all band-aids. If you can look at it from that standpoint. The reconstruction is going in and having surgery, doing the whole thing right, and you've got a brand-new...
 and really replacing the leg, so to speak, and just replacing the whole thing. It's not just going in and just putting bandages on it. And so the reconstruction is the entire street. And typically you don't have issues with those unless there's earthquake or you have movement in the street, you have things like that. They're foundational in that particular part of town. But I just wanted to be clear because I think when people think it got resurfaced, oh, my street got done, it's good to go. It is good to go in areas maybe that doesn't flood. It'd be good for years.
 potentially but with you resurface that that street should be good for you know 10-15 years typically and you know but when you have heavy vehicles on it daily that tends to deteriorate the road faster and so that's the reason when we do present about the 44 million dollars needed a year that's not just some number that's being you know picked out of the air that's based on all this analysis with the PCI and the fact that streets have been ignored for quite a long time
 So that's a serious matter. And so this council has taken that very seriously. Back in 2012, they were trying to catch up for all the neglect, and then this council has taken action on 17, 19, and 21 to address street issues. Those are the three times this council has taken action to address street issues. Okay. Thank you.
 Thanks again. The PCI study I think is an invaluable tool because it truly focuses on the data And the actual need of the streets without interference from the the council from residents It allows the data allows these numbers to sort of come out there So I'm curious we approved funding to to do an update for the PCI study for this year the last one we did it was in 2018 correct and
 I believe that's put in place and Sam has a time frame. So I can address that. We issued a solicitation earlier in September. We received responses. We are in a position of getting the paperwork together to take it to council for approval, hopefully on October 12th. And we have put a stipulation in the contract that the work needs to be completed. The field work needs to be completed by March. By March of 22? Yes.
 And that will identify what streets, the grading of the streets, what streets could reliably be recommended for resurfacing, what streets would reliably be recommended for reconstruction. Is that correct? And other improvements that you all have in terms of your technologies. So that is correct. Okay.
 I think that we all have a need here within all of our districts and that we are dealing with.
 you know, decades of neglect from our community. Also, we've heard too from members of the community what their comfort level is in terms of our approach and how we deal with our infrastructure and how we deal with streets. And so I think, again, this was something that Representative Hernandez, Representative Anello, and others had brought up about looking at some sort of,
 bond package that could be voted on by the voters i think looking at a voter approved bond package relating towards streets and infrastructure is something that should be looked at for an upcoming election as well that's just my sense but it feels like with the needs that we have in our community
 with the importance that people have in wanting to see their streets done and wanting to see things improved in our neighborhoods and in our community it seems that a voter approved bond initiative would be something that would be appropriate towards addressing our streets and some of our infrastructure needs and I just wanted to put that out there
 Mayor Pro Temp, unless there's any other questions, I would like to just to your commentary. The council in the past, you were one of them.
 Representative Hernandez and Representative Nello and really Representative Liz Ottegall and Representative Rivera, a lot of folks that were here before. And then we had the new people that have come on that have also talked a lot about streets, have indicated, and if you remember, I know Representative Hernandez, you brought up that what about the list of projects that were from the 2012 that didn't get finished, the reconstruction list? We haven't forgotten you. We haven't forgotten that discussion.
 That's, as we pointed out before, that's a big number, and one in which that the council has to tackle at some point, and with respect to some kind of bond election, I think that would be appropriate, given the feedback we've received, Ray and Pro Tem, even with respect to hard infrastructure like that, because all of you have a laundry list of street projects that you've heard from your different folks in your district.
 Yeah, I mean, I just think, you know, if people talk about the need for having voter-approved debt and voter-approved initiatives, then...
 Let's see where people are with it. This community deserves nothing but the best. And so if people have an issue or wanna see projects being brought up, that can be voted upon. Certainly having a bond initiative focusing again on streets and infrastructure is certainly something that this council can focus on. Again, listening to our residents, listening to the concerns of the community.
 That's pretty much what I have. If there's nothing else, anybody else wants to add, Representative Rivera in his blue tie? No, hearing nothing. Ms. Pratt, would you like to go to the next item? I don't know if you want to start from the top of the agenda with what we have. Yes, Mayor Pro Tem, we're on page 10 on the first reading of ordinances. These are items 29 to 31. Is there a motion? Is there a second? Second.
 There's a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 29 to 31. Mayor Pro Tem? Yes, Representative Hernandez. Hi, I did have questions. Let me pull that up. I'm sorry, remind me which page are we on?
 We are on page 9. We're starting at the bottom where it says call to the public. Then we switch over to page 10 where it says regular agenda first reading of ordinances. Starting with items 29 through 31. Okay. Which ends at the middle of page 11. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Just quick questions. And so for item number 29, I just had a quick question related to...
 the definition of a homeless shelter it refers back it refers back to say as defined as a homeless shelter and so I just want to understand for a purpose of you know for public engagement can you define what is considered a homeless shelter good evening representative Hernandez assistant chief Sarut for the record
 The definition used for the ordinance amendment homeless shelter comes from the regulation from the T.A.B.C. and that definition is verbatim under the authority given to utilize that option. OK. And do you happen to have that definition by the T.A.B.C.?
 Yes, the definition means a supervised publicly or privately operated shelter or other facility that is designed to provide temporary living accommodations to individuals who lacks a fixed regular and adequate residence. Okay, so with this proposal, what is the distance in terms of between a homeless shelter and consuming alcohol?
 From the homeless shelter under that definition it's under 1,000 feet the buffer zone so it would be under just over three football fields to give you the visualization on it. And at our next meeting could we could we see a map that would show these buffer zones?
 as it relates to the existing shelters we're coming back on october the 12th with the full presentation on it for council and we'll be able to answer any questions that you have okay yeah what i would like to see is the existing homeless shelters and then where this would be applicable um okay thank you for that um regarding i had a number of questions for the planning department
 I've emailed them. I'm happy to repeat them if you'd like me to. Otherwise, if you're prepared, you can answer my questions now. Good afternoon, Representative Hernandez, Tony De La Cruz, Planning and Inspections. Regarding the question for Senate Bill 315, the Senate bill only addresses employees needing to be over the age of 21. And this is for item 30, excuse me, right? Say again, ma'am? This is for item 30?
 Yes, let me make sure that I'm on the right item. For the SOPs? Yes, that is for the SOPs, ma'am. So only employees have to be over the age of 21? Yes, ma'am. And this is a new law?
 This was just approved under the 2021 legislative session. Okay. And what is going to be the form of communication to those SOBs and their employees having to be over 21? Currently, we ran a...
 spreadsheet of the number of employees that were under 21 there are only two employees that Are licensed currently by our department or through the city? Uh notice has to be provided in writing to those employees We can submit writing and go above and beyond and submit it to all sobs that currently have a permit with the city of el paso I mean because like how do they know? this new law well, this was a
 state bill but we can definitely follow up with departmental notice to the SOBs within the city. Okay great and I have some in my district and so I want to make sure that some of those businesses that may or may not have applied for an SOB or who are currently operating an SOB are aware that no employee shall be under the age of 21. However patrons can be over 18.
 Is that correct? Correct. Okay, thank you. Yes, ma'am, thank you. Regarding, there was some planning documents. I don't know if that's in the next item. Okay, I think that's all for the first reading of ordinances. There is a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 29 to 31. There was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein, seconded by Representative Rodriguez. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anello? Aye. And the voting session?
 And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Mayor Pro Tem Shortspine not present. Sorry, Sir. Your accountant not present for these items. The next item is number 32. This is a discussion and action on the request that the city manager be authorized to sign a service agreement between the City of El Paso and Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc., the sole source provider for geographic information systems.
 I'm sorry, Mrs. Bryan, I'd like to make a motion to reconsider the first reading of ordinances. Okay. Has anyone made a motion on item 32? I'm sorry, who made the motion? Representative Rodriguez, who seconded it? Representative Rivera, if you all can please verbalize it, that way I make sure I capture it. So there's a motion and a second to approve item number 32. Mayor Pro Tem, may I call the question?
 Certainly. Okay. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anello? Aye. And the voting system? And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez, I'm sorry, you wanted to reconsider? Yes, ma'am. Second. May I make a motion to reconsider the first reading of ordinance 29231? Second. There's a motion and a second to reconsider the first reading of ordinances, items 29231. All in favor?
 Anyone opposed? The motion passes. We're back on the first reading of ordinances, items 29 to 31. Move to approve. There's a motion and a second to approve. Is there discussion? Okay, there is a motion and a second to approve the first reading of ordinances. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Añelo? Aye. In the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number 33.
 Item number 33 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2021-1339, Sun Glow and Lockheed Median Improvements to Martinez Brothers Contractors, LLC. Motion to approve. Second. There's a motion by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Anelo? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 Next item is item number 36. And Council staff would like to postpone items 36, 37, and 38 for two weeks. Do you need a motion to postpone? There's a motion by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, to postpone it. Would you like to take all three items together? This would be 36, 37, and 38. And it was actually seconded by Representative Salcido. Thank you.
 Motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to postpone the items for two weeks. These are items 37, 36, 37, and 38. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anelo? I'd love a briefing on these, and yes. Me too. Yes, we've already asked staff to brief each of the council members individually. Thank you. We'll end the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to item number 39. This is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 11101 Armor Street from PI Planned Industrial to C4 Commercial. Motion to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, to approve item 39. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anello? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 that brings us to item number 40 this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from r4 residential to r5 residential at 10032 cross street move to approve there's a motion made by representative molinar seconded by representative salcido to approve item number 40 we do have a comment from mr moncera i don't see him in chambers there is a motion and a second to approve on that motion call for the vote
 Representative Anello? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Next item is number 41. This is a public hearing on a Norton's annexing property east of Joe Battle Boulevard and south of Bob Hope Drive. There's a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item number 41. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Anello? Aye.
 aye thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously the next item is number 42 this is a public hearing on an ordinance renewing and extending the special privilege license granted to the united states of america acting by and through the department of navy naval facilities engineering commands southeast to permit the continued use maintenance and repair of a surface at 4810 pollard street move to approve
 there's a motion made by representative molinar seconded by representative rodriguez to approve item number 42 on that motion call for the vote representative vanello aye thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously the next item is number 43 this is a public hearing on an ordinance amending title 12 vehicles and traffic schedule 3 parking prohibited at all times to add portions of south el paso street um
 First, can we have a presentation, but before that, Representative Lizaga has a... I wanted to postpone the item for two weeks. 43. So you're making a motion to postpone, Rep? Yes, I am. I'll second. Too late, Representative Inouye. There is a motion made by Representative Lizaga, seconded by Representative Rodriguez. This is to postpone the item for two weeks. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Inouye? No.
 Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number 45. This is discussion and action on a resolution to approve a 12th amendment to the city's 2019-2020. What happened with 44? 44 was deleted, sir, with a consent agenda. I don't know if we have a question with 44. Well.
 Is there a way we can get briefed on the deleted item of 44? I'm trying to understand what exactly an energy management service is. You would need to reconsider the item if you'd like to discuss the item, sir. What? I understand that. Can we make a motion to reconsider item 44? Okay. Is there a way we can get briefed about what exactly energy management services are for the city? There is a motion made by Representative Shorespine. Was it seconded to reconsider?
 I don't hear a second. Well, can it be reconsidered? Second. Thank you. There is a motion and a second to reconsider the item. All in favor? Aye. Yes. Anyone opposed? I'll take a roll call. This is to reconsider Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. Which item, Ms. Prine? 44. Item 44. Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine? Aye. Representative Anello? Aye. Thank you.
 this is reconsider hernandez yes molinar yes salcido aye rodriguez no rivera aye no
 The motion passes with six affirmative votes. We're back on item number 44, which is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services to perform energy management services with Texas Energy Engineering Services, Inc. and Year Out Energy Services Company, LLC. Okay, I recognize this item is deleted. I just am requesting a briefing from council before this is brought back to better understand exactly what
 um a non-comment agreement for professional services to perform energy management services is yes we'll provide those briefings as well wonderful thank you so much may we have a motion to delete so moved is there a second there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative salcido to delete the item on that motion call for the vote representative anello thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 the next item is 45 this is discussion in action on a resolution to approve a 12th amendment to the city's 2019-2020 45th year annual action plan for the emergency solutions grant coronavirus phase 2 to reduce the homeless welcome shelter center funds to supplement the opportunity center shelter and homeless management information system support project motion to approve second
 there's a motion made by representative rodriguez seconded by representative molinar to approve there is public comment on this item from mr john martin mr martin are you in the queue sir star six oh hello mr martin thank you sir you all have three very few comments i just wanted to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to nicole franey and the community and human development department they have been an excellent partner in working with the homeless within the community
 And I'm also here to answer any questions that you might have. Just so I didn't really have any prepared comments. Thank you. Okay. There is a motion and a second to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Manello, that was named? Oh. Aye. Thank you so much. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 We now return to item number 25 that was moved to the end of the agenda. We'd make a motion to postpone for two weeks. Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Anello, to postpone the item for two weeks. On that motion, call for the vote. This is to postpone two weeks. Representative Anello, thank you. We're in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Motion to adjourn.
 There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, September 28, 2021, is adjourned at 2.46 p.m. Thank you, council, and Godspeed, Representative Rivera. Bye, everybody. Bye. Thank you.