Ms. Prine? Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning. Good morning.
 This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, October 10, 2023. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding in council chambers along with Representative Kennedy, Mayor Pro Tem Manello, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Canales. Representatives Hernandez and Rivera have requested to be excused this morning. It is 9.02 a.m. Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting?
 and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain Robert Hemphill Jr. Good morning, Rudy. How are you, sir? Good morning, sir. To the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leza, City Council members, Department Chairs, and members of the committee, please bow your heads at this time. According to the book of Matthew, 5th chapter,
 Ninth verse says, blessed are the children of God who are peacemakers, because we are all children of God, and we should be striving for peace. And we thank you for allowing us to have our city council that promotes peace and harmony.
 We ask that there's a time for everything, that there's a time for war and there's a time for peace. But most hopefully, Father, we ask that you grant the mayor and the council the courage to know what to do and do the right thing in conducting the business of the city, following the agenda. And may they speak when it's time to speak and listen when it's time to listen and be patient and respect others as they speak. This we ask in your holy name.
 In the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. And this morning, to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, we have Sher Law Firm's Inaugural Internship and Scholarship Program recipients, Yamalit Contreras, Braden and Cecil, Sebastian Esparza, and Jacob Lozano. ...States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, one... You got a check. You got a check.
 For the record, Representative Fierro is also present in council chambers. Good morning everyone and you know there's a big tragedy going on in our community in the world today and Israel is under attack and there's a war on the nation and I think it's important that we pray for peace not only in the Middle East but peace in the world.
 that innocent lives, innocent people, men, women, children, don't lose their lives. And there's so many people that are being affected by hatred that I'd like for us to take a moment of silence and really pray that we live in a world that cares, that we live in a world that lives are important to people. And as we see the videos...
 We can only think back to what happened in our country alone on 9-11. And I want everyone really to—and I'm lost for words. I got to give a speech yesterday, and I took a piece of paper, and I wanted to write down what I wanted to say. And I couldn't find the words, to be honest with you. I threw the piece of paper away because it's hard to explain what's going on and why—
 that in 2023 we're still suffering from hatred. So I want everyone to really put in your own words and really pray for peace in the world. Thank you. Thank you all. And may God bless America, may God bless El Paso and every one of you all. Thank you, God bless you. Ms. Pryne. Thank you, Mayor. That brings us to the Mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is National Health Education Week. Representative Moorlenaught.
 Good morning. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas National Health Education Week is an annual event recognized since 1995 to increase awareness of health education and health literacy across the country and to empower the public to get involved in their health and personal care. And whereas health educators are specialized and dedicated public health professionals.
 who help transform communities by translating and explaining in simple terms health concepts at both the individual and community level and teach how to incorporate healthy choices into people's lifestyles. And whereas El Paso, Texas is disproportionately affected by many chronic conditions with poor health outcomes due to low health literacy and other social determinants of health,
 And whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health offers education and promotion programs that aim to improve the health of all El Pasoans. And whereas during this National Health Education Week, the Department of Public Health educators will improve health literacy in our community by addressing diverse health topics,
 to improve health outcomes and whereas we urge all residents, healthcare organizations, educational institutions, and community partners to come together during this week and beyond to work collaboratively and promote health education to improve the health and well-being of our beloved community. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that October 16 through October 20, 2023 shall be known as National Health Education Week.
 sign Oscar Aliza honorable mayor for the city of El Paso thank you good morning good morning mayor good morning council my name is joy laos and I am the program manager for the health education and promotion division in the Department of Public Health it's a privilege to be able to address you all this morning as we celebrate National Public Health Education Week
 National Public Health Education Week was started over 28 years ago to increase the awareness of major public health issues and promote a better understanding of health education and health promotion. Together with our peers across the country, we reflect and take action on major issues that are prominent in our communities.
 We work in areas of increasing health literacy, combating chronic disease, adolescent mental health, improving maternal and child health, increasing access to health care, improving our health communications, advancing health equity through advocacy, and reducing health disparities in our communities through action. We're lucky to have a great team of health educators in many of our programs across the Department of Public Health.
 They all possess a very special set of skills in making health information relevant, interactive, and meaningful to those whomever they come in contact with. We strive to do our work in a nonjudgmental manner and truly listen to the community because without them we would not be here. There's nothing more valuable to us as a team than the ability to engage with our community and take to heart the information that they share with us.
 We do our best to use that information to improve our programs, presentations, and outreach events to better meet their needs. Health education is a social science that involves teaching and providing information to the public to help them better achieve health at the community level. We draw from a combination of sciences including biological, environmental, psychological, and medical to promote health, prevent disease, disability, and premature death.
 Health promotion is the process of enabling people to increase control over and to improve their personal health. It looks at individual behavior, but also beyond that at a range of social, environmental, and organizational factors that can influence health. I'm beyond proud to stand with this amazing team of public health educators and publicly thank them for their tireless and sometimes fearless work over the years. It's an honor for me to be able to serve this community alongside so many people with hearts of service.
 Public health is a turbulent field, but our team has been steadfast in rising to the challenge and putting forth their whole effort Regardless of the task this national public health education week We invite mayor and council to continue to support our public health department efforts and initiatives in the community and be Supportive of our continued efforts to keep our community safe and in its best health. Thank you. Thank you Thank you all for being here
 And if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers, Council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once all the ceremonial items have been completed. The next proclamation is Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Representative Canales. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas domestic violence is a serious public health problem that affects millions of people each year,
 and whereas the problems of domestic violence are not confined to any group or groups of people, but cut across all economic, racial, and societal barriers, and are supported by societal indifferences,
 AND WHEREAS IN THE 2022-2023 FISCAL YEAR, THE CENTER AGAINST SEXUAL AND FAMILY VIOLENCE RECEIVED 6,363 CALLS ON THE CRISIS HOPE LINE, OF WHICH 4,128 WERE DIRECTLY RELATED TO DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, AN 88% INCREASE COMPARED TO LAST FISCAL YEAR.
 They provided shelter to a total of 839 residents, advocated for an additional 3,028 victims at the Family Resource Center, and provided over 3,800 hours of individual therapy. And whereas we urge all members of the community to join the Center Against Sexual and Family Violence in supporting victims and survivors of domestic violence. We can all make a difference by speaking up against abuse. We encourage victims to reach out for help,
 and know that they are not alone. And whereas the city of El Paso recognizes the month of October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month and urges all citizens to actively participate in scheduled activities and programs to work toward improving victim safety and holding perpetrators of domestic abuse accountable for their actions against individual victims and our society as a whole.
 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT PROCLAIMED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL PASO THAT THE MONTH OF OCTOBER SHALL BE KNOWN AS DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AWARENESS MONTH. SIGNED BY OUR HONORABLE MAYOR OSCAR LEISER. THANK YOU. GOOD MORNING. GOOD MORNING, MAYOR. GOOD MORNING, CITY COUNCIL.
 It's an honor to be with you here this morning. I'm Senator Navarez Garcia. I'm the executive director for the center. And with me, behind me, I can see on the screens, we have some of our staff that does the work daily, working with our survivors in our community. As you just mentioned, the issue of domestic violence has not been cured. We continue to do our work. We've been in the community for over 45 years.
 and continue to provide those services to those survivors in our community for El Paso, Hudsbeth, and Culberson counties. The individuals that we serve are struggling right in our communities and so oftentimes
 We use this month to be able to project out as much information as possible. It continually happens that people tell us, you know, I didn't know that there was that service. I didn't know that this was a resource. And unfortunately, it's a common problem with our particular victimization, if you will. Individuals that know of us is because they're either interested in the work that we do, have had some sort of individual affected by it, or are personally affected by it, or have come across us in some other way.
 And so we utilize this month to do a projection of different activities. We started our month with a fall festival. One of the things that the center prides itself on is creating new memories for our families and their children. And so we work closely together with our emergency shelter and our family resource center to create those different opportunities for those individuals and show them what an activity
 not involved with violence looks like for them. Because oftentimes when you talk to them about specific holidays and memorable events, a lot of our victims connect those with some violent interaction with their partner or spouse. With that, we are asking for a few things of our community. One, become more informed about what domestic violence looks like.
 It does have different, there's verbal, emotional, sexual, and physical abuse. We ask you to talk to your friends and family members. If you see something, something doesn't feel right, it probably is because it's not right. And so we have a 24-hour hope line, which is that 593-7300 number that anyone can call 24 hours a day. It's completely confidential, just to get information about the services that we provide and what that might look like for your loved one.
 We ask you to support any type of domestic violence organizations by volunteering, donating. As you know, any nonprofit needs all types of help. And so we provide everything from A to Z in the sense of a person comes in and they're provided everything in our emergency shelter absolutely free, so everything from, you know,
 shampoo, conditioner, sanitary napkins, diapers, wipeys, all those things because we want to be able to be that safety net for that individual and have them focus on increasing their sense of safety and not have to worry about the bare essentials.
 Lastly, we come together in terms of making sure that we promote it, like I said, throughout the month. And so this Wednesday, actually tomorrow, we're featuring a movie which is called Alice, Darling at Alamo Drafthouse on the Far East. You can go to our website if you're interested. Tickets will benefit the center and obviously you can adopt a child to send them to the movies.
 But this movie, I was really intrigued by it because it talks about when people say, like, why do they stay? Why is it that, you know, I would have never been in that relationship, I would have never stayed that long. And this movie kind of really portrays how an individual who's been verbally victimized, the gravity of verbal emotional abuse, what that looks like.
 before it even necessarily gets physical. So it kind of puts it into perspective. And usually we see all the physical attributes but not the emotional and the verbal. So that's really unique to...
 to those different types of violences. The last thing that we'll also have is, as you know, Paso Giving Day is on October 19th, and so we'll be doing a whole, we're doing a big sort with the county attorney's office. We're doing different things to be able to promote individuals to come into the center to try to provide that support for our survivors and for the work that we're doing.
 And so again, I would just again like to extend a thank you to all of you for continuing to allow us and invite us to be here and your support just throughout the year because it really just truly mean a lot to not only us as individuals, but I think the survivors in our community that we serve, so thank you. Thank you all. The next proclamation is October month. Representative Kennedy. Come on, there's some architects in here. I saw you. Design a way up to the microphone, okay?
 We're getting up here. Whereas the American Institute of Architects El Paso chapter adds value to city, county, and surrounding areas by creating places that enhance the quality of life through the built environment for all the residents of El Paso, and whereas the local AIA chapter is responsible for the design of many iconic buildings in El Paso,
 safeguards the culture of the region through historic preservation, and aids in the review of local codes and ordinances in order to maintain the health, safety, and welfare of citizens and structures. And whereas the local AIA chapter is one of the leading organizations in our community, focusing on energy efficiency, sustainable design, urban planning, and the importance of building technology merged with design innovations to help improve our city,
 And whereas the local AIA chapter encourages citizen architects to take pride in and learn about the built environment, how it shapes our city's progress, the ability to strengthen our regional cultural identity, and quality of life through buildings, historic structures, and neighborhoods. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed, and you brought...
 celebration too now therefore be it complained by proclaimed not complained proclaimed by the mayor and council the city of El Paso that the month of October shall be known as Arctober the witness therefore is under the hand of our Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser thank you mayor council and city manager we are
 We are once again thankful to be here with you and for you to be honoring us with this proclamation for October which celebrates design in our community. It's our design month celebration every year. We have a number of we have a number of tours and other activities this month that we welcome the public to join us in and
 We'd also like to take a moment to thank you all for all the great work you do in making the built environment a priority in our city and elevating design as part of your own projects.
 and bringing the our members and member firms into that process with you and being your partners in it. So we're very thankful for that. And I'm just going to leave you with one final statement we'd like to read for you. We're going to take a moment. Edgar's got some
 got a statement that we're gonna pass out to you that we'd like to advocate for we've seen recently the The in the news that you're considering uses of the Union Depot property We would just like to advocate for the continued use of this uh
 of the Union Depot as the home of the architecture school in our community that's super important to our profession. The Texas Tech Huckabee College of Architecture is called the historic Union Depot building home for over a decade. Excuse me, Ms. Pryor. I don't think this is the item on the agenda. No, sir, this is not. So we cannot, this is not the item on the agenda, so we cannot move forward on what we're talking about right now.
 The proclamation is something different than this. I wanna stay with the item on the agenda, please. All right, well, with that then, thank you all for the time today and opportunity to be here with you all and celebrate architecture in our community. And we appreciate it, thanks. Thank you, congratulations. The next proclamation is Indigenous Peoples Day. Thank you, Ms. Prine. I believe we have some members of our local tribe here if they'd like to come up.
 Whereas October 12, 1942 marks one of the most significant days to all Indigenous people of the Americas, and whereas numerous cities and state governments within the United States now recognize Columbus Day also as Indigenous Peoples Day in an effort to create a path of healing and reconciliation, and whereas the downtown area of El Paso, Texas has served as the core of tribal passage settlement and regular ceremonial convergence since the time immemorial,
 And whereas the city of El Paso opposes racism towards indigenous people in the United States. And whereas the city of El Paso promotes closing the equity gap for indigenous people through policies and practices that reflect the experiences of indigenous people that ensure greater access opportunities and policies that honor our nation's indigenous roots, histories, and contributions.
 And whereas Indigenous Peoples Day was first proposed in 1977 by a delegation of Native Nations in the United Nations-sponsored event, the International NGO Conference on Discrimination Against Indigenous Populations in the Americas, and the El Paso City Council voted on September 12, 2023, to officially recognize the second Monday in October as Indigenous Peoples Day in the city of El Paso. Now, therefore, be...
 proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that October 12th, 2023 shall be known as Indigenous Peoples Day. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Congratulations, y'all. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you, everybody. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council. On behalf of the city of El Paso, I just want to say thank you for acknowledging our tribe and our Native American tribes here in the United States. Thank you again. Thank you very much. Thank you for being here. Thank you for having us. Thank you.
 And the final proclamation is Teen-Tober Feste. Ms. Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas teenagers represent the future of El Paso and deserve to be included in the decision making and planning for the future, and whereas Teen-Tober is the nationwide celebration hosted by libraries every October which aims to celebrate teenagers and promote year-round
 services and literacy. And whereas through Teen-Tober, the El Paso Public Library highlights innovative ways to help teens learn new skills, feel their passion in and out of the library. And whereas Teen-Tober Fest is a festive teen-centric celebration which brings together educational recreation and
 Rural resources to give teens an opportunity to express their creativeness and talent now Therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and the City Council of the city of El Paso that October 14 2023 shall be known as teen Tober best day signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser Council thank you so much for having us here and
 I want to thank you for allowing us to be here this morning to talk about how libraries and our programming help to support youth in our community. Teen Tober Fest is an annual event which has been held for the since 2021. Teen Tober Fest aims to provide teens with access to a wide range of educational, recreational and cultural resources through partnerships with over 50 exhibitors, sponsors and collaborators.
 The event being held this Saturday, October 14th, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. will feature live entertainment, workshops by El Paso Community College, Planned Parenthood, University Medical Center, among others. We will have crafts, video and traditional games competitions, cosplay contests, escape rooms, a Lucha Libre exhibition by Lucha League of El Paso, and much more, free of charge to teens from all over El Paso.
 Food trucks will also be on the hand to provide traditional El Paso festival goodies for the El Paso public to enjoy. In addition to those events already mentioned, the library will be giving away more than 200 pairs of eclipse viewers starting at 10 a.m. so that attendees can see the eclipse happening that same day. Admission to the event is free and open to the public. We hope to see everyone there.
 I also want to thank my colleagues behind me for all the work that they do and putting all of these things together. Thank you so much for having us. Thank you.
 Mayor, would you like to move forward with the consent agenda? Yes, ma'am, I sure would. Thank you. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Temp.
 I'll turn it on for you. Your mic's on. I got it right here. Thank you. I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse absent city council members. And that's to excuse representatives Cassandra Hernandez and Henry Rivera from today's meeting. And then page 6, item 20, add alternate mayor Pro Tem Molinar as a co-sponsor.
 Page six item 21 take item after proclamations per representative Hernandez and then page six item 22 Take item after proclamations per representative Hernandez Second, thank you. There's a motion made by mayor pro temp I know seconded by representative Salcido to approve the consent agenda as revised On that motion call for the vote No question representative Salcido. I thank you in the voting session. I
 And the motion passes unanimously. Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina not present. Items 21 and 22 were moved to the forefront, Mayor. And they're related. Would you like to take them together or individually? We can take them together. Thank you, sir. Item 21. Are you gonna read them both? Yeah, thank you, Ms. Pine. Item 21 is discussion in action to approve a resolution for the city to declare October 11th of every year
 Is El Pasoans coming out day by listening to the LGBTQIA plus community and working with LGBTQIA plus support organizations together will foster a model city that is safe to come out in? Item 22 is discussion and action to approve a resolution for the city to declare the month of October of each year as Transgender History Month.
 and pledges to continue to show its support and stand in solidarity with the transgender community honoring our diverse and intersectional community and that the city declares itself as a safe haven for transgender and gender non-conforming families. These items were submitted by Representatives Hernandez and Rivera.
 Thank you, Ms. Prine. Since both sponsors are not here today, I'll read the resolution and then make a motion to approve. So the first is Coming Out Day. Whereas Coming Out Day is observed nationally to celebrate coming out and to raise awareness of when it was first observed on October 11th, 1988, on the anniversary of National March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights that urged Congress to pass protective civil rights legislation.
 And whereas coming out has been the common term for someone who acknowledges to others that they are LGBTQIA+. However, the term gives the impression that people who do not identify as heterosexual are hiding from society rather than acknowledging how homophobia and transphobia creates an unwelcoming and unsafe environment to live authentically. And whereas hundreds of LGBTQIA plus El Pasoans come out to their friends and loved ones yearly, not knowing what the response will be.
 And whereas coming out can be a life-changing experience, and for some can lead to family exile, discrimination in the workplace, social shunning, and violence. And whereas while discriminatory policies set by the government and public institutions further ostracize and criminalize LGBTQIA plus people, they also have the power to create a public space that is accepting and safe so that coming out is not done in fear.
 And now therefore be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso Declare October 11th of every year up is El Paso ins coming out day by listening to the LGBTQ I a plus community and working with the LGBTQ I a plus support organizations together will foster a model that is safe to come out in Read the other one so it's half a second Okay
 Whereas Transgender History Month is a time to honor the rich history and contributions of transgender and gender nonconforming history makers. And whereas transgender and gender nonconforming Americans and their existence are often portrayed as a recent cultural development, despite having existed throughout human history. And whereas transgender and gender nonconforming Americans are being dehumanized and politicized and their contributions being erased.
 And whereas the Texas government has consistently created laws that specifically target transgender and gender nonconforming individuals in their way of life, continuing to perpetrate discrimination, violence, and disparity against them.
 And whereas transgender and gender nonconforming is a diverse community that is blazing brave new trails, making history and advocating for equality and inclusion. And whereas Lisa Turner, an El Pasoan veteran, has made history as the first trans woman to be appointed to several city commissions, including the Women's Right Commission and continually advocates for common sense policy that ensures that the El Pasoans are represented.
 And whereas supporting the transgender and gender nonconforming community by designated October as Transgender History Month will create a culture led by education and recognition of the contributions of transgender El Pasoans.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso, declare the month of October of each year as Transgender History Month and pledges to continue to show its support and stand in solidarity with the transgender community, honoring our diverse and intersectional communities, and that the City of El Paso declares itself a sanctuary city for transgender and gender nonconforming families. I'll second my say. Alright, I think it's already unanimous vote. I don't think we need to take a vote.
 We do have public yes, ma'am. Yes, we'll take them both together. Thank you, sir The first person that signed up is our a new Valdez jr. Not here Andy Rose. This cutting you good morning You have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning mayor. Good morning City Council to say how important these two resolutions are is an understatement as a transgender woman and as a transgender advocate and activist I
 When it comes to coming out and coming out day it's a it's a time to celebrate just being able to proudly proclaim who you are who you identify as who you love especially in a societal structure that doesn't exactly make it the safest thing to do.
 Having that fear to not be able to say who you're married to or who you're dating or who you have an interest in is one of the most tragic things that can happen anywhere. Because while we live in a societal structure where cisgender and heterosexual relationships are...
 are the norm when it comes to LGBT plus relationships and identities they're often struck down attacked and dehumanized in the worst ways. And so being able to officially as a as a city proclaim El Pasoans coming out day it.
 fights back against that structure and fights back against that hatred and that discrimination to show that El Paso is a safe place to be able to come out in. And it should be and it should remain that way. And when it comes to Transgender History Month
 It's important to be able to continue to show the the not just the successes but the contributions and the
 the way transgender and gender nonconforming folks have given back to the city to the economy to everything that you see in the world today and to be able to sit to have a month dedicated to that history in in.
 in a country that in a country and a state that continues to try and erase and overwrite their existence and their rights it sends a message not just to those who who fight against those who identify as trans but it sends a message to those two other transgender individuals to other gender nonconforming individuals to see that their city sees them and that their city has their back.
 So thank you so much for this and thank you again. Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Lisa Turner. Good morning, Ms. Turner. You have three minutes. Thank you. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Of course, I'm going to be in favor of this. Coming out is a monstrous achievement for anyone who's LGBT. The individual, whether they're a child or an adult, have heard their families.
 And when these individuals decide to come out, it may not be to family simply because they know how family feels about you. So imagine if you're a child and you're coming out, but you've heard your parents speak about you in a very derogatory way. So who do you turn to? You turn to somebody you trust. This is one of the biggest obstacles anybody in this community has to overcome. Okay.
 As for our history being transgender, I'd like to point out that every bit of this digital equipment that you use is basically based upon the work of Alan Turing, the father of computer science, a gay man, and Lynn Conway, who IBM was dumb enough to fire. And basically the computers we have today, such as this, which you have at your desk,
 would not be possible so it's uh we're just regular people just like you somehow the good lord decided you are going to go down this path and we walk it it's not an easy path to walk but we get up every day and we do it in spite of the hatred thrown our way thank you thank you miss
 No, I'm gonna say something real quick. I know that before, but I think Ms. Turner, you and I will agree that we're all created equal and we should live and let live. Thank you. Go ahead, ma'am. Thank you. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanillo, seconded by Representative Kennedy to approve items 21 and 22. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Alternate Mayor Pro Temanillo not present.
 Mayor, would council like to recess at this time to take photos? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Is there a motion to recess? Is there a second? There's a motion and a second to recess. A city council meeting. All in favor? All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the city council meeting is on recess at 9.42 a.m. in order to take photos with this morning's honorees. Just a quick update in terms of the order of how we're going to take photographs. We're going to start with the National Health Educators Week. We'll move on to items...
 21 and 22 which are the two reconvene Motion to reconvene there's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting all in favor Anyone opposed the meeting is back in session at 1037 a.m The next item is number 20 item 20 is discussion in action for the city of El Paso to use $500,000 of its fund from the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 to partner with
 together a 501c3 nonprofit organization to provide direct unrestricted financial assistance of $500 per month for 12 months to residents households facing financial hardship defined as earning a household income at or below 80% AMI for the local El Paso County area this item was submitted by representatives Anello and Molina thank you before we do that I think miss Neiman can you brief us a little bit on the item
 I know I'm going in the meeting so I'll go ahead and do that. Thank you. Go ahead. So the request from Representative Vanello is to as listed on the agenda is to take $500,000 from ARPA and awarded to up together, which is a nonprofit organization and to use the money to provide assistance for $500 a month for a year.
 It's supposed to be intended to be used for residents or households that are facing hardship which is defined per the language of the Posting as household income at or below 80% AMI which is for the local County area and it's intended per the language on the resolution to in order to address any negative economic impacts as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and
 We have spoken mayor to to you and representative anello about some of the concerns that we listed the the issue that We were concerned with originally is under arpa. They define the financial hardship at 65 percent ami, so this is actually encompassing more people than would traditionally be what the guidelines are under arpa and
 So that was the first issue that we addressed with Representative Anello. I think that there's also a few other issues that staff on the operations side have addressed in terms of we don't believe that there's any available funding under ARPA. I think it's already been allocated for other areas. And then it would be up to council to decide how you all wanted to proceed as a result of those issues that we've addressed here. Ms. Neiman, do you want to clarify the language that was amended this morning? Representative Anello, please. Yes.
 Does this qualify under the guidelines based on the ARPA funding? So the guidelines, go ahead. I'll defer to our CFO. Thank you. We would have to ensure, one, that as Ms. Neiman mentioned, there's obviously strict requirements related to ARPA and the eligible uses. I mean, we would have to make sure that we had some further details related to this particular program. It has been done by some other entities that did receive ARPA funding.
 We just need to make sure that before we move forward any authorization from City Council that we did identify The particular guidance within the ARPA eligibility. Okay. Thank you I know
 Yeah, I'm a little disappointed that the conversation that was had today was not brought up on amending language. I first want to say other cities have done this with ARPA funds. I have agreed to take ARPA out of the language to direct you all to find those funds. Mr. Cortinas, a few months ago, I was told that there was a $10 million surplus in ARPA. Council has not allocated that money. Also, I called our regional HUD director last night to confirm that these are eligible for ARPA dollars.
 as many other cities have used them. This is not the first time staff has heard about this. We have asked you to meet with UPtogether, with the PISO, with myself for over a year. I'm concerned that I did not receive these questions until seven o'clock last night, but I was able to do the research to determine that these were eligible for ARPA,
 But still yet have had a conversation with Neiman this morning to take that language out and allow staff to find the appropriate funding. But I don't appreciate coming up here and the conversation being like we're not sure if this is eligible. Had over a year to do this work. It took me one phone call to find that and I've still come here and been amenable to amend that language and yet that had not been
 Been even mentioned or discussed and so it feels like I'm being a little bit cornered and I don't I really don't appreciate that I do want to go to public comments so we can hear from the people But I do want to say that I think this is extremely important. I get calls all the time We have completely gone through all of
 of our utility support we have gone through our rental assistance support I'm getting calls all of the time not just from residents but also organizations begging for that money we have said that we're pushing towards we don't you know and I just have to say I'm
 I think our plan for ARPA has been a little bit all over the place from the beginning. You know, we said we were supporting communities, we said we were supporting small business, but we've run out of that money and we've done no assessment to see what the actual need in this community is. So I really applaud the individuals who have had their boots on the ground and said this is what is needed for our community to survive. I also remind Council that we spent, and Robert, you can follow up.
 find the final number for me, but I think we spent about how many million dollars to resurface tennis courts with ARPA funds? When we're talking about coming out of a pandemic and helping our community become stronger and more resilient,
 To me, this is the better use of that money than actual sports court. So with that, Ms. Prentice, I'd ask if we or Mayor, if we could go to public comment. I think Ms. Cortina has had some of the same response. Yeah, just one comment. So at the last council meeting, City Council did approve that $3.8 million for the community readiness center that we did purchase. And that was done using the ARPA funding as well. So while there has been some additional surplus, particularly in the COVID response, all of those funds are currently allocated. And that was one of the recent uses that we did take advantage of using the federal funding.
 Thank you. And if I may add, Mayor, additionally, in examples where this type of funding has been provided in other communities, there have been requirements of benchmarking and of certain types of
 deliverables that would come back to the city to to talk about that money and how that money is being utilized Staff has and does have particular paths that could be followed But that's not something that is outlined in this guidance at this time. And so therefore we would want to ensure that
 That that we could actually talk about the deliverables that would come back to the community first and foremost There are a couple of other concerns that staff has Mayor, I don't know if you want to explore those now or if you would like to continue With with with discussion among council at this time But there are some other concerns that have been discussed with interim city manager Kerry Weston and he asked that those be expressed as well today mayor. Can I? use my remaining time to respond to mr. Oh
 Go ahead ma'am. Again language was worked on with legal this morning to address those concerns if you would like me to make the motion Now so you can hear them I can but I know that we are very much aware of this and so I don't know why Those conversations are being brought up when we know that those have been addressed in the amended language I'm happy to read that language right now if anybody would like Thank you
 Thank you mayor and we'll go to call to the public after that we think I think I think it was just important to hear The dialogue where we're at and then listen to the public. So go ahead sir. Thank you I'll just start with a question Am I hearing correctly then that there is no there's no longer five hundred thousand dollars of ARPA funds available to allocate Currently all of the ARPA funding is allocated to programs that the council approved in May of last year. I
 Okay, and the the the final piece of that was the ARPA funds that were allocated for the Purchase of Morehead middle school from EPISD So we continue to work with all of the departments to where those funds were allocated all the different programs to ensure that they're spending with the timelines that we're gonna be able to expend the funds prior to The timelines or have them committed prior to the December 24 deadline, which if they're committed or obligated We have until December 20 26 to actually spend the funds. We still have a little over three years to spend the funds and
 But we continue to work with all other departments to ensure that the programs that were approved Are on track or on time and that you know Any potential opportunity to come back and do any reallocation? Would come forward probably within the next several months, but currently right now. There's no additional funding to be reallocated. Okay um
 Regardless, I believe Rep. Inella was saying that she had an amendment to potentially remove ARPA funding directly from this proposal, but to direct staff to move forward with this and identify a different funding source. I think today that we're presented with a really unique opportunity to make a significant impact on the lives of people in El Paso who are struggling still due to the economic fallout of the pandemic.
 Again, this item proposes that we allocate $500,000 to partner with Up Together, who are a very respected nonprofit organization. As the posting language reads, this partnership aims to provide direct unrestricted financial assistance of $500 per month for 12 months to households facing hardship, defined as those earning a household income at or below 80% of the area median income, or AMI, for El Paso County.
 So I know that there will be some fear, some trepidation about this kind of program, largely because this type of basic income support program is a really new concept to us here in El Paso. But it's not a new concept nationwide, and I want today to strongly advocate for what essentially amounts to a pilot program here. And I hope I can provide some compelling reasons for us to approve it.
 We can't ignore the fact that the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the lives and still continues to disrupt the lives and financial stability of countless El Pasoans. Families that were financially secure before the pandemic have found themselves grappling with loss of jobs, reduced hours, and that's led to more economic insecurity here. Thank you.
 As representatives of this community, I think it's our duty to assist those El Pasoans who have been placed into this vulnerable position by the pandemic and the resulting insecurity in our economy. The proposed program here offers a lifeline to those who are struggling to make ends meet. It empowers them to regain control over their own lives and economic futures. Furthermore, the basic income program we're supporting today...
 I'M SUPPORTING TODAY ALIGNS PERFECTLY, I THINK, WITH THE OVERARCHING GOALS OF THE AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN ACT OF 2021 OR ARPA. ARPA WAS ENACTED TO ADDRESS THE ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES OF THE PANDEMIC VERY DIRECTLY. AND THIS PROPOSED PARTNERSHIP WITH UP TOGETHER IS A REALLY DIRECT AND MEANINGFUL WAY TO UTILIZE THESE FUNDS TO UPLIFT OUR RESIDENTS DIRECTLY.
 EVEN IF WE DON'T USE ARPA, I THINK THAT, AGAIN, WE HAVE A DUTY TO HELP THE PEOPLE IN EL PASO WHO ARE STRUGGLING. THIS PROGRAM RECOGNIZES THE IMPORTANCE OF ECONOMIC MOBILITY AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY OF OUR RESIDENTS. IT'S NOT A HANDOUT, BUT AN INVESTMENT IN THE FUTURE OF THESE RESIDENTS. SO BY OFFERING UNRESTRICTED FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE,
 We enable individuals and families to make choices that are best suited to their own circumstances, whether that's investing in further education or health care or entrepreneurship. This initiative empowers our residents to build their own power to improve their own unique situations.
 There are broader economic benefits of such a program as well. Putting money directly into the hands of struggling El Paso households has a multiplier effect on our local economy. So as recipients spend these funds on essential goods and services, local businesses will be the ones who benefit the most, helping to revitalize our economy in El Paso and stimulate more growth.
 We saw a similar multiplicative effect on community spending during the height of the pandemic when the federal government provided stimulus checks directly to the people funded by the COVID-related Tax Relief Act of 2020 and the CARES Act.
 THOSE CHECKS REACHED APPROXIMATELY 85% OF U.S. HOUSEHOLDS. SO I'M SOMETIMES DISHEARTENED WHEN I HEAR THAT PROGRAMS SUCH AS THE ONE WE'RE CONSIDERING TODAY ARE OPPOSED BY SOME PEOPLE BECAUSE THEY ONLY PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLDS WHO NEED THE HELP THE MOST IN ORDER TO MEET THEIR BASIC NEEDS. THIS PROGRAM HAS THE POTENTIAL TO SERVE AS A REALLY VALUABLE TEST CASE FOR US HERE IN EL PASO FOR THE EFFECTIVENESS OF BASIC INCOME SUPPORT.
 as a tool for addressing poverty and inequality. By collecting data that we get back from this program and evaluating the outcomes, we can gain some really valuable insights into the potential long-term impact of a longer program on our community and potentially inform some future policy decisions that we can make as a council. Similar pilot programs across cities, across the country have been very successful
 Those include programs in Birmingham, Alabama, Phoenix, Arizona, many cities in California including Los Angeles, Oakland, San Diego, San Francisco, Sonoma, Stockton, there's Denver, Colorado, Atlanta, Georgia, Chicago, Illinois, New Orleans, Shreveport, Louisiana, Baltimore,
 New York City, Newark and Patterson in New Jersey, Providence in Rhode Island, Austin in San Antonio here in Texas, Seattle in Tacoma in Washington, many more. There are programs all across the country that are doing something similar to what we're doing, what is proposed here today. And I'll note that some cities on the list such as Chicago, Seattle, Mountain View, have used ARPA funds specifically to fund their programs.
 I want to look a little bit more closely at a small selection of the programs. I'll start with the Stockton Economic Empowerment Demonstration or SEED program. This one was established by the city of Stockton, California.
 and led by then Mayor Michael Tubbs, it provided 125 low income residents with $500 a month for 24 months with no strings attached. And the data that they received back from the SEED program suggested that the recipients used the funds primarily for basic necessities like food, utilities, and transportation, particularly transportation to work,
 And it also found that there were improvements in employment and mental health and overall well-being for those participants. I'll also look at Jackson, Mississippi where the Magnolia Mothers Trust, which was a pilot program there, provided $1,000 a month for 12 months to low-income black mothers living in federally subsidized housing. So the findings there.
 indicated that the funds help recipients to pay their bills, reduce financial stress, and I think very importantly, improve their housing situations. Housing stress is something that we face pretty significantly here in El Paso that we share with Jackson, and I would hope to see a similar knock-on effect here in El Paso.
 As you can tell from the long list of cities, this program is no longer rare in the United States, and these programs all across the country have, by and large, had really successful outcomes.
 However, if that's not the case here and for whatever reason we don't see the the positive effect and positive outcome that we're hoping for The proposed action today only allocates one-time funding so not ongoing funds. This isn't a program that would continue into the future necessarily It's essentially a pilot program So we're under no obligation to move forward with basic income support as a future strategy for tackling financial hardship here in El Paso if we don't See the results that that we think we'll see and
 That said, I think this will be effective here and we won't ever know unless we try. So I urge the council to vote in favor of this basic income support program today and to enter into this partnership with Up Together who I think will be an excellent partner for us. By doing so we can send a really powerful message of empowerment of our fellow El Pasoans who are struggling as a result of challenging economic times.
 And in passing this today will demonstrate our commitment to economic justice here in El Paso Resilience and recovery for the the families and all Pasoans who need the extra support coming out of the difficult economic times Brought on by the pandemic. Thank you mayor. Thank you, sir. I
 And I appreciate you and I know you always do your research and come up and show us the facts and I appreciate that's really important as we talk about something that's this important and just putting it out there but actually sharing the facts and everything else I think makes a big difference so I do appreciate you doing that and kind of sharing all the statistics you did with us and utilizing your nine minutes and 58 seconds.
 Good job. I know that's what I was saying. Good job. Thank you, sir. Representative Firo. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. There you go. Thank you, Mayor. And first of all, my colleague here is very articulate, and he really told us how. Right, exactly. The why. The why we need to do this program. The why it's going to touch so many people. The why other communities have done it and been successful at. My question is the how.
 You know, I was under the impression that there was ARPA funds still available and we were just gonna move some ARPA funds into this program, but that would be my question to everyone up here is and to staff is where Is that five hundred thousand half a million dollars gonna come from? Thank you mayor. Thank you. Mr. Cortez No as I mentioned that we would just have to continue to evaluate those programs see if there's potential to reallocate some of that funding towards this if The council was wish to do before with this type of program. Thank you for that. I
 And with that, we do have a public comment. Yes, Mayor, we have Ivana Neri. Ms. Neri, star six, please, to unmute your telephone, and you'll have three minutes. Ivana Neri, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good morning. You'll have three minutes. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, ma'am.
 good morning everyone my name is Ivana Neri and i am the senior partnership director out of together i'm here to request that you approve the proposal on item 20 and allocate 500 500 000 to
 from MARPA funding or other sources to provide direct unrestricted financial assistance of $500 a month for 12 months. The residents in households facing financial hardship, they find us earning household income at or below 80% of AMI for the local El Paso County area.
 Up Together is a nonprofit that for over two decades has partnered with government, philanthropy, and community organizations to distribute cash directly to families while learning how they work together in community to achieve their goals and achieve financial security. Since 2020, Up Together has successfully completed over 18 city and county level government partnerships including El Paso County, City of San Antonio, and City of Austin in Texas.
 Since November 2020, Up Together has been in partnership with the Woody and Gail Hunt Family Foundation, El Paso County, and El Piso and Border Interfaith, providing more than $1 million in direct investment to more than 1,000 households in El Paso County. Through our work in El Paso and across the country, we have collected data that shows that directly investing cash in people without restrictions and how it's been improved financial stability and well-being.
 Thanks to an investment made by the Woody and Gail Hunt Family Foundation and other philanthropists, we have had the opportunity to expand our work in 2024. Through a partnership with the city and anticipated contributions from the county and philanthropy, we expect to be able to invest in 82 households in the city and 83 in the county with $6,000 over 12 months, providing $500,000 a month, as I mentioned.
 The stories that you will hear today on the power of the Altogether approach are not unique, and we know that thousands of families can improve their lives if you make the right investment. Here are some of the highlights on what we've learned from the initiatives that we've launched in partnership with El Paso County, City of Austin, City of San Antonio, and in Dallas. Just as Representative Canales mentioned.
 All participants use the money primarily for basic needs such as food, housing, medical bills. Participants indeed increase their housing stability over time. We see how participants get to improve their health, well-being and food security. Income gets increased, debt decreases and in some instances home ownership increases as well. Participants work towards sustainable outcomes such as raising children, going back to school, moving to better paying jobs among others.
 Today is your opportunity to be a part of this initiative that will provide major financial stability to residents living with low income in El Paso. Thank you. Thank you. And I'm available for any questions as well. Thank you. The next speaker is Rosa Lujan, followed by Claudia Garcia, Roxana Perez. Good morning, Ms. Lujan. You have three minutes. Thank you. Mayor and members of city council, good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Rosa Lujan, and I am a member of St. Thomas Aquinas Catholic Church and a leader with Episo and Border Interfaith. In 2020, during the height of the pandemic, our organization started doing hundreds of virtual and phone meetings with those in need in El Paso.
 We heard many stories of families on the edge who had experienced the death of the breadwinner in their families, health emergencies and people who lost their jobs who now found themselves unable to pay for food, utilities and housing.
 Many people were not eligible for pandemic relief funds. EPISO and Border Interfaith organized quickly and were able to respond to the need, working with the County of El Paso, the Hunt Family Foundation, and with the Up Together Initiative.
 We were able to get 1,340 families in the county over $1 million in direct cash assistance so that they could spend this money on their top priorities and stabilize their finances.
 This money was distributed over two rounds of funding and had unanimous support from the county commissioners who understood the ongoing need.
 The pandemic may be waning, but its effects are far from over. Many families are still reeling from job loss, hospital, and utility bills that piled up and other difficulties. Also, when we were doing outreach in the county, we started getting a lot of calls from those on the edge in the city of El Paso. We know the need is deep and widespread.
 We are here today with great hopes that you will vote for the city of El Paso to also invest in this initiative so that families in the city can also have an opportunity to stabilize their situations. It is a great model and gives people the dignity to work their own way out of economic strife. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, the next speaker. At this time we have. The next speaker is Claudia Garcia. Excuse me, thank you. Claudia Garcia will be assisted by licensed interpreter Marcelo Gonzalez. Good morning, my name is Claudia Garcia and I'm a member of the San Juan Diego Parish
 COVID-19 has disrupted my home, causing my husband and my children to lose their job. In fact, my oldest daughter of 25 years old contracted the COVID-19 virus.
 Ella estuvo internada por seis semanas. Estuvo intubada y sedada. Durante todo este tiempo fue muy difícil. Solo podía saber de ella por medio de llamadas al hospital. She was hospitalized during a six-week period. She was intubated. She was sedated. This was a very difficult time due to the fact that we didn't have information from her apart from phone calls from the hospital.
 Ella cumplió sus 26 años adentro del hospital, sola y sin su familia. Perdón, toda mi afecta. En ese tiempo también sufrimos económicamente porque el dinero que teníamos ahorrado se estaba acabando y mi esposo no podía encontrar trabajo. She turned 26 in the hospital without her family. These times were also very difficult because the money that we did have was depleting and my husband was unable to find work.
 Entre todo esto, tenía que pensar en la recuperación de mi hija y en los gastos de la medicina y terapia.
 My apologies if it still affects me. Amongst all this, I still had to think about my daughter's recovery, her medication expenses, as well as her therapy. We started to apply for economic aid. I started to apply for applications that were very long and tedious. The applications were very long and tedious. It caused a lot of stress and anxiety.
 When this time came about, we were filling out application upon application. They were very long. They were very tedious. They were causing stress and depression. Only to think, was I filling out these applications correctly?
 Fueron y siguen siendo tiempos duros porque las secuelas físicas y mentales como las personas como mi hija que tuvieron el COVID son muy tristes. Mi hija salió del hospital con un tubo en la tráquea, con una manguera para comer porque no podía comer, no podía hablar, no podía caminar.
 The aftermath for people who have suffered from COVID-19, people like my daughter, are very sad. My daughter left the hospital with a tube in her trachea and also a tube in her stomach so that she could eat. She could not talk and she could not walk. She is still suffering from muscle aches that do not let her sleep and she suffers from epileptic seizures.
 Ella sigue con terapias físicas y mentales y no puede trabajar y todo esto causa estrés, ansiedad, depresión y también a la familia. She still continues with her physical and mental therapy, which has made her unable to work, that has caused stress, anxiety and depression to her and her family.
 Gracias a Dios apareció la iniciativa con conjunto con el condado, dinero de los privados y Up Together. Gracias a ellos todos pudimos salir adelante y gracias a ellos más familias también fueron bendecidas de esta iniciativa en la comunidad.
 Thankfully to God, this initiative was created along with the county and money from private corporations. Thanks to the Up Together initiative, we were able to get ahead. Also thanks to them, many other families from my community were also benefited. Como mi amiga que su esposo le dio una embolia, ella tuvo que buscar maneras para conseguir dinero para su economía y medicinas para su esposo.
 Trabajó, trabaja medio tiempo con la ayuda de piso, digo, perdón, con Up Together, pudo comprar medicinas necesarias y tener dinero para mantener su hogar. For example, my friend, her husband had a stroke. She had to look for financial and medical help for her husband. With a part-time job and with help from the Up Together initiative, she was able to pay for the medications needed and provide financially for her home.
 Estamos muy agradecidos por la ayuda que nos han brindado en esta iniciativa de Up Together. Sabemos que hay muchas más familias que necesitan ayuda. Por favor, les pido que apoyen esta iniciativa de Up Together y les doy las gracias por
 for giving us your time and listening to us. Have a good day. Thank you. We're very grateful for the help provided by this initiative, Up Together. We know many more families still need the help, and we ask for you to support the Up Together initiative. We'd like to thank you for your time and attention. Thank you. The next speaker is Roxana Perez.
 Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Hi, good morning. My name is Roxana Perez. I am 28 years old currently now. I just want to let you know how the up together helped me and my family out in the severe time of need. And that year, COVID-19 and a big winter storm hit El Paso, Texas. I live in an old mobile home with my two young children. And I remember that that time was very hard because my husband got very ill.
 and at the moment he was the only one who could provide money. It was very hard because I didn't have money to repair my water lines and everything that was happening at the time with my house. Luckily one morning Ms. Suki Perez called me and she said, look I know you're struggling up together is trying to give funds to those families who are in need. Why don't you do the application? Me in my doubtful mind
 50% chance I know it's a no, but what's with the other 50? So I took the risk and I applied. This money turned out to be a huge blessing. It was not just money lent it out to me or given to me. It turned out to be a big blessing to my family because I was able to provide what was necessary for my kids and medical expenses for my husband. Thanks to Up Together things are now good at home and
 But I know that as it was a big blessing to me, it can be a big blessing to other families in El Paso. And I just want to take the time to let you know that I am very grateful for this opportunity to be standing in front of you. May the Lord keep blessing you all and give you wisdom to take wise decisions this morning. Thank you. God bless. Thank you. And I'm glad everything's going well for you. The next speaker is El Ocio de Avila.
 Good morning, Mayor and city representatives. Just two points.
 THIS MONEY THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS FOR CITY INDIVIDUALS. WHEN WE DID WHAT THE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT CONCERNING UP TOGETHER AND THE COUNTY, IT WAS FOR COUNTY INDIVIDUALS, BUT WE DISCOVERED THAT THE NEED WAS ALSO WITHIN THE CITY, AND PEOPLE WERE SORELY, SORELY DISAPPOINTED THAT THEY COULD NOT BE DECLARED
 ENTRY INTO THE PROGRAM TO RECEIVE ASSISTANCE. WHAT I WILL DO IS GIVE YOU A STATEMENT FROM THE HUNT FOUNDATION. THE HUNT FOUNDATION IS THE PRIVATE PHILANTHROPY THAT IS TALKED ABOUT IN THE TESTIMONY SO FAR THAT WE'VE GIVEN. THIS IS THE STATEMENT.
 Our foundation is committed to improving the quality of life of El Pasoans, which is why we are proud to once again partner with the Piso Border Raider Faith, Up Together, and the City of El Paso on an initiative to invest in El Paso families and support their ingenuity and resilience.
 With this support, each family will not only be able to meet their unique needs, but also move towards long-term economic security and prosperity. Woody L. Hunt, Chairman of the Woody and Gail Hunt Family Foundation. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, I think— We have one more speaker. Okay, thank you. Ms. Turner signed up to speak. Who did? Ms. Turner. Oh, Ms. Turner. Yes, sir.
 how could i miss miss turner with great difficulty mayor i know mayor council uh about three-quarter trillion dollars was handed out in pp loan ppp loans and forgiven we take care of business all the time we do very little for the individuals i'm just curious all the gentlemen in here how would you like to take a 43 pay cut how would you like to work at the same rate that a hispanic woman works
 you would have to take a 43% pay cut because she makes 57 cents on the dollar. I want you to remember that. We have a large community made up of households led by women. I saw an article the other day. I think it was CNBC. A Hispanic woman would have to work to the age of 90 to earn the same income as a white non-Hispanic male by the time he turns 60.
 This is a lot of the problems we have in this community, problem that you should be addressing, problem that business should be addressing. We've got to do something. You can't keep turning your back on the people. It's time that you start paying attention to the people and stop the bleeding from the Treasury going to business. We bend over backwards to business, and yet women don't get paid. Their work is devalued.
 That's tens of millions of dollars just in El Paso alone that's not going into the economy. You know, we pay people properly, we won't have these issues. But we refuse to pay people properly. We don't value the work of a woman, even when she has more education, which according to the Department of Labor says, women are more educated than men, and yet they make less. And even when a woman is in a female-dominated job like nurses,
 The nursing profession, guess what? She makes less than the men. We've got a lot of work to do, and this is just a start. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Turner. Do we have a motion here? Pardon me, ma'am? He just put his thing on yes. Representative Kennedy. There are so many issues that were brought up today that are all valid issues, but not necessarily germane to the issue at hand.
 And I appreciate the cities the list of cities that have done it in your Howard Dean homage without the scream at the end of places where this has been done and my concern was so Initially there was a thought ARPA funds would be used but we don't have any let's go find some others You know is this a pilot program? Is this a test case? Is this a survey? Is this? It's not a handout
 but we haven't heard a whole lot of controls and I'm concerned about all that and that's why I will not be supporting this item I'm not necessarily a fan of guaranteed income or universal basic income but that's a different issue that's what it seems this item is I think there is some concerns that I have
 THIS WAS BROUGHT FORWARD WITH A CONCEPT TO ME THAT THERE WAS GOING TO BE DEDICATED FUNDING AND THERE MIGHT BE BUT THERE MIGHT NOT AND I'M NOT ONE THAT'S GOING TO VOTE FOR HALF A MILLION DOLLARS WITHOUT IT HAVING BEEN FULLY FLESHED OUT AND LOOKED AT AND CHECKED THROUGH WITH LEGAL AND FINANCIAL AND EVERYBODY ELSE AND I'M JUST NOT READY TO SUPPORT THIS ITEM.
 Thank you. Representative Pro Tem. Thanks, Mayor. At first, I want to thank Representative Canales for sharing all that data. I had a lot of it, but unfortunately, I had to spend my first 10 minutes speaking about things that were already addressed before this council meeting. And so with that, I'm going to make the motion so you can understand how the language has been changed and the language actually written by legal so they were aware prior to those comments.
 So the motion to authorize city manager and city attorney to identify a funding source for $500,000 and create a process to select an organization to support families that are at or below 80% adjusted median income with metrics and standards as required by relevant law and the relevant funding source in an effort to assist those at risk of eviction and prevention of homelessness. So that is the motion.
 I'm appreciative of Representative Kennedy's concerns because I think a lot of the conversation around this has been there's no checks and balances. There's none of this. There's none of this. Council is the policy of this organization.
 IT IS NOT MY JOB TO STOP AND SAY THESE ARE THE CHECKS AND BALANCES THAT NEEDS TO BE PUT IN. THIS IS THE APPROPRIATE FUNDING SOURCE THAT NEEDS TO BE PUT IN. I DID SAY THAT AT FIRST. STILL FEEL LIKE I'M HEARING CONFLICTING INFORMATION ABOUT ARPA FUNDS AND THE ACTUAL BALANCE THAT WE HAVE. BUT THE TRUTH IS WE ARE HERE TO DIRECT THEM TO FIND THE FUNDING THAT THEY DEEM APPROPRIATE AND TO WRITE THE CONTRACT AND PUT IN THE METRICS THAT THEY DEEM APPROPRIATE.
 IT WOULD BE OVERSTEPPING FOR ME AS A COUNCIL MEMBER TO DO SO. AGAIN, THANKFUL TO REPRESENTATIVE CANALES SO I DON'T HAVE TO READ ALL OF THAT DATA. BUT I WOULD ACTUALLY LIKE TO ASK MS. NICOLE FORENI SOME QUESTIONS AS SHE DID AN ASSESSMENT OF THIS PROGRAM I THINK ABOUT SIX TO EIGHT MONTHS AGO WHEN WE STARTED DISCUSSING THIS WITH STAFF. SO JUST SO YOU'RE ALL CLEAR, THIS IS NOT A CONVERSATION THAT HAS JUST HAPPENED OVERNIGHT.
 MS. FERRINI, IN YOUR ASSESSMENT, YOU KIND OF CLOSE OFF BY SAYING THAT YOU, THE COMMUNITY HUMAN DEVELOPMENT HAS PREPARED AN FY24 SUPPLEMENTAL REQUEST FOR CONSIDERATION THAT WOULD SUPPORT A FORM MENTION NOTICE OF FUNDING AVAILABILITY. DON'T NEED YOU TO GET INTO DETAILS ABOUT THAT. BUT I KNOW THAT YOU OVERSAW A LOT OF THE FUNDS THAT WE PUT TOWARDS RENTAL ASSISTANCE AND WE PUT TOWARDS UTILITY ASSISTANCE. THOSE FUNDS, WHEN DID THEY RUN OUT?
 Do you were very quickly I remember I would have to get back to you on an exact date I can tell you that all of those funds are expended we did Something like 30 million dollars in rental assistance and that went out in about 12 months from the date that we executed those agreements Okay. Yeah, I appreciate it because I know that this council has kind of
 replenish the economic development funds have you had any replenishment of rental assistance or utility assistance since that original allocation so initially rental assistance was funded through two federal vehicles cares the cares act it John remember during the height of kovat and then the emergency rental assistance program the era program
 Which came following cares once those were depleted we were this council allocated nine million dollars in ARPA funding to address community vulnerability however rental census was not included in that because we prioritized those individuals experiencing homelessness those at risk of immediate homelessness rapid rehousing and street outreach and
 So there were no rental assistance funds included in the ARPA allocation for community development. And since those last allocations, do you think that the need has gone down? No, absolutely not. I would say that what we see in our community needs assessment that we deployed last year, I think you even saw indications of it in the community health assessment, is that access to those kinds of resources is absolutely still a challenge in our community.
 Yeah, and I remember you mentioning that the budget I remember you asking for these funds Correct and again you you've heard me and I think you've read the amended language I was even able to get that to you prior to the council meeting Do you feel that that language limits your ability to look at metrics when it comes to the funding and to write a contract that? You think is is secure And just the distribution of that funding I would defer to legal on the language of the motion but what I will tell you is that I
 to allow us to explore a process that would align with whichever funding source is identified that doesn't occur at the community development level, but once we understand what the funding source is, we will work with legal to investigate the regulatory structure and make sure that we put the proper controls in place and those are ultimately embedded in the subrecipient agreements that we do. And so just want to be clear that this language is not stopping you from doing any of that process with what you do for NOFA's?
 no folks i don't believe so all right and then i also just want to say again arpa was the initial funding source that was in the original language again we've seen in other cities them use 380 dollars we have a 380 fund
 Like this is not we're not asking to pull this from general fund. I know that was actually a request of yours and FY 2024 That is not what I'm asking. I'm asking staff they and I guess this is maybe a miss Neiman question before you all Execute a contract you would have to come to council correct to approve the final contract. I
 THAT'S CORRECT. SO WE WORK WITH STAFF ON THE POSTAL LANGUAGE TO ENSURE, AS MS. FERRINI WAS JUST STATING, THAT IT MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS IN THE FUNDING STREAM. OKAY. SO TODAY WE ARE NOT HANDING OUT $500,000. WE ARE DIRECTING YOU TO DO THE DUE DILIGENCE OF A PROCESS. THAT IS WHAT IT SAYS. IT SAYS CREATE A PROCESS. I'LL READ IT AGAIN SINCE I WASN'T ABLE TO READ IT BEFORE.
 Direct the city manager and city attorney to identify the funding source or five hundred thousand dollars and create a process to select an organization That's actually exactly what it says And so that's what I wanted to be very clear about I appreciate the disagreement and allowing me to reiterate that one more time, but that is exactly what the language says This is not the allocation of five hundred thousand dollars. It is creating the process and again based on the
 what staff had said to us months ago during a budget process that they did see that this was a need that we needed to fill the gap and so this is directing them to find a way to do this so thank you very much Miss Franey yes ma'am thank you and now it's your second time this will be your second time sir oh thank you mr. mayor mayor Pro Tem brought up some very good points and one is I believe that we should direct staff
 to identify the half a million dollars, where it can or where it could come from, answer all the legal questions that this body has brought up, all the directives to move forward and to put a time limit on them coming back to us with those answers. That is what I would...
 Would like to amend the motion to read that way the motion that then I'm looking at here And I don't know if maybe I'm on the wrong page or the wrong date But doesn't say exactly what you're saying there mayor pro tem. I know the motion was amended by legal this morning again They did not contact me until 7 o'clock last night And so the language that I read is the motion the one that it on the agenda is not a motion is not the language That's correct. Okay
 That would be my suggestion, Mr. Mayor, is to make a motion. In fact, Mayor, if I can, I'd like to make that motion. Representative Peer, I think that's important that as we direct staff and we're spending taxpayers' money that we find a source for it. We just can't. So to come back and see if there is a written, because obviously we do a budget, and within the budget we have constraints, so it's important to see where and when where the money is. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 That's why I thought it was really important that city attorney and staff talked about that the item on the agenda did not, we didn't have the money available, but how we can move forward and see if we do and how we can find it and how we can do it in a different way. So that was really important. So it's not quite what the item on the agenda is, which is use ARPA funding, but we are looking at a different way of trying to...
 work with the community now if I'm not mistaken this would take care of about 83 families it's about the right number right 83.3 so we'll go to a 84 so yeah so that and what what is the number of families that would qualify at the 80% level mr. Davila do you know
 I'm just wondering what that number, you know, because there's a lot of people in need in our community and based on, you know, broadening. Excuse me, hold on, sir. Will you mind coming up?
 And I apologize. I'm the one who's asking you the questions with you. In the previous experience with the county, there were more people that we had to turn away. And it wasn't us. It was up together that either there was the money was exhausted or they were not eligible. Yeah, but I would.
 believe that there's thousands and thousands of families that would qualify for this. And so this is just kind of 83 families. There's quite a small number to help. And how do we determine who qualifies and doesn't qualify? I think that's something that needs to be really important as we move forward to try
 What is your criteria because like I said if people are gonna apply We're gonna have thousands and thousands that will qualify with only 84 of them being tanker But I think mr. Annie's shaking her head which I think we need to come up with some criteria of who what and when and how we determine who? Will get it and and that's something that's really important when when we're talking about helping the community and being able to do something like this Miss Farina, can you um kind of help me a little bit with this? up together
 UP TOGETHER WE'LL BE HANDLING ALL THAT. NO, YES, SIR. NICOLE? YOU CAN STAY UP. NO, NO, PLEASE. I DON'T BITE. PLEASE.
 If I understand your comments and your question, sir, correctly, I can't give you a number of El Pasoans that qualify at 80% AMI, but it is a large number of El Pasoans. We are talking about in the thousands. We know that there's approximately 200,000 households in our community. We know that approximately 20% of them are in poverty. And so we understand that there is a great demand. We saw that during COVID-19. The total number of assistance that we pushed out was $77 million, and it was not enough.
 Right. And we understood that. And so there will be a large number of families that we have to turn away. My understanding was that we could serve 75, but I think that –
 If I understand the motion correctly you all are asking us to go back and take a look Take a look at the possibilities the fund available funding It will be very important to identify which funding source we're talking about as was mentioned earlier We did come forward during the budget process because we were looking for the most flexible funding source but as we start to look at you know, whether it be a
 You know in past history it was cares or era each one of those had very very different constraints and so we can analyze that for you and come back to the council and Be more clear about how many who and with what prioritization structure? I believe that's what you're asking me That's really important because there'll be so many people and you know How are we going to determine who deserves it more than the others? And so I'd like to have some really good criteria so we can be really fair in the process. I
 thank you for that um representative kennedy i was going to say that it absolutely is our responsibility to worry about the implementation i mean we talked to the people from mass transit about what the percentage is on their credit card charges but we're not going to worry about the mechanics of the implementation of a half a million dollars which we don't know where it's coming from and we don't know where we're going to find it and we're going to go ahead and push this through on a program that could be a pilot program a test case a
 conceptual analysis and I think to get lost in the is there poverty in El Paso that's a simple yes is there poverty and people in need that need to be helped the answer is yes and I don't blame council or staff or anybody else for those those are issues that we will have to deal with
 disagree that this is the process to do it I think that if it had come out more fully fleshed out that it doesn't take a council action to get that done and that's the only reason I'm not supporting that's exactly what I'm saying we need to get the process procedure and the criteria because of so many people that do qualify and we want to make sure that we serve and not discriminate by any means on how we're doing it and where we're doing it and
 That's really important to the city as Representative Kennedy said that it's a process We really need to look at and it's the first time we've done something like this as a community with city money that it's important that we look at and see how we're able to do it and When it's gonna take some work, no, no ifs and buts about it to be able to do something like this anyone else I'm sorry. I know Representative Salcedo
 Thank you, Mayor. I know it's very important for us to address the most vulnerable in our community. And so it's important conversation that we're having here. And thank you to all my colleagues for sharing their sentiments.
 My concern here as well is the identifying of the funding, but I think that we're talking about where we could definitely go and identify the funding, the process and the criteria is what's important to me. Rep Fierro mentioned, and I don't know if that's exactly what his motion is, but that is something that I would support for it to come back.
 identify the funding first and then the process and criteria so that we make sure that there's measured metrics for for addressing and and being able to really help the vulnerable in our community so if if that is the the motion rep Fierro has I will second that
 Thank you very much, Mayor. I understand everyone that came out here today. Thank you very much for your stories. And I'm sure there's thousands, thousands more of those stories that we have not heard. There are issues that are coming up for utilities, transportation, housing, medical care. And we all need that services. And thank you very much for coming out and taking time every day to come out here. But...
 The way that when I was met with the different people, I believe from Episo, and I can't remember the exact other organization, and yes, it was presented to me that, hey, we would use the money from ARPA. And I said, okay, that's fine. I agree with that. And I listened, and there was discussion. There was dialogue. And so I supported that, okay? But what I'm hearing today now is from our chief financial officer, we don't have that money, correct, sir, from ARPA?
 The $500,000 or up to 500,000 as of today as I mentioned all the funds have been allocated to programs approved by council in May last year, okay, so Not knowing that up to today. It's very hard. I mean To support this or not to support this because we've already done our budget and so I don't want to see this as a pilot project because if not, we're gonna have people lined up and
 uh coming up for us for our money and it's not our money it's your public funds but we also have a financial responsibility a fiduciary responsibility as elected officials to make sure that the funding that we're spending is taxpayers money and we're doing it well and we're trying to do it the right way and so therefore that we do have a budget process that's where we do have programs and i don't believe we as a city council need to create a process
 If we can identify a source, I know Ms. Farina, you're well versed in all these things, so it's nothing new to you. PISO, you're well versed in everything you're doing. I'd say if we could just allocate the money to you, you bear that responsibility of identifying who the recipients are, why they need it, how much they need it, of course, and handle that.
 So we get out of that way The city is not involved in that but that appeasal and whatever other organizations up together the gentleman set up together Let them handle that part We as city do not have to be involved in that part I just feel that we're complicating this issue more and more that doesn't need to be done Thank You mayor again just a few clarifications I
 I believe that the the plan here would essentially give that responsibility to Up together as a partner who would administer this program. So the city would be the source of the funds But the administration of the program and any compliance That that would be tied to the ARPA funds would go through up together and again would be overseen by the city But not directly administered by the city. Is that correct understanding? I
 So how that might be said I'm glad you asked that question because I want to be very very clear about what our role becomes when we're using federal dollars The federal government allocates those dollars to the municipality when the federal government checks on compliance They do not go to sub recipients. I
 They hold the city of El Paso accountable. We've had this discussion on a number of occasions around the entitlement, around CARES, around other funds. This is partially why we initially suggested local dollars because it gives the council and the staff the most, excuse me, the most flexibility. But I do wanna clarify that although we can, in an agreement, say that the subrecipient, in this case, it would be up together,
 Would be responsible for compliance We are ultimately responsible for assuring that compliance and the federal government will hold Us and our funding sources accountable for that compliance. So I just want to be very clear about how that works I think we went through this a little bit and you'll remember Passions feed and hunger that we gave them the money and then we had to answer back to be able to to
 to get the funder we were gonna get charged back. So I think we've already lived through this once. Yes, sir. And then I think another important clarification here is that with the motion that's currently on the floor, there would be no allocation of funds today. This would be directing staff to develop a plan to draft a potential contract or agreement with UPtogether
 and to Return to council who would have a final decision on whether or not to move forward with with the program And so again a vote against the motion that's that's currently on the floor would be a vote to Not even move forward with doing the work of what this might look like and again a vote of support and
 would only be support for advancing to the next step to make sure that we have a funding source identified or maybe a number of potential funding sources identified that the council would have an ultimate choice over when this came back to us in the future. Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Ms. Prine, can we take the motion, please? Can we have a point of clerk? There was a motion made by Mayor Potemonello, but I didn't hear a second on her motion. Can you, how many motions do we have right now on the floor?
 Mayor Pro Temanillo made a motion to authorize city manager and city attorney to identify a funding source for $500,000 and create a process to select an organization to support families that are at or below 80% adjusted median income with metrics and standards as required by relevant law and the relevant funding source in an effort To assist those at risk of eviction and to prevent homelessness That was a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanillo. I did not hear a second. I
 Representative Fierro I'm unclear as to what your motion is sir. Well, I made a motion that was second by representative So your motion is the same of mine amended to say return to council in 30 days and then represent us I'll see though had seconded that okay, but So hold on time out real quick. So you made an amendment but no one has second your motion. So is anyone gonna say I
 I'll second. I think he made a second motion that was almost the same. Okay, that's one second, but I want to make sure we second that motion and you add an amendment to it. Yes. And now it's second. Okay, Ms. Pryor. So the motion was made by Mayor Pro Temanelos and Representative Piero, you're seconding her motion and adding to return to council in 30 days. Is that correct? Okay, so on that motion, Mayor Pro Temanelos, seconded by Representative Piero.
 to authorize city manager and city attorney to identify a funding source for five hundred thousand dollars and create a process to select an organization to support families that are at or below 80 percent adjusted median income with metrics and standards as required by relevant law and the relevant funding source in an effort to assist those at risk of eviction and to prevent homelessness and return to council in 30 days on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 And the motion passes 5 to 1. Representative Kennedy voting nay. Representatives Anela Molinar, Salcido, Fierro, Canales voting aye. Thank you so much, everybody, for coming out. Congratulations. That brings us to item number, the introduction of ordinances. These are items 23 to 30. Motion to approve. Second. Second.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Procter Manalo, seconded by Representative Canales to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 23 to 30. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. Representative Fierro, are you voting on this item? No? Representative Kennedy? Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Representatives Manalo, Fierro not present. That brings us to item number 31.
 Item 31 is discussion and action on the request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue a purchase order or purchase orders to U.S. Postal Service. Move to approve. There's a second. Second. There's a motion and a second. There's a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linac to approve item 31. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously, representatives
 They are not present. Let's skip 32 and 33 and go to 34. Yes, sir. Thank you item 34 Is a public hearing on an ordinance amending title 12 vehicles in traffic international bridges to add description of buses and to add or Any other vehicle to the title of toll collection for pickup trucks of the city code? There's a motion made by mayor Pro Temin a little second it by alternate mayor Pro Temin you not I
 I'm sorry, was it, I'm sorry, Councilor, if you could please use your microphones when you're making motions. I cannot hear sometimes. Representative Salcido, seconded by alternate mayor, Pro Tem Molinar, to approve item 34. You get your button, but it didn't work. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, would you like to go to 35?
 Thank you. Item 35 is a public hearing on an ordinance terminating the A1 outdoor marketing non-exclusive franchise for waste containers on sidewalks and other city property. Motion to approve. Thank you, Mayor. Just to clarify for the public, this termination is at the request of the franchisee, correct? They don't want to continue as a franchisee with the city? Yes. Nicholas Varo with ESD. Yes, it was per their request to cancel their franchise. Thank you. Motion and a second. We do have public comment on this item from Ms. Turner.
 Don't believe she's She's on her way in let's turn over. This is item 35 Terminating a marketing non-exclusive franchise for waste containers, please do so I don't like these things in my neighborhood I had an email from a city employee telling me that the contract had expired on the one that's out on Bartlett and They said they will come pick it up and it's still there. I
 Well, this one's just to terminate a contract per. Yes, and I'm just here to voice my support because I don't like these things in my community. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Frank? Yes, sir, the motion was made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by mayor Pro Temo Nelo to approve item 35. On that motion, call for the vote. Thank you, and the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item 36.
 Is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12 vehicles and traffic to amend paragraph H 40 miles per hour At Upper Valley Road Country Club Road Borderland Road and Westside Drive There's a motion made by representative Kennedy seconded by representative Piero to approve item 36 there's no public comment on that motion call for the vote in the voting session. I
 The motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Anello not present. Item 37 is discussion and action on a presentation and adoption of the resolution on the targeted zoning code assessment. Move to approve. Second. Mayor, if staff has a presentation, I'd like to see that as well. Would you ask, sir? I just said if staff has a presentation, I'd like to see that as well, Mayor, before we move on. Do you have a presentation, Mr. Kaufman? Yes, sir, I do. Go ahead, sir. All right, well, as IT brings out,
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Alex Huffman, for the record, with the Capital Improvement Department. This item is a presentation on a targeted code assessment that we've been working on for the last several months that's an extension of some of the plans and policies that have been before this council before, and this is really focusing on the implementation efforts related to those plans and policies. So the purpose of a code assessment is to identify...
 various provisions specifically of our zoning ordinance that conflict With some of the ideas that are presented in plans and policies that were adopted by this council And so what we're going to be doing today is to talk about what those major themes are What some of those changes that are being proposed and then to get the direction from council to move forward with those changes?
 So the overarching strategy again with this particular project is to implement approved master plans and policies I'll go over what those plans and policies that have been approved by this council are but very generally speaking Some of the things that we're looking to achieve if we get the direction today to move forward with the proposed changes Is to be addressing things like housing affordability promoting housing choice to remove barriers to development to allow for some of the principles that were identified in these plans and policies
 to reinvest in priority areas and so priority areas are the areas that were identified by the council as part of the strategic planning process and then we're also the different plans and policies are applying to that have been adopted by this council and
 So some of those previous council actions are listed here on the left. You can see that it's everything from different policies to different master plans. Most recently this council adopted the Downtown Uptown and Surrounding Neighborhoods Master Plan. And so this in addition to these other items that are listed here are being contemplated for implementation.
 through this particular report that's identifying the code changes necessary to bring them to fruition I think the big thing to point out here is that plans and policies are not a matter of law they're not adopted by ordinance and so in order to bring these things to the table to make property owners comply with these different ideas that are presented here we need to make the changes to our zoning ordinance to bring that to bring this forward
 If we get the direction today, the proposed effort that we're looking at doing, we're going to be branding it as inclusive neighborhoods. The rationale for that is because, historically speaking, the area of focus that we're proposing the changes for have been areas where particular populations, specifically racial minorities, as well as low-income individuals, have been excluded from these neighborhoods. Okay.
 This image here on the left is our 1930 zoning ordinance. This is when the city first adopted zoning. A lot of the regulations that we still have in place today are the same as they were in 1930 as we are, you know, almost 100 years later.
 Just the nature of changing development, there's exclusion that happens there. But then also we can see that here this on the right are restrictive covenants that are in existence on a lot of the properties within our study area. And it's difficult to read, but in this particular one that comes from Rim Road subdivision and it's very explicit limiting access to the neighborhood for non-white populations. And so historically speaking, these were areas where we saw exclusion.
 in addition to redlining that happened with the Federal Housing Administration where mortgages were not given to people in particular neighborhoods. And so all that to say that part of this effort is really about acknowledging the past harm that came about as a result of exclusionary zoning and some of the lending practices. And so being very intentional about doing the opposite of exclusion, which is to be more inclusive. And so that's what a lot of our policy changes are focused on. And so I believe our consultant is here.
 Yes. All right. I didn't see you. And so I'm going to hand it off after this slide to our consultant, Matt Goble of Clarion and Associates, who's going to talk about some of the changes. But generally speaking, we're proposing to get there in two ways. So first is to legalize much of what's existing through quick fixes. So a lot of the development.
 in our study area is in locations that existed prior to the city having zoning. And so the properties don't comply with current zoning, nor have they complied with zoning ever. And so we're looking to just legalize a lot of what's existing there in order to promote development and redevelopment. And then secondarily, looking at new tools. And so the way that we're proposing to do that is by looking at things like new zoning districts that facilitate the type of development that's called for in our different plans and policies,
 That our current code does not allow for and so with the specifics. I'm now going to hand it off to Matt who's going to go over some of the recommendations of the report and
 Thanks Alex. Good morning commissioners, council members, good to see you. Thank you for the opportunity to present. We're here to talk about the zoning code assessment that's setting the stage for the zoning code amendments that Alex is talking about. The purpose of the overall project, as Alex said, was to develop code amendments that facilitate successful implementation of all the different planning projects that El Paso has been working on now for the past decade plus in a variety of different areas.
 It is a targeted effort focused just on infill development. One of the things that we wanted to emphasize right up front is that we're not talking about a comprehensive zoning code amendment, but rather targeted amendments right now focusing on infill. It might set the stage for larger zoning code updates in the future, but right now we're taking a very targeted approach.
 The code assessment report that you've seen is a opportunity for us to, before we get into the weeds of the drafting, to look at a high level at the big ideas for zoning and how it needs to be improved. And when we do that, we look at particular parts of a zoning code. We look at, first of all, the zoning districts, the different residential districts, commercial districts, et cetera, the various standards that regulate things like building heights or building setbacks. We look at the land uses allowed within those districts.
 We look at the development standards that affect the quality of development. Things like how the site is laid out or the parking, the landscaping. We also look at the administrative aspects of the code. You know, who makes what decisions? What are the decisions that can be made at the staff level versus by the city council?
 for all those topics we look at is the current code working well are the zoning regulations doing what you thought they would or do they need to be revised are there any zoning standards or procedures that are acting as barriers to infill or to other goals that have been identified in your key plans so that's the that's the thinking process behind the assessment those are the things that we looked at and
 To get feedback on all those topics, we talked with the folks in the orange box there. We talked with a lot of staff members, other stakeholders that live in El Paso that have done development projects here. We also just informed the project with an online survey and our general experience just working with Texas code projects and other code projects around the country. So that's how we put the document together. That's the purpose. A little bit more about the stakeholders we talked with.
 is on this slide. We talked with a lot of internal stakeholders, a lot of groups, you know, bridges, community development, groups within the city. Outside the city, we also talked with architects, you know, infill developers. We had great interviews, for example, with some infill developers that do very small projects in the downtown. So all these folks, again, were intended to just give us a sense of how well is the current zoning code working for these infill projects and how can it be improved?
 So with that background about the project, let me now jump into some of the substance and just remind you, first of all, what is it that we're trying to implement? We call these the priority initiatives. These are all the different efforts by the city of El Paso getting an infill in some way and these are all these priority initiatives that we need to look at collectively to address in the code updates. Some of them are very recent, like the Downtown and Uptown Plan,
 And the Alameda corridor plan some of them are a little bit older the regional housing plan for example Some of the common threads from all of these projects are in the box on the right Infill and revitalization of the city core are common threads that run through all of these different efforts over the years Implementation is a little bit fragmented implementation of all these different efforts is is cuts across different city departments
 The geographic areas where you think about where infill should occur, that's really evolved over time. And we'll talk about that more on a few slides down the road. The fact that you have been looking at these issues in all these different plans through different departments has led to some implementation challenges that have led to the need for this project. So.
 Let's talk more about that geographic area evolving. This is the current infill area as it's defined by the City of El Paso, established in 2003 as part of the infill and redevelopment policy. 51% of the city's total land area, so 133 square miles. Just comparatively against other cities, that's a very large area within which you're defining infill.
 Like I said, that infill definition has evolved over time with all those different projects. And so a different definition of infill in the Downtown and Uptown Plan, the TOD Incentive Areas, top right, et cetera. And so one of the things that we've tried to do as part of this assessment report is to bring all these together
 and propose a new priority infill area that's shown on the slide here that provides a little bit more of a narrowed focus for where the targeted incentives and code updates for infill should focus on immediately.
 This is an attempt to kind of weave together all those different overlapping plan boundaries that we saw on the prior slide There are two levels. So there's the level one, which is the core the downtown and some of the key core corridors And then there's basically the level two, which is all the green outside the blue All the other older neighborhoods outside the downtown core the focus immediately will be on those level one areas as part of the code amendments up front
 So that's the area within which the recommendations will take place. Now as far as the recommendations themselves, I'll get into that now, there's a few themes that run across all of these recommendations. Removing regulatory barriers, first of all. How can we just get the code out of the way to streamline approvals for infill development, which the city has said it wants to see? How do we expand flexibility for non-conforming uses in the code?
 How can we incorporate form-based zoning rules where appropriate, you know, focusing more on the look and design of the project as opposed to just the use allowed within the project? And then how can we get at that issue of fragmented implementation across different departments? How can we ensure that we've got a coordinated strategy? So with that in mind, with those themes in mind, we identified five focus areas within which our recommendations fall.
 We think these are the common threads that are shown in all of those different priority initiatives. Facilitate denser, mixed-use development where supported by infrastructure and services. Diversify housing options in older neighborhoods. I encourage historic preservation and adaptive reuse. We had a lot of conversations with stakeholders about the importance of the built environment in El Paso and the great old buildings that you have and making sure that those can be continued to be integrated as part of healthy new developments.
 expand the adoption of sustainable development practices, and promote safe, healthy, and livable neighborhoods. So these are our buckets of different recommendations. For each of these, we've basically got two tiers. We've got the short-term stuff, which we're calling Tier 1. These are the targeted code amendments that we can do pretty quick.
 This is the low hanging fruit. And then longer term, we've got the new tools, tier two, the longer term efforts. So for these targeted code amendments, tier one, these are the things, these are the code amendments that we think have broad support internally and with the public.
 And we think that could be done pretty fast They could be getting at some of the immediate barriers that we heard about in your zoning code and then the tier two stuff is going to be a Second phase because it's going to require more public engagement and more discussion a little bit more significant changes to the zoning code
 So there's a lot of text on this slide. I know it's hard to read, but at the top, in the row across the top, the navy, you can see those different buckets of categories. So moving from facilitate denser mixed-use development to diversify housing options,
 And then we've got examples down below of what some of these amendments might be. And this whole slide is just what those quick fixes would be, all the Tier 1 stuff. So, for example, the very first bullet under first column, we can offer built-in flexibility on dimensional standards. That's a good example of how we could go in and just do some targeted updates to the zoning code pretty quickly. And again, there's a lot of different examples here on this slide.
 We've got parking maximums. That's another good example of how we could propose a fairly modest change to the code that might have real benefits in terms of keeping new developments providing seas of parking.
 So this is all the Tier 1 amendments, and then this slide shows you all the Tier 2 amendments. And again, these are all covered in the report, but these are the things that would fall later in the second phase of the project. And we would have a chance to talk more with neighborhoods and more with the public about all these different issues. You know, for example, on that first column, eliminate parking minimums for all other uses.
 That's a good example of how we need to have a bigger conversation about do you want to require minimum parking at all in the city of El Paso? We don't think that's a quick fix so that wouldn't fall in the tier one category, but it's definitely a recommendation that could be consistent with the report. And so we definitely put it in the tier two category. So.
 I know there's a lot of text on these slides. It's all covered in the report, but these are the main, this is the framework for all the recommendations that we have. In terms of just next steps, I think that's what we wanted to move to next, and we'll talk about the timeline for these.
 So as Matt mentioned, we're proposing to break this project into two components. So again, the quick fixes are going to be happening here shortly. Again, if council gives the direction today, we're looking to bring forward the first round of amendments.
 I would say late winter and then moving into the longer term efforts which we'll be bringing back Essentially a year from now. I think that there's gonna be a lot of opportunities for engagement And so part of this process is not necessarily setting anything in stone today It's just about moving forward in the process and beginning to have those conversations with a lot of the stakeholders including those individuals and groups that we have not had an opportunity to meet with yet and
 So what we're asking for from council today is to accept the general Recommendations are included in the backup and then were presented here briefly in this presentation today and then to get the direction from the City Council to initiate the process to begin working to develop some of these text amendments and then bring them forward in Alignment with the timeline that was proposed in the presentation with that. I'll answer any questions at the council may have representative canalis
 Thank you, Mir. No real questions, Alex. Thank you to yourself, to Matt Goebel, is it? Yes. Correct. Okay. Thank you to you both and to Claren for the hard work here. There's still a lot of work ahead of us. Again, you've definitely heard me say it, Alex. I think most people have heard me say, and I'll say it again, that having denser
 more walkable neighborhoods where people can afford to live, have housing options. That's key to El Paso's future. We've gone years and years where we've had unrestricted sprawl, and now is the time. It's always been the time, but there's no better time than now to start reining in that sprawl, and these kinds of targeted, focused interventions are the way that we can do that, so...
 Thank you again for all the work. Look forward to everything else that's upcoming here. I hope we can pass this today and you can get to work on everything that you have coming up. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Thank you for the presentation, very detailed. With that, we have a motion and a second. We do have Ms. Turner, Mayor, that signed up to speak on this item. Who did? Ms. Turner. Seriously.
 Seriously good afternoon. Miss Turner Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Miss Turner. Hello mayor. How are you? Thank you. Seriously I'd like to point out I read this the first thing that bothered me was oh we need to get rid of the parking minimums Gentlemen, you see that little thing right there that I have to depend on there's insufficient parking in this city sometimes when I come downtown I have to park in the street and
 and risk my life to get off of that thing and go anywhere. The sidewalks are simply not safe. You don't even bother putting up notices that sidewalks are closed, and then you'll close both of them. My concern is I look at this and I hear, well, we're gonna do targeted zoning, and I think back to our first downtown plan when the decision was, oh, hey, we're just gonna destroy South El Paso and take homes.
 That's what I'm afraid of, that this is going to happen under this, quote, targeted zoning changes. You talk to the people who can make money, but did you talk to the people who live in these neighborhoods? No. Do you care about the people who live in these neighborhoods? No, because if you did, you would have come out and asked us for our input. What do you think we need? No. You're going to make the decision on your own.
 The decision is going to be made today. After today, whatever we say will go in one ear and out the other and into a trash can. Again, my concern is that you're going to try to take South El Paso. My concern is you shouldn't shake your head like that, my representative. Downtown plan, the original one, look at all the mess that brought up. This talks about reducing parking spaces.
 This is talking about reducing the use of an automobile in a town of this size. I live on the west side of a park, west side of this town. I have a doctor over on Joe Battle. The hospital I use is out in the middle of nowhere at William Beaumont. It's not like I can walk to it. You make a lot of decisions here, but you don't talk to the people impacted by something like this.
 They need to have some hearings before this comes before you. Thank you. Thank you. And, Mr. Turner, I think that's a really good question about the scooter. Can we address that, please? I think that's an excellent question and concern. Thank you.
 Yes, definitely. So I think, you know, to the question of parking. So again, it's to remove the requirements of parking, but it doesn't mean that people still can't provide off street parking. I think what we recognize specifically in the area that we're focusing on. So for downtown, for example.
 about one quarter of all of downtown is made up of surface level parking. I think that we believe that there's an opportunity to redevelop some of those vacant lots and provide additional uses that maybe they provide parking in conjunction with the building, and then there will still be opportunities for parking on the street, which is not going away under this provision. So it's really about unbundling the requirement of parking with parking,
 building buildings essentially a lot of times projects we see don't happen because they can't meet the minimum parking requirements And so that's what we're looking to do is to reduce that burden And then if people will still want to provide additional parking they're able to do that. Okay. Thank you for addressing it and Alex just to clarify
 No change here would absolve us as the government or anyone from their responsibilities under the ADA, correct? No, exactly. And so I would say that, you know, we do dedicate particular parking spaces both on street on street for ADA parking. And so that necessarily would would not go go away. Again, we're just saying that it's not going to be a requirement that people have to provide X number of parking spaces.
 I think the other thing, too, I just want to address to make sure that's clear. So, you know, council making this decision today is not changing the ordinance. We're going to start that process. And so in order to be meeting with the various stakeholders, those meetings need to happen, and they're going to happen before we bring forward any recommendations to the council. So I just want to clarify that as well. Thank you, Alex. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for that. Appreciate that.
 With that, Ms. Pryor? Yes, there's a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Alternate Mayor Potemolinat, and this is to accept the general recommendations included in the code assessment as strategies for implementation of previously adopted plans and policies and direct the city manager to initiate the process of the recommended text amendments to the municipal code. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 Mayor, may we go to call to the public? Yes, ma'am, please. Thank you. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement.
 requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to the
 into city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have six members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Maria Guadalupe Castaneda and Ms. Castaneda will be assisted by our interpreter Marcelo Gonzalez.
 Good afternoon, Ms. Castañeda. Good afternoon. You will have six minutes with the presence of the interpreter. Okay, very good. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon. My name is Maria Castañeda. The reason I'm here is that on September 28, I left the city, and on September 29, the DEA entered my house.
 and the sheriff, my daughter and my 16-year-old grandson. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mayor. My name is Maria Castaneda. I am here because on the 28th of September, I left town and came back to my home on the 29th of September. During that time, the DEA and the sheriff entered my house in the presence of my younger daughter and my grandson.
 Entraron y sacaron a mi hija esposada y a mi nieto. Lo pusieron contra el suelo esposado también. Lo metieron en la troca del sheriff. Lo dejaron ahí por una hora y media. Ellos no presentaron ninguna orden para el cateo hasta después de 30 minutos que la tuvieron a ella esposada afuera en las puertas del garage.
 My daughter was escorted from the house in handcuffs. My grandson was placed on the floor as well, about to be handcuffed. They had my daughter outside waiting near the garage door for nearly for a long period of time and did not produce an arrest warrant or search warrant until 30 minutes afterwards.
 They were exposed to the public. The people that passed by took pictures of my daughter as well as videos. They were left outside for an extended period of time without the air conditioner turned on in the vehicle.
 Ellos destrozan la puerta, quiebran el vidrio, los sacan descalzos y pasan por los vidrios. They destroyed the door, they broke the windows, and took them out of the house barefoot, passing them through the broken glass. Ella les pide una orden para el cateo. Ellos no se la muestran hasta después de 30 minutos. She requested the search warrant, and they did not produce it until after 30 minutes.
 Uno y otro agente salía y le preguntaba fuertemente a mi hija, dirigiéndose que cooperara para encontrar lo que andaban buscando. One agent after another directed themselves towards my daughter, asking her to produce what they were looking for. Que era la droga y que donde estaba la dueña de esa casa.
 que en ese momento yo me encontraba fuera de la ciudad. They were asking her where the drugs were and where the owner of the house was at that moment. At the time, I was out of town. Después de dos horas de la destrucción de mi casa, de la destrucción de mi puerta, de todo lo que hicieron en el desorden, ellos terminan sorprendidos de que no encuentran nada y le muestran una foto a mi hija de una mujer que jamás ella ha visto.
 After two hours of the destruction of my home, the destruction of my door, they were surprised to not find anything. They produced a photograph which they showed to my daughter, a photograph of a woman. Y piden permiso para mostrarle la foto igual a mi nieto. Lo bajan de la troca y quitan las esposas. Mi nieto dice que tampoco la conoce y ellos no entienden el error que había, o más bien no quieren entender el error que habían cometido.
 Uno de los agentes le comenta a mi hija que alguien habló para decir que esa mujer estaba allí en mi casa. They then asked permission to show the photograph to my grandson. They took him out of the vehicle, took the handcuffs off, they asked him about the woman, and he stated that he had never seen her before. The officers stated that there had been a call advising them that that lady was living at the home. Y que esta persona vendía drogas allí.
 I am the owner of the house. I have an honest job, and I am here requesting...
 for you to help me with the expenses incurred to the damages of my home. I had to cut my vacation short on the 30th of September due to the damages to my home and to my family.
 It is not fair that I've been working honestly in the city for the past 10 to 15 years, sometimes up to 15 hours a day. And please, I ask that my house be repaired, as well as the psychological damage to my daughter and my grandson. Now they don't sleep peacefully. They even asked me to move out. Who assures me that if I move out, nothing will happen to my house? Thank you, ma'am. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you.
 The next speaker is Elizabeth Crawford. Ms. Crawford, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Her topic is National Indigenous Day and Abusive Tribal Treatment. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Thank you. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. As we know, yesterday— Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford.
 As we know, yesterday was Columbus Day, also known as National Indigenous Peoples Day, as it's been renamed. I want to speak briefly about a specific tribe of Native Americans in the New York, New Jersey area. I had the privilege to spend time with them. I met the chief on two occasions, and the topic is relevant for some things that are going on in terms of...
 the treatment of those people.
 God's Word tells us in John chapter 10, Jesus said,
 And one of the main methods of deception is murderous deception from the time of Moses when there was an edict to destroy infants. The birth of Jesus Christ when Herod's edict went out for destruction. To the present, there has been an attack specifically on infants.
 I want to speak briefly about what took place among this Native tribe. They're a state-recognized tribe, the Ramaphos. And for those who endorse Planned Parenthood as a good philanthropic organization, I urge you to look it up, northjersey.com, September 4, 2016, entitled Determined to Right a Wrong and Save Lives.
 And I quote, The study of eugenics was founded to try and figure out how to breed the unwanted traits of underprivileged and unwanted indigenous people of the Ramapo Mountains. When Margaret Sanger, the founder of Planned Parenthood, became involved with this eugenics movement, there was almost a feverish pace of the need of the elitist to delve into and financially support the eugenics movement. And their focus was dead set on the Ramapo indigenous people.
 Moving forward, the study of eugenics that was to be full upon us, Ramaphon Munsee, would soon be used by Adolf Hitler to kill millions of Jewish people in the Holocaust.
 So alongside atrocities against Native Americans that were committed by greedy settlers, that were committed in the name of religion, alongside that is something like this. It was committed by the founder of Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood always has and always is about population control. It is not for the good of...
 Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Steven Strummer. Mr. Strummer's topic is street markings and linings at intersections at St. Patrick's School and Cathedral High School in addition to North Campbell. Good afternoon, Mr. Strummer. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. I thank you for the work that has been done on street markings, the intersections.
 THIS WAS SEVEN MONTHS AGO I WAS PROMISED BY HONORABLE CONALES ON JUNE 15TH I'M STILL WANTING IT FROM THE COURTHOUSE HERE ALL THE WAY UP TO CALIFORNIA STREET ON NORTH CAMPBELL FOR THE EMPLOYEES SAFETY AND THOSE THAT DELIVER HERE TO THE BUILDING AS WELL AS ALL THREE SIDES OF ST PATRICK'S AND CATHEDRAL HIGH SCHOOL THE REASON
 It's much more serious than either of you know. On September 26, we had a major collision at the northwest corner of North Mesa at Arizona. Car flipped over. I do not know if the person lived or died. Had I been there 10, 15 minutes earlier, it would have been all over for me.
 I am asking you, Mayor, sir, to fulfill the promise for these linings. Chris, I am asking you to do this for my area, for the children, for the school. It is no small activity. It is much more serious than I realized. I am asking this. I've actually had two people willfully try to kill me with a car.
 I'm not kidding you. I am asking you, particularly at Arizona, from the UT Houston School of Health Sciences for street markings. There's no small problem. I need this help. The work that's been done on Yandell is beautiful. Yandell at North Stanton, we need more. We need it and we need it now.
 for our community, for our safety. I thank you for listening to me, and I pray you will fulfill this. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. I also want to thank Lisa Turner for her years of coming down here. I would encourage her
 to keep on keeping on her voice on traffic safety, car safety. It's true. What she has said is real. Her words are my words on downtown safety. Thank you, Lisa. Keep it up. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Michael Reese. His topic is Special Olympics, upcoming events, and desire to grow in community. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon members of the council. I stand before you today as a passionate advocate for the inclusion and empowerment of individuals with intellectual disabilities through the Special Olympics of Texas Greater El Paso area. Our community has a unique opportunity to make a lasting impact, fostering a more inclusive and supportive environment for our fellow citizens.
 The Special Olympics goes beyond the realm of sports. It's a movement that celebrates diversity, breaks down barriers, and fosters a sense of belonging. As we embark on this journey, I invite each of you, our valued community members and esteemed organizations, to join hands in supporting the Special Olympics of Texas here in El Paso.
 By actively participating, volunteering, or providing sponsorships, we can recreate an atmosphere of unity and encouragement for our athletes. Your involvement can make a significant difference, not only in the lives of these remarkable individuals, but also in shaping the spirit of our community. Let's come together to promote inclusivity, sorry, celebrate the achievements of every participant, and demonstrate that our city stands as a beacon of compassion and understanding.
 I encourage you all to consider how your influence, resources, and dedication can contribute to the success of the Special Olympics of Texas here in El Paso. Together, we can create a legacy of kindness, support, and empowerment. I invite you to be a part of this transformative journey, helping us build a community where everyone is celebrated for their unique abilities.
 The events that we currently have on schedule is a Topgolf competition on October 26th over at Topgolf El Paso, as well as Topgolf Tipicop Activation Days on October 27th and 28th. We have a bowling competition scheduled at Oasis Lanes on December 2nd, and none of these is to include various community and law enforcement engagements events that we also be working to put together here in El Paso. We need your help.
 And we need your presence for the pass. So thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you for your time sir. The next speaker is Ron Coble. His topic is animal services advisory committee and animal services. IT Wilneithy Elmo please. Oh OK. Thank you. Good afternoon everyone. Again I can't help thanking you guys enough for what's been done and hopefully we've started on the school as far as getting it ready for intake for animals.
 Last time I was here we discussed a conversation about my request to get information from the director so that we could work on issues on adoption and rescue. At the last city at the last ASAC committee meeting I requested four agenda items all basically leaning towards trying to get information so that the ASAC committee could understand what's actually happening.
 I just want to give you this information. This is what I'm think they're afraid of showing you in 2019 for the first seven months of 2019 we had 1500 and 15. Yeah one thousand five hundred or fifteen hundred fifteen thousand three hundred seventy eight Adopted and rescued out of the shelter in 2022. We had one thousand thirty three hundred seventy five in 23 we had nine thousand twenty seven and
 I get it. They don't want these numbers to get out. They're embarrassing and here we are returned to owner in 2019 200761 in 2022 12026 and then with all the help we got from the embedded program we got 837 return to owner in seven months This is disgusting and just for the record they kicked out all of my agendas but one even though I was told by the representative that
 that I gave them the information to get it put on this week's or tomorrow's meeting. So if we keep hiding what's happening, we can't fix it. If ASAC doesn't know, we can't recommend, correct? It's time to stop protecting the shelter and trying to hide the information. Second thing, this picture of this puppy. This dog was on the street for two months. For two months, the shelter wouldn't pick him up. Two months.
 People tried to catch him. People called. The dog got hit. The dog's dead. Who took care of that dog's five freedoms? Who treated that dog humanely? How many of those things happen every day? And as long as we allow the shelter to not be full because we don't want to house a bunch of strays...
 This is going to continue. I would appreciate if you put those pictures on your desk and every morning walk in, look at that picture and wonder how many strays, how many family members aren't going to make it back home because we don't want to fill our shelter. Thank you for your time. I appreciate it. Thank you, sir. And the final speaker is Steve Fisher. Mr. Fisher's topic is city manager position. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Thanks. Good afternoon, Judge. Good afternoon.
 As you have an advertised disposition, I figure you're just waiting for someone qualified and local to come up and say, okay, I can do that, and I can. I have more than enough educational requirements, including an MPA, a law degree, a master's in criminal justice degree,
 but don't discount the 40 years in law because when i served on a school board i was able to proactively look at policies and look at actions that prevented lawsuits financially i've been an investment advisor i've managed budgets much bigger than the 519 million that the county has that the city has um i'm the owner and manager of a pistachio farm i just sold that and a tree farm and administratively i've been a district attorney
 And I've taught government, I've taught local government at college. But I guess I want to talk about ethics since I don't have time. It's come up. When I was district attorney and there was vote fraud going on, I prosecuted those people. And they said, you can't prosecute them. You're a Democrat prosecuting Democrats. I prosecuted them, we changed the venue, and I convicted every single one of them.
 WHEN I WAS HERE AND JIM SHARE APPOINTED ME TO THE ALLEGAMATIC COMMITTEE AND I LOOKED AT THE DISTRICTS, THERE WERE SIX DISTRICTS, AND IT WAS GERRYMANDED SO HISPANICS COULDN'T WIN MORE THAN TWO EVER. AND I WENT AND I WROTE THE FISHER PLAN, MADE IT EIGHT DISTRICTS, AND GAVE PEOPLE A FAIR CHANCE. AND I CAUGHT HELP FOR THAT. PEOPLE WOULD SCREAM AT ME AT MEETINGS, WHY DO YOU LIKE MEXICANS? OF COURSE, MY SON'S A HISPANIC ATTORNEY.
 And it was hard debating Jonathan Rogers to get that passed. Just stuff like that. Lawyers of this district elected me to be the State Bar Director. I've been on the State Bar Professional Rules and Ethics Committee.
 I point them and I do things that even if they're unpopular, there was a bar president who was conservative, made some statements that I didn't agree with. But I stood up for his right to free speech and I had to defeat the motion of 29 other directors and showed them the law that they couldn't do this. You know, there's so much I've done I can't do in two minutes. Right.
 THE SALARY IS WAY TOO HIGH. HOW CAN YOU ASK SOMEBODY TO TAKE A $400,000 SALARY AND THEN LOOK AND SAY WE NEED SOME HOSTERITY HERE OR THIS BUDGET OR YOUR SALARY IS TOO BIG? CAN'T DO IT. WE DON'T NEED SEVERANCE. YOU KNOW, WHEN I WAS ON THE JUDICIAL COMMISSION, THE PROMPTES I MADE TO GET ELECTED THERE TO BE ESPECIALLY TOUGH ON JUDGES, I COULDN'T KEEP. SO I RESIGNED. NO ONE ASKED ME TO.
 If I can't do this, I get out that door, I walk seven blocks up to my home, and my severance will be, my dogs and wife will still be really happy to see me. Well, my dogs will anyway. At any rate, we don't need an outside firm to get somebody who loves El Paso. There are people right here. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, that concludes call to the public this afternoon. Thank you, ma'am.
 I'd like to go back to 32 and 33, is that it? Or 33 and 34, I don't remember. 32 is discussion in action on an emergency ordinance, extending emergency ordinance number 019333, authorizing the city manager to assign personnel and resources to assist in addressing the humanitarian and public safety crisis resulting from a mass migration through El Paso. Item 33 is discussion in action on an emergency ordinance
 extending emergency ordinance number 019485 due to a humanitarian, security, and economic crisis resulting from a mass migration through El Paso. Move to approve. Second. Motion and a second. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Temo Nelo. Then Representative Nelo make you cry sir because she made the motion? Look at him. I know, geez. That was seconded by Mayor Pro Temo Nelo to approve items 30-2.
 2 and 33, the emergency ordinances on that motion. Yes, ma'am. Call for the vote. Mayor, do you consent? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously with the mayor's consent. Thank you, and I do wanna make one comment, Chief, and I tell you this, and I've told you a lot, you're doing an incredible job, and we, in El Paso, we have probably the largest
 Asylum seekers crossing in El Paso and probably anywhere in the country and yet we've had no street releases yet last month we were able to house 16,000 people and feed over 40,000 meals and Continue to make sure that our community is safe and the asylum seekers continue to be safe and go to the destination of their choice so
 Mean we've seen street releases all over the country and just about every city where except El Paso and I attribute that to you and Your team so I want to really thank you for the great job you're doing Yes, sir, and if I could I'd like to thank you and your leadership it's it's allowed us to develop the relationships at the federal level and
 We're now sitting in a better place with over $30 million in the bank in advance funding. If we think just about to this time last year, we were waiting for reimbursements, so we're in a different situation. We're able to handle things a lot differently, and it has been a smoother operation. Thank you, sir. And I think the numbers of, just for information point two, in the last three, four days, the numbers have dropped off 1,000 people per day.
 So we've gone from 1,700, today was 1,600. So that makes a big difference. And we've closed down all the hotels. And like I said, you guys have done a great job. And I think Chief Rodriguez came up, so we'd say he's doing a good job too. So, Chief, you're doing a good job too. Thank you. Do you want us to go through the presentation for the update? No, sir. No, we're very good. Mayor, I would ask that council reconsider the item. We also have David Scully.
 David Scully are you present sir? He signed up to speak. Will council reconsider the item so we can continue discussion Yes, yeah, we did There's a motion in a second to reconsider items 32 and 33 all in favor anyone opposed the motion carries Good afternoon. Mr. Scully. You have three minutes. I
 Hi, sorry about skipping you there sir. Excuse me excuses for skipping you. Oh, that's okay I was a little bit worried sometimes I get a little bit better out to get me and that they know who I am and all that kind of stuff but that was not the case and Sometimes being less is the best place to be so greetings to to you mayor and to the council members This is a lot different from Middletown, Pennsylvania sort of cut my teeth attendings
 I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT RUNNING FOR ELECTION. I'M NOT
 I wanted to learn Spanish and expose myself to culture. And I went over. I was living in my U-Haul. And I parked near the border for as long as I could. And I crossed a lot. And I managed to sort of volunteer as an English teacher. I'm a credential teacher. And I'm not really trained to teach English. But we all speak English. And then I would go there a lot, as much as I could, to practice a language and escape the American culture.
 I went back there, I think, in February because I had some sort of infection in my tooth here, and I noticed something was different, and lo and behold, it was all those migrants, and I encountered a Venezuelan family who I helped and brought over and brought them up to my house in Pennsylvania that I have up there, and then they went up to Detroit to live with his brother, which was their original destination. And, of course, I observed all the things that had been going on.
 Anyway, I'm running out of time here. I got my eye on that thing So I may as all you people amazed me at how good you are at that little game of timing yourselves but so this is a timely thing with all these people going into hotels and motels and swarming the streets and it goes in fluctuations and
 I don't have property in El Paso, but I have four and a half acres in Deming, which I am currently in the process of developing. And I just thought, well, you know, I can't do it alone.
 But, I mean, I've seen these things going on in New York. The street releases, and it's amazing to me what I think I just heard about how you've got all these people, but you're managing to find a place. You hold on to them, I guess, and then you feed them, and then you manage to get them out without being on the street. So I'm offering my – we could set it up as a nonprofit. I don't really care. I'm 72. I'm not going to take it with me.
 I've actually performed a nonprofit but I would need help in that in that legal area as well So I would prefer to work professionals and people who know what they're doing And so you got four and a half acres there. I don't care if it's a tent city or whatever But I'm running out of time and I just wanted to let you know that here's somebody in Deming's pretty close 100 miles away. Thank you, sir. Thank you for being here Second
 There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanelo, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve items 32 and 33, the emergency ordinances. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor, do you consent? Mayor, do you consent? Thank you. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously with the mayor's consent. Would you like to continue on the agenda, sir? Thank you. Item...
 Thank you, sir. Item 38 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to execute an incentive agreement between the city of El Paso and Healer Measurements, Inc. Motion approved. Second. That's correct. Representative Cotevanello, I just have a quick comment. I know that our staff, Juan Gonzales and Roberta Brito briefed you all individually. If there was any other questions. No, ma'am. Okay. Thank you. We do have Ms. Turner that signed up to speak on item 38.
 adopting Representative Kennedy's way of doing business. I don't see any particulars in here. I am also quite concerned about being told that, with the request for $500,000 for a previous item, that there was no ARPA money left, when in fact, when you look at this, the funding is $974,000 from ARPA. So my question is, who's telling me the truth?
 mr. Turner do when it was already allocated I mean it's not allocated mayor I just I had I can do is go by what I have been know what you post yeah once the money is allocated then we have like they said mr. Cortina's I could take them in there said that we got till 2026 suspended but we allocated and has to be allocated before the end of December of this year
 So it's already been allocated. That's why there's not a thousand dollars though, could we but My question is this back to the particulars. I just need to be assured of several things knowing that Hillary is not a Startup that it's a major facility some sixty thousand square feet of surface forty one thousand square feet of manufacturing a bunch of engineers and so forth opening something in Orlando
 now here am I against this no but I want to make sure that there will be a large number of women who are going to become a part of these interns I believe yeah student opportunities I want to be sure that PWFA act pump act title 6 chapter 619 the Texas government code will be followed to the letter I want to be sure that
 All women will be paid on an equal status as any male. I want to be assured of these things before you spend one penny. These are the particulars of the matter. It's my belief that a woman should earn the same amount as a man, not less. And as I had mentioned earlier about the pay discrepancy between men and women, that's got to come to an end and there's no better time than now to start.
 Thank you, Ms. Turner. With that, Ms. Pryor. Yes, there's a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Alternate Mayor Potem Olinar, to approve Item 38. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Fierro, not present.
 That brings us to item 39. This is presentation and discussion and action by the Financing of Election Campaigns Cross-Functional Team, providing information on key activities, efforts, and processes. Okay, well I'm in charge now. Before you make the presentation, Ms. Prine, I have a few questions. So it says the motion is to come back in eight weeks. Will there be an ordinance change required, and will the first hearing be in eight weeks?
 Yes, ma'am. Can we change that to six weeks? Is that possible? The six-week requirement also we need to also take the item to the Ethics Commission I
 So we have to go to there and brief them and ask for their recommendation before we come back. So that's also being taken into account in regards to the timing. I can't I always get confused on first hearings and first ordinances and can the item be amended prior to the first hearing. It can correct. We bring it back. We bring it for introduction. Introduction but can it be amended after the introduction.
 It can be amended at the introduction. So, yeah, again, I completely understand that. I do want to follow that timeline. I just would like to be here to vote on this. And so if we could maybe do the first, the introduction in the six weeks and then anything that needs to be amended. I can't guarantee that that will happen because we have to also schedule a meeting with the Ethics Review Commission to review the item.
 We're talking about eight weeks to take that into account. We could certainly work towards that but I don't know that I know I want to introduce it and then go to the Ethics Commission and then come back I don't know where we are on that time frame in terms of the calendar and I see what you're saying But I guess I was just saying since you can amend it's like it still gives you eight weeks to bring it to us It just you would do the introduction in six weeks. I don't know what the discussions were. I'm spying in regards to the eight weeks. I
 You're correct in saying that we were asking for eight weeks to allow us to present to the Ethics Commission during a meeting and then come back to council with any recommendations received at that time and introduce the ordinance to council. I thought you were saying you were going to bring it to them for final. Okay, I got it. I would just ask that you consider. Thank you. Yes, we will consider the timeline. Mayor Potem, good afternoon.
 Council my name is Laura Pryan. I'm the city clerk and I'm a member of the financing of election campaigns cross-functional team We're back with an update today after the direction provided to us on August 14 That was for us to return in eight weeks with updates regarding campaign contribution limits and provide proposals that will address concerns related to campaign contributions after elections occur.
 So an overview of our presentation. We come back today, we've expanded the scope of data to capture all candidates that ran for all nine council seats during the last two election cycles. We do have an interactive dashboard to estimate the impact of contribution limitation based on several scenarios. We have quantified individual high contributions and we return with staff recommendations.
 So the criteria for the expanded scope of data, we did go, we used the same election cycles as previously, the 2020 and 2022 elections, and again this captured all nine elections for the nine, all candidates that ran for the nine council seats in the last two election cycles. We found there were 37 total candidates. Of those six did not report any campaign contributions.
 We looked at the campaign finance reports from the January and July filings prior to the election of the November election of 2020 and 2022. We looked at the 30-day report, the eight-day report before the general election. We looked at the eight-day report before the runoff election. And if a candidate filed a final report, we also looked at those contributions. Now, some candidates did file a final report after the general election and some candidates didn't.
 filed a final report after the runoff. I'll now turn it over to Mr. Adrian Martinez. He's a rich research assistant in my office and he will take over the presentation followed by Dr. Carlos Olmedo and Carlos Saenz. Good afternoon, council. Adrian Martinez, research and management assistant for the city clerk's office.
 So some notes on the data. We provided new data points. We captured new data points in order to reference to filter out duplicates from the previous analysis. So we feel like this is the most accurate measure of the money that came in and through the election cycles.
 Multiple contributions by person on persons were aggregated So if one person donated multiple times it comes out as a total for that individual meaning that if I donated to Chris Connelly's campaign $50 than $50 my Metric in the data would be a hundred data from the semi-annual reports post elections was not captured This was a concern in the previous analysis that we didn't capture information after the election that remains the case here and
 for time's sake and for the measure of what we're trying to measure leading up to the election, we didn't capture that data.
 NOW, TO HELP INFORM COUNCIL ON THE PROPOSED ETHICS ORDINANCE REPORTING TRIGGER OR IF THE CONTRIBUTION LIMITS ARE REVISITED, WE HAVE PROVIDED A SERIES OF ANALYSIS THAT WE'RE GOING TO GO OVER NOW. THE FIRST OF WHICH IS THE DASHBOARD. THIS IS JUST A TOOL DEVELOPED TO ESTIMATE THE IMPACT OF CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS BASED ON SUGGESTED SCENARIOS. IT DISPLAYS THE CONTRIBUTION TOTALS ACROSS 2020 AND 2022.
 by district and mayoral races, each individual candidate that, for each individual candidate that's admitted to CFR. So I'm just gonna give you a quick demo of that. This is gonna be provided to you later on. This is what it looks like. On the right side, you're gonna have a series of filters to help you with this process. Right now we're looking at the mayoral race for the general election.
 And this is person and non-person selected. You can remove non-person entities if you'd like, if you just wanna see personal contributions. All you have to do is type in a number on the top. If you wanna set a limitation of $1,000 as the criteria for the campaign contribution limitation, press Enter, it'll filter it to show you how much it would impact a specific candidate.
 Like I said, this is the mayoral race. This right here is Mayor Oscar Leeser in the 2020 election and that would have been the proposed impact. If you want to reset it, just set NA, it'll bring it back. If you want to display the contributions that were initially proposed in the resolution, in the proposed ordinance, which was 1,000 and 5,000, you set those parameters in and then it'll display it per district.
 Again, there's just a quick demonstration. That's me There's a tool provided to you so that you can make an important decision if you ever want to revisit this topic from there I'm gonna pass it for a pass it to dr. Carlos. Olmedo and he's gonna review individual Good afternoon council Carlos and Melo from International bridges so
 AS ADRIAN SAID, WE WERE ASKED TO COME BACK AND LOOK AT MORE INDIVIDUAL DATA, MORE DETAILS IN IT. SO LET ME SEE. SO FOR THIS DATA SET THAT WE ANALYZED, WE JUST LOOKED AT THE GENERAL ELECTION. SINCE WE DIDN'T INCLUDE RUNOFFS BECAUSE TECHNICALLY THEY WERE ALREADY VIABLE CANDIDATES. SO WE WERE JUST STICKING WITH GENERAL ELECTION. A FEW CANDIDATES SELF-FUNDED. SO RIGHT NOW WHEN YOU SEE ALL THIS ANALYSIS, IF YOU DON'T SEE SPECIFIC CANDIDATES, IT'S BECAUSE THEY SELF-FUNDED OR HAD ZERO CONTRIBUTIONS.
 THE OTHER THING ON THE STATUS SET FOR THE ANALYSIS, WHAT WE TRY TO DO IS WE WANTED TO REPLICATE THIS CONCEPT ON THE DEPENDENCY ON HIGH CONTRIBUTIONS, WHICH HAS BEEN DISCUSSED
 including by some of the petitioners. We did reach out, caveat, we did reach out to Dr. Stott, which she's the one that kind of created this idea of like individual candidates have a lot of high contributions, so we reached out to her for a methodology, the caveats on this data set is what we did is we not only provided the
 the percentages, but we also provided the counts of individual high contributions, and we included all candidates, not just the winning candidate. So just context, in the last presentation that we did, I don't know, was it like six weeks ago or so, we analyzed total contributions for five election cycles.
 And what we found out, or at least what the data we're speaking to was that contributions matter, but there are other factors, including incumbency, including voter apathy that potentially may play a larger role than just total high contributions. In this case, we're analyzing the individual contributions for the last two election cycles, 2020 and 2022, in detail for all candidates.
 And when we analyze it, we see similar results. And you'll see some of that right now. Okay, so we decided to do this through box plots because this way you can visually see all the contributions and we're able to compare multiple candidates by district at the same time. So just so you understand how to read this. So on the Y axis are the actual dollar amounts
 of contributions in thousands of dollars. Okay, so then you have four rows at the bottom of those graphs. The first row are the total number of contributions that a specific candidate received.
 So for example, Canada Gutierrez had a total of 123 contributions regardless of the amount, whether it was $1 or $1,000 or $5,000. So the second row gives you the count of all of those contributions that were $1,000 and over, and you see that highlighted in yellow, and the third row is, are the contributions
 of strictly over 1,000, okay? So the one before is 1,000 and over. This, the third one is over 1,000. And the fourth row in red are the, is the percent of the votes that that candidate received in the general election. You see also red circles. Those are the winning candidates. You see letters, so I stands for the incumbent, and the letters L and W stand for
 or represent the candidate that had the largest number of $1,000 or more contributions and whether they won or lost. So the other thing I wanted to mention is the actual box plot, which is that rectangle. And if you can look at the far right where it says Vélez, because that's the biggest rectangle to be able to interpret. So that middle bar is the median.
 Okay, so, or 50th percentile. So that means that 50% of those contributions were under that amount. So if, again, looking at the lease, if you stretch out that,
 middle line in that rectangle, if you stretch it out all the way to the Y axis, it's about $250. So that means that for Valise, 50% of her 26, or I can't remember, candidate Valise, of that candidate's contributions were $250 or less.
 The top line in that box plot is the 75th percentile, meaning 75% of the contributions were under $1,000. And then that bottom line is the 25th percentile, same interpretation. So I'm not gonna go through all the details of each individual candidate. You can see, and I forgot to mention, all the blue dots, that's every single contribution. Okay, so you can visually see it right there.
 So without going again to every candidate in every race, I'll just summarize it this way. So in District 2, we see that candidate Gutierrez had the largest contributions of $1,000 or more and lost. In District 3, the candidate with the most won. In District 4, the candidate with the most lost. In District 7, the candidate with the most won.
 And in the mayor's race, the candidate with the most thousand dollars or more ended up losing. So these five graphs were for the 2020 election. The following four graphs were for the 2022 election. In district one, the candidate with the most lost in district five, the candidate with the most won. District six, the candidate with the most lost in district eight, the candidate with the most lost. To summarize all these nine races,
 We see that six out of nine or 66% of the candidates that had the most contributions that were $1,000 or more ended up losing. So we see kind of a similar story to what we presented previously, that contributions matter, but there are other factors at play. In these next two tables,
 We take the same data, but we provide the percentages. And in the previous ones, I should say the reason we provided counts is because sometimes percentages can be misleading, right? One out of two is 50%, 10 out of 20 is 50%, so it could be misleading. So that's why we did counts over there, and this one we did the percentages. And the way we did this is within districts. So, for example, in District 2...
 There were in that row down there. Okay. Let me explain the next three columns where it says by persons the first column is analyzing the percent of contributions a thousand dollars or more Second one strictly over a thousand and we throw in over two thousand just you know, just for FYI. I
 And if we go back to that column where it says greater than or equal to 1,000, we see that there were a total of 21 contributions that met that mark, $1,000 or more. Candidate Anello had 38% of those, 21. Gutierrez had 62%. Okay, in blue are the candidates that won. So we just kind of show you a similar story, or a different way of telling the story than with the counts.
 The last three columns, I should say, are by non-persons, similar, like PACS, for example. So we divided those up for your FYI again. You see the percentages there for, you know, so you can stare at them. I'm not going to go over each one of those, but in short, the story is pretty much the same. Candidates that received the higher percentages of $1,000 or more contribution, individual contributions ended up losing.
 And that concludes the analysis. I want to keep it short and I'll pass it on to Carla Saenz. Good afternoon, Council. Carla Saenz with the City Attorney's Office. We are recommending amending the ethics ordinance because we want to increase the transparency with contributions and donations that are made to the district and the city. So whenever I mention contributions, just note that I mean contributions and donations.
 So we are specifically recommending these five amendments. The first one being to expand the jurisdiction of the Ethics Commission so it can have jurisdiction over candidates, political committees, and those that are making contributions. Currently with the ethics code, the commission doesn't have any jurisdiction over these entities. The second amendment is to give the commission the ability to issue a fine. Currently,
 The commission can impose sanctions on office holders, but these sanctions wouldn't necessarily apply to candidates, political committees, and those that are making contributions. Thirdly, we wanna require a notice on the agenda to be posted when a city council action would benefit a contributor or a donor.
 for providing the total cumulative contribution that each officer has received at the end of the year. And lastly, we want to implement clear language that defines those that are contributing and that defines contributions and donations and that defines what will be considered a benefit. Now, how would this look in practice?
 The regulation to require notice on the agenda to be posted when a council's action would benefit a contributor would be enforced by the Ethics Commission. It would be the duty of the contributor and the donor to disclose no later than one week before council's action. All the contributions and all the donations a city council member has received or their district has received.
 In addition to that, they would also be required that with their application or their bid, that they include a complete list of contributions to city council members or the district or the city. Now based on the information received from the contributor or the donor, then the clerk would have the responsibility of posting the notice on the agenda. The office holder,
 contributor fails to disclose and provide a notice on the agenda so it isn't posted, then the office holder has a duty to ask the clerk to include a notice or they must verbally disclose on the record that the contribution or donation that they received.
 Additionally, the office holder will provide at the end of year a report with the cumulative amount of contributions, donations that they've received and from whom they've received them. Sanctions.
 As I mentioned before, the commission is currently able to issue a letter of notification, admonition or reprimand. They're able to recommend removal from office, but this amendment would also include the ability for them to issue a fine of $500 to be paid within X amount of days. Now this fine or this process wouldn't go through the municipal court.
 Going through the municipal court would extend or be a lengthier process, so it would be regulated through the city. The appeals process would remain the same. Currently, we can ask the commission to reconsider if there is new evidence. So next steps.
 We're asking council for a motion to direct staff to return in eight weeks with the proposed amendments to the ethics code that reflect these recommendations. As mentioned before, this recommendation is based on us being able to go to the ethics commission and present our proposed amendments. We're also asking council to set a reporting threshold for the contributions and donations or provide guidance.
 Any questions? Is there any other appointed board that has the ability to fine people? Within the city? No. Building and Standards Commission does. Building and Standards can fine? What's their appeal process if somebody appeals the fine for Building and Standards? They have to go to a district court. My concern is, is the appeal circles back to the same organization that levied the fine on this one?
 If there's $500, the only appeal is back to them saying, could you reconsider this? Right, and the reconsideration would likely be the same language if there's new evidence that came forward. Yeah, my concern is the ability to appeal the fine to somebody outside that organization, maybe not to council, but whether it's district court or whatever it is.
 So most of the courts that have a PIL-et procedure are in state court and like the building and status commission it's written that way out of state law that it appeals to them. So we could do a different mechanism where maybe we talk about having it being appealed to municipal court. Yeah I just my only concern was the they have the right to levy the fine and they're the only people that get to review their own decision.
 then there is I think a limited appeal that's my only concern I think that we can look to see what other cities do okay I believe San Antonio does provide an appeal process to go through the Bexar County okay yeah if you could take a look at that that would be great I should have brought it up earlier but I didn't just a minute ma'am okay I'm going to slide 22 where it says
 Required to disclose no later than one week prior to the City Council action all Contributions and donations are you saying that if someone gave one dollar that they're required to notify all this? Or if someone gave a hundred dollars or someone gave six dollars and 78 cents regardless of the amount of contribution They would be required to fulfill this. I
 when we wrote i don't think we were implying to set an amount we were leaving that to your discretion what we meant was all the contributions that they've received okay but it says all contributions so my question to you is are you considering the amount of contribution or you're just saying regardless of the value or the amount you you want us to report everything if it fits that criteria what we meant to state was all contributions
 to X amount that you designate that we look into? So currently, Mr. Molina, what we have on the slide is a question mark. What we had recommended previously is that it be set at $500, which is currently what you all disclose when you receive campaign contributions. So the recommendation is that we would set that contribution at $500.
 Okay, so anything under $500 would not be everything over $500. Excuse me. Okay, but conversely anything under $500 does not apply correct and When you mention a complete list of contributions and donations, so whether it regardless once again the amount of
 $500 above or below or above you would still need to provide that list as well the individual the individual would have to provide a List of all the contributions that they've made to City Council members all City Council members that are above if the amount designated is $500 so everything so you're directing a campaign contributor to
 Disclose this hall and so you're saying well if you don't do it How do you hold that person accountable? It would be through an ethics complaint filed You're saying you're talking an individual campaign contributor. Let's just say mr. Henry Gonzalez lives in district 4 It gives me 750 dollars this applies if they're receiving a benefit from City Council's action. I
 Well, so not every person who donates to a campaign has to do this. It's only if you are subject to approval of a Contract from the city. So if you are receiving financial benefit from the city You need to disclose all of the contributions over $500 that you feel it goes back to and another thing So if this person is going to be awarded a contract and I understand the last time I was asked this question So if this person contracts subcontractors
 How am I supposed to know that? You're not required to look into subcontractors. Okay, but if that doesn't say that, it's not required. Well, we could add that language or on the other side of... Yeah, but you need to be clear from the very beginning. You cannot just be making this up as we go along.
 Mr. Miller. I think that it's a working document right now. So the proposals that we're bringing forward, and this is what was discussed previously, was what other cities have done and what we're proposing. If the council feels inclined that you want additional regulations, that this is the time for you to do that, and then we can add it as to part of the amendments moving forward. So if you wanna have,
 that it be subcontractors and that would be part of the one which you could propose today. That's my point. I don't want to do that. You know, that's a point. And it doesn't say that now. We're creating a...
 More filters more levels more work more information that to me are unnecessary That can be decided by council There is cities that look into subcontractors and it and they have to disclose who's subcontracting and their cities and don't so it's So the other thing too, I have a concern. So once again Whoever gives me seven hundred fifty dollars fifteen hundred dollars, whatever and so
 That person is not, let's say it's a business, and for six months there's nothing happening. But all of a sudden, two years later,
 What's the timeline that all of a sudden this person hey, how am I supposed to remember that this man Henry Gonzalez has his firm? Business whatever and he's giving me a campaign contribution And all of a sudden he has an item before us and he's gonna receive a benefit from the city is there a timeline or disclosure that says hey we have a filter here that or is it going to be like indefinite and
 That is a recommendation we'll take note of. I know there's a study that looks at 24 months in the past, so that could be something that council can decide if you want to look back a year, two years, or whatever is your prerogative. And Representative Pro Temp...
 Alternate Mayor Pro Ten. Our recommendation is that it applies to the full term of the member of council. So if the campaign contribution was received when you campaigned four years ago, that that would be applicable to the disclosure on the council agenda that
 The party that's receiving a benefit by a vote of city council lets the public know that they contributed to a sitting member of council's campaign, whether it was four years ago or eight years ago. The recommendation is that it cover the full period, but if council would like to amend or would like to limit that time frame, that's certainly within your purview. But right now is not the time for amendments.
 Right now is the time that you can direct us as to how to draft this ordinance, sir. Okay. Well, I would like to say make sure that, you know, moving forward when that candidate applies for election, re-election, the time period would be two years, 24 months, period. Because if not, you're going to continue and continue and continue. Okay.
 WHEN IS IT GOING TO STOP? THAT'S WHAT I'M SAYING. IT'S NOT NECESSARY THAT I'M AGAINST THIS, BUT WE'RE HAVING SO MANY LEVELS THAT WE'RE ADDING MORE CONFUSION, MORE WORK THAT I DON'T BELIEVE IS NECESSARY. SO THANK YOU. REP. SHANNON KENNEDY? YEAH. I MEAN, I THINK THE NUMBER FOUR YEARS MAKES SENSE BECAUSE THERE'S A FOUR-YEAR TERM. AND IF SOMEBODY CONTRIBUTES MONEY BEFORE I'M ELECTED AND THEY KNOW IN THEIR MIND, I'LL JUST WAIT TWO YEARS.
 it rolls off and no one's going to know any better. I think that the goal of this is very simply to say, not that it's going to disqualify somebody or it's going to change any vote, it's very simply you need to know if you're seeing somebody vote on an item that's going to benefit somebody that either contributed or donated
 right, to that individual. I mean, it's, to me, it makes sense because I want to say, all right, you know, it doesn't, it's not a disqualifier. Somebody may have given money to every person up here. I mean, that's not a big deal, but at least we know it's not like, you know, I gave somebody $5,000. Well, we'll wait 24 months and then we can start bidding because it'll roll off. I'd like it to be the entire term. I mean, it's, it's,
 We have to fill out the forms anyway, so we have tracking internally anyway on who has given us money. I mean, and yes, it is inherent upon the person who's bidding to get the benefit, but I think it does fall to us as elected officials to be the safety net, to say, well, wait a minute. That person gave me some money. I just want to make sure.
 And I think that that makes sense, that we would be the safety net. And I agree. Whether it's $500, you don't want somebody to give you $25 and you've got to start, you know. I mean, there is a threshold. And I agree that you guys have done a good job looking at what the other cities have to say what is the threshold. I mean, personally, I'm comfortable with a $500 threshold, but I think it should be four years because our term is four years. You know, and let's face it, contributions come in surges.
 I mean, there's a surge when you're running for office, and I guarantee you for the next two years you're not going to see very many. Or some of us won't. Rep Fierro's gone. Some of us won't. And so does that mean for two years I have to be transparent and then the last two years I don't because they haven't contributed yet? That's why I would say I'm comfortable with it being a full four years. I would say that along with some of the amendments, this is a totally semi-related issue but a different issue.
 is if there is any way that the reporting software that the city uses could be more sortable, friendly for a candidate, it would make our life easier. You just changed it. Right, I mean I'm just saying, and Adrian you know where I'm going with this, right? If I can just go in and say we've got these five people, let me check and make sure, rather than having to go through all our records. Yeah, if I can sort my campaigns and go, you know, how much money did,
 Denise Knight give me that's something that we could check with with a vendor since we're contracting with a vendor that the Texas Ethics Commission uses we can reach out to the vendor and see if there's any kind of reporting queries that they could build That's a part of it it makes our safety net easier than to do okay, that's that's kind of where I am Mayor
 Mayor, this is Kristen Hamilton-Karam from the city attorney's office, and I apologize I didn't introduce myself earlier. We are also concerned about the ability to get before the ethics commission in eight weeks, looking at the calendars.
 I don't know if council would be amenable to giving 10 weeks to draft the ordinance And I don't know if you also want to include the time frame representative Molina or representative Kennedy that you're proposing for the tracking to be required. I made the motion It was blank on item 22 slide 22 so So 48 months I
 I'm $500. Is that what you're I literally just gave you a date and a number. I don't know. That's how you wanted it done. Thanks Representative can all this. Thank you. Um, yeah, I just have a few clarifying questions Are we attacked so the intention then is to attach a certain number of months or would it just is it is it not? simpler to say The the present term in office or the entire tenure in office same thing
 i think the concern is if you don't use months you present term of office i don't take office well but true but you would you would not be making any votes that would benefit a member of the public until you take office and so there would be no agenda item that would apply before you take office no but i'm saying if it's 48 any contributions within the last 48 months i understand um i think my understanding is that the 48 months or whatever time frame
 IS ATTACHED TO THE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND HOW LONG DURING WHAT TIME FRAME IT WOULD HAVE TO BE REPORTED ON A CITY COUNCIL AGENDA. CAN I RESPOND? I THINK REPRESENTATIVE CANALES BRINGS UP A GREAT POINT BECAUSE YOU'RE ALSO PEOPLE DO FILL UNEXPIRED TERMS. RIGHT. AND THEN SAY 48 MONTHS. IT MAY JUST MAKE MORE SENSE TO SAY THROUGHOUT THEIR TERM. I THINK THAT MIGHT BE MORE CLEAR.
 And I would go so far as to say the entire tenure in office as well If you receive a contribution the day before your you are Representative Kennedy and canales are saying very similar in different things Representative Kennedy's concern is about how much time prior to taking office, but my understanding is that doesn't matter. Okay
 Your contributions throughout the election for the term that you're previously serving? Or if you know, okay, so I'm on my second term. I got $500 from Brian Kennedy before my first term. I did not, by the way. This is just for example. In my second term, do I still have to report that? You should report it. So what you're saying is while you're campaigning, you don't want to report that?
 No, and this is where I think it makes it a little tricky.
 i can tell you i've been in office three years i've gotten zero donated but i can tell you i got a lot of money donated when i ran for office so that's where i think we need to disclose the money when we ran for office well no we that still exists we still have to report anything over five hundred dollars on a council agenda i wasn't in office remember i wasn't in office when i ran for i know i thought we had talked about adding that he brings up a good point yeah i didn't run for i was not an elected official
 Correct. This regulation that we're talking about right now would require that if a person comes before you to vote on an item that would benefit them, they would be required and you would be required to make sure that it is disclosed to the public any contributions that they have made to you in the prior time frame.
 whether it's for your whole term, but it should encompass the campaign time frame. So it should encompass the time frame prior to the election, prior to your being sworn in, the campaign time frame. I just want to make sure that we disclose all of it, because I ran for office for two years prior to being elected. So, okay. Okay.
 I got it. So I think it it needs to be clear that it does encompass that campaign period and then the term of office Mayor I had the floor. Can I reclaim the rest of my time? Yeah, again, I think it makes perfect sense to say that it in terms of looking at when the contributions occurred you look at the full term the full time of the the election and also the time in office and
 And in terms of the reporting requirements, the timeframe would be during the entire tenure of the representative. Does that, am I making sense? So Representative Canales, what we would add to the regulation is the time period would apply from the beginning of the election season to a certain period of time for candidates and then once you're elected, it would run for the whole term that you're in office. Right, yes. That's what we would need to address.
 So the beginning of the election cycle. Election period at which the representative was first elected to office and then attaching for the entirety of the tenure correct. That would be what our recommendation was. OK. Yes sir.
 Okay. And then I believe the motion also didn't include reporting trigger value as was requested by staff on slide 25. We had discussed $500. Is that what was it in the motion? Okay. Just wanted to make sure. I think that seems like a number everybody's comfortable with. Okay. Thank you. Thanks, Mayor.
 Thank you, sir. We have representative. I think you've already spoken plus but Who's counting? Why was responding to representative Canales which was out of order? I Did want to so the mayor did bring up a good point. We had had discussions previously about Currently right now if you are a sitting member of council you're running for office If you have received a donation over $500 you have to report that on the agenda But we have discussed having all candidates do that. I
 Is that on did I miss that in this presentation? Are you all not recommending that because I know previously the county required that they did remove that from their rules I think about two years ago But it is possible to have any candidate for office disclose on an agenda any contribution over $500
 If that's a motion that council wants to put forward today, that was not a part of our recommendation to have candidates that were not elected for office place items on the agenda.
 Don't know we haven't really looked at how that might look as far as administration to have a candidate while running for office place items on the Council agenda if they're not a sitting member of Council and this action is just directing you all you'll come back with the final proposal To consider. Yeah, so I will make an additional motion To ask you all to inquire about that
 THE POINT OF INFORMATION HERE. REPRESENTATIVE KENNEDY, DO YOU HAVE ANOTHER QUESTION, SIR? I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY THAT I'M MAKING, AND I DIDN'T WANT TO MAKE THE PRESUMPTION, THAT THE ELECTION CYCLE THEN BEGINS WHEN SOMEONE FILES FOR A TREASURER BECAUSE THAT WOULD BE THE FIRST MOMENT THEN THAT THEY COULD ACTUALLY TAKE DONATIONS. YES, SIR. SOUNDS CORRECT. OKAY. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. I'M HAPPY NOW. YOU HAVE SOMETHING, REPRESENTATIVE MOLINAR?
 So I personally would not call it an election cycle, but just like what Representative Kennedy said, up to that individual filing the campaign treasury report with the proper authority, which would be our city clerk, because everyone's going to be different. And so if you say election cycle, define election cycle. It's different for me. It's different for the mayor. It's different for everybody else. What is it?
 You know, the Secretary of State for the state of Texas will announce, hey, we're going to have a uniform election in November. But they don't give you a date. They give you a date for early voting. They give you a date for the actual date of the voting.
 Re-elect or if there's a runoff things like that, but that's that's always changing so if you put that individual candidate for When the files or he or she files for a campaign treasure with a proper authority I think that's the beginning that would be the cycle, but I don't like that word cycle. How about tricycle? unicycle, all right with that we got representative
 So I'll see them and then represent Canales Thank You mayor. I just have a quick question in regards to the ethics Commission, how do they enforce or make sure that the It's being done properly or the fines or how do they enforce? How do you I?
 I see that. Similarly to how the Ethics Commission hears cases currently, they would receive a complaint. It would go through the same complaint process that is conducted currently for the Ethics Commission to have a hearing, a full evidentiary hearing. And the Ethics Commission evaluates the evidence brought forward by the complainant and the person defending their respondent under the ethics ordinance. And they will decide.
 the case just like they do currently they would just now have an expanded jurisdiction over whom can be have a complaint filed against them as well as the ability to issue a fine okay thank you thank you Mary um yeah I do have just jumping back one topic I have a small concern with
 the process of how a non-office holder would place items on the agenda. I wanted to propose maybe an alternative idea, which is simply that all campaign finance reports would be posted on the agenda of the next city council meeting after the filing deadline for those reports. Those are already available to the city clerk, and those could just be easily posted on an agenda for notation.
 Would that be okay? They are posted online. Right, they're posted online. This would just be to make them slightly more available to the public. Not that I think a huge amount of the public is reading the city council meeting agendas, but at least it would be posted for notation and would come up at a city council meeting. Is that, would that be a suitable alternative? Okay, thanks, Mayor. All right, Ms. Paine. We do have a window right here. We do have public comment on this item, Mayor. Ms. Turner? Ms. Turner?
 You all opened the door from the voters side. As I look at today's agenda, I see two people who've accepted large amounts of money, one way or the other, to do things. And they are no longer eligible, in my eyes, to vote on any issues that those people, whether those business entities, bring anything before you all. My eyes say they should recuse themselves from the vote.
 Otherwise in my eyes they look like they've been bought now my concern is is say say I'm gonna run for mayor and I get a hundred thousand dollars worth of donations prior to filing my campaign finance report. Well, who's gonna know? How are you gonna prove that I didn't do it because I'm gonna loan that money to myself Are you gonna do an audit of every candidate? My next thing is is how do you prevent? I
 from people from breaking up a $2,000 donation into donations of $499.99. How are you going to do that? So in other words, any donation you get should be listed, not anything 500 and above. If you get $1.15, I, as a member of the public, want to know. The other thing is, is I have a
 Huge issue with people who don't live in my city Trying to control who sits on my City Council. That means packs from outside the city That means people who may live in Houston or Austin or Denver. They don't live here. They can't vote here Therefore they have no right to participate in our election since they cannot vote. They cannot donate they don't live here So, how do we get to that point? How do we keep our?
 Those people from interfering with within our city elections. Is that something that the city? That's something we can legally do Miss Turner, so under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution The Supreme Court has ruled about gifts or donations to campaign contributions as a First Amendment protection So we have an ability to do some of that, but we can't outright prohibit people from giving people money. I I
 When you get a dollar bill, they can come up here and stand for three minutes and talk. I will go with that. But what I'm trying to say is this. No one has the right to decide who sits on my city council or who's my mayor if they don't live here. Thank you, Mr. Turner. And it's not a violation of free speech. Thank you. It's the integrity of the election. Thank you, Mr. Turner. The next speaker is Veronica Carvajal. Good afternoon, Ms. Carvajal. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Veronica Carvajal. Good afternoon, ma'am. District 2 resident and president of Justicia Fronteriza PAC. A year ago, well, more than a year ago, in August of 2022, we raised the campaign finance limit to council by submitting the signatures of over 11,000 voters in our community who believe that we need campaign finance limits in city elections.
 In October of 2022, the former council voted us down, and so we had to decide to continue to collect signatures and also work with council. So we've met with you individually, we've met with members of staff, we've met with the cross-functional team, and here we are almost a year to the day, October of 2023, hoping that you have not forgotten about the limitations that we have requested for over a year.
 Again, we remain steadfast that we need campaign finance limits in the city so that we can be on par with other major cities in the state of Texas. We remain steadfast that those limits should be $1,000 per individual, per contributions by individuals.
 And the test again, as we have explained repeatedly, is can a candidate run a viable campaign if they're getting donations that are limited to $1,000 per person? And the answer is yes. And the cross-functional team today told you that getting less than, not getting the most number of $1,000 contributions
 does not kill your campaign. You can still win even if you're not the person getting the most number of contributions over a thousand dollars. So viability has been met. Again, Mr. Canales won his race by limiting himself to $1,000 and so we know that that test has been met. The second test is whether there is a threat of corruption. Could corruption happen if we don't have these limits? And
 And we very much appreciate the recommendations from staff today. We agree with all of them that they are important and disclosure is paramount to having a democracy that is vital for people to trust that their vote matters. But we do not want these recommendations to supplant our request for campaign limits.
 We need those limits imposed. Disclosure is not a limit, right? Even if you have a threshold for reporting, you're not limiting the amount of money that the person disclosing can provide. They could be giving $500,000 to one candidate and disclose it and they'll still be under the new rules. They'll be fine.
 The point is we are trying to democratize our elections. We're trying to tell, especially young people, that they can run without having to raise money and money that we consider to be funny money, which means that you take money from folks that don't align with progressive values. So we hope that you haven't forgotten about our limits and that one day you will pass them and that that date comes very soon. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Matt. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Can we take the item, please?
 We have a window right here. Let me see if I have the motion correct. The motion was made by Mayor Pro Temanillo, seconded by Representative Kennedy, and this is to direct staff to return in 10 weeks with proposed amendments to the ethics code reflecting
 The recommendations to include a reporting trigger value of $500 for aggregate amounts of contribution donations received by a council member and that the reporting time frame begins once an appointment of a campaign treasurer is filed in the city clerk's office. I mean, I didn't say the 10 weeks. I would like to stick to the eight. I think there are two ethics meetings coming up at the end of October and the beginning of November. Yes, ma'am.
 i mean i'll keep it at 10 weeks but i really would like to try to get that before the 10 weeks i think they got an agenda just staying but the time the limit to add things to the agenda isn't over right it's just there's a time period to do that yes thank you thank you okay did i miss anything else okay on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 And the motion passes four to one. Representative Molinarvo, aye. Representative Fierro, not present. The motion does carry.
 That brings us to item number 40. This is discussion and action on a resolution of the City Council of the City of El Paso, Texas, calling for a special election to fill a council vacancy in the office of representative for District No. 2 to be held on December 9, 2023, making provisions of the conduct of the special election and authorizing a contract with El Paso County to furnish election services and equipment. Move to approve the resolution. Second. Second.
 Motion and a second. Can I ask one question if you hit your light? I'll call on you. No, you can't Early voting locations have been established. We've received them from the county There's four early voting locations in the lobby in district two. That's correct. I
 My concern, Laura, is that because Grandview Senior Center is closed for renovation, which is one of our largest voting locations, that there's nothing actually in the central area. You have one downtown, which is not in District Two, one in South Central, and then two in the Northeast, but you actually do not have a voting location in the largest portion of the district, and so wondering if you could add Memorial Park Senior Center to that. We can check on availability.
 We'll check on that, ma'am. I mean, it is our building, but yeah. Thank you. Can we get a second on the motion? Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. Take the item. The motion was made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Kennedy to approve item number 40. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Fierro not present.
 That brings us to item 41, and this is discussion and action that the city manager or designee be authorized to sign an advance funding agreement between the city of El Paso and the state of Texas through the Texas Department of Transportation for the design and construction of the surface transportation grant improvements to railroad drive from Purple Heart Highway to Shrub Oak Drive. Motion approved. Second. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Olena to approve item 41.
 On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously.
 Representative Piero not present. Item 42 is discussion in action to authorize the interim city manager or designee on behalf of the city of El Paso to sign all required documents and submit an application to the Office of the Governor Texas Military Preparedness Commission for the Defense Economic Adjustment Assistance Grant for construction of the McGregor Range Water Line Booster Station Replacement Project. Move to approve. Second.
 There is a motion made by alternative mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 42 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Fierro not present. That brings us to the executive session items. Yeah, we'll go to executive session and then we'll reconvene in executive session in 45 minutes.
 Unless you want an hour? At 2.30. All right, we'll take an hour. Two starts, fine. Okay, good. Anyway, so we'll go ahead and reconvene next. Motion to go to executive session? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second, and this is to recess a city council meeting at 1.43 p.m. and retire into executive session at 2.30 p.m. On that motion, all in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Aye.
 and the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session at 2.30, pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss any of the following. Executive Session Item 1, Kenny Antoinette, individually and as representative of the estate of Kenny,
 Match Dion Graham versus City of El Paso. Cause number 2021, DCV 3399. Matter number 21-1036-3445.001 under 551.071. Executive session item two, purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real property located in downtown El Paso. HQ number 23-1582 under 551.071-551.072. Executive session item three, purchase, exchange, lease, or value of real property located in east El Paso.
 HQ number 23-308 under 551.071, 551.072. Executive session item four, discussion on potential economic development and opportunities in Northeast El Paso, matter number 22-1007-2864, HQ number 23-478.
 under 551.072 and 551.087. Executive Session Item 5, Economic Incentives for an Enfield Development located in West El Paso. Matter number 22-1007-3008, HQ 23-1273 under 551.087 and Executive Session Item 6.
 workplace complaints submitted by the city by chief internal auditor under 551.071. These matters are taken into executive session under 551.071, consultation with attorney, 551.072, deliberation regarding real property, and 551.087, deliberation regarding economic development negotiations. It is 1.45 p.m. For today, yes, sir.
 Is there a motion to come out of executive session? Motion to reconvene. Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 5.47 p.m.
 Mayor Potem, EX1. Motion made, seconded, and carried that the City Attorney's Office, in consultation with the City Manager, be authorized to reject the settlement proposal in the Antoinette-Kenney individually as a representative of the estate of Ken Maj, Dion Graham, v. the City of El Paso. Case number 2021, DCV3399, and matter number 21-30.
 1036-3445.001 and to take all steps necessary including the execution of any required documents in order to effectuate this authority. There's a motion read into the record by Mayor Pro Tem Anelo seconded by Representative Fierro on EX1 to reject the settlement demand on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. EX2
 Motion made, seconded, and carried that the interim city manager is directed to begin soliciting and entertaining letters of interest from interested buyers for the purchase of the properties located in the Union Plaza area of downtown El Paso, which were identified in executive session item number 23-1341 on October 10, 2023. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanelo and read into the record on EX2, seconded by Representative Canales. On that motion, call for the vote.
 Voting session is open. Thank you. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. EX3? No action. Thank you. EX4? No action. Thank you. EX5? No action. Thank you. EX6? No action. Thank you. Motion to adjourn. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, October 10th.
 2023 is adjourned at 5 50 p.m. Thank you, Council.