same thing thank you sir good morning mayor pro tem lisa would you like to get started thank you good morning this is a meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday october 11 2022 alternate mayor pro tem lizada is present and presiding inside council chambers along with representative anelo representative molinar representative salsido representative rodriguez
 Representative Rivera is joining virtual along with Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine is also virtual this morning. It is now 9.02 a.m. Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police Chapel. Robert Hemphill, Jr. Let us bow our heads at this time. Thank you, Lord, for our mayor, the local council members, and all of our city government's officials. Thank you, Lord.
 Please grant them the power to bring stability, justice, and the truth to our local government. Master, give them the authority to make moral decisions, uphold the law, and administer justice. May the city of El Paso continue to be renowned for its fairness and warmth. In the name of God, we pray for this, amen. Thank you, Jeffy. And Mayor Leaser did request to be excused from today's meeting.
 That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation this morning is October month. Whereas teenagers represent the future of El Paso and deserve to be included in the decision making. Excuse me, Representative. Am I reading the wrong one? I believe it's Representative Rodriguez. Sorry. Good morning, everybody. This is a proclamation for October. Okay.
 Whereas the American Institute of Architects El Paso chapter adds value to the city, county, and surrounding areas by creating places that enhance the quality of life through the built environment for all the residents of El Paso. And whereas the local AIA chapter is responsible for the design of many iconic buildings in El Paso,
 safeguards the culture of the region through historic preservation, and aids in the review of local codes and ordinances in order to maintain the health, safety, and welfare of citizens in structures and...
 Whereas the local AIA chapter is one of the leading organizations in our community, focusing on energy efficiency, sustainable design, urban planning, and the importance of building technology merged with design innovations helping to improve our city. And whereas the local AIA chapter encourages citizen architects,
 to take pride in and learn about the built environment, how it shapes our city's progress, and the ability to strengthen our regional cultural identity and quality of life through buildings, historic structures, and neighborhoods. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of October shall be known as Arc-tober. Thank you. I believe our next proclamation, Representative Anela.
 Yes, that is Down Syndrome Awareness Month. Oh, we're all off. I'm not looking. Good morning. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas, whereas one in 700 babies born in the United States is born with Down Syndrome and whereas
 El Paso County has the highest birth rate of Down syndrome in the state of Texas. And whereas people with Down syndrome are active participants in educational, occupational, social, recreational circles of the community. And whereas the Down Syndrome Coalition for El Paso invites everyone to join us on Saturday, October the 15th at the 2022 Buddy Walk to celebrate
 promote acceptance and inclusion, and raise funds for the Down Syndrome Coalition for El Paso.
 EPCC Scholarships for Students with Disabilities, and the National Down Syndrome Society. And whereas the Down Syndrome Coalition for El Paso's Buddy Walk will take place on the EPCC Valleverde Campus, and whereas participants and donors can take part by registering at epbuddywalk.org, the Buddy Walk will bring together individuals, families, and agencies to raise awareness.
 Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that the month of October shall be known as Down Syndrome Awareness Month. Signed the Honorable Oscar Leaser, Mayor, City of El Paso.
 Did you want to say a few words? Yes, thank you. Thank you for being here this morning. I would lift up my daughter so y'all can see her, but she's not wanting me to pick her up. I appreciate the proclamation on behalf of the Down Syndrome Coalition of El Paso and the Buddy Walk. I invite everybody out on Saturday, this Saturday, October 15th, at El Paso Community College via the campus. And you can go on to our website at dse.org.
 ep.org to register we appreciate your support thank you thank you very much for being here welcome sarah can you say thank you hi sarah you're so beautiful thank you and i believe now our third proclamation representative anella okay this is teen where's our tober fest day does anyone from library want to come up
 Whereas, teenagers represent the future of El Paso and deserve to be included in the decision-making and planning for the future. And whereas, Teen-Tobra is a nationwide celebration hosted by libraries every October, which aims to celebrate teenagers and promote year-round teen services and literacy. Thank you.
 And whereas through Teen-tober, the public library highlights the innovative ways they help teens learn new skills and fuel their passions in and out of the library. And whereas Teen-toberfest is a festive teen-centric celebration which brings together educational, recreational, and cultural resources to give teens an opportunity to express their creativeness and talent. Now therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso that October 15, 2022 shall be known as Teen-toberfest day.
 Good morning council thank you so much for having us here this morning. I want to thank you for all of your support throughout everything that the library does and I want to give a great kudos to all our team here for putting this program together and we invite you to come join us on Saturday October 15th from 12 to 4 at the Judge Marquez Recreation. Judge Marquez and.
 the park next to it for this program. Thank you. Thank you, Norma, for being here. And just a shout-out, I want to let you know that on Tuesdays, my almost two-year-old granddaughter goes every Tuesday to the Doris Vann Library to participate in the read-aloud there. So thanks for all that you do for the citizens of El Paso. Thank you.
 If I can ask all of this morning's honorees to please remain in chambers for a few more minutes so you can have, so the council may have the opportunity to take photos with you. That brings us to the consent agenda. Mayor Pro Tem Lizada, did you want to appoint or did you want council to elect an alternate mayor pro tem for this meeting?
 Is that your recommendation, city clerk? I think it would be helpful, ma'am. Okay. I'd like to nominate Representative Hernandez. There's a motion and a second to elect Representative Hernandez as alternate mayor pro tempere this meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 And the motion carries. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Good morning, Council and Mayor Pro Tem. The proposed revisions for October 11, 2022 are as follows. Page 2, item 2, request to excuse City Council members. And that's to excuse Mayor Oscar Leaser from today's meeting. Page 4, item 7, delete per streets and maintenance. Page 10, item 32, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Venelo.
 Page 10 item 33 move to the forefront of the regular agenda per representative Vanilla. Page 11 item 38 take this item immediately after the mass transit board meeting per economic and international development. Page 11 item 39 take this item after item 38 per the city manager's office. Page 11 item 40 take this item after item 39 per the city manager's office.
 The page 18 item 55 delete per economic and international development page 19 item 56 delete per economic and international development page 19 item 57 delete per economic and international development. Members of council are there any other revisions. That's my motion. And there is public comment on three items of the consent agenda. If I may call the speaker it's on item number six
 And this is a resolution to authorize the city manager to sign a consulting services agreement between the city of El Paso and JLL Valuation and Advisory Services, LLC. Ms. Lisa Turner signed up to speak on this item. Ms. Turner? I thought I saw her earlier. I don't believe she's in chambers. She also signed up for items 13 and 29 on the consent agenda. However, I don't see her in chambers. So there is a motion made by...
 Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion call for the vote. Mrs. Crane, can I have a verbal please? Yes, ma'am. Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine? Representative Hernandez? Yes. Representative Rivera? Aye. Mayor Pro Tem Lizardo? Voting for items. Yes ma'am, you do vote on all items today. I thought I would just break the ties. Thank you. And the voting session?
 and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to item number 32 that was moved to the forefront item 32 is discussion in action to recognize october 2022 as national long-term care residents rights month thank you miss pine do i need a motion before i read the resolution no okay so i would like to read this resolution into record
 And it states, whereas there are 1.3 million individuals living in 15,600 nursing homes and over 800,000 individuals living in 28,900 assisted living residential care facilities in the U.S. And whereas the Federal Nursing Home Reform Act of 1987 guarantees residents their individual rights in order to promote and maintain their dignity and autonomy. And whereas all residents should be aware of their rights so they may be empowered to live with dignity and self-determination.
 And whereas we wish to honor and celebrate these citizens to recognize their rich individuality and to reaffirm their right to vote and participate politically, including the right to have a say in their care. And whereas the Sanctuary for Longevity Project, the Texas Silver-Haired Legislature, and the Rio Grande Area Agency on Aging groups and individuals across the country will be celebrating Residence Rights Month with a theme, Inspiring Unity Within Our Community.
 emphasizing the importance of fostering meaningful community within the long-term care facility and encouraging residents connections to their local community with the vote now therefore be it resolved by the city council of the city of el paso recognizes october 2022 as national long-term care residence rights month in the city of el paso and encourages all citizens to join in these important observations i don't know if there's anyone here to speak about this today anyone
 Good morning everybody. Thank you so very, very much. I'm Alicia DeJong Davis, founder of the Sanctuary for Longevity Project and also a Texas Silver Herd Legislature Rio Grande Area Agency on Aging.
 I'm proud to always carry that banner of advocacy for the rights and the needs of older Americans. I want to thank you for your recognition of the rights of older adults that live in long-term care facilities. A special thanks to Representative Anello.
 and her staff for sponsoring this such an important resolution. This morning, if I
 Allow me, please. This is such an important resolution for me, not only as a gerontologist, as a nurse, but more importantly, as a caregiver, as someone who had a loved one in a nursing home for many years, and my adorable brother, along with many other people.
 other residents endure the pain of being in such facility during COVID. So I do thank you for this. Yes, their human rights were violated over and over again. So this resolution is so very important, not only to remind us
 that those individuals need our attention, need our love, and we need to keep visiting. This morning, if I may, I'm going to be looking into an increase of the personal needs for Medicaid residents in nursing homes. You know, nursing home residents who qualify for Medicaid are entitled to personal needs allowance of $60 a month. Such allowance.
 enhance the residents quality of life by paying for extra things that are not provided by the nursing home and we're talking about simple things that we enjoy at home like going to a salon, a candy, other goodies, pampering items, such creams and perfumes or just going to the movies.
 Let's be clear, all of the seniors income go to pay the nursing home except for those $60 monthly allowance. But guess what? It has not been increased in 17 years. From 2005 to 2022, they still get the same $60 a month.
 It's time for that to change. Another thing that also need to address that was so relevant during COVID is our nursing homes needs reform.
 A floor duty registered nurse seven days a week, much needed to supervise the daily care of our residents. Staffing based on activity levels of residents, in service education for staff, especially for CNAs, increase their salary, and yes,
 we need to make sure that the resident and family councils be activated. That's the only mechanism they have to actually better the quality of life and quality of care that they receive. As I said, both of the personal need allowance, nursing care reform, as well.
 are much needed change and it is important for the quality of care of the residents and I urge the community, we all know individuals in a nursing home, maybe a family member, a friend, a neighbor, I urge you this morning that we celebrate the long-term care rights of older adults
 to please, please go and visit them. Thank you so very much indeed. Thank you, Alicia. Thank you for your passion and all for your information that you shared with us this morning. If I may, my colleague is here. Where is my colleague? Okay.
 Good morning everyone. My name is Jorge Soto. I'm the managing local ombudsman for the Area Agency on Aging. And I'm the one who goes and advocates for residents who are in nursing homes and assisted living facilities. And I would like to thank you to recognize this month for those residents who really, really needed to navigate
 Besides us, the community is welcome also to do that. And again, thank you for recognizing this month for those who are in need of advocacy and the residents' rights. Thank you. Thank you. With that, I'll make a motion to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Anelo, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the resolution. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein? Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein?
 Thank you. Representative Rivera? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 We now move to item 33 that was also moved to the forefront and this is discussion in action to recognize the month of October 2022 as Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Thank you, Ms. Prine. I'll read the resolution to the record. It states, whereas the crime of domestic violence violates an individual's dignity and humanity due to the systematic use of physical, emotional, sexual, psychological, and economic control.
 And whereas the problems of domestic violence are not confined to any group or groups of people, but cut across all economic, racial and societal barriers and are supported by societal indifferences. And whereas in 2022, the Center Against Sexual and Family Violence celebrated 45 years of being at the forefront of advocating for safety and justice through intervention, education and community collaboration in the tri-county area of El Paso, Hudspeth and Culberson counties.
 And whereas this year's campaign, Be Kind, Rewind to a Healthy Start, highlights the importance of changing this learned behavior because only then will we break the cycle of abuse. And whereas in recognition of the important work done by domestic violence programs, it is important for all citizens to actively participate in scheduled activities and programs to work towards improving victim safety and holding perpetrators of domestic violence accountable for their actions against individual victims and our society as a whole.
 And whereas since 1987, much progress has been made to support domestic violence victims and survivors, to hold abusers accountable, and to create and update legislation to further those goals. And whereas the month of October has served to bring awareness nationwide since 1987 and to unite individuals and organizations working on domestic violence issues. Now, therefore, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso that the month of October 2022 shall be known as Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
 approved this 11th day of October 2022. Is there anyone from the Center Against Family Violence here? Good morning, everyone. Thank you so much for having us today. Special thanks to Representative Anello for sponsoring this Domestic Violence Awareness Month and more importantly, the proclamation that she brought forward today and the movement to end domestic violence.
 I also want to highlight that today is National Coming Out Day, so it is a day to celebrate or normalize coming out and raise awareness with our LGBTQ community and offer support to those in need. Our center does provide services to the LGBTQ community because, unfortunately, domestic violence does not discriminate based on any gender, race, gender.
 sexual orientation. So we want to make sure to also highlight National Coming Out Day. And as we heard, domestic violence continues to be an issue in our community. I want to share some of the numbers that we have seen. So unfortunately, we did see a rise. So we saw 60% increase in our hotlines.
 So individuals seeking services. We also saw a 26% increase in the families that are staying at our emergency shelters compared to last year. So it is very important to recognize the impact.
 this present issue in our community. And unfortunately, you know, seeing the increase that we've had, we also saw a decrease in our BIP program, which is the program that works with the offenders to hold them accountable for the domestic violence incidents. So we saw nearly 3% decrease. So we want to make sure that we continue to raise awareness and as the proclamation stated, to also continue to work in holding these offenders accountable.
 This year's theme for our Domestic Violence Awareness Month is Be Kind and Rewind to a Healthy Start, and we will be focused on changing those abusive behaviors because we want to make sure that everyone does have access to a healthy relationship and what that may look like for everyone may be different, but hopefully we can continue the important work that we're doing.
 um i do have a small token of our appreciation for representative anello and also we will be having different events throughout the month to to continue to raise awareness and so i brought a flyer because we will be having a movie night with partnering with alamo draft house in the county attorney's office and so if i may approach to to give these out ma'am may we have your name for the record yes thank you thank you okay thank you so much and with that i'll make a motion to approve
 there is a motion made by representative anelo seconded by representative molinar to approve the resolution on item 33 on that motion call for the vote mayor pro tim schwartzwein all right thank you representative rodriguez yes thank you representative rivera thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously is there a motion to recess for photos
 There's a motion and a second to recess a regular city council meeting in order to take photos with this morning's honorees. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 927 a.m. Council, we're going to go ahead and start with the... Is there a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Aye.
 The meeting is back in session at 9.37 a.m. We're on page number nine, item number 30, and this is discussion in action that the mayor be authorized to sign in counterpart originals in both English and Spanish, a sister city agreement between the city of El Paso, state of Texas, and the city of Parra, state of Coahuila, Mexico. And this is Representative Shortspine's item.
 Ms. Prime, before we start, and Representative Swartzwine, sorry. If I can just have a moment. Good morning. Since I'm the alternate mayor pro tem sitting in to fill the mayor's shoes today because of his absence, our regular mayor pro tem, Representative Swartzwine, is here joining us via Zoom. So it falls on me to call this meeting to order. And because I have seldom...
 assume this role. I authorized the city clerk to jump in if appropriate to suggest normal procedure to help move this meeting along and of course, I appreciate the collegiality of my colleagues in taking these circumstances into account. I also just wanted to take a moment to recognize our Jewish brothers and sisters and
 who are celebrating the festival of Sukkot. As Representative Swartzbein knows, I used to live on a kibbutz many, many years ago when we were newly married back in the 70s, and so I spent six months on a Jewish kibbutz.
 kibbutz in Beit Hashita and so I have fond memories of celebrating many Jewish festivals and so I just wanted to take a moment to celebrate and to acknowledge our Jewish brethren Rabbi Greenberg had a really nice article in the newspaper this past Sunday asking us to be
 influencers of goodness. So I just wanted to share that thought with all of you all this morning, that we, through our thoughts and our prayers and our actions, could become people that become influencers for goodness. So thank you very much, Mayor Pro Tem Swartzbein.
 Thank you again, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Luzarga, and thank you again for the well wishes. Sukkot is the harvest festival, and we celebrate this, you know, by eating in temporary structures. So it's a lot of fun as well, and it's a very busy time in the Jewish community.
 calendar with Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year, and then Yom Kippur, the Jewish Day of Atonement, right before Sukkot, followed by Simchas Torah. So never a dull moment in all of our cultural calendars. So, colleagues, I just wanted to...
 celebrate this great opportunity that we have with our newest sister city agreement signing between Paras, Coahuila and El Paso, Texas. Paras, along for a number of different reasons, is also the home of the oldest winery in the Americas.
 And this is an opportunity that Destination El Paso, under the leadership of Veronica Castro, has been working on for the better part of a year to have this agreement signed.
 It should be a really great opportunity. I have a couple of amendments here to read into the record relating to the agreement. And this agreement will be signed tomorrow in Tijuana with the mayor of Paras as well as Mayor Leeser as well. So it should be a pretty great moment to celebrate the bonds between our cities and our countries in a very positive way. And so,
 City Clerk, I have a number of amendments to this. I don't know if there's a, if you need a motion to approve or first make a motion for the following amendments. What would you prefer, Ms. Bryan? If you can please read the amendments into the record, I think that will be helpful prior to making the motion. All right. So I'd like to read into the record the following amendments. Article 1 is revised to read as follows. The objective of this agreement is to formalize the sisterhood between the parties to carve out cooperation activities.
 in areas of common interest, including those set forth in the project submitted for review by each party. Also, Article 5 is to review as follows. Parties shall draw up jointly the annual operating program, shall be integrated with specific project or activities that the parties agree upon, and a liaison from each party shall supervise all activities, A, adopt the necessary decisions,
 or comply with the objectives of this, B, identify the areas of common interest to prepare and formulate the annual work program, C, guide, organize, and formulate the pertinent recommendations for the execution of cooperation activities, and D, any other functions that the parties agree. Article 8 is added and reads as follows. The parties agree that the information, material, and protected equipment being classified by naturalist legislation for national security or foreign relation purposes for each party should not be subject to transfer within the present agreement.
 and undertaking activities pursuant to the agreement, any information, material, equipment which could require or require protection and classification is identified. The party shall inform their relevant authorities and establish in writing the corresponding measures. Transference of information, material, equipment which is not protected or classified but which exportation is regulated by one of the parties shall be done according to the applicable national legislation. It should be identified along with its intended use or subordinate transference.
 Any of the parties considered necessary measures shall be taken to prevent the non-authorized transference or re-transference of such property. Subsequent articles numbering is adjusted to account for the addition of articles eight. The associated revisions are made to the Spanish President's agreement to reflect the above revisions. And those are all the amendments that I have to read onto the floor at this time. I'll second all those amendments, Mayor Poutin. Thank you, sir.
 there's a motion made by mayor pro tem shortsline seconded by representative rivera to amend the resolution on that motion call for the vote mayor pro tem shortsline thank you representative rivera aye thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously is there a motion to approve second second second there's a motion made by representative anello seconded by representative salcido to approve
 As amended on that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein, Representative Rivera. Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you.
 That brings us to item 31 on the agenda. This is discussion and action on a resolution that declares the expenditure of District 3 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed $1,500 to be used towards a COVID-19 safe, inclusive, and sensory-friendly Halloween event in District 3 serves a municipal purpose. And this was submitted by Representative Hernandez. I move to approve. There's a motion made by...
 Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Hernandez, seconded by Representative Molinar, to approve Item 31. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Shorthine, Representative Rivera? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you, Council. That brings us to Item 34. Thank you.
 And this is discussion in action to approve a resolution that the City Council declares that the expenditure of District 8 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed $10,000 to cover cost of stage rental, audiovisual equipment, entertainment, hiring of off-duty law enforcement officers or private security officers, barrier rental for vehicle pedestrian control, permitting fees, and or portable restroom rental related to the holding of the Segundo Barrio Community Block Party.
 by the Southside Neighborhood Association serves a municipal purpose. This item was submitted by Mayor Pro Tem Lizárraga. Motion to approve. And we did have a public comment from Ms. Turner. I don't believe she's in the room. There is a motion made by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Lizárraga, seconded by Representative Molina to approve item 34. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Aye. Representative Rivera.
 Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item 35, and this is a presentation on the Grants and Strategic Initiatives Program. Good morning. Elizabeth Triggs, Economic and International Development. If IT could bring up the presentation, please.
 As they're bringing it up, we have these three items on the agenda. Obviously, this one on the grant program would demonstrate the dollars we've been able to obtain, outside dollars, federal dollars, in some cases state dollars, in order to be able to effectuate the strategic plan the council has in place. Also, there was a lot of questions on the payment condition index, so we thought we'd have it on this.
 briefing so that the council can ask questions and have all the information I think that the information has been shared with you before but it's a lot of data a lot of different streets and a lot of requests and that's one of the highest priorities of this community is the streets and and all the catching up that we have to do with all the time that there wasn't an investment in our streets and then
 animal services has been a topic of concern in the community in some in some parts of it and we are always focused on that particular operation we've been focused on that since 2015 and have made some considerable progress but have had some challenges due to just the way the world has changed with covet and how that's impacted not only that operation but a lot of our operations across the board
 Yes, sir. Thank you. So we wanted to take this opportunity as the city manager said to talk a little bit about a program that we've developed over the last year, particularly in response to the increased amount of federal funding coming through for different infrastructure projects. A lot of this funding comes through as discretionary or competitive grants. And
 And so we've been very strategic in thinking about how we can get some of our larger projects that may otherwise not be funded done by applying for and going after these different grants.
 So just to give you an overview of the presentation, it's a fairly quick one, but I think we've had a lot of good results in less than a year alone, so I'm excited to report those to you. We'll talk to you a little bit about the program, where it's housed, just our approach, and then about the results to date, which is really just calendar year 2022, this year to date. And then finally, an overview of upcoming funding opportunities that we intend on going after with your support.
 So this talks a little bit about the program. It is housed in economic development currently, but with a great amount of participation and assistance from our city engineer and her team in capital improvements, Yvette Hernandez. She does a great job, has a lot of experience managing these, so it's a very coordinated effort between the two departments.
 Our goal is really again just to successfully secure competitive grant funding for the city and for the larger region, recognizing that projects that impact the region are also good for the city.
 We've taken a very purposeful, integrated approach, again, as I mentioned, across city departments very closely tied to capital improvements, but also working with other departments including international bridges, the airport, streets and maintenance, and several others. As we grow the program, we intend on tying different departments closer to this so that we can be even more successful.
 We do use the Communities of Excellence framework, so it's not just an internal program. We work a lot with outside stakeholders. In particular, we found a really good partner in the Paso del Norte Community and Health Foundations.
 Tracy Yellen has been incredibly helpful, and then of course the El Paso Mobility Coalition, the Chamber, the MPO, and others. So it's a very, very strategic and organized approach, and I'll talk a little bit more about why that's important.
 We're also supported by subject matter experts. So again, partnering with Paso del Norte Community Foundation, we were able to bring on board a grant writer for Trans Systems who's helping us with the larger, more complex grants and the writing of those. And by partnering with Paso del Norte Community Foundation, we were able to share that cost, but also ensure that we're working together, which makes our applications much stronger.
 And then finally, I think what's really important to point out here is that all of these grants require at least a 20% match, in some cases a 50% match. And so that means that, you know, the city primarily, sometimes we have help from other partners as well, but the city primarily has to put in that match.
 And without all of the work that you all have done in terms of making us really strong financially, we would not be able to do that. So I think that's a really important component and it's really the foundation to the success that we've had so far. On the right side you'll see
 um we've won nearly 66 million dollars in competitive funding that's been awarded this calendar year alone and we're not even at the end of the year so it's been a really good result we're really excited about it again that 66 million is supported by local match funding dollars the majority of which is is made possible by the city
 So to talk a little bit about our process, the first thing that we did was we defined our organizational priorities and projects, and this is heavily, heavily based on the strategic plan that you all have approved. And then also looking at projects that without the federal funding to supplement what we're doing locally may not be possible. And so these are the ten general categories. Within those ten categories, we've then identified 74 projects.
 From there, we've taken those projects, we've dissected, for example, the bipartisan infrastructure law and other programs. American Rescue Plan did have some opportunities as well, and we keep an eye on other legislation that's coming through, and we've created a matrix so that we can match those projects with potential funding opportunities. It's a constantly evolving list. As new projects come up, we add them to the list. As new funding opportunities come up, we also add those to the list.
 And then in terms, this is the part about working with our regional partners. So again, it's really important that we coordinate so that we're not competing for the same pot of dollars as a community, but that, for example, a lot of these projects that are coming through or the competitive grants that are coming through the bipartisan infrastructure law are five-year grant programs. So they'll come out one year.
 and it may make sense for us to go after the planning grant that one year and for another organization in the community to go after the construction grant. So that way we're not competing. And then the following year we switch. So we're making sure that we're very coordinated on that front. And the other thing there is that it makes our applications much stronger.
 because we start at the beginning with support, because we have a strategy moving forward. So that's another huge component to this and why it's really important to keep in close contact with all of those organizations that may also be looking at these funds for our region. Thank you.
 So then taking those 10 organizational priorities, 74 projects, we're tracking about 92 programs. We've identified 21 as being a good option for the city. Grant writing, as I have learned, is very, very intense, and it takes a lot of work. So we try to pick those that are most important. This year we've submitted 11 grants.
 We've won seven of those and that has resulted in nearly 66 million dollars awarded. So the next slide just goes through those seven awards. The downtown deck plaza design was awarded this year, it was applied for last year, but that's gotten us into a place, gotten us started where in the future if we need to apply for a construction grant for this project, we now have the design in place. So that's a very critical component.
 Also, El Paso International Airport has been hugely successful this year in securing major grant dollars for airport terminal improvements as well as runway improvements. Sun Metro was very successful in securing a grant for electric paratransit fleet and infrastructure. And they're in the process of looking at how they can implement that program using those grant dollars.
 You all know the advanced manufacturing campus development at the airport was the result of a partnership heavily with UTEP to secure $25 million to build out that infrastructure.
 More recently, we rewarded 12 million for Isleta Port of Entry pedestrian improvements. Again, something that's not possible on our own, but also is not possible without our local match, which in this case was a P3 funding. And then finally, we were awarded 1 million for the Paso del Norte Trail segment connecting the zoo to the MCA, and this is just one segment of the larger Paso del Norte Trail.
 This was awarded through the federal budget process through earmarks, and so every year we have an opportunity to look at that program as well. So the next couple slides talk about our upcoming opportunities. Bipartisan infrastructure law, again, a massive, massive push on spending for infrastructure across the United States.
 There's a lot of opportunity in terms of competitive grants with over $200 billion being allocated to competitive grant programs. And so we're watching those closely as the NOFOs come out. As I said before, they're usually multi-year programs. So we're looking ahead, you know, five years ahead what we can be applying for while this law is in place.
 And then finally, American Rescue Plan Act, looking at that, community project funding, I mentioned that, that's the new earmark process. And then finally, most recently, something I just wanted to flag was the National Defense Authorization Act, which is for FY23, which is currently going through the process. It hasn't been fully adopted,
 adopted yet, but one of the interesting things in this is that it establishes a pilot program for for the Army to install microgrids or military installations and field electric vehicles, so convert their field vehicles to electric.
 There will only be three installations chosen for this program. And while that decision isn't necessarily made at the local level, it's made at the federal level. I think that's an important thing to point out because we are doing a lot of work at the airport with respect to piloting microgrids, looking at how we convert our fleets. So this ties in nicely with that and I think that by us doing that, you know, we can show a lot of community support potentially for Fort Bliss being one of these pilot or test cases.
 And so then this is the final slide looking at our upcoming submissions. One thing that I'll say is that the Paso del Norte Health Foundation has been working very closely with us on the last grant application you see here. It's Reconnecting Communities, which is a new program offered through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
 We've been working with them to look at funding a portion of the Paso del Norte trail segment that runs through the city and has, you know, because of different transportation infrastructure, communities in the area have been disconnected. So primarily close to the MCA area, close to downtown and between those two areas. And you have an item that's...
 related at the end of your agenda. I believe it's item 59. We actually pushed up the date to apply for this to this year. So if you all support that item, we'll be able to submit for this grant this year, which then leaves us four more years to apply for different segments of the trail.
 The other important ones that I'll mention here are in December 2022, we're looking at submitting an application for the removal of at-grade crossings at Zaragoza, which is a public safety hazard. So that's a great opportunity, and our grant writer through Trans Systems is actually taking the lead on writing this grant for us.
 In the spring, April 2023, we're looking at Rays. We think that that actually will be, the deadline will be moved up earlier, unfortunately, but that's okay. And the project we're looking at there is a design grant for the streetcar route extension specifically from downtown to the MCA, which aligns nicely with the Alameda Corridor Plan you all just adopted.
 And then finally, the really big push is in May of 2023, we'll be partnering with TxDOT, with your all support, to submit for I-10 Segment 2 and Deck Plaza construction. And again, us having the grant to do the design now sets us up nicely to apply for that grant in 2023. And this is via a new grant program, again made possible by the bipartisan infrastructure law called the Mega Grant.
 It's a very, very large grant, 500 million and more. So there are very few projects that will succeed in winning that award. But again, we think it's important to push forward with our biggest projects because this really is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions.
 I would just add that legislation is reporting to TRIGS. That's the reason why she's reporting this. So she has staffing for this and the grant writing that she was referring to. And they also partner with the Capital Improvement Department in order to get additional help from Yvette and Hernandez and her team as well. Thank you, Elizabeth. Alternate Mayor Hernandez has a question.
 hi good morning elizabeth um i was about to say mr gonzalez like she's um she's stacked on on a lot of her duties but um it without fail you've always been able to demonstrate excuse me all of our successes i do want to highlight that the fact that you all have been successful in capturing these grants nearly a 65 approval rate 65 percent of the time we're able to receive these grants but
 But in the past, we've never applied for some of these funds. So I really appreciate that, Mr. Gonzalez, and your leadership and your team, that we are actively looking for not only here, but in mass transit opportunities and infrastructure opportunities for our ports of entry. We are actively looking for monies to offset the burden to taxpayers, and that's pretty significant.
 These are not your property tax dollars that are being paid for all of these investments into our community. And I'm super proud of this, and I just wanted to thank you for that. I do have a question. If you can go to the last slide, please. Stop right there. Stop right there real quick. One more back. Just go one slide back. Okay. The National Defense Infrastructure. Sorry, there's a delay. It's okay. There it is. Authorization Act. Yes.
 So this is separate from the one that we apply with the state, correct? And we've been successful in getting millions of dollars there. Yes. Now, could you explain what we can use this funding for if we were to apply in partnership with Fort Bliss? So it wouldn't be awarded to us. It would be to Fort Bliss, right, to set up the pilot program. But I think it's a really important step for our community. The program.
 the military has come out with their climate strategic plan and they've made it very clear that they want all of their bases to go to net zero in a relatively short amount of time and so this sets up the pilot programs to do that and i only put it on this slide because again thinking about partnerships and how we can build on what we're already doing as a city as far as climate goes and other programs too but in this case climate i think this is a really good opportunity
 I know that the congresswoman was very heavily invested in writing this portion of the Act and so I bring it up as an opportunity for us to start demonstrating local support now again the decision will be made at the federal level which installations participate but I think that the more local support we have the better okay so do you know if it's the
 it's the base that applies or it's community local leaders or who does that I think it's just the the federal leaders can't decide which three bases make the most sense I think it'd be incredibly significant if we as council wrote a resolution in support of whatever program that they wanted to apply for but also put a coalition together or work in tandem with the chamber to
 to go there and make sure that they're aware that these opportunities are available and that we would lend our support by way of resolutions or letters of support from members of council just so that, you know, we just don't miss out on this opportunity, which I doubt it, but
 They grants are there's like a fast turnaround and it could be Intimidating at times and so so long as we can apply that pressure, but also at the national level I know that some folks locally including the chamber they go To DC to advocate for this these funds. I think it's important that the city of El Paso and members of staff should go so that we can support these investments into our country and into our installations and
 but a lot of times I see that other organizations are talking on behalf of the city but the city should really be there present advocating on behalf of our community so I just want to lend support for that and hopes that we can bring that forward and then can you go to the next slide please
 And then here, upcoming funding opportunities. I really like the idea that you said that you're working in tandem with all these other departments, seeing what are the...
 I guess the motivations and the visions within each department, because I'm starting to see this whole network of visions come forward, and I really appreciate that, because before it was really segmented, so now I see a holistic approach on how we're gonna tackle these funding opportunities, so wanted to share that feedback with you, Mr. Gonzales. So what do you need from this council in order to push forward with these opportunities?
 i think just as we bring them forward having your having your support so item 59 later on the agenda is actually us moving up that that last one reconnecting communities to submit this year
 that's what's immensely helpful and then like you mentioned the resolution on the other I think is really helpful to do it now so that the federal government sees that we are fully behind programs like that the other thing I would think would be very helpful would be y'all have had conversations on the day as in previous council meetings about capital improvements and having more dialogue about that
 We have a list that we just put together, a presentation. It would be good for the council to see that. It's what you already know, but it's things like the rail spur in the north side of town that could really help economic development, could really help land one of those big companies that manufactures
 something and it has like 5,000 jobs you we've briefed the council and those those type of opportunities in the in the past and That rail spur would be significant. So that's on that list as well We have a lot of other things on that list that again would just be reminders And maybe it'll trigger some thoughts for council to have other ideas to add more things to the list But that's about 50 things on that list
 Thank you and so I look forward to seeing some of these segments come forward especially with the trail I have one in my district it's very successful it took a lot of partnerships with other agreements with interlocal agreements with other governments.
 And so maybe if that's what we can do to kickstart that, because it's the bureaucracy that takes the longest in order to get those vacations or agreements to maintenance agreements, what have you. But it's time, the Paso de Norte Trail segment.
 in the south central parts of the city, county to county line, it's time that we put more skin in the game and try to support, whether it be through vacation, through agreements, so that they can get these funds. So I'm endorsing that, and I lend my support for that. But thank you, Mr. Triggs. Thank you, Mr. Triggs.
 We've come a long way from when I first came into office to now and these wonderful announcements. And it is because of the team, the employees, the hard work that you put in. So I wanted to say thank you.
 I would also like to add that our team, we've got a cross-functional team on this and they've done an amazing job. We're also working with the community as well. We're working with the foundation, the Tracy Yellen heads up, as well as working with the mobility coalition with the chamber. That's really been helpful with regard to coordinating our transportation efforts, also coordinating a lot of these different grants that Ms. Triggs has been sharing with y'all.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Thank you for your insight, Alternate Mayor Hernandez. We have a question from Representative Molinar. Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Mayor Pro Tem Lizardaga. Anyways, thank you, Ms. Triggs. Presentation, as always. A couple of things. So I was here yesterday, and I mentioned something to—
 Mr. Alex Hoppin about the cost of the deck plaza. And so I see that something's gonna be moving on 2023. I know we already have a raise grant, almost $1 million. And I understand we're still early on, things like that. But Mr. Gonzalez, I don't know if you have this ability to answer this question or not, or Ms. Triggs, but what will that gonna cost us as taxpayers?
 So I think that the value in the mega grant and the way that we're approaching this is that it's very much based on partnerships. So TxDOT would be a partner applicant in this application, and they would be bringing to the table state dollars for this, and a significant amount of state dollars. I don't have the exact numbers, but I can certainly get them out to you all.
 And then also we're working again very closely with the Paso del Norte Community Foundation who has set up a deck plaza foundation to fundraise for the deck plaza. So that is not to say that there wouldn't be any local city dollars going into the deck plaza construction itself. I don't think that we fully fleshed out what the funding plan looks like.
 but I think that by combining state dollars, federal dollars, and then fundraising dollars, we really mitigate the cost and make it possible for the community. So we will be back with a full budget well ahead of May 2023 so that you all have more information on what that looks like but I do want to highlight that this mega grant is massive and I think we'd be looking at asking for $300 million.
 Can you define massive? So about $300 million is what we would be looking at requesting from the federal government.
 Mr. Gonzalez, do you have anything to add to that, sir? You said $300 million for the project in its entirety. No, that's just what we would be asking for from the grant. So if you all remember, the TxDOT had indicated that they wanted us to re-look at the way we had our funds allocated for the region in order to help with the I-10 project. So we did do that at the MPO, the Metropolitan Planning Organization. And whenever those adjustments were made, some of those dollars are going towards I-10.
 The finance plan in its entirety hasn't been mapped out yet, but it could include a cocktail of funding that would be federal funding, maybe other grants that we would go after. So that's part of what we would put on the table. And then there's also been other communities, whenever they've done it, they've done it through some fundraising, also through utilizing different municipal financial tools,
 whether they be tax increment finance districts, things of that nature. So it would probably have some of those in the mix in terms of what we would ultimately be recommending. Okay. And then really quickly, they just reminded me that the design grant that we received also funds the feasibility study, which would also examine what the costs look like and what the potential could be for funding. But more specifically, Mr. Mullen, our objective would be, because there's so much...
 talk about a lot of different dollars at the federal level being available. Our goal would be to get all of it funded through the federal government, but we want to be realistic about it as well. I want to be having, you know, contingency plans in place as an opportunity to shore up any funding that we wouldn't be able to get from the federal government. But our goal is to get 100% from the federal government. Okay. And the reason I'm bringing that up, Mr. Gonzalez and Ms. Triggs, is that, um,
 We're in 2022 towards the end of the year and of course it's a new fiscal year already, but there are significant challenges that we're facing as today we see on the migrant crisis agenda or the agenda we see migrant crisis. We're going to soon have issues with body cameras and I support the body cameras, so don't get me wrong on that one, but there's going to be other challenges that come up and so if we don't plan.
 Well, I don't know what could happen. I just want to make sure you know We did kovat who would have not who would have thought the kovat was gonna come? We've been dealing with a migrant crisis now for a couple of years and it's cannot necessarily getting better We don't have an answer when that may end or subside or cut back things like that And so yesterday I know the representative Schwartz by mentioned return on investment Okay. Well, I will tell you it's just the way it is. We're losing money on those streetcars. I
 bottom line we're losing money on the streetcars and so what are we doing about that how are we going to curb that how are we going to stop the flow of losing money every year for that and so those are challenges that we as a City Council need to make it's nice and pretty to be standing up here and talking about different things what we need how we're going to do it but if we do not plan effectively for the future we're really going to be in some
 Such financial situations that are going to be paramount that could lead to very I don't want to say bad But different different things that are good happen or it may not happen for the city for our community and things like that And so the ballpark, you know, we're stay paying we're still paying on that another 20 years every year Two years, but we struggle to pay for that
 And so it's just, you know, we can talk about a return on investment, but, you know, I haven't seen that so far. So thank you very much. Mr. Molina, I think you bring up excellent points, and I think that we should have those discussions, and I'm glad you're raising those questions. So with respect to this council's strategic plan, not everything that you plan out and you spend a lot of time talking about does it all get spent with just property tax dollars or,
 or even just a general fund. Sometimes you are able to utilize other departments, like the enterprise funds. You're able to utilize federal funds, like the presentation demonstrated today. I also wanted to tell you that when the city in 14-15 talked about we want a convention center hotel, they put a request for proposal out there, and they got zero bidders. Nobody responded to it.
 And the reason no one responded to it is because when you look at cities and how they do convention center hotels, they do that through a partnership. Every city that's done a convention center hotel does that. Let me tell you why. They do that because when the convention center hotel blocks X amount of rooms, they lock those rooms for the city, in whatever city that's in. And so most cities pay 40, up to even 45% of the cost of that hotel through incentives and or through dollars up front.
 The city only paid like 12% for ours. And when I say ours, I mean the Paso Del Norte Hotel. We also did the Plaza Hotel, and then there was a brand new hotel that came out of the ground. And I say that because we're able to get the state rebate program in place through legislation that was done in another city. I managed another city that actually did that first, and then now 38 cities take advantage of that.
 The reason I mention that to you is because whenever it was in the headlines that the city gave 30 something million dollars to the hotel, well, 23 million of that came from the state. And in our case, we did like 12 million. So the fact that we were able to get those improvements done and were able to leverage and use state dollars on a rebate program that wasn't in place before, but for that poor program, it would not have happened.
 So when we talk about, you mentioned the streetcar. So that streetcar was done before I even started working here, but whenever I looked at it and looked at how it operates and how the funding was achieved, the city was able to get, I believe, $97 million from the state in order to do that.
 The streetcar nor the metro program, the transit system makes any money. They really don't. They make very, very little money. What funds that is a half a penny sales tax. And the half a penny sales tax was a little bit over 50 million, now it's at 67 million a year, that half a penny.
 And that half a penny has grown because of the fact that the Council has had strong policies in place that have helped, like our wages as an example, go up by almost 20% in the last several years. That was a high priority for the Council in the strategic plan. So through those policies and through the execution of those policies, we've been able to see that wage increase exponentially over the years.
 The streetcar is not gonna make any money, and neither is the bus system. They don't make money. They make a very little amount of money if at all. In most cities, what they do is they wait for all federal funds to come into play, and that's all they participate in through those federal funds. The city way back when was very aggressive on all these stations that we put in place on these bus routes, and the city even paid for some of that on their own.
 And that continued over the last eight years. So we've been extremely aggressive with the transit system. That's the reason why we have so many routes in place, but we only have half a penny to fund it. Most cities have a full penny, especially the larger cities. The last city I was at had a full penny for their transit system, and they're part of the DART program. So we're actually underfunded in the transit system in the way we operate. So I just wanted to give you and the rest of the council that full context
 Because not everything that we talk about would get done with property tax dollars or with the general fund dollars in general. So I just wanted to give you that as context.
 All right. Thank you very much for that explanation. Also on slide 10, we don't have to go to the slide, but when they talk about the National Defense Authorization Act, I'm familiar with that a little bit here. And it would be nice if WordBlitz could get that for us and really for the whole country. I have a little bit, having been in the military in the past, but we're going to have electric field vehicles. I don't know exactly what that means, but
 But that would be a challenge, and I would look forward to seeing something like that come out. So thank you very much, Mr. Riggs. Appreciate it. Yes, sir. Thank you, Representative Molinar. Mayor Pro Tem Sportsbine would like to speak. Thank you. Thank you, Altra, and Mayor Pro Tem Lazorga. The city manager had brought up a number of the concerns that I guess were directly attributed to me. I'll add on to that, but I do want to say that, Mr. Riggs, I think that these –
 Grant proposals, I think, are all very well and sound. And again, they go with their strategic plan. And this points to, again, a community that is looking for strategic ways to increase mobility and economic development as well. And all of these seem to make a lot of sense, including the trail system, as well as looking at federal funding for
 the deck Plaza as well. Our city has been fortunate to have leadership that is willing to be bold, is willing to be visionary, is not willing to accept mediocrity and insist about projects not making money when in fact it's not the case. They say that people are entitled to their own opinions, but they're not entitled to their own facts.
 And I think that that's something that is very true. I guess since it was addressed, the streetcar, again, as the city manager pointed out, alongside Sun Metro is that public transit does not make money. The streetcar project was never there to sustain itself based upon ticket sales alone. It was an economic reinvestment tool that has so far produced a great return on investment.
 already since the streetcar is reintroduced. We've seen over five new hotels all within a thousand feet of a streetcar stop. We have two affordable housing actually three affordable housing projects that are all within a thousand feet of a streetcar stop including the art space hotel the blue flame building and West of Senora.
 as well off of in the uptown area as well. These are all projects that build off of the success of having a dedicated mass transit corridor, right? Representative Molinar and myself have been in a infill CFT project for the last six months and I know that Representative Molinar is aware of the concept of transit-oriented development because we've talked about it for many, many months.
 So I'm kind of at a loss why he would not understand this concept that when... Point of order. Excuse me, I have the floor, thank you. And he directly addressed me, Representative Manolo, so please, if I can have the floor. So the concept of transit-oriented development is when you put in mass transit, people develop around it. And we've seen both the public and the private sector respond. We have a brand new... We approach them as our point of order. Okay.
 We have a brand new public independent school district headquarters that's directly along the streetcar line. We have an eight-story parking garage and lab laboratory, EPCC, that's along there, in addition to these six hotels that are all along there, the ten hotels that have been built around the streetcar line as well.
 Mass transit doesn't make money. You can even go to New York, which has probably one of the largest and more robust mass transit programs in the entire country, and it does not break even. So it's a great talking point to talk about that and when we're going to talk about these projects that don't make money. But if we actually look at why we did it, which is to encourage redevelopment, we've actually seen a lot of success. We've seen a lot of investment from the private sector as well, and we will continue to do so.
 You know, nobody goes and says, well, we shouldn't have clean water because it doesn't make money, right? I'd ask anybody on council, where's the return on investment on having public, of having access to clean and safe drinking water? Doesn't make a profit, doesn't break even, but it's probably something that's for the betterment and the common good of our community. And our mass transit system is no different. So, you know, I,
 Again, I'm sort of at a loss why I would be brought up personally there.
 You know, I don't think that's fair. I don't think it's appropriate. You know, we have, you know, again, people have their own opinions, but the facts show that our streetcar and our mass transit system are not here to go and make a profit as if it was in the private sector and we're selling pizza from Peter Piper Pizza. They're here to make a long-term impact on the common good of our community.
 And in that regards, we've seen that as well as investment in the public sector as well, for the private sector as well around these. Again. Representative Anello, did you have a point of order? I saw the floor. My point of order was just in addressing or responding to council members is to be respectful. Thank you, Representative Anello. Point of order, your point of order. Same thing. Point of order to your point of order, I was addressed personally on the dais.
 Okay, if we can continue in a dignified manner addressing our colleagues in a dignified manner, I would really appreciate it. Thanks to everyone. Thank you. Are you still speaking, Representative Swartzman? Yes, he is. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Yes, ma'am.
 And also just again, I think it's important. We live unfortunately in an era of a lot of misinformation and I think it's also important to wreck the record. I don't know if Robert Cortinas is there, but there was something that was brought up about the Southwest University Park and it being millions of dollars in debt. And I was wondering in terms of our financial commitment towards that project where we are at currently.
 Robert Martinez is not here. However, the plan for that, again, that was something that was done, I think, in 2013. The deal was put in place, and it was supposed to start paying for itself with regard to the hotel-motel venue tax.
 during a certain time period and we beat that time period by a couple of years I think and that's because we refinance the debt a couple of times saves millions of dollars by refinancing the debt and then the we were able to also not utilize the general fund by utilizing just the hotel motel tax as the venue tax was put in place in order to pay for that particular debt so I can
 I can give more detail and send an email out later. But yeah, that's the answer. So we no longer use general funds for it and actually beat the projections of what was originally projected in 2013? Yes, sir. So hotel, motel tax visitors pay for that? But I would say, I think that's reflective of the council's
 policies that they have approved, the financial policies that we've had in place. And as you know, we've been able to really improve our financial portfolio. Again, the policies you've approved and put in place has really positioned us to do that. So that's the reason why we were able to accelerate that and get ahead of that schedule by two years. That's great. And I think, again, I think that that's, again, something that, again, is important to point
 Once again, people are entitled to their own opinions, their own facts, and we're no longer using general funds for a transformative project, for a really great entertainment venue for our community that has really brought in and contributed to a holistic approach. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there's not one project that is all of a sudden going to turn our downtown and the economic potential into there. It's a holistic approach from the public and the private sector.
 So yes, it's the streetcar. Yes, it's Southwest University Park. It's the hotels. It's the wonderful Mexican American Cultural Center that is coming in. It's the museums. It's the Children's Museum. It's all of these things taken together that rises, that raises the opportunities and the economic potential of our downtown and again, our return on investments. So, you know, it's
 It's good to hear that our hotel motel tax is paying down that, you know, our hotel motel tax is really there to improve facilities relating towards towards economic development, but really to look at for those opportunities of tourism and entertainment. And it's great to see the city's use.
 of those hotel motel taxes being used on such a great project. And when you look at some of the other facilities that we have in our community that have used hotel motel tax over the last decades, for example, the County Coliseum, and we see how misused those funds are. And that really points to a lack of leadership. Representative Swartzburn, you have one minute left. So I'm really excited to sort of see that again. We have a lot of great potential. I think we need to be as aggressive as we can to look at,
 bringing in federal dollars for that deck park, for that deck plaza. Again, we can look at other communities like Dallas with Clyde Warren Park and learn from them. But again, we can do something more aggressive with what we're doing here in El Paso by bringing in those public dollars. So again, I wanna thank Ms. Triggs and city management for that. And it's also exciting to see that, at least with our part of the community, we're using those hotel, motel taxes wisely.
 and not letting stranded assets like the County Coliseum go to waste and really be disrespectful to our community. Thanks. Thank you, Representative Swartzbunk. Next to speak is Representative Anello.
 Always a hard act to follow. I have a couple questions, Elizabeth. In regards to the planning grant for the deck park, I'm wondering, I know that TxDOT has not finalized their version of what the expansion or non-expansion will look like.
 and wondering, I know we've kind of been just focused on the park as I think that we should be at this time, but I think at some point we are going to have to understand what is best for our community. So wondering how we're designing without a final plan from TxDOT and how we're integrating the community's input on that final design.
 I don't know if Yvette or Sam are on the line. They would be better positioned to answer that. I'm on the line, Ms. Triggs. Representative Anelo, thank you so much for that question. That is one of the topics that we have been discussing at length with the recommended consultant. And so one of the things that we're ensuring is that once they are done,
 approved and awarded the contract from Council. We're estimating to bring that contract to you on the 25th, that we're working in close collaboration with TxDOT, ensuring that as we're collecting the data to
 to make sure that the feasibility, the land use, economic development, return on investment, all the objectives that we've set forth in the study, that those are in partnership with what TxDOT is doing. And that as we're collecting the data, TxDOT is going through their preferred alternative selection. So once we have the data that will really
 reflect the way that we move forward with the design and that will be in collaboration with and the timing of what TxDOT has selected as their preferred alternative. Okay, but just to be clear, what data are you collecting? How, why, and where? I mean, sometimes we say these things, and I guess my follow-up question to your answer would also be are you working with the independent study that the county did?
 We I believe we have requested that study and we can definitely provide that to actually I would ask and you know maybe I'll just put it on the agenda myself if you're going to present you said the next council meeting on the 25th. I'm sorry sorry representative not present but to bring the contract for approval.
 So we have not yet started the consultant on the work. Okay. Well, maybe we just ask the county to come present at the next council meeting so we can understand that data as well. We can do that. That'd be great. So, yeah. So just trying to understand when you say data, what that means, how you're collecting it, who you're working with.
 So currently, once the contract is approved, we will be working with a consultant. And in terms of data, we will be looking at land uses. We will be looking at density development. We will be looking at...
 mobility, how the connections will be on the city streets connecting into the deck. Those are the types of
 of components that we will be looking also um O&M to maintain the deck making sure that what is constructed can be financially uh sustainable and we also have um within our feasibility study looking at alternatives as well okay and how are you collecting the data
 That will be collected by the consultant. We have not yet started. So there's different types of software similar. We will also be relying on some of the information that has been collected during the downtown uptown study building on that. So they've already done some of the market analysis, but the footprint is going to be reduced just to the adjacent streets of the deck. Okay.
 Okay and I know that TxDOT has their own flawed public comment period but since we are now in pursuit of dollars and putting our own match what is our public comment input process for this project? In regards to TxDOT specifically? No in regards to the entire project and the public dollars that we are spending. So currently the public dollars will be the match.
 No, I understand that but have we have we created a process for public input? I know there's the community does have a lot of opinions on this and since we are spending dollars we should You know present to the community as the city and what are what our partnership because I and I will say I think there's a lot of confusion on
 What portion of the project I think representative molinar's questions are really reflective of that in a way, right? What are we spending? What is the feasibility? What is the the impact positive on the community? And that's something that we as a city haven't presented because this has been you know, predominantly a tech stop project for so long But now that we are stepping in I think that we do do owe it to the community to have that public input So yeah, I would love to hear about that in the future. I
 Yes, that's also a component of the feasibility study is to have a structured community engagement and also presentation of our findings. So that will be included, correct?
 Okay. And then my next question, I guess these are more for maybe Elizabeth, I'm not sure, but Yvette, I'm sure you'll have some answers to these as well. I think the projects that we are applying for are extremely important and I'm really proud of the work that you all have done on this. You know, the bridge work is invaluable to this community and these grants really created an opportunity we could have never imagined, right? And I'm proud of the work that you're doing moving forward.
 But I want to talk about other projects and other dollars that are available through the infrastructure build back. You know the correct terminology, right? There's a congestion management and air quality grant. There's a carbon reduction grant. But there are also other EPA grants, right? There are large brownfield grants. There are – I'm sorry. There's a ton of grants from the EPA, right? Water grants.
 clean waste and recycling grants, electric and reduced carbon buses. I know something that we've talked about, like there are all of these grants that go along with things that we're asking the community for help with. We talk about the upcoming bond and what we're asking the community to vote for there.
 pollution prevention, we're talking about electric vehicles, but there are dollars here that actually make a huge impact. They're all really specifically for communities of color that have been growing up and living next to pollution their entire lives. I know Yvette is very familiar with a project that used to be in District 8 which is now in District 2. In conversations we've had about cleanups for Modesto Gomez Park,
 But there are areas in this entire city that can benefit from these dollars. And I know that you are all two people, really, that are in charge of this. So I'm not expecting you to change the entire city with these dollars available. But, I mean, is there a plan to look at these once we get through this? Yeah. So like I mentioned, we're –
 creating that matrix, which is a living document. And I think we've heavily focused on infrastructure. Right now, when I say infrastructure, I mean transportation and looking at economic development and how those two tie together. But I absolutely agree with you, and that's part of our intent as this program grows.
 We'll tie more closely to other departments that are perhaps more familiar with those EPA grants and those sorts of things so that we can all work together to go after them and be successful in going after them. So it's an evolving process is what I'm saying, and we'll keep working through it. Okay, I mean, but there is a time limit, right? Yes, absolutely. I mean, these dollars don't last forever, so I'm really eager to see that plan. Thank you for your answers. Thank you, Yvette.
 Thank you. Elizabeth, I just have a real quick question. Yes, ma'am. On slide 10, you were talking about the electric vehicles, fleets. You said there's only going to be three. Is that correct? So this is for the –
 National Defense Authorization Act, right, the federal government's wanting to establish a pilot program to look at building out microgrids on military installations and then also transitioning field fleets into electric vehicles. For now, they want to focus on three installations. So that's the limit there. That's what we were speaking about, is three installations for that pilot program.
 The hope is that once they have the pilot programs at those three installations, they'll be able to expand to all of them. All at Fort Bliss? No, so that's the question, is which three installations will be part of the pilot program. And I think that we have a very good opportunity to at least show local support for Fort Bliss being a part of it, so long as they also want that. Okay. Thank you for your outstanding work. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
 I have a quick request. Mrs. Hernandez, if you're still on the call, in the future when you're collecting your data for the city of El Paso recognized as a priority project, the deck park, the Basque Norte Health Foundation, they have a steering committee where they've included multiple members of the public, including some of my constituents who are part of that public participation process.
 Can we get feedback from that group as well when you're working with the consultants? Yes. Actually, they were partners with providing a portion of the match. So we've been working very closely with Tracy. I also attend those meetings when they are held, and so I can provide any information or relevant information to the council. Okay.
 Okay, wonderful. Thank you. I know that also Senator Blanco, along with Representative Lena Ortega, have also written editorial letters in support of this project. And so I hope that we can have our consultants reach out to our state delegation who are also incredibly supportive of this program and this project. Thanks. Thank you. Council, may we have a motion to recess for mass transit?
 So second. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting for the mass transit department meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1041 a.m. As adjourned at 1131 a.m.
 Mayor Lozarga, if we could... Is there a motion? I'm sorry, you go ahead. Is there a motion to reconvene the regular meeting? So moved. Second. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 11.31 a.m. I believe we're supposed to recess again for the press conference for item 38.
 Yes, the item needs to be taken first. Item 38 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and Fin Habits, Inc. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Anello. I'm sorry, did you want the presentation? Do you want to give the presentation? Can we approve the item? I'm fine with that. I just didn't know if you wanted to do it. I'm okay. Move to approve. Okay.
 Second. There is a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve item number 38. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein? Aye. Representative Rivera? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Council is there a motion to recess for the motion? Second. Motion to recess. There's a motion and a second to recess in order to conduct a press conference. All in favor?
 Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1133 a.m. Ms. Lennar, are you in the back? Council is there a motion to reconvene? So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed?
 The meeting is back in session at 12.01 p.m. That brings us to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement.
 of city council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not
 pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic brought forward be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have four members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Crystal Durant. She's joining us. Crystal Durant.
 Via telephone, Mr. Rent, star six please to unmute your telephone. Crystal Durant, star six to unmute your telephone. Crystal Durant, if you're in the queue, star six please to unmute your telephone. I don't see Mr. Rent's phone number in the queue. We'll move on to Mr. Ron Como. Mr. Como's topic is poor decisions by city council. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes.
 Wow. Mayor's not here. I was here to ask him some questions. We all know he runs a dealership in town. We all understand how this works. We have in this conversation the fact that our mayor hires qualified people as his service manager, parts manager, sales manager, service manager, and he does that to be successful. He does not hire people that are not qualified or have experience in the field.
 I mean, it's kind of like would you hire an assistant fire chief to run your police department? Would you hire an assistant fire chief or an assistant chief of police to run your fire department? No. We do this because they're not qualified. They don't have the background, they don't have the proper tools, and they would fail. Any time you deal with management that is not qualified, it fails.
 It fails miserably in the city of El Paso right now. We're making poor decisions, very poor decisions. The community and the strays in El Paso are paying the price because you all won't get a qualified person to run a certain facility that we have. I'd like to point out that in the first seven months of 2019, we adopted out – actually, that's on my sign that you guys can't see –
 Yeah, my brain's blank. You know, we have a conversation going on and excuses being made every time we turn around about getting too many things. And I was going to make a reference to the mayor in a conversation of, well, if your service manager did 701 recalls in 2019, and then turned around and said in 2022 that at 358 he was,
 Had too many. He couldn't do any more. Why is it we could do more in 2019 than we can in 2022? I'll tell you why. Improper management. Completely improper management. These decisions, as far as I know, are yours. My thought is, is if it's not yours and there's somebody else making this decision, then we need to find out if they're qualified to be making the decisions to hire people. You all put in your human service...
 human resources a list of items to qualify a person for a job i strongly suggest we get back to looking at those and hiring thank you mr you've reached the three minute limit the next speaker is barbara duchocat her topic is sunland park development at frontera road good afternoon ma'am you'll have three minutes good afternoon
 what we have learned from this development sunland park zoning committee told us that 224 house development on 60 acres is already a done deal and we cannot stop their the use of renterra because of the law with two cars per household driven at least twice daily traffic will swell traffic for by minimum of 960 additional vehicles on a two-lane residential street that is already used by texas residents
 There is another 40-acre parcel that will probably be developed once the first development is finished. New homes are already under construction at Hacienda Roja, San Gabriel, and Girl Scout Lane in New Mexico, all intersect Frontera. Who approved the removal of the cul-de-sacs on Hacienda Roja-Girl Scout at Texas Boundary?
 their roads with impurity. Why have ordinances in El Paso if Sunland Park is allowed to ignore all of them and assault our life and our investment in the Texas Upper Valley?
 Sunland Park has refused to answer questions about floods, wetlands, fire and police capability, and polluted water. if all Sunland Park land was in Texas, Planning and Zoning and City Planning Commission and City Council would reject the proposals because of the following zoning violations.
 If Alderson Land Park development does not meet access regress requirements, development has only one access egress point. El Paso requires two access recess points. Developer map says Frontera and Girl Scout Lane are two streets for access and egress. Girl Scout Lane intersects with Frontera, so there is only one.
 street for access and egress. The 2009 traffic study developed by the El Paso Traffic Division Engineering Department and approved by the El Paso City Council describes Frontera as an east-west local street that provides one lane
 of travel in each direction and Donovan Drive to La Delita. Speed limit is 30 miles per hour. New Mexico says Frontera is to be widened four lanes. Not acceptable. Frontera Road is designed to carry vehicles out of the existing Texas neighborhoods to the main street, which is Donovan.
 Three months ago in July 2022, El Paso City Council approved to complete street ordinance after El Paso was ranked the 20th most dangerous city for pedestrians. Thank you, Ms. Chiquet. The 215 pedestrians killed between 2010 and 2019. Susan Martinez on Zoom will finish this. Thank you. The next speaker is Susan Martinez. Her topic is also Frontera Road Neighborhood Association. Susan Martinez. Yes.
 Star six, please. Ms. Martinez, star six, please. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. Thank you. Hello? Can you hear me? Yes, ma'am. Go ahead. You'll have three minutes. Okay. Give me a second. There's a train going by. We're in the Upper Valley, and there's a road that tracks right by. So, yes, I just needed to express I'm Susan Martinez with El Paso Neighborhood Coalition and also Zach White Neighborhood Association. And as Barbara was just explaining, there's a six.
 60-acre parcel, there's another 40-acre parcel, and then there's new homes already under construction. So we're talking about a 100-acre parcel of land or more that's proposed to be developed, and cars will be flooding Frontera Road. So what we learned is that the...
 City adopted in July 2022, thank you, City Council. You adopted in concept the Complete Streets Ordinance after El Paso was ranked the 20th most dangerous city for pedestrians because there were 215 pedestrians killed between 2010 and 2019.
 The ordinance that you all passed addresses varied street designs to promote the health and safety and welfare of the community, and it incorporates trails, the city bike plan. It discusses improved motor safety and improved air quality. It says that streets have vast potential to become healthy, vibrant, and inviting places, with pedestrian-scale lighting, shade trees, landscaping, walkable destinations, and safely creates an important connection between parks and schools.
 This ordinance, when it was presented to the neighborhood coalition, was enthusiastically received. We now envision Frontera Road as the first candidate under this wonderful ordinance. We envision trees on both sides of the street and paths for cyclers and walkers and pet walkers and horse riders and joggers who go from the irrigation ditch that parallels Emory Road to Coach Corals Park and then down Frontera Road and River Band all the way to Sunset. So our recommendations...
 is that you make Frontera Road one of the first candidates for the Complete Street Ordinance. Make it fully compliant with the bike lanes and the trees on both sides. Keep Frontera Road as a two-lane residential collector, as you all approved in the 2009 traffic study. And maybe you can build a cul-de-sac back at the Texas border on Girl Scout and Hacienda Roja and close off San Gabriel Street at Frontera Road.
 We appreciate that you all are working together with Sunland Park. Maybe you can work with them to develop.
 a similar ordinance so that this these developments that they're proposing become a wonderful development for and a win win situation for both Sunland Park and El Paso Texas where they develop their own means of access and egress and they develop beautiful streets and we have nice traffic patterns and nice traffic flow and wonderful environmentally healthy
 streets for all of our area. We need your help. This is a lifetime investment for all of us neighbors here in the Upper Valley. Frontita Road and the Upper Valley, Texas neighborhoods cannot support the huge developments that Sunland Park is proposing. Thank you very much. The next speaker is Crystal Durant, star six please to unmute your telephone. Crystal Durant.
 Star six, please. And her topic is city maintenance of medians. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Hi there, yeah. This is Crystal Durant. I actually wanted to come to the meeting to express my concerns regarding the medians and the large weeds that are causing a safety issue for the citizens. And as I drove around town, it's not only on the east side, it's not on the west side, it's in lower valleys all over. My concern is that the medians have been neglected. The city has...
 put out volunteers to do the work that the city should be doing and that should have never ever ever looked the way they do today it's quite embarrassing on behalf of the city and and honestly for someone like myself that lives in this city to have friends from out of town come and visit me and see how how the city is maintained so my my request here is to really understand what
 what the operational plan is for the city. I reached out to the city previously. I was directed to... I was told that there was a shortage of workers. And when I went and I was directed to the website to go look at the vacancies, there was one position on the entire website that went through all 75 openings that appeared to be...
 designated to the maintenance issue that we're having. So my question and request would be that the city really comes up with an operational plan to address this and to really help their own employees. They have a large burden on just 28 employees that are doing this for the entire city, and they need help, to be quite honest. They do a fantastic job, but they are not getting the help of the leadership team.
 And so my ask is that they have the city council, city manager, and just the city in general just really helps them and helps us and really helps clean up our city to make it a presentable city and to make it somewhere that people actually want to do business. Thank you. Thank you. And I don't see Ms. Sheck in the chambers, so I believe that concludes call to the public. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Ms. Prime. Yes. Could be recess for lunch, please. Is there a second?
 There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the meeting is in recess at 1216 for a lunch break. Will that be for 30 minutes, ma'am? Yes. For 30 minutes. Thank you. At 1245? At 1245. Thank you. Thank you all. Council, is there a motion to reconvene? Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? Aye.
 The meeting is back in session at 1252 p.m. The next item on the agenda is on page 11, and it's item number 39. This is a presentation and discussion by the City Manager's Office and the Office of Emergency Management, providing information on key activities, efforts, and processes related to the migrant crisis. Good afternoon, Council.
 So the numbers that we've been receiving that's been released into the community has grown from 250 to over 1,100 per day and now to steady 1,000. The main countries migrants are coming from continue to be from Venezuela, Ecuador, El Salvador, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Cuba. The number is currently at 70% coming from Venezuela.
 It's important to note that individuals coming from Venezuela and other countries, including Nicaragua and Cuba, are categorized by the federal government as refugees. They cannot be returned to their home countries and should qualify for immediate federal care, similar to care that was provided to the Afghan refugees. Since there have been questions about local control of the migrant crisis response, I want to be very clear that the crisis response has been and continues to be a local operation for migrant and refugee operations.
 The operation includes our support to the federal government to provide food, water, temporary sheltering, which we have been doing sheltering for migrants by utilizing our hotels.
 We believe it is more important to look at the humanity of who we're working with than to just simply put them in a shelter. I think that oftentimes families come with little children, for small children. They're still nursing. Doing that in front of others is very uncomfortable, and we really feel like that requires that level of privacy that we are providing. We also do first aid, local transportation, as well as final destination transportation.
 We have also assigned over 100 staff members to work this humanitarian crisis operation. These 100 plus employees include 16 different departments throughout our organization. City of El Paso staff members are embedded with various non-profits and are assigned at the Welcome Center and provide additional support for ongoing crisis support across the community.
 These actions were necessary to support our NGO nonprofit community on this long-term response. As you know, one of the larger nonprofits that provided this kind of support to the migrant response shut their doors, and we're being strategic and also forward-thinking by supporting our other nonprofits with the migrant response that supports our federal government in order to make sure that they don't close down as well. We want to make sure that we have people embedded in their operations to support them.
 So back to the numbers real quick. According to the Customs and Border Patrol, an average of 2,000 migrants present themselves to the CBP in the El Paso region. Again, once processed, approximately 1,000 are released to local NGOs and also to the city. Once we receive them, just to recap how we support our federal partners, we take migrants through the triage process at the Welcome Center.
 where we welcome them, we help shelter them through hotels, and we support them on their journey through the staffing we provide at our Welcome Center. We also have the nonprofits, as I mentioned, that we're working with. All of you, I believe, have visited the Welcome Center and seen firsthand how we're providing support to our federal partners and to the Migrant Response.
 I want to go back again and talk about the numbers from year to year. April 2022 to early October 2022, more than 75,000 people have passed through El Paso. In September alone, that number was 21,000, and in October, that number is going to eclipse that 21,000 if the current trend continues at 8,300 per week.
 Benchmarking is something that we work at doing. We're a learning organization. We're committed to constantly improve. The council really pushed us during COVID to do our level best, and then the numbers came back better than the state and the feds. As you know, we lead the state and the federal government by double digits in shots in arms.
 So no different than with the COVID response, y'all have been challenging us with respect to our response to the migrant issue. So we practice benchmarking for our organization for our processes and operational approaches
 In May of this year, we hosted visitors in El Paso from the Rio Grande Valley to share our migrant response process with them. During the last several weeks, our federal partners, to include Congresswoman Escobar as well as some of the city council, were urging us to visit the RGV area. So about a week ago, we took a team to the RGV area to observe the operations and benchmark processes and data.
 What we learned was in Brownsville predominantly they're taking single adults It's a 90-10 split a little bit maybe 85 15 80 20, but we saw about 90% That were single adults Brownsville is working with the sponsored adults again the majority of them are sponsored meaning that they have financial support to take them to a shelter of their own choosing meaning a hotel or get their own travel coordinated and
 The unsponsored that they did have there in Brownsville, which was about 30 individuals, the officials worked with them to find a network to get them housed and or get them on their way. They did have people on the streets during this time in terms of working with people that are non-sponsored. Ultimately, the unsponsored individuals are responsible for finding their own way to their destination there in Brownsville.
 We saw also an NGO right across the street who's helping them with meals and toiletries and conducting also humanitarian aid. And we also observed that CBP is only sending them single adults. As you know, here in our backyard, we're getting everything. Mainly we're getting a lot of single adults, but we're also getting families. We're getting all of the above, and the majority of ours right now are not sponsored. That's what the big difference in cost is.
 McAllen approximately a year ago they were getting an influx of migrants so they asked for money up front and they received 20 million if you recall we asked for 10 million when we received our influx but we believe that because of the budget being you know in terms of timing when they asked for it it was at the beginning of the budget cycle
 And we're asking towards the end, of course, no fault of that of our community rather, but that's something that I think that the federal government is being challenged with because we asked for $10 million. They approved $2 million, if you recall, for future expenses. In McAllen, they're working with just families. They're getting families, so the CBP is sending McAllen families. The majority of them are families, and the majority of Brownsville, what they're receiving are single adults.
 Again, they have a very strong NGO network that's backed by the Catholic Charities, and they are also working with 100% sponsored migrants. The majority of them are. They have very few that aren't sponsored there in McAllen.
 They do not shelter long-term and will only allow families with bus or airline tickets to stay overnight waiting for travel. And a lot of the people that do spend the night, they're spending the night in the airport or their shelter across the street on cots.
 But the bottom line is Brownsville McAllen have received upfront funds for the current surge, and they've all expressed that FEMA reimbursements were delayed, just like ours were, so that's the reason why they wanted them upfront, and that's the reason why, quite frankly, we asked for them upfront as well.
 They, like us, are concerned about sustainable funding in the long term. It's also important to mention that when we were working with primarily sponsored migrants, you did not receive a whole lot of updates from us because that was a pretty smooth operation. It wasn't as expensive as it is now because when they were sponsored, they were coming in, we were coordinating their travel, working with the NGOs. And again, you didn't hear a lot about that. That wasn't a big news story.
 We have been doing that since late 2018, and so we've been doing this for quite some time. And then the recent surge that we have all experienced happened in the last couple of months. And again, that happened because the water is lower
 no water now at the Rio Grande and it was more dangerous to cross in the RGV. And then now a lot of people are speculating why the numbers are high, but initially that happened because of the water table in terms of the level of where it was, so it was safer to cross here. Again, CBP only has a capacity for a little bit over 1,000. It's 1,040 to be exact. They're holding almost 5,000 per day over there, so it's a concerning situation.
 With regard to funding, we continue to utilize the general fund to pay for costs up front related to the crisis, and we'll continue to file for reimbursement through FEMA, and the FEMA program is the Emergency Food and Shelter Program.
 We continue to work with the Congresswoman's office. She's been very helpful in championing these reimbursements. We've been also working with the White House. The mayor's made a lot of calls to the White House on a regular basis. And we also have obviously been working with the CBP to secure funding for the migrant crisis.
 Right now, the current estimated balance for reimbursement is a little bit over $6 million. Again, the $2 million has been promised. We haven't received it yet. And then we haven't submitted our latest reimbursement. We're finalizing that. And that makes up the majority of that $6 million that I just referenced. For the beginning of the fourth quarter, to give you an idea of the costs associated with this operation, we've spent $1.5 million.
 in a very short period of time. Again, that's because of the transport, that's because of just the process that we have in order to not have people out on the streets and get them to their final destination. So in terms of communication,
 We did provide a dashboard and it's on our website and it has information on it in terms of encounters, number of community releases, the migrant welcome shelter, as well as transports and other valuable data in there. People can go to our website to get more information on it. We've been working,
 on giving you updates, giving our state and federal delegation updates, as well as giving the media multiple updates. We've opened up the doors at the Welcome Center. We've also had one-on-one interviews with them in order to keep them in the loop with all the different happenings that's going on with the migrant crisis.
 So in terms of current highlights, we have chartered a total of 207 buses to the tune of almost 10,000 migrants. We have provided local transportation to more than 3,400 migrants and refugees. And we're also utilizing hotels to support the temporary shelter service. And we've provided services to the migrants to the tune of almost 2,500 in that temporary shelter service.
 We've also provided almost 15,000 meals for migrants and refugees, including SAC lunches and chartered buses. Again, we've been working closely with our federal partners to provide this service in order to help them with the crossings.
 So this is very challenging, as you know. We've started giving you updates. We've now created a dashboard, again, to keep everything very transparent, keep everything out in the open, make sure that we answer all your questions and ensure we answer the public's questions. And we get questions on both sides of the situation in terms of how people view this. A lot of people are saying, why are we doing this? When people cross and they get processed by CBP, to a large degree, they become legal in that they have a right to be here.
 and when they have that right to be here, we can't detain them or tell them where to go. So when we have been visiting with them at the Welcome Center, we're very conscientious about where do you wanna go, what are your needs, and things of that nature to help them along their way. You have witnessed all of that, you've seen that firsthand, the media has seen that firsthand, so we're very much committed to the humanitarian part of this crisis. So we're very strong as an organization, I think we've demonstrated that, but you've also heard
 some things throughout the last several months that have been caused by the fact that not only has this city, but every city has gone through COVID. COVID has had a health impact, has had a financial impact, and also has had an operational impact. And that operational impact is stretching us, stretching us in terms of things that people are accustomed to receiving in terms of services.
 And so we're being very patient with the fact that we know that people, when they bring up concerns, it's legitimate. And that's the reason we've come up with different ways to tackle things, not just say we're working and trying to hire additional people. That's why we've created new programs, regardless of what it is that people have been giving us feedback about. And so we have been very creative in doing different things in order to address the problems or issues.
 in our community and I want to thank the council for participating in programs we've put together. I think they've been very heartwarming and I think a lot of folks have really gotten a lot of benefit out of that and at the same time we're making our community better. So even though we're strong,
 We also have a stretch point, and this process is taxing the process and it's taxing our team. But we are committed to not only our community, but also to providing a humane and dignified response
 We would like to remind members of the community that the best way for them to help is by making monetary donations, rather, if they want to do that, is to give money to the local NGO shelters, and then go to our website for more information about that. Again, I want to thank the Council for your support and leadership, not only during this crisis, but also the work that you did during the COVID response.
 the August 3rd hate crime and there's been a lot of things our community has gone through and again We're gonna we're gonna get through this as well But we wanted to make sure we gave you all the information told you where we were Operationally where we were financially on the reimbursements and where we are in terms of the current numbers So with that I'll turn it over to the chief unless y'all have any questions of me All right, chief. Thank you, sir We could bring the presentation up Mario D'Agostino deputy city manager for the record. That was a very thorough and
 Intro sir, but I will go through these slides rather quickly The first ones are gonna be kind of a go back to where we've been what we've been talking about Just as a reminder for everyone is what's got us here with this with spike in crisis. That's So that current situation is mr. Gonzales talked about apprehensions are at an all-time high yesterday alone was 2100 looking back at the month of September over 40,000 people were apprehended in this region alone and
 They're expecting 60,000 for the month of October if it continues at this pace. That is record numbers of people passing through our community. As we know, 70% of them are still the Venezuelan nationals. Daily releases to the NGOs are averaging around 900. Unsponsored migrants are still making up 50% of those. And an important part to highlight is there have been no street releases since the middle of September, September 15th.
 We talked about what what puts us what puts us different than other areas that are experiencing these this crisis Outside of this the sheer numbers that we're seeing and that's our regional isolation our limited transportation hub or limited flights and buses out of town limited shelter capacity and The migration routes themselves as mr. Gonzalez talked about it's a safer path right now coming through our area because there is no water in the river and
 Review of the current process we talked about upstream. That's that's their whole departure from there from their homeland There's travels through and up through Mexico to the time where they're apprehended by Border Patrol from that point They're processed and then they're released by out from there We know that the unaccompanied minors they all go to the Fort Bliss housing under the Department of Health and Human Services and
 ISNERO THEN COORDINATES WITH THE CITY AS WELL AS NOW THE COUNTY'S CENTER AND LOCAL NGOs FOR RELEASES ON A DAILY BASIS. OUR HOSPITALITY CENTER WHICH WE SET UP IN EARLY SEPTEMBER, THE CITY'S WELCOME CENTER, WHERE WE CONNECT THEM WITH THEIR SPONSORS. AND SO THOSE WITHOUT SPONSORS, THAT'S WHERE WE HAVE TO GET INTO THE CHARTER BUSINESS. THOSE WITH SPONSORS AS WE KNOW AND WILL GET TO LATER IN THIS PRESENTATION, IT'S A LOT DIFFERENT PROCESS. IT'S A LOT QUICKER, A LOT LESS LABOR INTENSIVE.
 Again, Mr. Gonzalez covers these stats, but you know, the key ones to look at is 21,000 releases in the month of September for the record Laura Cruz Acosta communications director so this video is specifically featuring some of the staff that's out there and
 As Chief D'Agostino and City Manager Gonzalez had mentioned, we have quite a few staff members out there, and they have been there from the beginning. So we want to feature this particular staff member who has been out there, being able to welcome the migrants in particular. .
 and one of my half-brothers had the opportunity to offer us the opportunity to live here in the United States. I have been here in the United States for many years and I am grateful for the opportunity to be here.
 I am one of the people who started this project. It is very gratifying to see how we have progressed. We started with 150 people processing them. Right now we process more than 300 people who are brought in by immigration. Thank you very much. Obviously when you can help someone, it is very gratifying. When there is something that is totally out of your control, it is sad.
 Sin embargo, yo ofrezco lo mejor que tengo. Si van a ir a mi mano izquierda. Estamos trabajando duro. La ciudad de El Paso trata de ofrecer lo mejor de ellos. Sé que a veces se puede ver poco, se puede ver mucho para otros. Todo depende mucho de la perspectiva personal. Tu nombre y pon tu esposa, su edad y lo firmas, ¿ok? Porque eres el esposo, ¿ok? Tal vez yo no...
 I had the process that these people had, that it is difficult to leave your countries, to arrive without knowing where they are going, because I eventually knew where I was coming from, and I never had a process as difficult as the ones I have seen here. However,
 I'm a human being and I like to help. I like to see what they do. We will receive the trucks later, but I can't assure you that they are here. Okay, I will call the management. So Gina Buzo is that employee. She's phenomenal. If you've been out to the facility, you've seen her.
 welcoming the migrants out there. And so she's been out there from the very beginning and is just a great example of the wonderful employees that we have working out there, welcoming in a humane way these migrants. Thank you. Yes, it's important to remember she's one of over 125 people we have working on this operation at this time. We've talked about, in the past, we've talked about the 100 people we hired on to assist us with the migrant operation.
 Currently, we have 100 authorized operational assistants. We have 62 employed. We have operational leads. That's the supervisors within there. We've created 10 positions. We have eight of those fields. So we have a total of 70 people that were hired just to manage this crisis. With that, we still have 40 vacancies, but we do have...
 12 or so starting in the next couple of weeks So it's a continuous recruitment process and that's so we can get that staff up to where it needs to be So we can stop putting all the the task on the other departments as we've talked about several times There's over 16 different departments assisting with this operation and we want to make sure we have as less impact as possible But for right now, it's all hands on deck
 So how is the City of El Paso helping? The City of El Paso and OEM provide support for sponsored and unsponsored migrants. That's through our food, our shelter, our first aid, and transportation assistance with travel. What's the difference between sponsored and unsponsored migrants? Well, sponsored migrants, as we've talked about, those are migrants who have relatives, friends, or contacts that can provide them financial support for their travel arrangements, for their housing, and any other needs they might have.
 UNSPONSORED MIGRANTS. THESE MIGRANTS DON'T HAVE THAT SAME RELATIVE, THAT SAME NETWORK, THE FRIENDS, THE POINT OF CONTACT THAT ARE ABLE TO PROVIDE THEM WITH THAT FINANCIAL SUPPORT THEY NEED FOR TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS, HOUSING OR BASIC NEEDS. THESE ARE THE ONES WHO CANNOT MOVE ON ON THEIR OWN BECAUSE THEY HAVE NO MEANS. THESE ARE THE ONES WE'RE REALLY HAVING TO DO A HEAVY LIFT WITH.
 So the city of El Paso and OEM and how are we helping the sponsored migrants sponsored typically process like we talked about earlier In a couple of hours that's done at the Welcome Center as well as the NGOs throughout the region They provide support to them whether it's charging their cellular device Making sure they have connectivity through Wi-Fi and they connect them with their sponsor so they can hopefully get those same day travel arrangements that's what we're really shooting for is to get them moving as fast as possible and
 So with that we make sure they get their food their basic needs are met they get any first aid that they might be In need of if they're not able to get that same-day transportation We make sure we arrange hotel shelter if needed and then we give them transportation to to the airport or bus stations as they need How are we helping with the unsponsored migrants? Well this process as I talked about takes a lot longer They have no point of contact. They have no financial support. So this is where we're working with NGOs and shelters and
 We're finding what is the destination of these unsponsored migrants? So where is it that they want to go from there? We're making sure we provide those basic necessities We've talked about from food and first aid to hotel share if needed But our main thing is to get them on transportation to the cities that they choose with that the the far-reaching
 The two cities selected the most is New York City followed by Chicago. We have had some smaller locations identified for those helping out with individual travel but we are making sure everyone gets to go where they are going or trying to make sure everyone gets to go where they are going. As city manager talked about on September 30th.
 City manager myself some more city officials one of our representatives here We all traveled down to visit Brownsville in McAllen, Texas We met with the both the communities and the NGOs down there The goal was to be able to share to communicate get that best practice and ideas on how they're handling it there So looking at what they're seeing down there This is this slide tells you a lot and so you look at the numbers and you can look at Laredo's the highest one They're at 15 9. This is for the month of September. I
 An important highlight that we did learn while we were down there is less than 10% of them are unsponsored. So what we talk about, we're seeing 50%, less than 10% of that 16,000 right there was unsponsored. What's the difference with here in El Paso? So September alone, we saw 26,000.
 Again, 50% of them are unsponsored. Those are the ones we're actually having to set up with the charters. Those are the ones we're having to put in hotels for delays because charters couldn't keep up at the onset. And so these are the ones we're really focusing on.
 So again, we've talked about El Paso being an isolated region compared to other cities in the Rio Grande Valley, and that's why we're having to rely on those charter buses. We don't have those travel hubs within a couple of hours for them if they have to connect with the travel hub. It's a couple hour bus ride and their buses are right back to take the next trip.
 We don't have that luxury. We don't have any cities that are very close to us. We don't have any NGOs willing to take unsponsored either. And so that's something we continue to work on is how do we build up our NGO partnerships around the country because we want to look at those that are willing to accept the unsponsored. As we've talked about from the onset, we're focusing on five main areas, and it's the welcoming them. And that's the part where they first get into the processing center, whether it's at the NGOs or our welcoming center down in northeast El Paso.
 And so from there, we're looking at welcoming, what are their needs, what do you need for right now, and what is your means to get there. We utilize sheltering hotels rather than cots and congregate shelters. It's more humane as city managers. We've talked about several times now. There's a lot of family units passing through our community. It's about giving them the privacy and the privacy.
 THE ISOLATION THAT THEY NEED SO THEY CAN TAKE CARE OF THEIR FAMILIES AS THEY'RE ENTERING HERE. WE MAKE SURE THEIR, YOU KNOW, THE FEEDING OPERATION, WE MAKE SURE THEY HAVE FOOD, WATER, BASIC NEEDS. WE'RE OFFERING FIRST AID IF NEEDED. AND THEN WE'RE LOOKING AT THEIR TRANSPORTATION, WHETHER THEY HAVE A SPONSOR AND THEY JUST NEED THAT CONNECTIVITY OR WHETHER THEY DON'T HAVE A SPONSOR AND THEY'VE CHOSEN A CITY WHERE THEY WANT TO GO TO IF WE HAVE A CHARTER THERE AND WHEN CAN WE GET THEM ON ONE OF THOSE CHARTERS.
 We also have city staffing for NGO shelters. And so when we look at that, we have numerous, we have four employees embedded within the food banks alone. So that's to help prepare the meals that they're serving on a daily basis to the migrants passing through our community. We also have out of those employees that I talked about, those 60, those 70 employees, we have them embedded with local NGOs as well. And so they're helping with their housing operation.
 The cusp behind that is to make sure they don't fall, that they don't have difficulties, because as we've been struck with having difficulties hiring, they're having those same difficulties with recruitment for volunteers. And so volunteerism isn't what it was like in 2018, 2019. It wasn't as heavy as a load, because there was a lot, as it is today, because they had a lot more people volunteering.
 Again, that welcoming center is that making sure they have that safety and well-being getting making sure they get those basic needs and then tailoring to resources is what they need. So that's tailoring whether they just need that connectivity piece. They need some help arranging flights or whether it's moving them over to someone who's going to connect them via one of the charters.
 Transportation, as we've talked about, it happens on the daily with Sun Metro providing services to airports and bus stations. These are both from local shelters and our welcome center and back and forth. We're also utilizing the charters. Today, as of October 6th, we had sent 207 charters with over 9,800. The number continues to climb. Yesterday, we had nine charters out. Today, I think we're on schedule to have the same.
 That charter coordination, we are providing daily manifests and notifications to both Chicago and New York City, where we work with their local and state emergency management teams, their NGOs in those respective cities, as well as their emergency management offices. Sheltering, NGO sheltering, sorry, NGO sheltering are hospitality sites.
 So we have 50 city staff embedded to provide the support and search hotels. This is what I was talking about a couple of slides ago where we have employees actually embedded with them. That's to make sure that they can continue providing the services they do. The local sheltering system, the NGOs have been doing this.
 Handling this effort for years a city manager talked about we don't hear a lot of information coming out because it usually just happens Smoothly where we're providing, you know minor minor items just to help them along what we're seeing right now What started in August is that this this surge that we're in right now? These high numbers that we're seeing and it's the the sheer number of those who are unsponsored if we go back to 2018 2019
 95 plus percent of everyone crossing through had sponsors. There was very few that didn't. One thing that does remain constant, as it did back in 2018 and 2019, is they're not wanting to stay in El Paso. It's just a point of passage, and they're moving on to their final destinations.
 We do our sheltering through hotels. We're making sure we provide a meal, security, and shuttle transport to get them either to one of the charters that we've hired or to the airport or bus terminals we talked about. We also continue with the COVID isolation and quarantine hotels, and that's for our NGO hospitality sites and our homeless shelters alike. This is an important slide when we're hearing, you know, the cost and what we're seeing, and so we dug deep and we worked with
 purchasing and finance and the teams and we did some some cost estimating so what we're doing for hotels if we're looking at this right here it's about 118 dollars per person per day that's to house 500 when you look at the next one that 2.5 million per month that's 167 day that's using a large emergency type sheltering which are used to where you see large areas with cots
 That's less humane and a lot more costly. The services, the wraparound services that go with that are intensive. The security that's needed when you have that many people in one open space, it makes it that much more difficult. So this is why we're utilizing the hotel model.
 Also the one thing that the chief has told me about and you can speak to this chief Is that our situation here is we have a lot of single adults a lot of a male And you don't want to put them all in one small setting like that you want to make sure you you you have more space and again, the example I gave you was McAllen dealing with primarily all families and
 Brownsville they're dealing with single adults again mostly male and they're just processing them on both ends of it just like we were in 18 and 19 because they're all sponsored again this the sponsor non-sponsored sponsors not really complex and and yes everything's time-consuming and costs money but the the people who have the funds it's essentially we're just
 almost holding their hand through the process, whereas people that don't have the money or the means, you're not just holding their hand through the process. You have to also then pay for the process because they don't have any funds. And as I said before, once they get processed by CBP, we're not just going to let them out on the street. I don't think this community will stand for it. We as an organization won't stand for it.
 and that's the reason when that did occur we we we did remove them from the street and we did clean it up and when we removed them we we sent them to different shelters and or to hotels in order again to keep the process moving that is an important point so we looked at that last slide and we look at the sheltering of 500 that's a large number of single adult males to keep in one general area
 And so that's the concerns we have. That's where hotels are a lot safer alternative in what we're seeing is just because it gives you that built-in separation. It gives you the walls, the confines of a room. You don't have a large people congregated in one confined area. The hotels we are utilizing have direct access to the outdoors, so they don't have like a common area where they're entering a hallway or off of a courtyard or something like that. They are open to the outside, so that does –
 THANK YOU SIR SO THAT DOES ASSIST LOOKING AT OUR FOOD OPERATIONS WE TALKED ABOUT THE EMERGENCY SHELTERING HOTELS WE'RE ALSO PROVIDING MILLS AT THE MIGRANT WELCOME CENTER WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY HAVE A A WARM LUNCH BEFORE THEY TAKE THEIR CHARTER JOURNEY ISOLATION AND QUARANTINE THAT CONTINUES TO BE UTILIZED AS WE TALKED ABOUT AND THEN WE HAVE THE STAFF EMBEDDED THE FOUR STAFF MEMBERS I TALKED ABOUT WITHIN THE FOOD BANK AND SALVATION ARMY OUR DASHBOARD IS A NEW ADDITION
 We are hearing comments that there's some more information that we'd like to see on here, and we're working to see how we can refine that.
 and make sure it's as useful as possible. But we're trying to be as transparent as possible. And we wanna make sure that we're showing you all, as well as the community, what we're seeing on a daily basis. So when you start, hopefully you've all had time to look at it. But when you do start going through it, you'll see how it's increased over the past six, seven weeks. I mean, the numbers are just drastically climbing. And right now we're not seeing any relief. Even last night's apprehensions were again back up to 2100 mark.
 So we might have saw a low where it dropped right until 2000 for one day this month, but it wasn't that long of a low. So cost recovery, as we've talked about, we're utilizing the FEMA Emergency Food and Shelter Program. And then I'll let finance talk to embedded, expended, and reimbursed accounts. Absolutely. You know what? I did see, this is Nicole Cody, Managing Director of Budget and Strategic Sourcing. Representative Rivera's hand is up. I don't know if we've addressed that or we're waiting until the end. No, I'll wait until the end, ma'am.
 Okay all right thank you so much. So as Chief D'Agostino mentioned that we are of course preparing the reimbursement packet for the third quarter. As you can see it's approximately 4.6 million dollars at this point. As we continue to ensure payroll posts we're looking at final numbers the true actual expenses that number might continue to change slightly and they will be estimates
 until we have finalized the reimbursement application. And next you'll see on the next line, as the city manager mentioned, sorry, and we can go back to slide 25. As the city manager mentioned, since July we are seeing that $6 million cost with including the expenses we've seen just in October through last Thursday of approximately $1.56 million.
 We continue to see on average about $250,000 in expenses per day. Again, it fluctuates depending on the number of chargers that are needed and the number of people that we do have in the hotels. As of last week and as of today, we still have not received the $2 million that we received notification from the Emergency Food and Shelter Program. Next slide. Next slide.
 This slide we did provide it back when we presented on September 27th, but what we've added here is that we continue to be in constant contact with both Congresswoman Escobar's office as well as the Emergency Food and Shelter National Board. So we did receive an email on October 4th
 that indicated that we would have to wait until all the grants are complete before working on another grant. So no timeline was provided as to when we should receive the upfront funds for the city. Next slide. So a little bit about the Emergency Food and Shelter National Board Program. As the Chief DiAgostino had mentioned, it was originally set up for homeless assistance.
 Since then, there has been funding that was made under the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Appropriation Act of 2022 for $150 million, and this was specific to assisting these families and individuals crossing the southwest border and encountered by DHS. Next slide. So we, as we look at the guidance, part of the original guidance for the humanitarian relief funding was...
 that the expenses for long-distance transportation will be prioritized for up to 30 percent of the migrant population served. So just to clarify, before this, before August 23rd, the Office of Emergency Management was not in a position where we had to
 transport people long distance. This is the first time we've encountered the situation where there's such a large number of unsponsored as the city manager and the chief stated. And so now with our involvement, we have seen unprecedented numbers of long distance transportation. So it caused two issues. One is we needed clarification. So what does this 30% of the migrant population serve mean?
 So is it 30% of all migrants that we're seeing in the area? Since we do collaborate with our NGOs, we do collaborate with the nonprofits and the churches in the area, wouldn't we include those individuals as well? So we've asked for that clarification. In addition to the clarification, we know we're submitting a request for reimbursement this month, by the end of the month. And in order to ensure that we're going to receive
 reimbursement. We also want to make sure we're addressing the travel cap. So we did ask for an exemption to this travel cap in addition to the clarification to ensure we've covered all bases and truly are addressing this portion of the original guidance. Since then, on August 5th, we still are pending a response. We were informed that they would have a board meeting at the end of last week. We have not heard back from them since.
 In addition to this guidance, they did submit an addendum that we received on September 27th that went into effect on September 22nd. This addendum provided additional clarification on the support and assistance that we needed to provide as part of the transportation to these individuals that we are transporting long distances. We have been reviewing, of course, the guidelines and we feel that we are in complete
 Alignment with these guidelines. The only one that still remains in question is of course the one that's on here on this slide. Thank you. So in closing before I open it up for questions, I just like to remind everyone that the county opened up their sponsoring center yesterday. They're servicing the sponsored.
 And so they brought in, I believe, 77 people over there yesterday. They were able to connect 70 of them with travels. So that's an added to the community. That's 70 less we didn't have to process at our facility. And so that does help.
 Just some key highlighted points is the sheer numbers we're seeing today, coupled with the fact that 50% of them are unsponsored. The sponsored is a lot easier of a task in the fact of you're just getting them that connectivity, getting them that first aid, making sure they have some food and water, and then getting them to their destination.
 to either the airport or to the bus terminal. So that's that process. We've got to remember that the unsponsored comes with a lot more lifts. You're finding out where they're going, where is it that they want to be, where is their final destination. There's been a lot of...
 Reporting that talks about people getting to New York or Chicago and saying that wasn't their destination. Well, we're asking them several points in the process and we're trying to clarify that here before they leave because we don't want to send anybody to where they don't want to go. So that's that's a large part of that process is is kind of working with them and filtering down a little bit more so we can make sure we can connect them with the destination that they actually want to go to.
 So with that I will open up to chief. Will you make two more points to the council in so far as the destination? Is that just through us but aren't they also communicating? So that's what their NGOs and then the other thing is how many what's the numbers that we're processing at the Welcome Center? I know the number but I'd like you to say it to the council. I
 That's absolutely correct. So we're seeing about 500 a day directly from Customs and Border Patrol, but that's not the only numbers we're seeing at the Welcome Center. We're also getting transports in from the local NGOs, so the local shelters. If you can imagine, we received 500 yesterday. They received 400 yesterday. If half of ours were unsponsored, half of what they received is unsponsored.
 So we're having to pick up those those extra 200 and we're bringing them back to our processing center so that we can get them On the charters and move them on so that is a daily task So just to be clear, so when CBP releases them to us and it's the number to say the numbers 500 What the chief is saying also is the numbers that are released to the NGOs. They then get released to us as well. So
 So we're not just processing the 500 they gave us, we're also processing the numbers that are dropped off at the NGO. So I wanna be clear about that so everyone understands it's a high number that's being processed and half of them are unsponsored.
 I've seen days as high as 750, 800 that have been processed at our facility alone. And so that's on a daily. They're operational seven days a week. City Manager Gonzalez talked about earlier that the toll it's taking on the employees, and it does take that toll. As you saw in the video, we have some very passionate employees who really care about what they're doing, and that's what makes our organization so great. But at the end of the day, it's still a heavy task, and it's a demanding task that's being put on them on the daily. Okay.
 Thank you, Chief, for your presentation. And I just, on behalf of all of us here, want to commend you and all the hardworking staff members that are working through this migrant crisis. Representative Anello, did you have a question or not anymore? Okay. So I believe Representative Rivera followed by Representative Rodriguez. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Appreciate that. Chief and Representative.
 Thank you all very much. That's a very good presentation you just did. One thing that I'd like to ask of you and maybe I know the answer but maybe for the public's interest please could either you or Mr. Gonzalez please state the difference between the City of El Paso's processing center and that of the and that of the townie. And are we duplicating services.
 SO THE CITY OF EL PASO'S WELCOMING CENTER IS ACCEPTING UP TO 500 PEOPLE A DAY DIRECTLY FROM CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL. WE DON'T HAVE ANY CLARITY OF WHAT THE MAKEUP IS. WHAT WE'RE SEEING ON THE CONSTANT IS 50% OF THEM ARE SPONSORED, 50% ARE UNSPONSORED. THE COUNTY HAS JUST STARTED UP THEIR OPERATIONS. THEY STARTED YESTERDAY SLOWLY. I EXPECT THEM TO RAMP UP OVER THE DAYS. BUT THEY ARE RECEIVING SPONSORED.
 And so the sponsored is a different one. It's connecting them with flights. What they are doing different than what we're doing here is they've also partnered with an NGO, I believe, in Houston. So a lot of them are making their flight arrangements on flights out of Houston.
 And so they're being put on a shuttle bus taken to Houston and they catch their flights from there. How does that help the system? How is that not a duplication of efforts? That relieves the burden here on the local transportation. As we've talked about several times, and it's not just migrants, but we are regionally isolated. We are an urban island. We have limited transportation hubs.
 And so with that, by having them fly out of another city, that does assist with the sponsored again, because the sponsored are the ones you're putting on, you're wanting to get on those same day flights or same day buses out of town. Okay, and then subsequent to that, you mentioned earlier on the buses that you've been sending out to different NGO locations. That is per request, right? That is not because the city is just sending them out.
 Yes, sir. We ask them several times. As City Manager Gonzalez talked about earlier, it's not just done by us. When they're out at the NGOs, they're getting asked there, what is your means? They're determining out there if they're sponsored or unsponsored. From there, they're actually asking them, where is your destination city? So by the time the NGOs, the Annunciation House or one of our local shelters is reaching out to us, they actually have a
 A log of how many people want to go to what cities and so that's how we're doing it We're not telling them you're going to New York or Chicago. They're asking for those locations. We're just connecting them with that charter Okay, and so at the end you will maintain I know you said 50% that we're getting here as opposed to Laredo was 10% were non-sponsored. We are keeping a record of the percentage of
 Non-sponsored migrants from from the other that are that are coming through El Paso, correct? Yes, we are tracking those numbers Thank you so much. And again, thank you so much for the presentation. Yes, sir Thank You mayor for Tim
 Thank you. One other thing I'd like to add to that point that the Chief made with regard to being an urban island, in the RGV area they have several options. You know, the Houston is an option, San Antonio is an option, Austin is an option. And those are four to six hour bus rides. It might be a little bit longer on the Houston, but it's about that much. To get to a big hub here, you have to go on a bus at least 10 to 11 hours, if not 12.
 TO THE DALLAS AREA. SO THAT'S A BIG DIFFERENCE. AND A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE ASKED US ABOUT OUR COSTS. I'M SORRY, MR. GONZALEZ. YOUR WHOLE CONVERSATION WAS LOST IN AUDIO OVER HERE. I DIDN'T HEAR. I APOLOGIZE FOR THAT. I JUST GOT THE MESSAGE THAT THEY HAD LOST AUDIO ON YOUR RESPONSE TO ME. CAN YOU HEAR ME, SIR?
 Yes, I can hear you now. Okay, I'll repeat that. I was just making a fine point to what the Chief was explaining with regard to being an urban island. I was saying that the RGV area, the Rio Grande Valley and the McAllen, Brownsville, Harlingen area, the migrants that they're working with and getting them to their destination, and again, the majority of them are sponsored, the access is closer to a big metropolitan area, like San Antonio, like Austin, like Houston.
 that's anywhere between a four or five hour bus ride to San Antonio to then a little bit longer to Austin which is an hour away from from San Antonio a little bit longer to Houston so you're looking at a five hour eight to six seven hour even maybe eight hour to Houston whereas here just to get to like the Dallas area would on a bus would probably be about eleven twelve hour
 ride so that that's a significant difference in terms of the processing that takes place and why it's considerably more expensive here and and also the other point the reason why it's considerably more expensive here is because again they don't have the network that the ones that did have in the 1819
 Late into 19 and even into 20 and 21 as I said before you didn't really get any updates from us Up for publicly you got some updates maybe some email or you you would call Because everything was was operating fairly smoothly and those reimbursements even though it was costly It was a lot less expensive than what we're quoting now in terms of the numbers. I
 Thank you sir and thank you for that because I believe the public there's there's still a high percentage out there in the public don't understand really what we're doing or have actually taken the time to go see your processing center which is very very accommodating and very very safe environment for them that they feel so comfortable and so I really want to thank you all for what you do. Thank you so much.
 Thank you, Representative Rivera. Representative Rodriguez, followed by Representative Molinar. Hi, good afternoon. Good afternoon. You know, as usual, your presentation's always very informative. There's no denying that you all are doing exceptional work, that the city of El Paso is being represented very well.
 But my concerns are that we continue to do this at the cost of our local taxpayers. We were promised over four weeks ago $2 million. Have we received that money for upfront cost? No, we have not. And now I'm looking at slide number three and I'm seeing Luna County, Dona Ana County, Otero County, El Paso County, and Hudspeth County.
 Is it correct to assume that all the apprehensions that are happening there are being brought over to El Paso, the unsponsored ones? So let me, I'm thinking about that one, and it's just because that's the Customs and Border Patrol. The El Paso sector goes from the Arizona border, so all the New Mexico, Mexico border, all through West Texas down through Huntsman. So that's why they're all processed here. Right, but at the end of the day, those are five counties.
 We are responding to five counties. The city of El Paso is responding to five counties. And not one of those counties is doing anything to step up and help the city of El Paso. So some of the migrants that are released in southern New Mexico, they're going to local NGOs over there.
 And so some of those NGOs are working through the Annunciation House and through the NGO network, but they're actually shuttling people who are sponsored up through Albuquerque so that they can get their connection flights out of Albuquerque. Right, but the unsponsored, again, are coming into El Paso. The vast majority are coming through El Paso. And we're seeing that the 90%—is that correct? 90% of the migrants are unsponsored? No, 50%. 50% unsponsored. Yes, ma'am.
 So where did the 90% number come from?
 I talked about in previous times 95% of what was passing through so when we saw the surge in late 2018 2019 Those surges well over 95% of them were sponsored That's the difference from then to today and you also heard 90% earlier when we said 90% of Brownsville. They were single males adults In the Brownsville area. So that's where you heard the 90% Okay 90% of what they're seeing is sponsored. Okay, but I
 Okay, but still 50% of all the migrants that we're seeing that are unsponsored are coming to the city of El Paso. Did the county receive their $6,000 for upfront operation? Six million, I'm sorry, six million, they did receive them?
 Actually, actually they got approved and they're getting that on a monthly basis So so they're getting it all up front what I understand now not speaking for them They might have different numbers But the last time I talked to Betsy She said that they got the six million approved and that they're giving that to them on a monthly basis But six million a month
 No, no, no, no ma'am. Or total. 600,000, excuse me, six million for the year was approved and then they're allocating the six million over a 12 month period. So you just divide the 12 into the six million and it's. Half a million? Yeah, approximately. Half a million a month? Approximately. Okay, and that's for the center that they set up? That is correct. Okay, I mean again, Chief, would you do the recommendation
 Us declaring a disaster declaration at this point in time. There's a couple assets here so at this point in time, we're managing the Situation going on here. So yes for that that that aspect we're managing that and
 The difficulty we have is we've been promised the two million. We haven't received it. We got word it's supposed to be coming in this week. It's for those reasons why why why we're we're cautious about what we're doing and how do we proceed. We've also talked about and I think one of the slides that that Miss Cody covered was the correspondence with FEMA and with the emergency food and shelter grant. We're waiting for that documentation because that's very important to outline. First of all we're going to need to change the 30 percent cap.
 when you're seeing 50% of the population through our community being unsponsored and we're providing services to them, we're automatically gonna hit that. So we need to get that answer rather quickly. But they haven't. That coupled with the reimbursement process itself, we're asking for more time on this response in that. And we wanna know how they calculate that 30%. Is it on the annual or is it for the performance period? So those are the fine details we're waiting for their response. When you take all those into account,
 A DECLARATION ALLOWS, GIVES US THE OPPORTUNITY TO ASK THE STATE FOR RESOURCES. THERE'S NO GUARANTEE, BUT IT GIVES US THAT OPPORTUNITY. COULD IT BE BENEFICIAL? YES, IN THE FACT THAT MAYBE THEY'LL SEND US PERSONNEL TO HELP DO THE PROCESSING, WHICH RIGHT NOW WE KNOW WE'RE USING OVER 125 PERSONNEL. SO COULD IT BENEFIT US THERE? YES. IF THEY SENT DOWN CHARTERS.
 THAT WOULD BE LESS CHARTERS THAT WE WOULD HAVE TO SPONSOR OR PAY FOR UP FRONT. AND SO THAT'S WHAT THAT DECLARATION WOULD GET US IF WE DID DO A DECLARATION. BUT WE'RE AT ONE OF THOSE POINTS RIGHT NOW WHERE WE'RE WAITING FOR THAT FINAL DOCUMENTATION FROM THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, FROM FEMA, TO MAKE SURE THAT WHAT WE'RE DOING CAN CONTINUE ON AND THAT THEY'RE GOING TO PROVIDE THOSE WAIVERS. BUT THERE'S A POINT HERE WHERE ONCE WE GET CLOSE TO THAT 30%, WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO MAKE THAT HARD DECISION.
 Because at that point is how much does the city want to carry on their own without that guarantee or promise of reimbursement? I just feel that we're taking a huge risk and we're taking a huge risk at the cost of the taxpayers, our local taxpayers here in El Paso. And to me, for my constituents, that's not a risk that they're willing to take. You know, while what we're doing is very admirable, somebody else needs to be paying for this.
 and it should not be the taxpayers here in El Paso. And so I think that I don't understand why we keep taking this risk, first of all. Second of all, if we're going to believe we haven't even gotten the $2 million and now we're seeking further clarification, I don't understand. That to me is a huge liability. That's a huge red flag, and we're playing with other people's money at this point. If I may, I know that when we...
 We're responding to the immigration crisis that started in 18, late 18, and continued. And when we endured the hate crime in August and then the pandemic and the flooding, there's different issues. The process entails us.
 evoking a state declaration or asking the state to acknowledge our declaration in order to open up state resources so we followed the same process here so we give you the best advice and we did this several weeks ago not months ago where we recommended the course to take which is very similar to the others no different
 and the council had a long discussion about that and where we landed was the local emergency ordinance
 which gave us the latitude, the agility to do the things we've been doing up to this point. But I also think we're past that. We're past the local ordinance, sorry. No, you did, yeah, the council did pass that. No, no, no, like we're past that point. No, I understand that, I understand that, and I'm gonna address your concern. I know, I apologize, being a little long-winded about it, but with respect to coming full circle to the point that you made with respect to taking a chance,
 We did submit all the different reimbursements the first two Reimbursements we did submit one of them did take I think nine months finally did get that reimbursement and the they also reimbursed the first quarter Second quarter rather and so now we're going to submit the third quarter and then we've asked for this money up front So I just want to be clear. The only point I was making is that we have followed the same process and
 We have been vigilant about the financial and fiduciary responsibility that we have in terms of what we recommend to you. I'm not disagreeing with your thought process. I'm simply saying that the council did consider those options, and as the chief said, it wouldn't guarantee us funding
 And right now we're working with our federal partners and we have already talked about how it's taxing to the system, to the team, because of all these different ongoing emergencies that we've done the brunt of in terms of the response.
 That's our job. And with respect to this one, it's more like I said, it's a federal issue that we're partnering with our federal partners to deal with it, to work with it, to respond to it. And, yes, we would like these reimbursements. We have asked for reimbursements to be done on the monthly basis going forward, not waiting months in order to reimburse it, and not waiting for a whole quarter to go by and elapse.
 And it's just wait, wait, wait, because we're basically financing those costs. I mean, it's no different than you up-fronting something for a neighbor and saying, and then saying we'll pay you, you know, in three months or nine months or a year, and not paying his interest for the money that was loaned out because we're financing this operation. So I'm not, I'm not debating the issue with you, I'm simply just providing more context
 in terms of what actions we've taken, what we've recommended, what's been approved, what hasn't been approved, and then where we are today. That's all I'm simply doing. Representative Rodriguez, you have one minute. Thank you. And I will just end with this. You know, I know that recently the mayor of New York said that, you know, the city of New York did not ask for this. The city of El Paso did not ask for this.
 And they did, however, declare a disaster declaration. So they're getting that additional access to that extra funding. I think that it's been long overdue. I was promised by the mayor that if this got any worse back when we first started this local ordinance, that he would declare a disaster declaration and that has yet to happen. And that wasn't just a promise to me, that was a promise to my constituents.
 So with that, you know, I am going to be give serious thought into the next item, whether I want to consider it or not.
 Thank you. I would like to just add one more point on that is I don't know what additional funding that New York makes them entitled to I don't know of any grant fund specific I mean that right now what they're using through the FEMA emergency food and shelter grant as we've talked about that's for homelessness That's for regular homeless. It's not for emergency response So I don't know of any other funding stream that actually fits this other than the federal government stepping up and handling it like a true-quantum
 refugee crisis and providing for them so they can be successful in this country. So other than that, as far as going back to the statement on
 the grant and what we're risking, we are following the grant guidance as it reads. We're asking for clarification before we get past that point. So everything we're doing right now, we're working within the guidance that that grant tells us we have to work in, that tells us we'll be allowed for reimbursement. We're working under that guidance and we'll continue to do that and we'll advise you as our numbers continue to climb. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Rodriguez. Representative Molinar is next.
 Thank you very much, Mayor Pro Tem. So, Chief, if you could explain to us when is it that, they just say when it's a migrant enters the United States, is that when they're in, I'm going to say, custody of CBP, or is it when they get to our processing center that we determine whether they are sponsored or unsponsored? That's more of a question from our federal partners, but in conversations with them, specifically right here at the West Bridge,
 They explain that they take it as the time they're taking in custody So once they see him cross over and they tell them you cannot go back at that point They're in custody. And so that's when the timer starts from that point there That's why at the West Bridge they set up that they called the top system minutes. It says I
 IT'S A FEW TRAILER UNITS AND SOME TENTS AND CANOPIES AND THEY'RE ACTUALLY DOING THE PROCESSING THERE. SO WHILE IT'S AN ILLEGAL PORT OF ENTRY, BECAUSE IT'S NOT A PORT OF ENTRY, IT'S AN ILLEGAL ENTRY POINT, THEY'RE ACTUALLY DOING THE PROCESSING FROM THAT LOCATION. SO THE CBP ARE THE ONES THAT ARE GOING TO MAKE THAT DETERMINATION FOR US? YES, SIR. OR FOR THE MIGRANTS? OKAY.
 Also, I know a local media had shared some information about bus transportation where, you know, let's just say the buses here in El Paso were clean, they were serviced, they were in good operating condition and things like that. And then let's just say they get to Dallas area or even before they get to the Dallas area or even once they get transported to beyond the Dallas, they're going to have another bus. And some of these buses are breaking down. There is no air conditioning. There is no.
 HVAC or whatever my situation might be. Are we doing anything to address that, sir? So like all of our contracts, we monitor closely. We've heard, as far as I know, operations has only heard of a couple of incidents where they've had some bus issues. I do know that they do transfer buses midpoint.
 wherever that midpoint may be but that's that's in order to to meet our demands and so to make sure that we're getting those buses returning in a timely matter because as we said we're sending anywhere from 9 to 14 a day that that's a substantial amount so rather than having them continue all the way to the east coast and then back they're going to the halfway point changing it out it is still a contract that we monitor they have to provide the service the working vehicles
 RESTROOM FACILITIES, SCHEDULED BREAKS, THE DOUBLE DRIVERS, THE CHAPERONE, IF YOU PER SAY THAT'S ALSO ON THAT BUS, THOSE STILL HAVE TO BE REQUIRED REGARDLESS OF WHAT THEY DO. SO WE HAVE THOSE CONTRACTS IN PLACE DIRECTLY WITH THOSE CHARTER COMPANIES AND THEN THEY'RE HANDLING THEIR OPERATIONS FROM THERE. OKAY. GREAT. THANK YOU.
 Do we have any, I'm not asking for numbers, but the numbers that we send on, let's just say I'm going to use, for example, New York City and the numbers that New York City receives. Are they matching? Are we losing people? And I understand a migrant, once he's here or she's here, they're free to get off the bus. They're free to travel. They're free to.
 do something else besides maybe their final destination of New York City. Are those numbers matching at all? I know I've heard some instances where people have gotten off and like I said the drivers will try and explain to them that you're scheduled to go all the way to New York City. That's where you request it. But at that point they're free to go on their own. I don't have a true number of how many those are. We provide a manifest with the number of people and ages and some basic identifiers on that to the receiving cities. I'm sure they're getting a
 Checking off who's getting off at that point so we could gain access to that and I want to go to slide 26 to 6 and
 Where it says wait until the current grants are completed. Is that our grants or other people's other grantees' grants having to be completed? So it's, I don't know if Ms. Cody's still on the line, but from what I understand, it's the end of the granting cycle for that specific grant. So they're doing all the closeouts at this point, and so that's when, I mean, we've seen it in all types of grants where they're trying to balance out. People didn't spend all their funding, some over, and so that's where they're coming up with that.
 WITH THAT ADDITIONAL SIDE. THIS IS ON THE FEDERAL SIDE? YES, SIR. DO WE HAVE A DATE FOR THAT? NO, SIR. NOT THAT I'VE SEEN. CYCLE? NOT THAT I'VE SEEN. THANK YOU, SIR. THAT'S ALL I HAVE. YES, SIR. THANK YOU, REPRESENTATIVE MOLINA. NEXT IS REPRESENTATIVE ANNELLO FOLLOWED BY REPRESENTATIVE CELCIDO.
 Thank you. Yeah, to what you were saying about New York, I was on a phone call with a lot of them last week, NGOs in the mayor's office, but what they're calling is like a shelter emergency, right? Because they have certain protocols in place on how they can maintain numbers in their shelters, and the big concern was to be able to, like, overfill that capacity. So they are in no way –
 Yeah, so just to piggyback off what you were saying, but I want to ask you because there has been some comments about not following through with the next item. And so you as fire chief who is overseeing OEM and this process, if council does not pass that item, what do you do when you leave this building? Before I leave, I'm going to ask you to declare an emergency. Okay. But what? Okay, so we don't do it. What are you going to do when you leave? We cannot operate.
 IN THE MANNER THAT WE'RE OPERATING. WE'RE WORKING UNDER THAT EMERGENCY ORDINANCE. SO THE SERVICES WE'RE PROVIDING AND THE EXPENSES WE'RE GOING THROUGH AND THE PROCUREMENT METHODS WE'RE FOLLOWING, WE'RE GIVING THAT THROUGH THE GUIDANCE OF THE LOCAL EMERGENCY ORDINANCE. SO WHAT DO YOU DO? I'M SORRY, MA'AM. IN OTHER WORDS, WE DON'T HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO DO WHAT WE'RE DOING RIGHT NOW WITHOUT THAT APPROVAL BECAUSE IT'S NOT IN OUR STATE OF WORK. IT'S THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S WORK.
 And so the reason we were able to step in and do what we're doing is because of the local emergency ordinance They gave us the authority within that statement of work For me to be able to direct our staff to do all these things that they've been doing so that again We don't have all these
 things that the media was reporting on about people on the streets and things like that, we have to be able to respond quickly to it because it's not our work, right? So y'all made it our work by that local emergency ordinance. My apologies. No, no, I appreciate that clarification. It's really helpful. But my overall question is what happens? What do you do? So without an emergency ordinance.
 or an emergency declaration, we stop providing the services we're providing. And then what will happen in this community? What would, I mean, I know you'd be speculating at this point, but I think that you have a pretty good pulse to what's going on on the ground that you could imagine pretty accurately what would happen. If we're accepting 500 from CBP directly on a daily basis, you could imagine those 500 will be released to the community, just to the streets. If we're also assisting the NGOs with upwards of 150, 200 a day,
 then you can imagine that they would have nowhere to move on to. And so that, the whole NGO, the whole sheltering operations they have going on is based on the rapid movement of people and connecting them to the locations where they want to go. So with that, it'll backlog rather quickly. So our local NGOs and our local sheltering capacities will be at max within a day or two.
 THAT'S SPECULATION BUT THAT'S WHAT YOU COULD IMAGINE. THE REASON WHY HE SAID WE'D BE ASKING YOU TO DECLARE IS BECAUSE YOU WOULD HAVE A STATE OF EMERGENCY. YOU WOULD HAVE PEOPLE ON THE STREETS, YOU WOULD HAVE A PUBLIC HEALTH ISSUE, YOU WOULD HAVE A PUBLIC SAFETY ISSUE.
 I KNOW THAT THERE'S BEEN ALL THESE QUESTIONS ABOUT ARE WE DOING THIS, DOING THAT, ALL THESE DIFFERENT ARTICLES THAT HAVE COME OUT, BUT THAT'S WHY WE DID THE DASHBOARD AND THAT'S WHY WE WERE EXTENSIVE IN OUR DISCUSSION WITH YOU TODAY. AGAIN, MS. ANETTLE, MY APOLOGIES FOR INTERRUPTING.
 I WISH IT WOULD HAVE COME AFTER MY NEXT QUESTION BUT I WILL SAY IN RESPONSE THAT I WILL NOT BE STRONG ARMED INTO DECLARING A STATE OF EMERGENCY THAT IS CREATED BY THIS COUNCIL. YOU ARE ALL DOING EVERYTHING THAT YOU CAN UNDER THE EMERGENCY THAT YOU'RE ASKING US TO APPROVE AND IF THAT DOESN'T PASS I WILL NOT BE APPROVING THE NEXT BECAUSE OF A SITUATION CREATED BY THIS COUNCIL. BUT I'M GOING TO JUMP BACKWARDS AND ASK YOU CHIEF AS THE, I HOPE I GOT THIS CORRECT, I'M GETTING EVERYONE'S NEW TITLES WRONG SO I APOLOGY, AS THE DEPUTY CITY MANAGER OVER PUBLIC SAFETY,
 Imagine that we do not pass this, 500 people a day are being left on the streets, presumably downtown. They could be in the northeast, they could be over by Hawkins, they could be everywhere and anywhere. And we haven't declared a state of emergency. What do you suspect happens? What do you do as the individual that oversees public safety?
 That truly is, would be creating a public health and safety crisis. Okay. And so that's where we'd be at. We wouldn't be able to do what we're doing today. We could do temporary items. It doesn't stretch beyond, but even those would be outrun rather quickly. Okay.
 And so with that, you would see large numbers of people gathering, unless CBP did something different, unless the federal government did something different. They shipped them. They shipped. They transported these people for release to other areas, other regions, not just the border, but maybe look at internal. These are all conversations we had with them. But if they don't without.
 doing that and they go back to street releases that's what we would see and we can't imagine that if you leave this room today without this uh item passed that they're going to be doing that in the next 48 hours and so i'm going to ask you what is a preferable situation
 The preferable situation? Yes, sir. Because you'd be dealing with this either way, right? So it's the work. By passing or not passing the next item, we are creating a whole mountain of work for you, right, either way. So what is preferable to you? Preferable to me would be the federal government to do something different. Sure, but I mean in regards to what we can control. Taking outside of that.
 TO KEEP UP WITH TRANSPORTATIONS IS VERY CRITICAL. IF WE STOPPED TRANSPORTATIONS FOR EVEN A DAY, YOU CAN IMAGINE THE BACKLOG WE WOULD BE IN. IF WE'RE SENDING OUT 10 BUSES A DAY, ROUGHLY 500 PEOPLE, AND WE STOP FOR JUST ONE DAY, THE FOLLOWING DAY I COULDN'T GET 20 CHARTERS. I DON'T THINK WE COULD MUSTER UP THAT MANY BUSES TO LEAVE TOWN. AND SO WITH THAT, YOU'RE LOOKING INTO SHELTERING ALREADY. AND THAT SHELTERING, THAT'S UTILIZING MORE HOTEL ROOMS. THE COST IS GOING TO BE THERE SOMEWHERE.
 And so now you're gonna shelter, but the whole point then, if it continues with these releases that we're seeing on the daily, 1,000 to 1,200 a day, that just keeps climbing, where it's a number where you can't get out of it. So the best course of action from an operational standpoint is to continue with the transportation process to make sure that we're connecting them with the destinations they're choosing. Okay, thank you, Chief. So I guess what I'm hearing is that
 The following item that this council will have to approve unanimously really determines your response to the situation and the help that you get in the organization of how the city will have to respond because they will have to. And it's either in an organized, safe way, a humane way, or it's in an absolutely chaotic way that has created a public health and safety disaster.
 Thank you. And so I'm going to reiterate based on Mr. Gonzales' response. I as an individual am not going to be strong armed into, I keep getting these incorrect, but a disaster declaration, correct? If this council does not pass this item and then tries to pass a disaster declaration, I will not be supporting that. Am I using the right terminology?
 Understand what you're saying. We would have to ask the mayor or the county judge declare an emergency by state process by state statute Yes, Neiman can clarify this for me if I'm making any mistakes, but it has to go through them Okay, they could still deny again But it leaves us in the same boat and as I said without this a more new ordinance and with the out the ability to continue The transports it'll put us at a deficit that I don't know how long it'll take us to get out Okay, and that'll be a disaster created by this council by not following through with the next item. I
 You don't have to answer that. That's my statement. Thank you, Chief. I appreciate you. Thank you, Representative Inello. Representative Salcido, followed by Representative Rodriguez, and I did also want to say something.
 Thank you, Alternative Mayor Pertempt. So I know that I supported this ordinance back, I think, in May, and it was very important for us to address this in our community. It was for us to set procedures, processes in place in order for us to be where we are today. You know, hearing the numbers, they're quite concerning, I think,
 The fact that we're not getting that FEMA money is real concern to me. I think we're we have we said it before this is not sustainable It's kind of like reiterating the same thing. It's just our communities really, you know we're trying to balance everything out and making sure that everything is being addressed and
 So I thank you for that dashboard that you all created. I did have some questions, though, that I do see that aren't on there. So more on the cost, just if you can give me some estimates or some amounts. Like weekly, like what are we spending on? Are we spending anything on air? So transportation altogether, you know, if we look at for the first –
 Six days of October alone. So we put local transportation probably around the 17th hour right around the 17,000 range Transportation by bus which is our charter at 1.3 million. That's the largest one of them and
 Then we have some maintenance. Personnel seems to be a very high cost as well right now, followed by meals and isolation. So that's a hotel system. And so we are tracking them. We're probably, not probably, we are in approximately the $250,000 a day range. We're still within that. To continue this operation. Okay, so we're still, I know we've got an influx or additional, has it really deviated from the $250,000 a day?
 Right now it's holding steady right there. It did have a couple of spike days where it did climb up, but for the last, for this month, it's been averaging right around 250. Okay, so kind of like in the route that we're currently going in, and we're not seeing any of that FEMA money, so it's kind of like the checks in the mail. Do you foresee us having to cut some services? And if so, what services will be cut if the funding continues the way it's projecting to?
 What services to this operation? Yes. No, services. Or to the city of El Paso operations? Services in the city of El Paso if this continues as added cost. Mr. Gonzalez? I'm sorry, ma'am. Oh, I'm just asking, you know, in the rate that we're going at $250 a day. $250,000. $250,000 a day. What do you foresee as cutting services for the city of El Paso? I mean, this is not sustainable. So do you foresee some services being cut?
 And if so, when and what services do you feel will be cut if we can't we continue at this rate and no female? Money's coming in. Well, it's definitely unsustainable. We can't continue this rate of spend and
 And a lot of people will say, well, then do a shelter. The chief showed you the slide where it's more expensive to do a shelter. I don't think people look at all of the different cost components to a shelter, and we have seen that. And this isn't our first work that we've done with the federal government or the state government with regard to emergencies. So.
 THE FACT THAT IF THIS CONTINUES, IT WOULD THEN IMPACT THE AMOUNT OF DOLLARS THAT WE HAVE FOR OTHER PRIORITIES IN THIS COMMUNITY. RIGHT NOW WE'RE NOT IMPACTING THAT BECAUSE WE HAVE A STRONG FINANCIAL PORTFOLIO. ONE IN WHICH WE DIDN'T HAVE EIGHT YEARS AGO OR NINE YEARS AGO WHERE WE ONLY HAD NINE DAYS OF OPERATING CAPITAL.
 But just because we've gotten stronger financially doesn't mean that we should take on this entire burden. So we are being very straightforward with you and all of the members of the Council on the Deus about our responses, because I know this is a very emotional.
 very highly charged discussion that's being had nationally and in the public so we want to make sure we're giving you the best advice and as I told you already the best advice is what we already recommended several months ago and it's not trying to force council do one thing or the other it's being consistent
 We've been consistent with the council with this community for eight years since the council put a strategic plan in place and we execute it and so the Recommendations we had before was to follow the same template that we have followed with all these other Emergencies that we've had and yet we went the local emergency route the local emergency route at this particular time has to be approved and
 It has to. If you don't approve it, you'll have chaos on the streets. And that's a fact. And so I think the words were used earlier about trying to convince you to go one way or the other, I'm not telling you that for drama or anything like that.
 that that's what you would have if this is not passed. The other side of the coin is the state declaration to the concerns that you and Ms. Rodriguez have expressed would get you to a better place. We can't guarantee anything, but we do know that if you declare that you do have resources that you had before in other emergencies.
 Right now, I want to stress the federal government, our congresswoman, has championed these reimbursements. She's worked very closely with us. So she's been very, very helpful. So I do not want to give the impression that's a false impression that she nor the federal partners have not been helpful. But as I said before, we're financing it and we have been pushing, urging the federal partners. As I said before about the mayor calling the White House.
 consistently. I want to thank him for that. I want to thank all of you also for all these different things that you've been exposed to and you've been...
 making the right decisions for the community regardless of how you feel philosophically or just what you're hearing for your constituents you have to be leaders right and you have been you've been forced to do that by the circumstances that we all have to endure and as I said this isn't the first one so that's a long-winded answer but it's not an easy answer to your question because you know it's not a it's not just an all-or-nothing
 we're forced into this compromise because we cannot let our community go into chaos and um i know that you can't speak in regards to the county i just you know the process that they did and i guess um i don't know if you've all spoke to them um and you mentioned that they're getting six million and they're getting it i guess monthly they're they're not only they've promised they're getting something monthly what process did they do that
 We can do in order to be obtaining money monthly or whatnot. What is the process that they did that we we we can implement? Well, I agree with the process that they undertook but they had the ability to do that We did not we we could not we couldn't just sit I sit by and not do anything When ever we had the influx that occurred a couple of months ago. I
 So we had to act. And that's the reason why early on we put the state emergency declaration in front of you, and that's why you all passed the local emergency ordinance. To what the chief has already described, had we not done that, we would be outside our state of work, our statement of work. As I've said before, this is a federal issue. It's become a local issue, obviously, but it's not in our statement of work. When cities are put in place and you have
 local charter and you pass that as a community and you incorporate the cities incorporate for the purpose of mainly streets water sewer public safety that's it all the everything else is extra and I've had that discussion with council and with other cities I've managed with regard to what's a core service and what's a want and what to need and people get offended when you talk about needs and wants and oh everything's a core where they don't want to cut anything but cities are set up for police
 which is public safety, police and fire, water and streets. And so we're not equipped or shouldn't be equipped to do this kind of work, that's federal work. However, when you pass a local emergency ordinance, which we gave you an option to do whenever we were recommending the state declaration,
 That gave us the ability to do this and we're doing it well, and I want to commend our team I want to commend the the chief the entire organization the legal department everyone in terms of how we've come together How the council has led us through this process? It's not easy. There's a lot of work that has to take place but
 All the work that's been taking place up to this point is because we had the local emergency ordinance enacted. Absent that, we can't continue doing the work if y'all don't approve that. And again, you don't want to have that type of chaos in your community. And for the record, Mayor Leaser has joined virtually. Thank you.
 The mayor's joined because we want to make sure, and legal is advised, that he has to be present in terms of this vote and virtually is acceptable. Is that correct, Ms. Seaman? Yes, that's correct, Mr. Gontales. He has to consent to the ordinance if it's approved unanimously, as you all know.
 Okay, so Well, I continue to still have great concern. I we've keep saying it's not sustainable I think the writing is in the well what needs to happen I do I also understand the operational standpoint of where everything stands but I definitely think that action needs to be taken and you know, we the numbers are adding up and we need to be a
 be cautious basically, be cautious with the taxpayer dollar as reviewing this and the approach we're taking and the actions that are taken by our leaders.
 Thank you. And Ms. Salcido, that was a very long response. To get back to the crux of your question, the way it was done at the county level is that they did not issue a local emergency ordinance. I don't even know what, I mean, county and cities are different, so I don't know what they can issue and what they can't issue. So they didn't declare or anything like that. So they had to go through a statutory bidding process, and that took several months. And the reason why we set up the welcome process
 Triage Center so we were forced to do that because of that influx so it they've done it in a more orderly process To answer your question and when they did that early process They also asked FEMA for that money and they said we won't set this up unless we get that money again We didn't have that ability to do that. We had to react so that's more direct to your question I apologize for the very long response. I
 to your question earlier. I just wanted to also say just I know that the staff has been working hard and they've been doing a great job. I do understand that. So I know that the county does actually have that contract currently and I can they how many do you know how many processes can they
 Daily their start they're starting off with like I like we talked about yesterday. We're set to receive a hundred I believe they got 77 so they're looking to wrap up from there So they're not at that point yet, and we are about how many we're telling Customs Border Patrol They can bring 500 a day and plus we're working with those NGOs which brings another two to three hundred in from from area shelters So we're processing around seven to eight hundred a day. I
 And I know that you mentioned that they're only doing sponsored. Does the contract preclude them helping out with non-sponsored? Their contract is for sponsored. It's just for sponsored. Okay. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Rep. Salcido. Welcome, Mayor Leaser. I just wanted to make a – I had a few questions, then Rep. Swartzbein, then Mayor Leaser, and then we were going to go back to –
 District 6, Representative Rodriguez and Representative Molinar. Thank you. Chief, thank you very much. You were saying, you know, that we've been promised the two million dollars, correct? And it's supposed to be coming in this week, right? And so we're waiting for that documentation and the changing of the 30% cap.
 reimbursement spot and then also you would saying that a declaration gives us the opportunity to ask for personnel and to send down charters yes and that would give us that would provide us with the waivers so can you elaborate on that are those the waivers for the 30% cap or I don't recall saying waivers
 Well, I wrote it down and I had pretty good note-taking I was just curious about what those waivers were but if you don't recall that that's fine So when do we reach the 30% cap? Yeah, we're seeking a waiver and through state resources is completely separate Oh waiver separate than any part of a declaration. Excuse me. I
 Yes. The waivers directly from FEMA, the granting entity. So Mayor Pro Temo, that percentage, just so I don't want to confuse things, but if you get 10,000, then you can transport 3,000 when he says 30%.
 So when it's 20,000, it's 6,000. When it's 30,000, it's 9,000, and so on and so forth. So that number continues to move. It doesn't stay static. It just continues to grow. But you could topple over yourself and get past the 30% or get near it, and that's what he's saying. And we wanna make sure we discuss that with council because we knew that
 along I know I think there's a story on it or things of that nature like it's brand new we knew that already you want to make sure we told council that they were aware of it we had asked for that waiver already again it's just in the sense of full transparency and just being straightforward with y'all and the community of that number and that number just just continues to grow based on the crossings okay that was my question just trying to get clarification on that representative sports buying your next
 Thank you again, Altair, Mayor Peralta, and Rosario. I think that again, I think that we need to sort of separate the sort of longer term concerns with with reimbursement with the very real and immediate needs of this community.
 and the public health and safety of this community. Having a situation where this council is acting in any sort of jerky or drastic manner that could endanger the health
 welfare and safety of El Pasoans is something that we just need to be very aware and very cautious of. You know, we heard it from the chief. It would be a very real concern that we would be having hundreds of people, of asylum seekers, sponsored and non-sponsored, that would be dropped off in the streets if we were not to continue the current operations that we have ongoing now.
 and again to sort of play catch up or start up again after sort of putting a pause on this really for no reason based upon operational needs or otherwise could be very dangerous for our community as and again for the public health and welfare of our community of those folks that are coming through, those folks that are claiming asylum. We have a system that works.
 We have a high performing government that has consistently led through efficient practices, through compassion and dignity, and a willingness to augment, amend, and improve services and processes as well. And we've seen that not just in the last three months or in the last three years, but we have seen it when it relates towards migrant,
 issues since 2017, and we have seen those systems evolve and adapt. The issue that we have is more of a medium-term one in terms of questions about reimbursement that are still being resolved. Might or am I, so that is, I think, separate from the immediate reality of the situation. That is that we have operations, we have processes in place to be able to help
 to help alleviate the concerns of this community by helping to shelter, transport, and provide essential services to these asylum seekers so that they get onto their place of journey and we keep our community safe and we keep our community's values front and center. And I think that that is something really important to understand is that as the chief currently said, and I'll ask the chief, chief, are we able to continue to do what we're doing at this point?
 are we yes we're able to continue the operations that's going today but we'd like that clarity okay um i don't know if robert cortinas is on here but what is the current budget overall for the city of el paso at this point nicole cody is on the for all funds um it's 1.2 billion cody you want to jump in do you have a more specific number
 So that's all funds, that's the general fund, that's all enterprise funds, and that does not include the capital project program, which is almost a billion as well, so together it's over $2 billion. And our rate stabilization fund, emergency rainy day funds is currently at what level right now? Are what now? Are what? Rate stabilization fund, emergency rainy day fund, I'm not exactly sure. So all of that gets,
 aggregate it in one fund and we're at 88 days right now. We were at nine days in 2013, 2014 and so that was concerning. Now it's nearing 90 days and we will be having an item on the agenda on the 25th of October to speak to getting that over 90 days which that would be huge to go from, to increase that by tenfold.
 How much money is in that fund? It's over $100 million. Over $100 million. And that's funds that could be used for a variety of different reasons. You don't want to use those funds for something outside city operations. However, if...
 you know, we were struck by lightning or if, you know, we had a huge disaster, that's why you build up those funds in order to be able to use that and not have to tax people more. You're able to use those funds, but you have to plan those. You can't just haphazardly spend those dollars. No, and I understand that. I just think it's important to point out that while we're still working with FEMA for this reimbursement,
 the fiscal burden is not one where we're in a sort of cataclysmic,
 inflection point where we're going to have to be forced to shut down libraries and rec centers because we're dealing with asylum seekers in a humane, compassionate, efficient way to make sure that our community is safe and we provide dignity to people and keep our community safe again pointing to one of those core needs of what are we do as a government which is public safety and to me,
 Take away the politics from this, take away your own sort of personal feelings about these asylum seekers. This is a question of public safety, both for those people that are coming through, but also for our community as well. And I think that we have been rising to the occasion for the last five years in a way that's guided by love, in a way that's guided by compassion, compassion.
 and as well as fiscal responsibility as well. And so I just would caution my colleagues that let's understand that some of the frustrations in dealing with a giant bureaucracy like the federal government should not cloud the fact of the very near-term and immediate response of what we're doing. And what we're doing is we have an incredibly well-trained,
 flexible city staff who has time and time again risen up to the occasion to deliver exemplary services and continues to lead with El Paso values.
 And I think that this is no different than that. And we're not at a point yet where anything drastic or herky-jerky needs to occur. We know that we have systems on the ground, processes on the ground that are working, that are efficient, and that we are going to be reimbursed for. The reimbursement again is separate from what we're doing now, but to go and throw that all into jeopardy and to slow the process down, I think would not be very responsible for any of our residents.
 in this community. And so again, I just wanted to put that out there and want to thank again the chief and the city manager and all city staff who again are showing what our values are of a community to very vulnerable people and also keeping our community safe by not just talking about those values but by living by them. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Yes, Mayor Pro Tem Lizardo at this time.
 Will council please make a motion to suspend the virtual attendance resolution in order to allow Mayor Leaser to participate? There's a motion and a second to suspend the virtual attendance resolution. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Aye. The motion carries. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Prime. And Mayor Leaser, I believe you had your hand up.
 Yes, ma'am. Thank you very much. And I appreciate you doing a great job also leading the meeting. And I thank you for what I think Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine. I thank you for your statements. I think that, you know, that our city is and we're a border city and we have a responsibility to to work with the federal government and to help asylum seekers. And, you know, I've been working with the White House. I had a meeting on that.
 on Saturday and we plan on having a meeting hopefully this week with the chief and Mr. Gonzalez to talk about because I told him that our goal is of course not to have any more buses leaving our community and how we can work together.
 And I told them from the beginning that, you know, we're here to assist the federal government and the federal government's not assisting us. So it's really been really important. And the job that we've been doing is to make sure that we have no one in the streets. And if we did slow this down at any point.
 that would jeopardize that safety and people would have to be released into the streets. And that's what, you know, it's very important. And I've been very adamant with the Border Patrol, the White House, the Congresswoman, that we do not want to have anyone put out onto the street because we want to make sure that we don't make people homeless.
 you know, they have a place to sleep, they have a warm food and make sure that we can help them and assist. And I know it's been over two weeks now that we've had any street releases and we'll continue to do that. One of the things that I did talk to the congresswoman and we've been talking with FEMA, that we will have the two million dollars upfront money into our account tomorrow.
 And so, and then we have, we've been reimbursed for quarter one, which on 9-21, quarter two was on 9-22. So we have not submitted to this point, to my knowledge, we've not submitted for reimbursement for quarter three. As soon as we do that, we will continue to work with, whether it's the White House, the Congresswoman, Mr. Lee, whoever we need to work with to make sure that we get reimbursed in a timely manner. I know there's other avenues
 I know Mr. Gonzalez and I talked about that the other day, that it will not impact the everyday
 and the everyday budget and make sure that just like Mayor Potem said that the schools and libraries and fire, police, everything will continue to operate in a normal manner. Again, I am very thankful for the way we're working together, whether it's the county, whether it's the city, whether it's CBP, border patrol, we're all working together as one to make sure
 that we continue to treat people with respect and we don't use people as a pawn so it's been we've done an incredible job together and we'll continue to do that um i was hoping to have that meeting that we're going to have uh yesterday or today and um we've not been able to um
 to coordinate everybody at this point but hoping to do that that will help us understand that something has to happen that we can't continue and they understand that like i talk to them probably on a daily basis sometimes two or three times and i will continue to do that to represent our city represent the asylum seekers to make sure that people are treated properly and that our community is never in danger at any time and i can tell you that uh you
 We're not and that we will need to make sure and continue to work to make sure that we do not have any street releases and that people have a roof over their head, a warm food, and we're not going to send anybody where they don't want to go. And that will continue to act in that manner. So all the money that so far we've asked for, we've been reimbursed. The $2 million up front will be given to us tomorrow.
 And that was verified on Saturday for me. And we'll continue to do that. I know that just and I'll repeat Mayor Pro Tem a little bit, that if we slow the process down, we will jeopardize the safety of our asylum seekers and also the community, because we will not be able to continue to work in the manner that we've been working with. And again, I think, Mr. Gonzalez, we've talked about that. There's other funds that we can use that we continue to use that will not be,
 be part of the city daily operating funds, correct? There is a potential to do that, yes, Mayor. And so we're exploring all options.
 Yeah, and that's what I'm saying. So this is, you know, I thank you all. I know that we talk daily basis, sometimes two, three, four, five times a day. And we'll continue to do that and continue to represent the city to make sure our city is well, you know, represented, that we take care of people. And that's the important part. We're really doing a really good job of representing the American way and making sure that people are not used to it.
 in a pond, people are not disrespected, and people will continue to have a roof, food, and continue to be treated properly. So I thank you, and this is an important step moving forward that we'll continue to do that and make sure that, and I'll continue to work really hard that our city continues to get reimbursed. And I think that 30% was misrepresented, as it was said, not today, but originally, where we were talking about that only 30%
 the money would be reimbursed. It's 30% of the total number. And I used this in an interview with the media that if I shoot 10 free throws and I make 5, I make 50%. If I shoot 20 and I make 10, I didn't make 100%. I'm still at 50%. And that's how the 30% continues to be made. I know that
 uh i said roughly almost 39 000 crossings that we had we were only at 16.1 percent so we're nowhere near the 30 and i can't see us getting anywhere near that as we'll continue to work with the white house to get additional funding and also additional means so because i don't i think that we need to try to slow down you know assisting with transportation and allow them to do that thank you mayor
 Thank you very much. You're doing an outstanding job. And I thank you for that. Thank you, Mayor Leaser. Representative Rodriguez followed by Representative Molinar. Thank you. So my question was for Chief, but maybe you can answer me, Mr. Gonzalez. Right now or earlier, he made a comment. He said we're being forced or we were forced into the situation. Who forced us? You're talking about the chief?
 I don't remember exactly what context he was saying that but in terms of just this situation in general it's the fact that we do have a lot of crossings and that's forcing us in this into the situation and really the shift from.
 The sponsor to the non-sponsor is the main culprit in terms of the cost, in terms of the complexity of it, and in terms of all the other different updates that we've been giving today. That's what really caused this to go in a different direction.
 Okay, and I guess my that's where my frustration is on behalf of my constituents is that we're now saying we're being forced We see that there's five counties that could potentially be helping us and they're not We keep hearing about the two million. Now. We're here. We're getting it tomorrow But that's why it's so frustrating and our other concern is how do we what's the plan to transition out of this? I
 So I think in any situation, emergency situation, you ramp up to the numbers and we ramp down as well, just depending on what the numbers are. So as the numbers subside, just like we did with COVID, we would reduce the numbers and go down several layers just depending on, again, the numbers.
 You know, we've been very fortunate in that our team is very experienced in just dealing with ramping up and ramping down to all these different emergencies. I know that a lot of us have experience not only in emergency management but also in military affairs that deal with refugees and displaced civilians. And so that experience really is helpful because...
 It's inefficient in answering your question in terms of ramping up, ramping down, but when you're dealing with public safety, I remember one time working on an issue with one of the federal institutions, and I remember giving a presentation to them, and they were asking for some advice.
 what they do is very inefficient because it deals with public safety. And so when you deal with public safety, the ramping up and ramping down is costly. But yes, our plan is to ramp down if the numbers subside, just like we did with COVID. And if you recall with COVID, when the numbers started going down, we started shifting some of those personnel
 Way way back when into some of these operations because we saw the surge coming and we saw what was happening here So I think the council has been very forward-thinking with the different issues that we've That we've had to deal with it's just as some of these things you just at the very end of the day Has to do with your vote as a body Also has to do with where the state's going where the federal government's going and how we deal with different issues
 Thank you. And I guess the reason why I'm asking that is because I feel like we don't have we have an opportunity to transition, in other words, to to pass on this responsibility to somebody else. And we're refusing to do so. And now we're hearing that, you know, this is our only option.
 And I don't believe that's true. That's why I asked you, Chief. Can we declare? So I would agree with you in terms of shift in the responsibility and –
 getting to a point where we de-layer that off of what we're doing, but we need to do it in a way that doesn't impact our community with the chaos that I talked about earlier. So I don't disagree with what you're saying. I don't think the council disagrees with what you're saying and what the mayor said a second ago also kind of echoes that in that yes, we do want to start a load shedding some of this and having the federal government
 use their resources to deal with this issue as well. So again, on principle, we don't disagree with you at all. Thank you, but I think the point that we're missing here is that,
 If we have an opportunity of having this local emergency ordinance, why are we not taking advantage and saying, while we're still at this, let's start transitioning this responsibility, shedding some of this responsibility, and looking at our other options, our other option being declaring to the state? And we're not doing that. We're not considering that. Actually, we're refusing to do that.
 And so I understand that if there's not a local emergency ordinance that we extend today, that there will be chaos out on the streets. And that is obviously not what I want from my community. That's not what anybody wants. But what we do wanna see in the future is that transition to shed some of that help over to the state because they need to come in and take responsibility for it. Thank you. Thank you, Representative. If I could add to that, and I've talked about, we've talked about this here before.
 If the emergency is in El Paso, it's El Paso's emergency. While it might be a national crisis that's happening in our front yard, it's still El Paso's emergency. If we call for additional resources and we were to receive those additional resources, it's still our emergency. We're still going to operate it. We're still going to be running it.
 There is no, I just want to be clear that it's, just because of a declaration, there's no transition of responsibility, no transition of liability. Financially, there is no resources. No ma'am, there's not. So we wouldn't get additional resources? We wouldn't get additional? We could ask for additional resources. As I talked about earlier, there's no identified funding for migration crisis outside of this FEMA grant.
 And so and that's more for the homeless. They're just tailoring it to be utilized for this need in time. It doesn't reach meet the Stafford Act requirements. So that's you're not getting that federal funding. It's not. And that's where you draw off of you have a major national declaration you know.
 Hurricane storms Stuff like that. That's where that funding opens up But I just want to be clear that just because we did Claire and it has to be that declaration has to come from the mayor or the county judge Just because of a declaration it doesn't change the end of the day We're still gonna respond as we're gonna respond. So if you want us to continue with this with this route of response that we're doing and what we're doing is the most humane and
 Appropriate manner so it doesn't crash the system and what I mean by that is connecting them with their transportation Because there's no way you're gonna shelter out of a situation where you're seeing these high numbers and so that criticate that Transportation is critical. We can ask the state for staffing or for charter assistance without a declaration
 At the end of the day they could tell us no with a declaration. They could tell us no. So it's just at that situation. They're going to assess it. So have we asked them? We we talked about it early on about possibly needing the assistance. That's when we saw them organized. They sent four or five charter buses to town. They sent the Texas Reserve if we remember that they were actually in El Paso on the ground assisting not assisting but learning our processing techniques techniques.
 for if and when we said we need to utilize your services. Since then, we've opened up more charters. We've got more companies. We're able to keep those flows going. Okay. Well, from what I'm hearing, Chief, is that we have an opportunity to get those additional resources. They've even offered and we need to declare, and we're refusing to do so. I don't know why, but I guess, you know, my constituents can make their own conclusions to that. So that's it for me. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, item 40. Would you like to go to item 40 now? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Item 40 is discussion and action on an emergency ordinance reenactment authorizing the city manager to assign personnel and resources to assist in addressing the humanitarian and public safety crisis resulting from mass migration through El Paso. And this would need to be a unanimous vote in order for it to pass. Representative Molinar, did you have a question?
 So we're on item 40 and we've learned a lot of things on item 39. I'm going to bank on my years of experience as public safety and I understand what the chief is saying. Chief, thank you very much. The city manager, the legal department, all the different departments that are helping out day in and day out, weekends, holidays, whatever, it doesn't matter.
 This process ends by not passing this item 40. Watch out. You will be, we, I'm going to say 911, the call center, will be inundated. Okay.
 inundated with calls for service. There will not be enough police officers to respond for suspicious persons, burglaries, robberies, just the day-to-day calls, motor vehicle accidents, things like that. You will stretch public safety like you will not believe. Your constituents will be upset beyond measure.
 And it's a public safety concern. I understand this is a federal issue. I understand that. I get it. It's one of the reasons I wanted to go to the processing center. I learned a lot there. But we need to make sure that we do what we can today. Imagine today we stop this processing. It's not just going to end today at 5 o'clock. It's probably in three days, four, maybe this weekend. I don't know.
 Those people are going to be have to be taken someplace and what's that someplace downtown? Someone already mentioned the Northeast you know about the east side the west side and
 you are going to see calls for service become huge, just huge, and you will never be able to keep up. And whether it's, like I said, just the day-to-day calls, but you add this on top of that, we are creating more of a situation that we will not be able to handle.
 I urge my fellow constituents please consider passing item 4-0 for the benefit for the safety of our community. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Mullinar. Mayor Leaser, did you have your hand up? Yeah, I think it's important that we realize and I think the Chief kind of talked about a little bit that this will always continue to be the City of El Paso's responsibility as a border city.
 the state of emergency does not shift the responsibility on the state, but it continues to leave the responsibility in our community. And it's really important that we continue again, and I'm gonna repeat myself one time
 we don't have any people released into the streets, that we don't have people that don't have a place to sleep, we don't have people that don't have a warm meal, and that they don't have a way of getting into the destination and uniting with their family members or members of their community. And again, we do have, hopefully we'll have a meeting with the federal government, the White House we're supposed to have a teams meeting in the next day, hopefully that will hopefully change
 Some of the dynamics that we've been talking about and continue to work together But at the end of the day it does not shift the responsibility in our community and as elected leaders We need to make sure that we continue to work together Not only without each other but with the county and all law enforcement around it. So Thank you for the opportunity Mayor Pro Tem we do have public comment on this item. I
 Thank you, Ms. Prine. We have Mario Maese. Good afternoon, Mr. Maese. You'll have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon. My name is Mario Maese. I'm the owner of Tocasa Foster Care. We are a company that works for the state. We work with HCS, also with Child Protective Services and APS. We provide homes for those people. Now, it's not the same, of course, of what we're dealing right now. I can understand that completely.
 But I'm here to talk about the border crisis as well. I'm the owner of the company I've been studying it for maybe eight months. I saw this coming. So with that in mind we I just heard right now these are brand new statistics that I heard just right now that from the from you guys that we're poised to get 60,000 migrants in October. That's like 2000 a day for this month.
 El Paso has its limits of vital services, fire department, law enforcement, health department, vacancies in shelters, hotels, hospitals. We're forcing the city to spend more money on shelters and personnel to handle this surge. So that's highly unsustainable. What I'm proposing is to be a subcontractor to help.
 locally in the local area. The solution is to provide a cost-effective service, usually offered for the state. We already do this already. Why not do it at the local level? Mostly, of course, with compassion,
 Being effective as quickly as possible with a sense of urgency providing vital services like nursing housing transportation education case management 24-hour supervision intake specialists for faster processing and day-to-day activities right now we currently have a Location where we have 12,000 square feet. We're on by count We're actually close to everything and in front of us there's the multi-purpose center as well that also can be used for processing and
 So currently we provide services for 79 El Pasoans and I my co-workers are 69 my employees I have 69. So if you guys have any questions I've seen a lot of money's been thrown around. The math doesn't add up even for a person barely just sitting down. This is going to be this is going to be a situation where we won't have any control in the future. So I'd rather be proactive and offer the services in that regard. And since I already take care of people with disabilities
 This is basically the next logical step for my company. Any questions. If I could interject this is Juan Gonzalez with the city attorney's office. All the this type of procurement would typically have to go through our normal channels I would just say. So while I appreciate the speaker's sentiment we would still have to follow our typical policies and procedures. I could certainly understand that. But just in case I did reach out with DHS as well and I left them a booklet.
 just in case you never know. So is it okay if I leave this booklet for anybody to see? Thank you. That's all I needed to say. Thank you, guys. I'll leave this over here. Mayor Portan, I also want to clarify the record. The multipurpose center in front of Viscount that you mentioned is currently closed for renovation and cannot be utilized. I understand. For any efforts. I just didn't want the public. Our facility is big enough. I just didn't want the public to believe that that facility is open and it's not. I understand. No worries. Sorry about that. But our facility is big enough, though.
 Thank you. Thank you. Who do I leave this? You can leave it with me, sir. Thank you so much. Yes, sir. Thank you. Any other questions or concerns? Thank you, sir. We're good? No. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. A little bit nervous, but thank you, guys. There is a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar, to approve Item 40, the Emergency Ordinance. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor Perkins-Holstein? Representative Rivera? Thank you. Mayor Leaser, do you consent?
 Yes, ma'am. Thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously Thank you, sir. Thank you counsel. They are pro temp staff is asking if we can take item 58 next. Yes, ma'am Thank you item 58 is discussion in action on a resolution that the city manager be authorized to execute a chapter 380 economic development program agreement between the city of El Paso and Schneider Electric USA a
 Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzwein. Yep. Representative Rivera. Aye. Thank you. In the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem can we take items 52, 53 and 54? Yes. Thank you. Items 52, 53 and 54.
 is an ordinance proposed by initiative petition under city charter section 3.11 to limit individual contributions to political campaigns for mayor and city council to $1,000 per election and require donors to disclose their place of employment. Item 53 is an ordinance proposed by initiative petition under city charter
 Section 3.11 to provide public financing for candidates for mayor and City Council who voluntarily agreed to limit their campaign contributions and expenditures and demonstrate community support for their candidacy item 54 is an ordinance proposed by initiative petition under city charters section 3.1 1 to use ranked choice voting for the election of mayor and City Council where voters rank candidates in order of preference and
 And if no candidate receives a majority the candidates with the fewest votes are eliminated and the votes They received are transferred to voters second choice and so on until there is a majority vote for one candidate So long as permitted by state law, I'd like to make a motion to move into executive Second second, there's a motion and a second to return to executive session all in favor. Yeah anyone opposed? I
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may return to executive session pursuant to section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss any of the following. Item number 52, an ordinance proposed by initiative petition under City Charter Section 3.11 to limit individual contributions to political campaigns for mayor and city council to $1,000 per election
 and require donors to disclose their place of employment item 53 an ordinance proposed by initiative petition under city charter section 3.11 to provide public financing for candidates for mayor and city council who voluntarily agree to limit their campaign contributions and expenditures
 and demonstrate community support for their candidacy. Item 54 is an ordinance proposed by initiative petition under city charter section 3.11 to use ranked choice voting for the election of mayor and city council where voters rank candidates in order of preference and if no candidate receives a majority,
 The candidates with the fewest votes are eliminated and the votes they received are transferred to voters second choice and so on until there is a majority vote for one candidate so long as permitted by state law. And Executive Session Item 1, an initiative petition by El Pasoans for fair elections, matter number 22-1065156 under 551.071.
 All of these matters are taken into executive session under 551.071, consultation with attorney. It is 2.57 p.m. Ms. Prime, since you've lost quorum, I did want the record to show that I did vote no. But we can't do a roll call now, so I just would like the record to state that. Thank you, Representative Anello. I did hear a majority of ayes. Ms. Prime? Ms. Prime? Yes, sir. Thank you.
 Do you want me to log off this one? Yes, sir. If you'll log off this call, we'll call you and Mayor Pro Tem Schwarzweil into a separate team's link. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Is there a motion to come out of executive session? Second. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Yes. Anyone opposed? The motion passes. The meeting is back in session at 536 p.m. We're on items 52, 53, and 54.
 I'm sorry, did you want to move forward first with public comment? Yes. Please. Yes, ma'am. We do have 23 members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. N. Ms. N.
 And she submitted a statement to be read into the record that says, my name is Ann and I want to let the city council know that our community supports fair, democratized elections. Three propositions from justices from this ballot initiative are set to go to the city council agenda at this October 11th meeting. The propositions would ensure fair elections for our community by number one, limiting campaign contributions to $1,000.
 dollars per individual, per candidate. Number two, providing public financing for community candidates. And number three, establishing ranked choice voting which eliminates runoff elections, saving the city tons of money. If the city council adopts the propositions, they go into law and Justicia Fronteriza's mission for more just elections is accomplished. Council and Mayor, please show the residents of El Paso that you care about our elections
 truly fair and that they cannot be brought by the city's rich special interest groups. The next person is Kim Schulte. She submitted a comment that reads as a citizen of El Paso I am concerned that local politicians are influenced by wealthy donors who contribute to their election campaigns These donations affect their ability to make unbiased decisions that could benefit the community as a whole by limiting individual donations to $1,000 per individual
 visual donor and requiring disclosure of place of employment the candidates will not be beholden to a few and instead can focus on Representing the people that have elected them the current lack of any limit on personal donations to campaign country tributes to the perception of our passive politics as unscrupulous and
 The people have spoken directly to you through their signatures on this ballot initiative signaling that they want a change in business as usual. Further, I support all three of the propositions presented as separate agenda items here today. Together, they help to make the election process fair and to keep elected officials focused on the needs of the voters.
 I am in favor of public financing for candidates that demonstrate community support and ranked choice voting will eliminate the need for runoff elections as well as mitigate vote splitting. Finally, El Pasoans want fair elections. They want to be able to trust the people they elect and they need to know that their vote on their signature can make a difference. Thank you. The next person that signed up is Veronica Carvajal, followed by Vanessa Medrano. Good afternoon, Ms. Carvajal. You'll have three minutes.
 Good afternoon, Council. It's been quite a long day for some of us. My name is Veronica Carvajal. I'm president of Judicia Fronteriza. We're a political action committee. And we're asking today that you vote to adopt all three propositions as they stand or to make reasonable amendments. Thank you.
 I want to thank the Community First Coalition for inspiring this set of propositions. The Lost Dog, SPAC, Sunrise El Paso and Ground Game Texas, all our volunteers and thousands of El Pasoans who signed the petition and who told us how grateful they were that we were doing this. We ran a very small budget campaign that is part of a movement across the state and across this country
 to make our local elections more fair and accessible by removing the influence of big money and yes some of the propositions may require an investment of funds but as district one rep sportsvine said earlier today the city spends money on projects that may not actually have a return on investment that's monetary but they are worthwhile because they better the community and we believe that we believe that these three ordinances do just that
 Because we know that across the country, such propositions have increased voters' faith in our electoral system. They have increased voter turnout, and they have diversified the pool of candidates that run for office. And we're not asking you to adopt anything that hasn't been done before. Austin has adopted all three of them with differing terms.
 We have done our due diligence, we have done our homework, and we are hopeful that you will recognize that these three propositions will improve your community. The propositions have already been addressed by prior speakers. I do want to clarify that the first proposition affects three types of donors. The first are individuals, not households, not married couples.
 Political action committees would also be limited, and then candidates themselves. I want to talk a bit about public financing. It is voluntary. It is first come first serve. Austin has been using it since 1992. And just recently in November of 2020, two candidates that used the funding that amounted to about $26,000 each were able to advance to the runoff against big money candidates, and one of them actually won her race. So this can work.
 And we're asking for more than Austin is asking for. We're asking for folks to actually do the work of a candidate before they do this. Ranked choice voting has already been addressed. We know that the state legislature has tried to pass RCV a number of times, primarily to help military families. So we trust that you have your community's heart at hand and that you will do the right thing today, thank you.
 SPEAKER 2 The next speaker is Vanessa Medrano. She will be followed by Kenneth Bell Angel Ulloa. Good afternoon ma'am you have three minutes. SPEAKER 1 Good evening. I came here today as a voter and as someone who volunteered their time so that these ordinances would make it before you today. So obviously I am in favor of items 52 53 and 54.
 El Paso always has been and will always be a city I love deeply. As I entered adulthood and I became more aware of the city's issues, I noticed city leaders seem to continually make choices that negatively impacted a majority of those living here. I had a hard time understanding this until I learned who truly benefited from these large vanity projects that used up large amounts of city funding. It was your donors.
 I decided that I had multiple complaints regarding our local government, so I began looking into community-based solutions from my fellow El Pasoans. There have been many qualified candidates that do not have the same kind of connections and funders that frontrunners here tend to receive. But by leveling the playing field, we're ensuring quality candidates aren't overshadowed by candidates with friends with deep pockets.
 I want the city clerk to be able to have the opportunity to decrease their very busy workload required for citywide runoff elections. I want the taxes we pay to actually go to projects and efforts our community actually wants and benefits from. I understand there may be an impulse to defend yourselves and your donors as we discuss the issues of the structuring of our local election process. But this is not just a call out.
 I am calling you to listen and consider the impact of your decisions today and what the impact has on the rest of us, not just the wealthy people who have your ears. This is your chance to make sure El Paso's voices are heard in the future, and you can do that by actually listening to us now by voting in favor of these items. Thank you. The next speaker is Kenneth Bell. Mr. Bell, if you're in the queue, star 6 to unmute your telephone.
 Kenneth Bell. Ms. Pryor, he submitted a letter. I don't know if it went to your office and asked me to read it. Do you want me to do that? For Mr. Bell, go ahead. Yes, ma'am. Representative Anola. One second.
 Good morning, my name is Kenneth Bell. I'm writing to speak in favor of agenda items 52, 53, and 54. El Pasoans deserve fair local elections. They have a right to ensure that their candidates represent their interests and are not bought out by special interests. Candidates for city council and mayor have a right to fair elections without their campaigns held hostage to the highest bidder. That's why I'm in support of Justicia Fronteriza's propositions to democratize El Paso City elections.
 we need campaign contribution limits austin already has them there's no reason why el paso shouldn't for too long candidates for city council the mayor have relied on a handful of wealthy donors to fund their campaigns in turn those wealthy donors have used their influence to drown out the voices and concerns of our residents by placing caps of a thousand on campaign contributions this will mean that the candidates for office will have to work harder and reach out to more voters that means more people's voices are heard it means that city representatives in the mayor will have to prioritize the needs of their communities
 We need public financing of our city campaigns. Public finances is legal in Texas. Austin has had public financing of campaigns since 1992. Public finances allow for a greater, more diverse collections of candidates, especially women and people of color. It also, I'm sorry, it allows folks to campaign without relying on a handful of wealthy donors. Most importantly, it is 100 percent voluntary. Candidates can choose whether to publicly finance their campaigns.
 We need ranked choice voting. Ranked choice voting eliminates the need for a runoff election, which costs hundreds of thousands of dollars with a low voter turnout. The 2020 runoff election cost the city 700,000 and only 13% of voters showed up. Ranked choice voting allows voters to rank their candidates in order of preference. It's essentially an instant runoff. The difference is that the voters don't have to wait another month, either pick another candidate or reaffirm their support for a candidate.
 The city can have ranked choice voting on the books like Austin does and implemented after it passes the state legislature. It's time for city council to do the right thing. Support all three propositions for democratizing our elections. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Angel Ulloa. Angel Ulloa will move on to a statement by Alyssa Garza. She requested that Representative Rivera read it. However, he has left the meeting.
 And it says, good morning. I am hoping you can read my public comment during the 11th council agenda, since I'm not able to attend by phone or in person.
 My name is Alyssa Garza and I'm a member of District 7. I support all three propositions agenda items 52, 53, 54 to make our elections fair. It is time we limit contributions to political campaigns for mayor and city council to 1,000 per individual donor per election. Wealthy people who live in El Paso control and influence local politics
 It is time for our mayor and city council to work for our community and put all pestilence first I want my mayor city council and district representative to deliver on promises made for the people and not the people who gave them their greatest donation
 Public financing for candidates allows for diversity because it allows people from different backgrounds to run for office. Typically those who run for office right now either self fund or solicit funds to uphold their campaign. This proposition will help community candidates run without the pressure of caving into big money interests to fund their campaigns.
 Taxpayers will save money by eliminating runoff elections. Ranked voting will help decrease the workload of the city clerk, and runoff elections already have an extremely low turnout. Studies have shown that ranked voting creates a more diverse and representative election. Let's eliminate runoff elections to make voters feel like their vote is not being wasted and save taxpayer money. Thank you. Cooperative Alissa Garza.
 The next comment was submitted by Yvonne Diaz and she's requesting that Representative Salcido read her statement. Thank you, Laura. This is my written statement. I asked, oh, I asked, is Representative Isabel Salcido read it? My name is Yvonne Diaz, community organizer in El Paso, Texas. I am writing in support of item 52, 53, and 54. I've worked in political campaigns for 2018 to 2021.
 I've worked on city council, congressional, state, district attorney races, and presidential campaigns. During this period, I have experienced wins and losses and unfortunately have seen hand good politicians lose to corruption.
 Yvonne Diaz said the dangers of excessive donor money goes beyond winning or losing an election It affects our community beyond terms limits donors money dictates where our city funds go Yvonne Diaz said which are often part of an vanity projects at moments. It seems like priorities are sports arenas
 Working individuals like me and my colleagues cannot complete with this big donor money whose interests differ from community interest as we know, Ivandia said. It is imperative to have a limit on financial donations to give the power back to the people, Ivandia said. We want to see good qualified candidates run for office and not only for privileged. I understand that voting yes on this item will have to direct impact on the campaign strategies nonetheless.
 In order to assure transparency and fairness, we need these three items to be passed. Yvonne Diaz said, taking a deeper look, your decision and votes will not be tied to the big donors' interest and will truly be freely embraced in democracy on behalf of the people
 Yvonne Diaz said this is your chance to show on which site you are on voting no will speak louder than your campaign smear Advertisements Logan promises you make on your next campaign vote. Yes on items 52 53 and 54 Thank you. The next speaker is Jean Carlo Tirado. I
 While he's coming up, I'll read a record statement submitted by Robbie Rodriguez, and it says, My name is Robbie Rodriguez, and I'm a volunteer for El Pasoans for Fair Elections and Justicia Fronteriza PAC. I urge the City Council and Mayor to adopt the proposed ordinances described in Items 52, 53, and 54 on today's agenda. I was one of the dozens of volunteers who helped collect signatures for these ordinances
 and was overwhelmed by the outpouring of support. Voters in El Paso believe our system of democracy is broken and needs fixing. They agree we need to rein in the influence of the rich in our elections. They agree that people who don't have rich friends should have a chance to run for office.
 and they agree that we can save taxpayer money and better reflect the will of the people through ranked choice voting. I care about democracy, and I worry about its future. I believe these ordinances will strengthen democracy in El Paso and help restore our faith in the process. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Tirado. You have three minutes, sir. Hi. My name is Giancarlo Tirado, and I'm a board member of Jusisa Fronteriza. I also live in District 6.
 I would like to voice my support for the three items, 52, 53, and 54. I spent a lot of time out in each of y'all's district collecting signatures and speaking to thousands of people and they all said yes to this. It wasn't hard for people to decide to sign. These policies are very popular, particularly the campaign contribution limits. We currently have no limits here in El Paso while other cities do have limits.
 The only people that I spoke to that would say no were some who were running for office. Doesn't that show a disconnect between the people who choose to represent us and the general public? Polling has been done on these issues, and not only are they popular across the U.S., specifically here in El Paso as well. I hope you do the right thing and listen to the over 14,000 that we got to sign this petition.
 and the rest of the city that agrees on this issue. I know when collecting signatures, some candidates may have the self-interested response that it's too low for them to raise money. Well, if you can't raise a majority of support and can only get big money from a small handful of people compared to the general public, that's an issue. We are not limiting the total amount of money someone can raise, but the amount an individual can give to avoid the richest people to have the loudest voice in our politics.
 there's a lot of non-rich people here in el paso that need attention to be paid to rather than just listening to the most wealthiest people here general people feel that big money in politics is in it is an issue so i implore you all to do the right thing and allow people to have trust in our system the other policy rcv rank choice voting like it was said previously this would save the city a lot of money
 We spend over $700,000 on runoffs with only a tiny percentage of participation. A lot of this money can be used in other areas, and also it would make our voting process a lot fairer. Not everyone is rich or associates themselves with only wealthiest of people, which gives them an easier path to run for office.
 We have tons of community leaders that have done the work and have worked in our communities and make this a better place and have the support of many people. Public financing would help motivate these type of people to run and not feel that they're going to be drowned out by all the money that's involved in politics in general. This is why it's important to have these changes to make things fair and make people feel that they can trust in our system again.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Rachel Ortega. Rachel Ortega, if you're in the queue, star six please to unmute your telephone. She will be followed by Ana Reza. Rachel Ortega, star six please to unmute your telephone. I don't see Ms. Ortega's phone number in the queue. Ms. Reza, star six please. Ana Reza, star six. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Yes, hi.
 You can hear me right. My name is Ana Reza from District 7 and I'm speaking in support of item 52, item 53 and item 54. We got the needed measures to bring this to the table. We went to events, knocked on doors, going to restaurants and we really appreciate April's small part of the event.
 It was very hard, especially after the experience of the pandemic. For me personally, I struggled. And then I reflect with projects like the Wolf Lodge or the location of the venue. Did Foster Hunt, city manager, or other supporters have to collect these signatures?
 So this is supported by the community of El Paso. You have the signatures to prove it. We have invested financially and heavily on certain staff members in our city. And I think we should also invest in our community members.
 This week, Community First Coalition had a candidate for District 7 and 6 at EPC's special invite where the college students, the community college students, and our two incumbents didn't show up. This proposition, it will bring leaders that are for the community interest, not special interest. Proposition...
 Item 54 will actually save us money, like everybody mentioned. And I know it seems like this administration waste lots of money. For example, again, Wolf Lodge, the venue formerly known as the stadium in Tanguito. So let's start find ways to save dinero. I support all three items, 52, 53, and 54. Thank you. I don't see Miss Turner in the chamber, so we'll move to Carmen Rodriguez. Miss Rodriguez, star six, if you're in the queue.
 Carmen Rodriguez or Paul Enriquez if you're in the queue star six Carmen Rodriguez or Paul Enriquez I don't see their phone numbers in the queue Raquel Rojo star six please to unmute your telephone good evening you have three minutes please
 Hi, good afternoon. My name is Raquel Rojo. I reside in District 6. I'm here to speak in favor of Agenda Item 52, 53, and 54 presented by El Paso for Fair Elections and Justicia Fronteriza. These three propositions are an effort to democratize our local city elections.
 A total of 14,000 plus registered voters, myself included, desire and deserve fair elections. El Pasoans want candidates to represent the community as a whole, not the few affluent donors with special interests. We need campaign contribution limits just as Austin has.
 Capping donations will reduce candidates' reliance on a handful of wealthy donors to fund their campaigns and hopefully limit the influence their money has on policy. Yes, candidates will have to do more outreach, do more fundraising from a lot more voters, but this alone will garner broader support from the people and give an equal voice to the community. After all, isn't that what public service should be about? Thank you.
 Another way to make elections more fair and accessible is through public financing. For better or worse, money is passed and needed to fund campaigns. We get it. It's not cheap to run for office. Public financing has the potential to allow persons from marginalized groups to consider public office, widening the representation and diversity of our city government.
 Not only are campaigns expensive, but elections cost the city a lot of money as well, notably runoff elections. It is my understanding the 2020 runoff election cost the city $700,000, with only a mere 13% of voter turnout. This seems like an unnecessary waste, which could be eliminated with ranked choice voting. As the name implies, voters rank candidates, and in doing so, an essential incident runoff takes place, eliminating the need for additional elections.
 Much like Austin, El Paso can approve ranked choice voting and officially implement it once it passes state legislation. My hope is El Paso and faith is restored in our local government. I believe these three proposed changes can facilitate this. I trust members of city council will join the 14,000 plus of their constituents in support of all three propositions for democratizing our local elections. Thank you for your time and your consideration.
 Thank you. The next speaker is A.B. Perea, followed by Andrew Segura and Josh Simmons. A.B. Perea. Good evening. You have three minutes. Thank you. Thank you for giving me a chance to speak to y'all. I know that this is a thing that impacts y'all directly, and I know we've been talking about that. I...
 know that there's a part of y'all that really does deeply care about your job and what you do for the community and wanting to make an impact. I know that it's there and I know that there's also a part of it that, because we see it, we see who donates into your campaigns. It's super transparent and we're able to see how that affects the decisions you make. So,
 that coexisting with your deep desire to help the community in practice so far, it's becoming very unstable. It does marginalize people. I don't like to say it like that, but it feels very much like have your cake and eat it too. And we can't have that. Like we can't, we can't have like one or two, three voices putting in like dollars and dollars and dollars. And then that representing how that impacts like thousands of people.
 So, I mean, I know it seems like over and over again, and I don't know what y'all discussing your executive meetings, what phone calls y'all make, what people are sitting in this room who are probably trying to have an influence on what pockets get filled up or whatnot, but, like, just please understand, like, that this is something that needs to shift. It is also something that would, like, help y'all, like, directly. It would make things easier. It would be more cost-efficient.
 There would be more chances with the ring choice voting for you to like have a second chance. There's just so many things here that there's just win-win for like everybody and plus like you would be making decisions that is purely based on helping like the people what the people want y'all said.
 I was speaking here at the climate charter stuff, and, like, I remember some of y'all saying, like, you know, we commend y'all for the stuff that you did, and we won't stand in the way of democracy and, like, a lot of that language. And even some of y'all were like, I don't support it, but I will not stand in the way. So I hope that you keep to that word because saying yes to these things would definitely –
 not be standing in the way of democracy you would be help be helping promote it um so just all this all this talk like just just please like walk your talk and like we know we see it like day to day like we're not like we we have access to all this information like we know who you're talking to so please like listen to us like listen listen to us more because that's if not even more important than just like a billion dollars so thank you
 The next speaker is Andrew Segura. Andrew Segura. He will be followed by Josh Simmons, Miguel Escoto, and Ana Fuentes. Good evening, sir. You have three minutes. All right. My name is Andrew, and I'm an organizer with Sunrise El Paso. I'm going to hear to speak in favor of items 52, 53, and 54. All around the country, elections are being bought by oligarchs instead of being decided by the people. And El Paso is sadly no different.
 We are seeing the same names, Foster, Hunt, and Jobe, donate thousands of dollars to campaigns with no oversight at all. In this city, our local politicians are funded by the oligarch class, whether it's secret meetings with El Paso Electric or the lack of limitations on the amount somebody can donate to a campaign. This city is being exploited to help a select few, while we see not only the people being ignored, but our history actively being erased for a sports arena.
 Limiting the amount of money somebody can donate to political candidates not only limits the power a group of people have over politicians, but it makes sure that candidates actually campaign and address the needs of their constituents, which city councils fail to do many times. Once again, we are just asking you to do the jobs you were elected to do and listen to the will of the people. The people of the city have spoken and have shown overwhelming support for all three propositions. That is why making sure that Propositions 52, 53, and 54 are put onto the ballot and voted on by the people,
 This should be the top priority for City Council. I would say thank you for your time but you wasted all of ours. Solidarity with my comrades. The next speaker is Josh Simmons. Josh Simmons, star six please to unmute your telephone. Good evening. You have three minutes. Good evening City Council and distinguished city staff.
 My name is Josh Simmons. I am a resident of District 5 and I want to vocalize my support for Justicia Fronteriza and the El Paso for Fair Elections campaign in bringing upon the known as Proposition A, Proposition B and Proposition C as items 52, 53 and 54. I urge support in these items as many of the other supporters have mentioned today that the
 Acceptance of the language as is with reasonable amendment would allow confidence to be rebuilt in the electorate. We're all very much familiar of the low turnout when it comes to municipal elections. As seeing as how some of the municipal elections have been aligned with more of the larger general elections like we'll see in this midterm season. Um,
 the again the voice of the people in support of this as we approached them and signature collection was overwhelming and very logical for them to draw these conclusions that at the moment there is a overwhelming amount of money that is unattainable as far as contribution limit to the average citizen and by limiting that we allow the opportunity for more fair elections
 We want our elected city officials to be able to focus on reaching their deliverables and holding them accountable and the excess of large donors dilutes that integrity of the elected officials and by adopting such items as Proposition A and Item 52 allow this to happen.
 also known as Proposition B for the public financing. Many other speakers have gone over it in detail as to how that would benefit us, where is this would all give opportunity to many very empowered and very powerful voices that are community organizers. These are the true leaders of the community that are getting things done on every level from their nonprofits to neighborhood associations and allowing them to be able to step up and become leaders of the city instead of being ushered in by larger dark money that seems undeniable for many.
 And I also want to vocalize my support for item 54, which is also Prop C, for the implementation of ranked choice voting. The reduction of unnecessary extensions in elections such as runoffs will save the city a significant amount of money. And as an election worker myself, I've heard this from many voters.
 that they are unaware of certain runoffs or other smaller election divisions such as other runoffs and whatnot to enable these people to be able to voice their opinion in the ranked choice voting style. That way all candidates can have a fair shot at every elected position within the city. This will allow for quality candidates to give their opportunity and for voters to allow their preference. Thank you very much for your time.
 And I urge a vote in favor of all three items 52 53 and 54. Thank you. DIRECTOR RIVERA- The next speaker is Miguel Escoto. Miguel Escoto star 6 please to unmute your telephone. Miguel Escoto. Good evening. You have three minutes. SPEAKER 6 Can you hear me OK.
 Okay. Hello, Council. My name is Miguel Escoto. I am a resident of District 1. I am one of the over 14,000 El Pasoans who have signed on in favor of these measures for more fair and more free elections. I am speaking in favor of items 52, 53, and 54.
 So previous speakers and community members have already discussed the merits of these ordinances. They're a no-brainer. As someone who helped try to get people to sign on to this,
 this was one of the easiest things to have people sign on to they agree with this it is a people's mandate once again similar to the climate charter so i want to bring up two numbers which help em emphasize how much this is a mandate onto you as city councillors to approve this these measures as is the first
 I want to emphasize is the number of over 14,000 signatures. It is rare for you in your position to have so many of your constituents speak up in favor of a policy proposal. This is something that you should appreciate and it is something that you should defend. You should defend the voice of the people when they organize,
 and volunteer and spend hours of labor to communicate to you. Your constituents are serving on a silver platter, a solid, researched, beneficial, and effective policy. The second number that I want to emphasize is the March primary election voter turnout number. It was a mere 11.14% of El Pasoans that turned out to vote.
 El Pasoans have given up on your system. They have given up on your government. Whose job is it to increase these voter turnout numbers? It is your job. By limiting campaign contributions, by supporting public financing, and by instituting ranked choice voting, you are sending a signal to the general public, which is, we care about your democracy. We're taking actions to improve it for you.
 So we've done all this. The question is, will you listen? And we will know by your vote. It is your responsibility to listen to the people and to accept the language as is. Again, we're serving this up to you on a silver platter, and it is your responsibility to listen. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Ana Fuentes. She will be followed by Sylvia Cierfos. Good evening. You'll have three minutes, please.
 Good afternoon. My name is Ana Fuentes and I'm a community organizer and I'm here today in support of all three propositions for fair elections listed under items 52, 53, and 54. I support these propositions because I believe, and I hope that you do too, that people who make large political donations should not have more political influence than those who do not.
 In preparing for today's public comment, I read several studies that found that looser limits on donations to political campaigns were often related to more city contracts being afforded to those large donors that contributed to officials campaigns to begin with. This often decrease the quality of the set city contracts as they would often run over stipulated costs. I can confidently say that I have seen those same dynamics play out within our city, as projects intended to generate profit for a few, are prioritized over the well-being of the community.
 Building a multipurpose arena in one of our historical neighborhoods is one such example that comes to mind. In El Paso all constituents are equal but some are more equal than others. The fair elections proposition propositions being discussed today will seek to rectify the power imbalance within our city government.
 We all know that the city of El Paso has a low voter turnout. I know several of my peers have disengaged from electoral politics and opted not to vote as they feel their vote is wasted after having to choose between what they see as a lesser of two evils. Ranked choice voting, such as I proposed on their item 54, can help fighter communities over all dissolution on the ballot.
 By having our second and third options count, even if our first choices don't continue into the runoff, us as voters can have our true preferences be known. We will feel like the complexity of our voices and opinions over issues that affect our everyday lives can be more accurately expressed through the ballot.
 The propositions presented today are probably not well received by some donors, but they are supported by the community. And ultimately, the community's will is what should guide your decision today. I urge you to support items 52, 53, and 54. Thank you. The next speaker is Sylvia Serifos. Sylvia Serifos, star six please to unmute your telephone. Sylvia Serifos, good evening. You have three minutes. Sylvia Serifos, good evening. You have three minutes. Hello. Can you hear me?
 Okay, my name is Sylvia Sirifas. I live in District 8, and I'm here to voice my support for the Propositions 52, 53, and 54. You know, first of all, I've listened to all these speakers, and they've been wonderful. And I want to enforce, you know, or to, you know, to make
 to know that I'm supporting all that they have said. I want to kind of take a different approach and talk about, you know, kind of in a more general way. You know, take, like, the name of these propositions, the Fair Elections.
 All of us want fair elections. That's something we can all agree on, that yes, we want fair elections. And that can only happen in a democracy. And when I look up the word democracy, these are the words that come out. Participate, contribute, involve or engage oneself. Take an active part in, have a voice in, help decide things.
 be in on the decisions, to vote.
 to be enfranchised. And also words like cooperative, communal, community. That's what we mean by democracy. And we happen to have representative democracy. So we need to depend on the people that we vote for to represent us here at City Council. And that's why it's so important to have fair elections.
 From what I can see and from what I have seen,
 These proposals are very modest proposals, a way that we can do locally to make our elections fairer. Because what we have seen in the past, since I've lived here in El Paso, it's I see people being left out. I see the same people being represented and the rest of us being left out, and that is not fair. Right.
 We do need people to represent us in City Council that are going to represent us, the people, and not their donors. Just because they gave so much money, they feel indebted to them, and that's not right. This is happening nationally, statewide, and locally. But locally, we can make a difference, and we can.
 do something about it. And so that's why I am in support of these proposals. And I ask you, you know, the citizens of El Paso have signed the petition, have spoken, have shown up, and have participated in the democratic process. Don't dismiss this process. Thank you, Ms. Zerfos. And don't dismiss our participation. Thank you.
 The final speaker submitted a statement to be read into the record by Representative Molinar. This is from Janet Flores. My name is Janet Flores and I would like to request that my city representative Joe Molinar read the following into the public record of the October 11 City Council meeting for public comments on items 52, 53, and 54. Item 52.
 Being born and raised in El Paso, I've witnessed city council members make decisions based on the interests of their largest donors, even when those large donors don't live in the incumbent's district. I've witnessed my community get more and more discouraged from getting involved in local elections as our voices are continuously ignored by several elected officials sitting here today.
 By limiting the amount of money an individual can donate to a campaign, we are also limiting the amount of power they will hold over a candidate's platform. We want our elected city officials to be able to focus on reaching their deliverables to the people who voted for them, not for the person who signed the biggest check. Officials must prioritize the needs of the community they were elected to serve, not the needs of those who put the most money in their pocket.
 I ask you to listen to your community today by voting in favor of item 52. Thank you. Item 53. I support item 53. Publicly financing our candidates allows more diversity and true representation of our community.
 It allows for a more equal electoral race, especially for citizens who want to run but cannot sell funds or solicit funds from wealthy Opascoans, requiring 1% of registered voters to provide support for a candidate, and their district maintains the relationship a candidate has with their constituents.
 We want our council members to spend their time listening to us, understanding our needs, and making progress towards community-driven solutions. Please vote in favor of item number 23. Thank you. Item number 54. I support item 54. The city reported it spent over $750,000 for the December 2020 runoff election.
 By eliminating runoffs, the proposition would save taxpayers money and help decrease the workload asked of the city clerk's office. Eliminating runoff elections would also allow for a more representative voter turnout.
 Only 13% of voters turned out for the city's runoff election in December 2020, and that included the mayor's race. Ranked choice voting is more fair, just, and inclusive as it gives voters more choices. Voters can express their preferences knowing their second choice will count as their first choice does not continue into the runoff.
 This minimizes the feeling of having your vote wasted and in turn incentivizes the community to vote. Studies have shown that ranked choice voting promotes more inclusive, diverse, and representative elections. Ranked choice voting would allow us to have a city council that is more representative of El Paso's community. I ask that you please vote in favor of item number 54. Thank you. Thank you. And Janet Flores. Thank you.
 mayor pro tem that concludes public comment on these items thank you miss prime um alternate mayor hernandez i believe you have the floor yes thank you i have i do have a motion to read and to the record um and first and foremost i do want to thank all of your time that you spent here today i know it could be incredibly tiring so i appreciate your sacrifice
 And I'm not sure if other members of council have any questions on the motion that I'll present here today. But I do want to emphasize that this body is committed to upholding and ensuring that we are committed to democracy and fulfilling all the roles of democracy within our parameters. And I know that myself and maybe others
 may be concerned with any legal challenges as written and in the form that's been submitted. And so, and I do know that the city charter allows for a secondary approach that's afforded to you to the organizers of the petition. And so for those reasons, I move to direct, excuse me, I'm losing my voice.
 i move to direct the city manager and the city attorney's office to create a cross-functional team to explore and develop a fair campaign elections ordinance that are within the local the legal parameters established by the federal state local laws and that are prescribed by the city of el paso strategic plan and present an update at a future work session meeting for the first meeting in december of this year 2022. second
 Can you repeat the motion, Ms. Pride? Yes. The motion is to direct the city manager and city attorney's office to create a cross-functional team to explore and develop a fair campaign elections ordinance that are within the legal parameters established by the federal, state, local laws and that are prescribed by the City of El Paso strategic plan and present an update at a future work session meeting for the first meeting in December 2022. Thank you.
 Yeah, I second it. There is a motion read into the record by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Lizardaga, and this is for items 52, 53, and 54. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Rodriguez, you have a question? Yes, thank you. City Attorney Ms. Neiman, just to verify this motion is not approving the motion.
 the ordinance is, it's just simply asking you to come back with legal clarifications. To create a cross-functional team and come back with legal clarifications, correct? That's correct. It would allow us to come back with a proposal that would follow in line within federal, state, and local law. Okay, but we are not. You are not approving the ordinance, correct. Okay, thank you. Mayor Pro Tem Shortspine. I don't see Mayor Pro Tem Shortspine in the meeting.
 representative Rivera has also left the meeting in the voting session and the motion passes 5 to 1 with representatives on a lower non-dismal in our Rodriguez Lisa Raga voting I representative Salcido voting nay representative shorts fine and Rivera not present the motion carries we're ready to proceed
 i do just have one quick clarifying question because it'll be a question that's out there mrs nieman do you um do we do you need any official action from this body today um as relates to the adoption of the ordinance no ma'am the the motion is read into the record and approved by council is sufficient for us to keep working okay and then um and i'm sorry uh mayor pro tem for the follow-up questions i just want to be able to answer potential questions that are from the public
 Do if this action if you will would allow the secondary process of the City Charter petition process for them to collect their signatures Yes, if they so choose to do to do so to collect the second set of signatures on the charter they can thank you I'm sorry My understanding was that we would also need to take a vote on these items and so with that if that's not the case, I would like to reconsider the item and
 i don't know if there's a second but i was told that we would have to take a final vote on the items second can you repeat your comment
 Representative yeah I thought we were going to have to approve or deny the three items considering yeah so I didn't realize that we would not be taking a subsequent vote and so if we're not going to take a subsequent vote I would like to reconsider the items I'm sorry I stand corrected representative and 111 is Kristen Hamilton just explained to me that the council does need to take an affirmative action one way or another on the on the actual ordinances okay so I move to as written in its current form
 There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, and this is to deny the adoption of ordinances on items 52, 53, and 54. On that motion, call for the vote. Excuse me, Representative Rodriguez has a question.
 Thank you. So I think we kind of owe it to the members of the public that are here. We were gone for, I believe, two hours. I'm not sure we were there for such a long time. To let them know how we pretty much came to this conclusion. You know, last time somebody just said that we were in favor of democracy. We're still in favor of democracy. This is step one. Is there any way that either you, Ms. Seaman, or...
 our outside counsel can explain to the public the process of how this is going to work. So in other words, in the chart, the amendment that they're trying to make, the ordinance that they're trying to pass,
 The first step was to bring it to us and we could either accept or deny and then second process would be for them to go back and get signatures and at that point it's being sent out to the voters. Correct at the second point if the if if council denies if you all take the vote and and.
 don't approve the three ordinances, they still have the option of coming back with a second set of signatures and submitting it to the clerk's office for verification. At that point, the item comes back to council and then council,
 votes to decide whether it goes to the voters and at that point, you know, we're still exercising democracy Correct. And at that point I also think that it extends the the value of this Ordinance to the greater public right because now it gives an opportunity for all of El Paso to vote Versus I believe you all said you got 14,000 signatures. So
 Okay, and I understand it's a lot of work, but the point I'm trying to make is 14,000 signatures is what percentage of the total registered voters? Do you know, Ms.? Per the way the initiative is written in the city charter, it's 5% of those who voted in the last general election. Okay, so I think that there's an opportunity here, you know, if this is something that
 we all truly believe in to extend it out to the rest of El Paso and give a choice to them as well. I think it's really important that we don't forget the legal issues that this ordinance may have and it would be really reckless or irresponsible of us to just adopt it as written. So I do believe that we are gonna go through the process with you all and hopefully this will make it out to the ballots.
 and people will be able to hear you all and make this decision and side with you all. So thank you. Ms. Carbajal, you don't have permission to speak right now. Ms. Neiman, could you? Members of council, if you would prefer that we have a discussion through outside council to give them a very basic understanding without disclosing any of the attorney-client communication, we're prepared to do that. Yes, we would like that. Thank you very much. Mr. Zach, can you hear me?
 Representative Anilla wants to say something first. I just want to say to the public, I completely understand your frustration. You know, this has been in the hands of our staff for 20-something days. I know that you have asked for reasonable amendments.
 No one has obviously reached out to you or made you understand. And so I'm glad that outside counsel is going to address you all now. But I do agree. I think that these could be passed and conversations could be had and amendments could be made. And so I apologize that this is the way that this is happening at 7 o'clock at night. Good evening, counsel. Charlie Zek, Denton O'Byrne, Rocha Bernal, and Zek. I'm going to give – I'm basically going to give a very high-level statement as –
 Your city attorney mentioned I don't want to release any attorney-client privilege communications But I will give a very high level view of what the law says with respect to camp limitations on campaign contributions Which is proposition a proposition B being the campaign public campaign financing program and then proposition C being ranked choice voting campaign contribution limits are legal if done appropriately and
 To be done appropriately, they have to be done within the constraints of federal law and the United States Constitution. Campaign contribution limits implements First Amendment rights for the citizens and for the candidates and for the individuals donating to campaigns. Those rights are political, rights of political association and rights of political expression.
 The United States Supreme Court has stated that you can legally, under the Constitution, without violating someone's First Amendment rights, implement campaign contribution limitations so long as you...
 determined that the appropriate reasons have been determined that that necessitates those campaign contribution limitations and that that those campaign contribution limitations are structured in a way that does not prevent the candidates from having an effective campaign
 That's a high level view of what the courts require to be shown in order to adopt campaign contribution limitations. It's my understanding that your vote, your earlier vote today was to give direction to city staff to begin the analysis under the structures of the law to bring back proposals that would comply with those requirements under the Supreme Court guidance.
 With respect to Proposition B, and to say that that analysis has not been completed by this body, I think would be an obvious statement because the proposed ordinance has been presented by petition rather than analysis by this body. With respect to the public funding program.
 The issue with Proposition B is the fact that this, unlike the City of Austin Ordinance, which creates a public funding program, this ordinance actually requires that tax dollars be utilized in the campaign funding program. And Texas law, both in statute and in the Constitution,
 creates potential hurdles in using tax dollars for campaign funding. The Texas Constitution prohibits the use of public dollars for a private purpose. There is no case law or any guidance currently in Texas law that says that
 the use of public funds for campaign contributions is an appropriate public purpose. That's not to say that it isn't, but there isn't any guidance in Texas law with respect to the use of tax dollars for purposes of campaign financing. The second is, is Texas law by statute prohibits employees of a city or officers of a municipality to utilize public funds for political advertising. And so as a result,
 Without further analysis and determination and structuring of this ordinance, it is potential that an incumbent who is running for office would be affected by that law. It is a law that carries with it a crime.
 So if an incumbent who is an officer of the city utilizes tax dollars through this program for political advertising, they could be committing a crime. On the other hand, a candidate who is not an incumbent, who is not an officer, and who is not an employee could potentially use those tax dollars without threat of a crime, and there you have an imbalance with respect to the use of those dollars. So it needs to be structured in a way to ensure that there is no violation of statute,
 To ensure that we're not not violating the Texas Constitution finally ranked choice voting the Texas Constitution and Texas statutes prohibit ranked choice voting the city of Austin has indeed Adopted ranked choice voting. However, they're not utilizing ranked choice voting because currently state law in the Texas Constitution is
 I don't know if the Texas Constitution prohibits the city of Boston, but it certainly would prohibit the city of El Paso from utilizing ranked choice voting with your current structure. Is that sufficient? I'm trying to give a high level view without getting into too many details. Charlie, could you explain about the population of El Paso? Certainly.
 The Texas, it was mentioned by a couple of the speakers, the Texas legislature adopted a statute that says all cities over 200,000 must utilize, must be elected by a majority vote.
 And back in 2001, Henry Cuellar, who was then Secretary of State, opined, and I agree with this opinion, for whatever it's worth, that majority vote means the traditional sense of majority vote. That is, you have an election. If you don't get a majority vote, you go to a runoff, and then between the top two voters and whoever gets the majority vote is the person who is elected. And that's for cities that have the population? Populations of over 200,000. Yes, ma'am.
 And so right now Texas law would preempt any ranked choice voting. Thank you. Council, there is a motion and a second to deny the ordinances on items 52, 53, and 54. The voting session is open. In the voting session, the motion passes 4-2 with representatives Hernandez, Molinar, Rodriguez, Lizaga voting aye, representative Duran, Rivera, and Soto.
 and Salcido voting nay and representatives Rivera and Shorthine not present Mayor Proctor may we go back to where we left off on the agenda yes ma'am can we postpone items 36 and 37 two weeks yes I believe that's is that all right Mr. Wistaff
 Yes that's fine that's not a problem we'll postpone items 36 and 37 for two weeks. Can we put those on our work session or do we need to have those on a Tuesday meeting? We'll have a look at the agenda and see where they fit in but we'll postpone them for two weeks whether if I'm not I would have to check with Ms. Prine whether it can go on work session or if it has to go on the regular agenda but we'll. If you postpone them two weeks they have to be brought back on the regular agenda you can delete them. So I will just delete yeah I'm going to delete. Second. Thank you.
 And this was to delete correct. There's a motion made by representative Manalo seconded by Representative Hernandez and this is to delete items 36 and 37 on that motion call for the vote. Miss Pranit says deny is that OK. Yes. In the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representative Schwarzbein Rivera not present
 That brings us to the next items and this is the introduction of ordinances. These are items 41 to 45. Move to approve. And move to introduce. There is a motion made by Representative Anelo, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 41 to 45. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 The next item is number 46 and this is discussion in action that the purchasing and strategic sourcing director is authorized to notify Perican Enterprises LLC that the city is terminating contract 2021-1146 for the construction of the Hondo Pass Collection Station effective October 18, 2022.
 Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item 46. The motion was made by Representative Hernandez. I'm not supporting this item, so I would like that corrected. Thank you. I'm sorry. The motion was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item 46. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 Next item is 47 and this is discussion in action on the request that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue a purchase order to a life insurance company referencing contract 2017 dash 1357 our self-funded comprehensive health plan administration Stop loss employee assistance program and fully insured supplemental benefit plan move to approve. I
 There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve. Item 47 on that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes 5-1. Representative Anello voting nay. Representatives Hernandez, Molinar, Salcido, Rodriguez, Lizárraga voting aye. Representatives Schwartzbein and Rivera not present. The motion does pass.
 Next item is number 48 and this is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call professional services agreement to perform architectural services on a test by test basis between the city of El Paso and the following six consultants
 Alvarez Architecture Inc., Brown Reynolds Watford Architects Inc., Carl Daniel Architects Inc., Countryman and Company PLLC, In-Situ Architecture PLLC, and M&K Architects Inc. I move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Añelo, seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve item number 48 on that motion. Call for the vote.
 And the voting session and the vote motion passes unanimously representatives Rivera and Schwartz by not present the next item is number 49 This is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2022 dash zero six seven eight job order contracting and facilities construction to belly's company LLC DBA babies construction Keystone GC LLC and Jordan Foster construction LLC move to approve. I
 There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve item 49 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Schwartzbein-Rivera not present.
 That brings us to item number 50, and this is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2022-0747 Rojas Drive Whitening to International Eagle Enterprise, Inc. Move to approve. Second. Motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve item number 50. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Shoresby Rivera not present. That brings us to item 51 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance renewing and extending the special privilege license granted to the United States of America acting by and through the Department of Navy Naval Facilities Engineering Command Southeast as owner of the Naval Operations Support Center in El Paso. Move to approve. Second.
 There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Hernandez to adopt the ordinance on item 51. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. We've taken 52, 53, 54. Items 55, 56, 57 were deleted.
 Item 58 has been taken that brings us to item 59 Lutero proof second and this is discussion in action requesting City Council support for the staff recommended project Selected to submit for the reconnecting communities pilot RCP discretionary grant program There is a motion made by representative at an on this second by representative I'm Nello to approve on that motion call for the vote. I
 the voting session and the motion passes unanimously Representative shorts by Javita not present the next item is number 60 And this is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign the first amendment to 2019 dash 607 our management of fixed transit services and contracted service for lift paratransit solicitation between the city of El Paso and MV contract and
 transportation proof second there's a motion made by representative anello seconded by representative hernandez to approve item number 60 on that motion call for the vote and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously for georgia towards fine andrea not present and ex1
 No action. Thank you. There's no action on EX1. Move to adjourn. Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Yes. Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, October 11, 2022 is adjourned at 6.48 p.m. Thank you, Mayor Potem. Lizada. Thank you all. Thank you so much. Have a good evening.