Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, October 25, 2022. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding inside council chambers, along with Representative Anello, Representative Hernandez, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, and Alternate Mayor Potem Lizárraga.
 It is 9 o'clock a.m., and I will, everyone, please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting, and rise for the invocation delivered by Police Chaplain and Sun Valley Baptist Pastor Dennis Coughlin. Thank you for the opportunity to open this meeting in prayer, and I pray that you would all bow with me as we go to the Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, I thank you for the opportunity to come before this council and to pray together.
 And I just pray that you would give them each wisdom and guidance and understanding as they seek to do your will for our great city. And I pray that you would watch over this time, and we give it all over to you. And I pray that you would keep these members safe and their families, just watch over them. And I just thank you, Father, for the love that you have for us and your mercy and your grace. Give them again wisdom.
 Father, that all that is said and done here this morning would be in your will. I pray for those who, as early voting started, that everyone would take their and utilize their opportunity, their desires. And we thank you for that freedom that you have given to us in this country. And we just commend this time over to you. And we thank you for your mercy, your grace, and your love and the forgiveness you have given us in Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
 Thank you. And for the record, Representative Rivera is also present in council chambers. Good morning, everyone. And I know that...
 This month is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month and I think it's important that, I know we're going to have a proclamation and there's things we're going to talk about, but I think it's important to know that any type of cancer we need to be aware of and to make sure that we continue to test and look and make sure that everybody understands the severity of any type of cancer.
 As we do celebrate National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, let's be aware of other symptoms, other signals that will help us. And, you know, in El Paso, we have a lot of sun, and it does create a lot of problems for people. So I do want to have everyone have a moment of silence, pray, for making sure that everyone that's been affected
 One way or another, whether it's a family member, yourself, a friend, or anyone, for a quick and prompt and successful recovery. Thank you, and may God bless everyone, and may God bless our wonderful city. Ms. Pryne. Thank you, Mayor. And Mayor Pro Tempore, it's running a few minutes late this morning. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is tied on line, 50th year anniversary and celebration week of UTEP's 1974 first women's volleyball and basketball teams.
 Representative Molinar. Good morning.
 Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas Congress passed Title IX in response to the market educational inequalities women faced prior to the 1970s. Title IX was signed into law in 1972 as it outlawed gender discrimination in all publicly supported educational programs, and whereas in the 50 years since its passage, Title IX has expanded opportunities for women and girls in sports and in the science, technology, engineering, and math,
 STEM fields. And whereas the very first UTEP women's volleyball and basketball teams in 1974 are being honored as groundbreakers, paving the way for countless opportunities for UTEP female student athletes for many years to come. And whereas the UTEP women's volleyball team members were coach Kevin Sherlin and players Lisa Allert,
 Phelps, Zebra Hemet-Wills, Gloria Estrada, Kathy Dickinson, Linda Bagby-Gomez, Sylvia Montano, Lily Ponick-Garrett,
 Monica Robb, Linda Gwynn Carter, Rosalia Lally, Marques Chavez, Barbara Grimpey, and whereas the UTEP women's basketball team members were head coach Carol Omerman, assistant coach Wayne Thornton, and players Gloria Estrada, Kathy Dickinson, Sylvia Montano, Linda Bagby Gomez,
 Lily Ponick-Barr, Linda Gwynn Carter, Shirley Acosta, Leanne Richel Beck, Emma Berry Marksdale, Lupe Garcia, Terry Anderson, Angie Sierra Sanders, Rosa Rodriguez, Judy Marsh,
 Zibia Bailey, Cindy Jackson, Sherry Crane, and whereas a special thanks goes to UTEP athletic director Jim Bowden and to Donald Lewis for their visionary ideals back in 1974 and whereas both teams were recognized by the El Paso Athletic
 Hall of Fame on September the 24th through the support of UTEP's president Dr. Heather Wilson and UTEP's athletic director Mr. Jim Center and inducted in UTEP's Hall of Fame and now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council
 of the city of El Paso that the week of October the 23rd, 2023 shall be known as title time 50th year anniversary and celebration week of UTEP's 1974 first women's volleyball and basketball teams. Signed, the Honorable Oscar Leaser, Mayor of the City of El Paso. Good morning, sir. You wanna put it around our necks? For the record, Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine is also present in council chambers.
 Now, the only question I'm going to have to ask is that if, was Wayne a good assistant coach as he was a basketball player? Wait, I got a giggle out of that, Mr. Thornton. Wayne and I played basketball together in 1977, and I know he loved UTEP, and he loved sports, and one of the, you know, I want to thank you all for what you all did, and, you know, I know that, you know,
 back in the 70s it wasn't as easy as we see today and it's equal equality as we see today which uh you know thank goodness that uh title nine and other uh things have happened to make sure that equality in sports has happened and and um i thank you all for you know being there and uh having the vision and um congratulations and i'm trying to picture wayne though 50 years ago so
 yeah what's somebody like to speak okay Katherine Dickinson and I graduated from Coronado high school and that's okay Zobora Hemet Wills and I graduated from Austin high school Leanne Richel Beck from El Paso high
 Lily Panikvar, there you go, from Coronado High School. Sylvia Montano, I'm also a Panther, and just to say thank you for everything all of y'all do for us, okay? Thank you. Emma Barry Barstow from Lovington, New Mexico, a UTEP grad. Gloria Estrada, Fabens High School. Go Wildcats! Thank you.
 I'm Sherry Acosta from Austin High School, home of the Panthers, and thank you for all you do. Go Miners! Thank you, and all of you all look like you could play again today. I think, uh... Huh? Yeah, well, that's right. Ladies and gentlemen, the ladies behind me are the original Dream Team. We all know, and we use the word Dream Team, but these young ladies truly are the Dream Team, and I want to thank them for what they accomplished back 48 years ago.
 and in this great city if you see these ladies just to say two words just say thank you because they overcame so much at that time and they were so special and you know uh special thanks to utep president dr heather wilson and to athletic director jim center because of 1980 1974 these ladies never received a leather jacket so on september 24th they were inducted into utep hall of fame along with that they were each given
 a souvenir leather jacket as you see here today. So on behalf of Carol Ammerman, the head basketball coach for the women at that time, along with Kevin Sherlin, who was the head volleyball coach at that time, and I was very fortunate to be a part of something very special at that time before I started my 43-year career with the El Paso Parks and Recreation Department. But it's something I will never forget, and I will never forget these young ladies. And I just want to say one thing to all of you. Title IX.
 It's more than a Roman numeral. Title IX highlights the fact that women are the saviors of our life. Women are the saviors of our world. And women are the saviors of our heart and our soul. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. God bless and go Miners. Thank you. Thank you and congratulations for having the vision to where we're at today. If it wasn't for you all, I can't see women's sports being where it is today. So thank you again.
 the next proclamation is red ribbon week representative the proclamation of the city of el paso whereas communities across america have been plagued by the numerous problems associated with illicit drug use and those that traffic them and whereas there is hope in winning the war on drugs and that hope lies in education and drug demand reduction coupled with the hard work and determination of organizations such as the west texas young marines
 of the Marine Corps League to foster a healthy, drug-free lifestyle. And whereas governments and community leaders know that citizen support is one of the most effective tools in the effort to reduce the use of illicit drugs in our communities, and whereas the red ribbon has been chosen as a symbol commemorating the work of Enrique
 Camarena, a Drug Enforcement Administration Special Agent who was murdered in the line of duty and represents the belief that one person can make a difference. And whereas the Red Ribbon Campaign was established by Congress in 1988 to encourage a drug-free lifestyle and involvement in drug prevention and reduction efforts.
 And whereas October 23rd through October 31st has been designated National Red Ribbon Week, which encourages Americans to wear a red ribbon to show their support for a drug-free environment. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that October 3rd through the 31st, 2022, shall be known as Red Ribbon Week, signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. We would love for you all to come up and say a couple of words, please.
 And introduce your name, please, as well. Hi, my name is Staff Sergeant Rivera. I would like to thank you for officially recognizing this week, and we hope the rest of the youth of El Paso will follow and wear red ribbon in honor of Kiki Camarera. Thank you. Y'all want to introduce yourselves? Come on up. My name is Sergeant Vasquez, and I just want to say thank you for approving this event.
 proclamation we're gonna try to strive higher and maybe get it accepted to even higher areas to maybe Texas and maybe one day the entire United States thank you
 good morning ladies and gentlemen my name is uh netty sunny settles i am the unit commander for the west texas young marines and i want to thank you all for having us here and be able to have this proclamation on behalf of the west texas young marines it is an honor to be able to show the city and the youth that we have a group of children that are continuing pushing forward and honoring kiki camarena
 and striving against the war against drugs. I appreciate it so much. Thank you. Thank you, Millie. Thank you very much, and it's important what you all do, and we want to thank you, and thank you for being here. The next proclamation is Isleta Education Foundation Week. Representative Salcido. No, that's Isleta. Isleta. Oh, I'm sorry. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation for the City of El Paso, Texas.
 Whereas the Sleda Education Foundation has been operating for over 30 years providing scholarships to exemplary graduating seniors from the Sleda Independent School District YISD which is attended Bel Air, Del Valle, Eastwood, Hanks, Parkland Riverside, Via Verde Early College, Young Women's Leadership Academy and the Sleda High Schools within the Sleda Independent School District.
 And whereas in partnership with YISD Board of Trustees, YISD Superintendent Javier de la Torre, YISD employees Allstate Insurance, Oscar Aguileta, Dell Technologies, El Paso Electric, Hunt Family Foundation, and Isleta del Sur Pueblo, the Isleta Education Foundation recognizes the goal of its board of directors in raising funds for scholarships and fulfilling dreams. And whereas,
 Donations made to the Isleta Education Foundation in the last 30 years have totaled $4.5 million, and 1,888 scholarships have been granted to students pursuing a college education. And whereas Education Foundation scholars are academically ambitious, and nearly 60% are first-generation college students who enroll to some of the most selective colleges and universities in the nation,
 These scholars are awarded based on three categories, which are academics, community service, and overcoming life challenges.
 And, whereas, we are proud of the Saleta Foundation scholars who have successfully pursued a higher education to include 55 students who earned a doctoral degree, 184 students who earned a master's degree, 674 students who earned a bachelor's degree, and 154 students who earned an associate's degree.
 We honor the unceasing dedication of the Isleta Education Foundation and recognize the donors, scholars, staff, and board of directors. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that October 16th through October 22nd, 2022, shall be known as Isleta Education Foundation Week. Thank you. Signed by Oscar Lizar. Mayor Oscar Lizar. Lizar.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and city reps. My name is Marcella, and I'm the board president. I've been for three years. I've been on the board for 12. So instead of standing here talking about Jeff, I'm going to have a video of one of the young men. He's at Harvard right now, so he's a scholarship recipient. And then I have another young lady. She'll tell her story as well. So if we can get the video going, we'll see. Gilberto.
 That's cool. Hello, I am Gilberto Lopez Jimenez and I am a graduate of Del Valle High School, Class of 2021 and also a recipient of the Cintia Reza Memorial Scholarship. I'm thankful for the Ucelata Education Foundation and the scholarship that they provided to me because it has been able to help me with a lot of personal expenses. Since my time I got here, living in Boston can be very expensive.
 something definitely my low-income family cannot afford. And so I've been able to use my funds for things like textbooks and hopefully soon now a jacket because it's also gets very cold here during the winter. So once again to the Eastside Independent School District, the Eastside Education Foundation, and you know the Eastside community in general and the Hawaii especially, thank you so much. Hello. So I am... Thank you. And now I have Asia and her mom.
 SPEAKER 1 Good morning. My name is Asia Magallanes. I am a proud graduate of Isleta High School class of 2020. I am currently a senior at the University of Texas at El Paso.
 where I am pursuing a bachelor's degree in criminal justice with a double minor in intelligence and national security studies and mathematics. Through the Isleta Education Foundation, I was awarded the Allstate Foundation Scholarship. This scholarship has helped me financially by providing me the technology needed to complete my coursework. I also use this scholarship to offset the cost of tuition and textbooks. Receiving this scholarship has motivated me to stay focused on my studies so that I can complete my degree and pursue my dream of working with the FBI.
 I anticipate graduating in December of 2023. I would like to extend my gratitude toward the Isleta Education Foundation, Mr. Arrieta from Allstate, and the generous donors that support the educational dreams of students like me. Without the Isleta Education Foundation, I would not be where I am today. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Gloria Magallanes, and I am just very grateful for the opportunity for my daughter. She worked hard while in high school, and the award she received served to motivate her to succeed as a sign of gratitude to the many generous donors in the Isleta Education Foundation. We both truly appreciate the investment toward her future. So thank you again. We also have a golf tournament November 4th, if you all want to sign up.
 Thank you so much. Thank you. And the final proclamation is National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Representative Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas National Breast Cancer Awareness Month is an annual campaign in increasing awareness of disease through community outreach, public education, collaboration between organizations, advocacy and research in El Paso.
 and whereas the Rio Grande Center Foundation is dedicated to reducing the human and economic impact of cancer on the citizens of El Paso County through the financial support and development of effective programs for advocacy, education, early detection, and other services to cancer patients and their families, and whereas the Rio Grande
 Cancer Foundation is the foremost center for the enhancing the quality of life for those affected by cancer. And whereas the National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, the Rio Grande Cancer Foundation reaffirms its commitment to support local organizations in order to provide breast health, breast cancer services including education, awareness, early detection, resources, support services,
 and whereas the Rio Grande Center Foundation promises to serve the women and men of El Paso County, especially those who are medically under-insured and uninsured, and whereas the Rio Grande Cancer Center declares its solidarity with breast cancer survivors, co-survivors, advocates, health care workers,
 researchers by observing National Breast Cancer Awareness Month in the city of El Paso now therefore be a proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that the month of October shall be known as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser.
 Mayor, Council, thank you for having us here today and thank you so much for the proclamation. So yes, my name is Carol Henry, but my married name is Boli, but because Mayor Leaser and I go back a long way, it's always fun to throw all those histories in there. But I am the director of the Rio Grande Cancer Foundation. So during this month across our great city, we've had numerous organizations, including hair salons.
 public and private schools, restaurants, sports bars and breweries hold events and do what they can to bring awareness to breast cancer. Breast cancer can affect you at any age. Of course increasing age is the greatest risk but just because you're under the age of 60 does not mean that you cannot get breast cancer.
 Mammograms, of course, are the best method for early detection, and the earlier you can catch breast cancer, the better the chance of it being treatable. So my message to you all and to the entire community is please schedule a mammogram in solidarity with all the women and men, mothers, sisters, friends, and neighbors who are courageously fighting this disease.
 I'D LIKE TO INTRODUCE YOU TO DIANE MEDINA WHO WILL SHARE WITH YOU HOW THE RIO GRANDE CANCER FOUNDATION CAN SUPPORT THOSE GOING THROUGH A BREAST CANCER JOURNEY. GOOD MORNING. GOOD MORNING, EVERYONE. MY NAME IS DIANE MEDINA AND I'M THE PROGRAM ASSISTANT AT THE RIO GRANDE CANCER FOUNDATION. AT RGCF WE ARE COMMITTED TO SERVING OUR BREAST CANCER COMMUNITY THROUGH PROVIDING SERVICES THROUGH OUR PROGRAMS.
 Forty percent of the women that we serve through PATHS and Four Seasons have had a breast cancer diagnosis. Through these programs, they are free of charge to everyone. We are able to provide financial assistance, wigs, mastectomy garments, and prosthetics. Thank you. Thank you. I just want to thank you again for having us here today. Thank you. Ms. Prine?
 Yes, and if we can ask all the honorees to please remain in chambers. Council would like the opportunity to take a photo with you once all the recognitions have been completed. Thank you. Thank you. That brings us to the consent agenda. Thank you.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem, and I just want to watch part of the meeting yesterday, and thank you for your leadership. You did a wonderful job. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Proposed revisions for the October 25, 2022 meeting as of 9-10 a.m. Page 3, item 2, delete.
 Page 7, item 22, move to the forefront of the agenda per Representative Anello. Page 9, item 33, take after item 23 per Representative Rivera. Page 11, item 40, delete per Communications and Public Affairs. Page 12, item 41, postpone two weeks per Representative Anello. And page 13, item 47, delete per the City Manager's Office. Those are the revisions I have. Councilor, are there any other revisions at this time?
 Yes, okay I'd also like to move item item 23 What would you like to do it? I'd like to move item 23 after representative Rivera's item Okay, and I would ask rep another since we both have resolution So if you want to wait for that or you I've got one before you you want to go first. It's okay I think that's the way it's set up
 Right now we have item 21 followed by 22 followed by 23 followed by 33 So that's the way it's set up anyway. Yes, so there's no need to change that I do recognize what Representative Rivera is saying because my item is a little bit more somber than the others I think it may make sense to take that one Go ahead with that So it would be 22, 21, 23 Thank you Representative Rivera Okay, is there a second?
 There's a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion call for the vote. Mayor Pro Tem. Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item 22 is that correct? No Miss Pynne we're going to take 22 last of the three revisions. I got it. Okay so that brings us to item 21.
 Item 21 is discussion and action on a resolution that the city of El Paso proudly honors and recognizes the Detroit Iron Street Memories and Borderland Muscle Car Clubs for their positive contributions and volunteer work in the community of El Paso and this item was submitted by Representative Rivera. Mayor? Thank you. Mr. Guerrero, can you come up? We all have the perceptions of car clubs being tough, troublemakers and all.
 But this is a group that I think we can all be proud of and at all times are helping their community in some sort of way. So I felt this was necessary. So I start with, whereas in 1982 Angel O'Keefe founded and has since then been – sorry, I'm glad I started again.
 Whereas in 1982, Angel Ortiz founded and has since then been the president of the Detroit Iron Car Club with Rob Bender now serving as vice president. And whereas in 1995, the Streetcar Memories Club Car Club was founded and since 2013, John Guerrero has served as president with Jesus Hughes as vice president and Lalo Rivera as media relations director and Ken Murphy as sergeant at arms.
 Whereas in 2015, Robert Piscinio founded the Border Town Muscle Car Club and Mike Nunez now serves as president. And whereas in 2019, the three organizations formed Three Car Club where they interact, gather together, but remain autonomous. And whereas the goal of the Three Car Club is to help the community, persons with life-threatening illnesses, and help charitable organizations raise funds by displaying their classic rides.
 And whereas to date, the three-car club has raised over $13,000 for retired police officers with more reaching out for assistance. Whereas the three-car club has participated in many car shows for the El Pasoans Fighting Hunger Food Bank, the Alzheimer's Association, and the Christmas Trails for Toys, a group of Socorro Independent School District mothers that collect toys, food, and clothing for needy families in the Mission Valley.
 And whereas this year on October 23rd, in partnership with the District 7 office, and thanks to several partner sponsorships from Alberta Vieta, Allstate Insurance Agency, Advanced Auto Collision, El Paso Mail and Print Service, Five Star Collision, AGO Logistics, and Fanatics Bar and Grill,
 THE DETROIT IRON CAR CLUB, THE STREET MEMORIES CAR CLUB, AND THE BORDER TOWN MUSCLE CAR CLUB WERE ABLE TO HOST A TRUNK OR TREAT CAR SHOW TO BENEFIT THE ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION OF EL PASO AND ALSO PARTICIPATE IN THE 2022 WALK TO END ALZHEIMER'S AT LAVINIA WINERY ON OCTOBER 22, 2022. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL PASO THAT THE CITY OF EL PASO PROUDLY HONORS AND RECOGNIZES DETROIT IRON AND
 street memories and border town muscle car clubs for their positive contributions and Volunteer work in the community of El Paso. Thank you. Thank you with that. I make this motion to approve Second y'all want to speak from sir? We're all ready to take you on outside any one of you come on These old-timers who are ready to get it up. Thank you very much mayor Lisa. We saw you at the national light out for the police officers and
 I served with these two young men here in the police department. These people behind me, Gracie, Ken, Lalo, Ray, it takes a lot to put on a car show. You know, it's, everybody thinks you just go and you look at the show and it's a good time and all that, but we put in countless hours and we make ourselves available, and I put this out to all of you. We make ourselves available to any charitable organization, any person that is suffering
 We saw on Channel 7 last night that a young lady is suffering from a very rare form of cancer in Las Cruces. We've been in communication with them and we're getting ready to head out that way and raise some funds for them. So again, thank you very much. It's very much appreciated. It's an honor to help the people that are less fortunate than we are. And like the Mayor said, there's different types of cancer.
 all kinds of diseases that we are there for. Thank you very much. And my friend George would say muchas gracias. Can you all identify yourselves? Before you all, can you all identify yourselves? I'm sorry? My name is Lalo Rivera, and I'm with Street Memories, and I just want to thank you all. Thank you. I'm Ray Rivera, brother over here, and primo over here with Street Memories. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm Ken Murphy with Street Memories, and I want to thank you, Mayor, Council, for everything. Thank you. I'm Gracie Nunez, and on behalf of my husband, Michael Nunez, and Boarder Tom Muzzle, we thank you. Thank you. Thank you, and thank you for what you all do, and thank you for believing in our community. And Mayor and Council, I just want you all to know that this past weekend's event raised over $1,000 for Alzheimer's. Thank you. Thank you. Are you ready, Representative Chattanooga?
 There is a motion and a second to approve the resolution on item 21. The motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. Thank you, Representative Nizaraga. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. We're now going to item 23. Thank you.
 item 23 is discussion in action on a resolution that the city council recognizes the month of october as breast cancer awareness month and this item was submitted by representative rodriguez good morning and thank you everybody the melendez family will you please come up to the podium
 And while they make their way up, I just want to say that, you know, Esther and I go back a really long time. I met her when I was a freshman in Mottwood, and she was a sophomore. We were both in the A team. And she was my, I think she was like my big sister kind of thing, where she was the one that took me under her ropes and she taught me. So I'm very proud of her, and I'm very happy to be doing this for you today, for you and your family. So...
 Whereas, October is known as Breast Cancer Awareness Month, an annual campaign to raise awareness about the impact of breast cancer. And whereas, in 2020, an estimated 276,480 new cases of invasive breast cancer were diagnosed in women in the United States, as well as 48,530 new cases of non-invasive breast cancer.
 In October 2020, during a worldwide pandemic more commonly known as COVID-19, Esther Melendez, a then 37 year old mother, daughter, sister, friend, cheer coach and wife was diagnosed with stage three breast cancer.
 And whereas Esther Melendez began her journey with treatment that included six weeks of radiation, followed by five years of treatment at the El Paso, Texas Oncology Clinic, with the support from her family and friends, staying strong under the constant reminder, prayer, this too shall pass.
 And whereas Esther Melendez, a strong Latina female presence in the city of El Paso, a resident of District 6, a Motwood alumni, and a woman who has committed to giving back to her community when she first started her team, CheerForce, back in 2018, when she was first approached by the city of El Paso's Parks and Recreation Department to start a city team.
 and whereas upon accepting to volunteer her time as a cheer coach Esther began to cultivate and grow the program at Marty Robbins Rec Center where the success of the program outgrew the space available for the young cheer athletes and coach Esther had to move the team to a larger facility to keep up with the demanding growth for aspiring young cheerleaders in the cheer force program grew to over a hundred athletes from the original twelve and whereas
 Esther has always been about giving back to the community, either by being a devoted coach or by being an involved leader. Esther has taught her team about the importance of giving back to the community through the means of volunteering by hosting an annual canned food drive during the month of November.
 And whereas even though her battle with cancer and all the challenges that chemotherapy brings about, Esther, a 37-year-old young mother, young wife, and a young coach, persevered and pushed forward for the success of those around her, including her children, her husband, but especially for the young cheer athletes she proudly serves.
 And whereas presently even though Esther is still in battle with breast cancer, she is letting cancer know that she is not a victim of cancer but instead proudly stands with the thousands of women across our country to tell her story and to let cancer know that it will not stop her from living her life to the fullest. She will not give up and she will prevail.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved that the City Council of the City of El Paso, one, recognizes the month of October as Breast Cancer Awareness Month, and two, thanks Esther Melendez for her service to El Paso Parks and Recreation by investing and devoting herself to cheer force athletics, and three, stands with Esther Melendez in her battle to beat breast cancer. God bless you and congratulations, you already won. Would you like to say something?
 Hi, thank you so much. Good morning, everyone. And thank you so much for having me. I want to bring awareness more to this awful disease that no matter how old you are, no matter your background, your history, your race, everyone should get checked.
 Even at my young age of 37 years old I was diagnosed with this awful disease. Stage three. So no matter how old you are I challenge you to get checked bring awareness to this awful disease. Men I challenge you to encourage all women in your family such it be a wife your girlfriend mother aunt or friends.
 please bring them awareness to this disease so that we can beat it. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, congratulations. Thank you. And with that, I'd like to make a motion to approve. There is a motion made by Representative Rodríguez, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 23. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Now we go to item 22.
 Thank you, Ms. Klein. Item 22 is discussion and action to recognize Judy Ackerman as she has been a benefit to both El Pasoans and visitors to our city and recognition by the city is more than merited through her professional and personal contributions. This item was submitted by Representative Vanilla.
 Thank you, Mayor, and I'm going to read the resolution before we take public comment and discussion. So whereas Judy Ackerman has been a force for good in El Paso for over 15 years, and El Paso should feel fortunate that she chose to stay in our city when she retired from the United States Army in 2007 with the distinguished rank of Sergeant Major after 27 years of service.
 And whereas Judy has worked tirelessly to ensure the conservation and preservation of El Paso's natural open spaces on the mountain and down to the river with programs such as the Franklin Mountains Wilderness Coalition, the Friends of the Rio Bosque, the Sierra Club, the Frontera Land Alliance, and the Castor Range National Monument Coalition. And they have all benefited from Judy's participation.
 And whereas Judy has rendered significant service to her many causes, which deserve a special recognition, with one such instance being in 2008, she stood in front of machinery at the Rio Bosque wetland for many hours, protecting it from the encroaching border fence. And whereas in recent years, Judy has been a dynamic force in the Castor Range effort, traveling outside El Paso is needed to press for the declaration of this magnificent mountainside range as a national monument, and when this finally does happen, Judy will deserve much of the credit.
 And whereas volunteering one's time and resources has traditionally been and continues to be an element of part of essence and tradition of our country, and it's essential to its spirit and vitality. Will you request this? Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council of the City of El Paso.
 The city of El Paso is proud to recognize Judy Ackerman. She's been a benefit to both El Paso and visitors to our city and recognition by the city is more than merited through her professional and personal contributions approved this 25th day of October 2022. We have a motion. Yes ma'am, go ahead. Go ahead, we have, come on up please. My name is Betty Ann Halliburton, proud member of District Two with Judy Ackerman. A tribute to Judy.
 Looks like you're stepping over into another dimension, a place with Yahweh where you will have a perfect body, where there's a utopian environment without developments and pollution. I will miss your compassion for the city's environment to conserve the Franklin Mountains and Kashner Range.
 I will miss your courage to visit the Secretary of the Interior in Washington, D.C., to conserve a federal-owned mountain range. I observed your volunteer service that encouraged me to join the El Paso League of Women Voters. I will miss your service to the League and to the community.
 Farewell until we meet together in the other dominion with Yahweh in heaven. Shalom. Thank you. I'm Pat White. I first met Judy at a League of Women Voters meeting. This was shortly after she retired. At that time, this building was the El Paso Times building. They had a meeting room, which is kind of in this corner.
 And they showed up that day, that evening for the meeting and joined the league. So I've known her ever since then. She got me involved in the Franklin Mountain Wilderness Coalition, saving Kasner Range and all these other environmental things, plus all the stuff we've done with the league. And I consider her a good friend and friend.
 She's somebody we don't want to lose. We need her. She's done a lot for this city and saved it. I also have a letter here from our league president, Carol Wallace, who couldn't be here today, that I'd like to read. Judy Ackerman, El Paso's North Star.
 What can be said about Judy that hasn't been said before? She was our desert transplant, not a native, but a fierce champion for our northern Chihuahua desert mountains. She loved this desert, its community, its people. She was not only a friend to our El Paso, but one of our greatest advocates. What did she advocate for?
 Just just causes social justice was her bedrock with her clipboard in hand She was always asking us for to sign a petition for clean air clean water safe highways She stood tall and advocated to protect our mountains women's rights for women's basic rights to choose voters rights to free and fair elections and
 Judy has been a friend to our League of Women Voters of El Paso since I can remember. When did I first meet her? I'm not quite sure, but I'm sure it was at a march, a protest, or maybe she asked me to sign a petition to protect Lost Dog Canyon or at a party for Planned Parenthood.
 Judy has always fought the good fight, and she was always there when you needed her. Judy, we are here for you now to honor and to commend you for what you have done and for what you mean to those who love and respect you. Thank you, my friend. I love you more than words can say. Carol S. Wallace. Thank you. Judy, yes, Judy's a good friend to all of us, and we're going to miss her very much. Thank you, Ms. Wallace. We don't like to see her go.
 I'm Lawrence Gibson, I'm the chairman of the El Paso group of the Sierra Club. We have 500 members and I will not try to recap all of Judy's accomplishments. I will simply say that she is our environmental champion and our go-to person for anything
 that needed to be done environmentally or any questions that we had, and we are going to miss her. Thank you, sir. Good morning. I'm Marshall Carter Tripp. I have only to say we've been speaking about cancer this morning, and as most of you know, Judy is battling cancer today.
 Despite her physical problems, she has always been a force beyond comprehension for the causes she believes in. And yes, we will miss her terribly. Dozens of people have written to the Frontier Land Alliance with stories about what Judy has done.
 I'm on the board of that group now. We are compiling a booklet which we will present to Judy's family, and it will be on the Frontera website for others to read so that you can comprehend the incredible number of people who love and admire her. And, yes, we will all miss her terribly. Thank you for what you are doing today. Thank you. Mr. White. This is not the reason we want to be here.
 Sometimes we forget who does so much good for us, who changes our community, who makes our life better simply because they're better than the rest of us and they give so much. We need more Judys. Is Mr. Richard Teschner here? He also signed up to speak, no? I believe that's everyone that signed up that's in person and I'll read a statement from Miss Marilyn Guida which reads,
 Judy Ackerman has been not only a leader but also a worker and the glue that brought people together to do what needed to be done for El Paso. If no one was available to help, she simply did what needed to be done herself and never criticized others for their absence.
 Judy didn't concern herself with people on the other side of an issue. She just focused on a clear, simple message. She went about joining others and gathering people of like mind in the service of El Paso issues she felt were important. The emails, social media, phone calls, face-to-face contacts, door knocking, attendance at city council and open space advisory board meetings. It seemed there was never a moment where she felt she had done enough.
 Judy led the effort to save the natural open space called the NAP land on the northeast side of the Franklins. Simply by going door-to-door and informing residents, they became volunteers who joined in effort and today there is a City Council approved conservation easement on about 350 acres of the NAP land. Along with many others, Judy continued her trademark process on behalf of the Lost Dog area on the northwest side of the Franklins, going door-to-door to get out the vote.
 Along with dozens of volunteers, the result was over 80% of El Paso voters voted for a citizen-led initiative to protect about 1,100 acres of natural open space through a city council-approved conservation easement. Judy was a long-time volunteer at Rio Bosque, and she brought the idea for an annual poppies fest to the El Paso Museum of Archaeology director, Dr. Mark Thompson, in 2007.
 Poppy's Fest attracts more and more participants every year. Judy never failed to staff a booth for Earth Day. She consistently supported Insights and participated in public events to introduce people to the dinosaur footprints. Most importantly, she has been a key volunteer over many years in the effort to have Kastner Range named a national monument.
 Judy has been a longtime member and activist for the League of Women Voters to get out the vote campaign every year. During her last day in a hospital, I was on the phone with her when a hospital worker came into her room. She had a bunch of voter registration forms and immediately said to the worker, Are you registered to vote? No? Well, here's the vote.
 voter form, your vote is needed, and the person happily took the voter form. Judy loved to dance to live music and routinely drove up to Las Cruces to participate in their contra dance and folk dance events. She was always taking OLLI classes at UTEP and loved learning new things.
 She made time for local museum visits and live theater. It seemed like the Franklins were her best friend. Even after a painful recovery from surgery, she started by walking to her mailbox and slowly but surely was again climbing the mountains. She especially loved introducing people to the Franklins and all the plants and animals, as well as the geology, the soils, the arroyos that carried stormwater, and the history. Judy would drop everything and respond if a friend needed help.
 Once I had a serious injury due to a fall. When I called Judy, she was ready to take me to the doctor in the emergency room and stay with me until it was safe to leave me back at my home. I've never met anyone like Judy Ackerman and I think I never will. She never drew attention to herself, yet her imprint on El Paso is deep and wide. We are all in her debt, Marilyn Guida. The next statement was submitted by Kathleen Stout and will be read by Representative Liz Arana. Thank you, Ms. Prine.
 A tribute to Judy Ackerman. Judy Ackerman is and always will be my hero and heroine. We share many of the same common interests in social and environment justice. We want to preserve our region's beautiful land, historic buildings, and the people who live and work therein.
 We want representatives who put people first, especially people who have long been neglected by all levels of government. As an individual, I became instant friends with Judy some years back. I can't even remember when, but I proudly sat next to Judy many times.
 challenging the excesses of business profiting that would undermine El Paso's precious resources and people. Some examples of her challenges. Challenges to voter suppression with the aim of better representation. Judy stood for fair elections as a committed member of the League of Women Voters. She worked with the League and Fair Maps Texas today
 to educate people on redistricting local and state boundaries in fair, nonpartisan ways. A deputized voter registrar, I remember so many scenes with Judy holding her constant sign asking people whether they were registered to vote. Judy registered thousands of new voters.
 challenges to I-10 widening downtown, which TxDOT attempts to impose upon us. Despite the lack of congestion there, the disaster construction would bring to El Paso's downtown and the undoubted additional pollution that attracting more cars and trucks would bring to the area. El Paso roads need to be fixed and maintained, not widened.
 Judy attended teach-ins, made posters, and joined people at City Hall to say no to this ludicrous initiative. Challenges to the threats to reproductive health and planning for parenthood. Judy started the network Viejitas for Choice, and I became a proud participant.
 Judy always stood for freedom from patriarchal control over our bodies, as did many of her veteran friends who joined her at City Council as recently as several months ago. Challenges to ignorance and inaction on climate change. Climate change.
 I do it all the time. I have one here. I'm sorry, will everyone in teams please mute their microphones? Thank you. Judy no doubt signed and collected signatures for the Sunrise Petition for a climate charter that would make El Paso the first in Texas to take serious action toward greener jobs, greener development, common sense solar wind building incentives, and environmental health.
 Judy always sought to preserve open spaces in our beautiful region. All in all, Judy Ackerman is a true hero. She does not merely talk the talk, but she walks the walk. El Paso needs so many more Judys in our midst.
 As co-moderator of the Community First Coalition, I can speak for our broad-based coalition in appreciation for all that Judy has done for El Pasoans and its natural resources. Judy participated in many of our speaker events and general meetings.
 Thank you for listening and putting this statement into the public record. Kathleen Kathy Stout, Ph.D., Professor Emerita of Political Science.
 the next statement was submitted by miss sylvia carrion and it reads this is sylvia carrion president of the mission valley civic association and i know judy ackerman through all her work projects for the upper valley but i am most familiar with her through the league of women voters and the redistricting of the state of texas and the city of el paso she was very instrumental in teaching me the process in getting involved in redistricting
 If we wanted our voices heard in the Mission Valley. I did not know of her illness and it was a shock to hear of her situation. Judy taught me not to give up on a good fight if I believed we could get things approved in our favor. Judy is a true God-sent trailblazer and I feel honored to have met her acquaintance. Thank you, Sylvia Carrion. The next statement was submitted by Veronica Carvajal to be read by Representative Anello.
 Judy Ackerman's love for El Paso, our people, and our natural environment is incredibly powerful. Her love for this community is powerful because it transcends generations. Her love for this community is powerful because it reminds us that the fight is worth fighting. Her love for this community is powerful because it is relentless, unapologetic, and joyful. Judy has committed her time, her intellect, and her money into making our city government more fair and more sustainable.
 Her investment in our community will continue to bear good fruit for many more years to come. The proof of that is in the young people who consider her a mentor and an icon of El Paso's progressive causes. Thank you, Judy, for serving our country and our community. We love you. Sincerely, Veronica Carbajal.
 Thank you. The next statement was submitted by Melissa Kirkham and it reads, I support recognizing Judy Ackerman and her work on land conservation. Judy has worked tirelessly over the years to save open space and to preserve the Franklin Mountains. Thank you, Melissa Kirkham. The next statement was submitted by Diana Moy and it reads, first I want to
 Good morning, Representative Anello. First, I want to thank you for sponsoring the resolution to honor Judy Ackerman. Judy is a very outspoken and passionate icon in our community who supports many causes from women.
 reproductive rights, human rights to the conservation of our natural and open spaces, which is how I got to meet and collaborate with her. Judy has played an important and essential role in the conservation of natural spaces like Franklin Mountain State Park, Kastner Range, Lost Dog, and NAPLAN.
 Not only has she worked hard to help conserve those areas, but she has inspired and will continue to inspire many of us in El Paso, young and not so young, to be actively involved in conservation issues in our area. Once again, thank you for taking the time to support this resolution. Diana Moy.
 The next statement was submitted by Don Baumgart, and it reads, Hi Alex, I just heard of Judy Ackerman's condition and your agenda item. Judy has done so much and meant so much to El Paso that I can't choose one memory to describe her. Judy is not a force of nature, she is the force of nature. For decades, she's led the fight for democracy and conservation in El Paso.
 No one person can step in to replace her efforts in this wide variety of causes. It's up to all of us to pick up a piece of her work to carry it forward, and we must teach our children, grandchildren, and those around them to pick up pieces as well. Thank you, Judy. Dawn Baumgart.
 The next statement was submitted by Rick Lobello and it reads, hello, just a short note to let you know that I support your efforts to honor Judy Ackerman at City Council. I have known Judy longer than anyone when it comes to the environmental community. We have worked together for so many years and I am thankful that I got a chance to meet her for all she has done on the phone this past Saturday.
 Judy and I met sometime around 2004 when we organized the first poppy celebration and we did all we could to stop the border wall from being built at Rio Bosque Wetlands Park. She quickly became one of El Paso's conservation heroes when she chained herself to a bulldozer at the construction site and was arrested. After nearly two decades of working together,
 to engage our community in valuing land conservation, I would say the most memorable and most important thing we did together was when in 2014, she asked me to attend a Franklin Mountains Wilderness Coalition meeting to talk about the Kastner Range.
 At that meeting, I encouraged the Franklin Mountains Wilderness Coalition to move in the direction of asking President Obama to declare the Kastner Range of the Franklin Mountains as a national monument. For several years earlier, I crafted the environmental platform for congressional candidate Beto O'Rourke and was confident that he would help.
 In addition to Beto, who played a major role in protecting the range, Congresswoman Veronica Escobar later introduced legislation in support of creation of the national monument. None of this would have happened without Judy's leadership and drive. Without a doubt, I can confidently say that Judy Ackerman is one of the greatest El Paso, Texas conservation heroes in our history of the city. Rick Lobelo.
 and the final statement was submitted by pauline aguirre and it reads i would like to express a strong support to honor judy ackerman who has worked endlessly to protect parks and open spaces pauline aguirre mayor that concludes public comment on this item thank you and um miss ackerman i know that um the city meant a lot to you and you meant a lot to the city and thank you
 You've always continued to do and I think mr. White I couldn't agree with you more that this is not why we want to be here we want to be here to celebrate and and continue to honor our citizens and represent our citizens, but representative Nello Thank you for putting it on the agenda and for again miss Ackerman Thank you for being a voice of our community there pro temp. You're mayor You know miss miss Ackerman
 her being here on council for less than years she is clearly shown that she lives by her values and she speaks for what's right and that's something that she's lived both as a veteran serving this country and also as an El Paso and serving this community in the Jewish faith we have when someone passes we have a saying may their memory forever be a blessing and you think about what she's done
 her memory and her actions will live on past all of us in this room because of her unending yielding for doing what's right not so that her memory would live on not for for her own personal interests but because of doing what's right for this community and generations of El Pasoans will be able to experience everything that made Judy so special by the thousands of acres of land that have been conserved in perpetuity for generations of El Pasoans to live.
 And again, for doing for what's right, for living by her morals and her convictions. And, you know, may she go in good health and may her memory forever be a blessing. And we're all wiser and luckier to have her presence in our lives. Thank you. Representative Nundas. Thank you. Mrs. Ackerman means a lot to many people, and I started getting messages as...
 We, this proclamation was brought up and so I'd like to read a message I received who is from Elisa Cervantes Benavides and she says, we have all benefited from Judy's relentless work and advocacy throughout our community. I've been inspired by her work firsthand as an open space advisory board.
 member and a league of the women voters of El Paso, though I fondly recall seeing her and join El Paso and expressing her passion for all that it offers in numerous local organizations throughout the years.
 There is one day with Judy that I particularly hold dear. Over Thanksgiving break one year, Judy invited my son and I to explore the Franklins together. On the hike, she taught my son about local plants, animals that we saw along the way, and helped him to appreciate the beauty of our natural environment. My son was experiencing a difficult time in school that year, but he seemed so free during that hike. It was as if he forgot about his worries and returned to just being a kid with Judy.
 She spoke to him so caringly to pink his interest in all that we taught my son about. Excuse me, lost my spot.
 She spoke, I was unable to share precious moments of just being present out there in our beautiful surrounding landscape with my son, listening to Judy's descriptions, the wonder in her voice, passion to preserve our natural landscape, and gratitude to Mother Nature for her provisions of it to us. It was one of the best days that I've ever spent with my son, and I have Judy to thank for it. I know Judy has taken hundreds of us on such hikes throughout her years, but to my son and I, Judy, with her storytelling and her hikes.
 one in a million. My son still brings up the facts that he learned out there on the range with Judy. He is now, he's a teen now, but I know he still sees our Franklins through her eyes of wonder and appreciation, a perspective and lens that I know Judy had so much to do with. And she attached some photos and she sent that to the Frontierland Alliance. Judy, we wish you the best and the amount of
 advocacy and what you mean to El Paso has been invaluable and we thank you for all all of the love and and all of the fight that you have instilled into all of us we really we're gonna miss you and we and we care deeply about you thank you representative Nunes
 molinar and before you start a little bit i do want to you know i've been a lot of um functions opportunity to speak at your breakfast and mr robinson prior to that and i don't remember ever being there without miss ackerman so i'm similar thank you very much mayor so if you know judy one of the things she had always started the conversation was how she got to el paso and she would say ackerman you're going to fort bliss
 and of course she was serving the military at that time and she did not really know where Fort Bliss was at. However upon getting here she looked at our beautiful Franklin Mountains and guess what? She fell in love with our mountains and she fell in love with our city, she fell in love with our people, our culture, our community,
 And from there, everything that was the catalyst for change, positive change, the fact that this lady was a doer, this lady is, really I should say, is a person who takes a vital interest in everything that she does. And whether it's the Franklin Mountains, the Cebra Sierras,
 conservation preservation it doesn't matter she gave it 110 percent all the time and if you know judy she was a very strong person and i do miss my friend thank you thank you thank you mayor so i'm going to try to get through this make it quick um
 A part of this job I think people don't talk about is that we get to meet so many amazing people. I think a lot of the speakers up here are an example of that and they're people that have become really important to you. Judy isn't someone I knew before I ran for office, but I can remember the very first time I did meet her. And after that, like many people, went on hikes with her. She showed me the mountains. She was a part of a lot of the things that I've done here at Council and there was not an issue that I couldn't call or expect to hear from Judy about.
 um and it seems unfair that we have to go on and do this without her but that's not true i think like scott said is is we all have a responsibility to to fill her shoes and and remember her message and keep that with us every day on this job um judy is someone i love dearly she means a lot to me um and i'm very grateful to to be able to do this today but to have been able to be her friend
 Thank you. And with that, Ms. Parnam, we have a motion and a second. And Judy, may God bless you. Was that your motion, Representative? Thank you. There is a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar, to approve the resolution for Ms. Judy Ackerman on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Rodriguez? Yes. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 Council would you like to recess at this point move to recess second? There's a motion in a second to recess the City Council meeting all in favor. Yes anyone opposed? I
 And the meeting is in recess at 1013 a.m. To take photos with this morning's honorees. Council if I can get you all behind me on the photo wall. We're going to go ahead and start with the UTEP's 1974 first women's volleyball and basketball team followed by the Red Ribbon Week then the Isleta Education Week. Is there a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting all in favor. Anyone opposed?
 The meeting is back in session at 10.33 a.m. We're on item number 33 that was also moved up, and this item is discussion. This is a presentation by Cristina Aipaz, Chief Executive Officer of Centro San Vicente on the services offered to the El Paso community by the Centro San Vicente Clinic, and this item was submitted by Representative Rivera. Mayor? Good morning. Mayor, I see someone. Go ahead, sir. Thank you.
 Council mayor I've invited miss boss the CEO of the central Vicente who's which is a staple in our community and The updates and everything will be provided by miss boss, but it has grown into a magnificent location It it serves so many in the community of that area and beyond and I'll let her tell you the rest response. I
 Thank you, Representative Jiménez, for allowing us to be on the agenda today to discuss the important, meaningful work that Centro San Vicente has done. Thank you, Representatives and Mayor, for allowing us to do so. It's an honor to be here and to discuss with you what FQHCs in our city do, particularly at Centro San Vicente. Federally qualified health care centers' drive is to provide high-quality primary care services to the nation's most vulnerable individuals, to include those that are home-free.
 Our center, which is a nonprofit 501 clinic, is operated by a patient majority governing board. And I'd like to thank Chairman Porras also for being here for our support. Health centers like ours are largely funded through Human Resources Services Administration. They were funded so that we can provide primary care services and other services to our community that are much in need.
 While we are funded by HRSA, it is only a fraction of the price of what we operate at. Centro San Vicente's operating budget yearly is about $18 million. HRSA provides us $4.4 million to continue to operate and serve our community. Thank you.
 We also have support services to continue to aid in our services through the community to include Medicaid and Medicare, 340 drug pricing program, vaccines for children program, and National Health Service Corps, which is a loan reimbursement for those individuals who choose to work at federal qualified health care centers like ours.
 This is where we need your help and advocacy. Your voice is critical at the federal level to support for long-term funding for federally qualified health care centers like Centro San Vicente, Medicaid reimbursement, Medicare reimbursement, protection of 340B program servicing, pricing for prescription medications, vaccines for children, and the protection of the National Health Service Corps.
 Did you know that across the nation, Centro San Vicente, well, excuse me, federally qualified health care centers serve more than 28 million individuals. 91% of those fall under the 200% poverty level. At Centro San Vicente alone, 95% of our patients fall under the 200% poverty level.
 And in 2021, without any furloughs for 2020 or 2021, no shutdowns, no layoffs, we were still able to serve 14,275 unique individuals. In 2022, we've also been able to serve 802 homeless individuals. 59% of our patients at Centro San Vicente are unfunded individuals.
 We do offer 24 program services to include primary care, pediatric, dental, pharmacy, behavioral health, outreach and enrollment. And our latest and what's most dear to my heart is the Gender Affirming Clinic. We also offer hepatitis C treatment, medication assistant treatment programs, LGBTQ health, outreach and enrollment, radiology, hepatitis C treatment, health education and transition program.
 There's many, many more. Unfortunately, we had some IT issues this morning, so our presentation is not up, but I'll make sure that every single one of you get our presentation so that you can see all of the unique services Centro San Vicente has to offer.
 We employ five physicians, one physician's assistant, and proud to say, like myself, 15 nurse practitioners at Santo San Vicente with four different locations across the city. Our main one is at Alameda and Yarbrough, which is under Representative Rivera's district, and our other at Pebble Hills and Arroyo.
 Leach Evino, which is under Representative Hernandez's district. We have a clinic in San Elisario, which is a unique place, and I would invite everybody to come visit us. That land was donated to us, so the clinic sits right in a residential area, and it's in a trailer that we make shift to be able to provide healthcare services there. We also have a clinic inside the Opportunity Center on Myrtle Street, and that particular
 sees individuals that are home free. 802 individuals is what we saw last year, and we continue to increase our census in that area because we see that a lot of our home free individuals do need primary care health services.
 So there's something sent that was at the forefront of COVID. I'm so proud to be able to say that next to UMC, Santa San Vicente was the first in the city to have been able to bring the COVID vaccine to the city. We were very active in the beginning with vaccinating all of our health care entities to include ourselves, our sister FQHCs, Bien Vivir, dental offices and other pediatric offices across the city. To date, we have vaccinated close to 20,000 individuals.
 And we have a team that has been deployed throughout the city to be able to take the vaccine to meet the patient where they're at. January to date, we have vaccinated 1,200 babies. And we continue to vaccinate little ones through a drive-thru service on Alameda that's completely open Monday through Friday with no appointment needed. Before COVID-19, we were busting at the seams. We had no room. We were in dire need.
 need for spacing issues. With the help of your advocacy and your realization as to what Centro San Vicente does for our community, we have been able to expand our services and our spacing within our clinic with CDBG funds. So today I'd like to...
 to stop and say thank you for helping us grow and continue to grow. Our latest renovation was the pharmacy. It housed 20 individuals and they were shoulder to shoulder and now they're able to move within the pharmacy and serve our individuals that need medications the most. So thank you again for your advocacy with the CDBG funds. We'll continue to grow so that we can continue to serve our community the best.
 And at this time, I'd like to entertain any questions. And again, thank you for your support. And I look forward to meeting every single one of you so I can expand on what we do at Centro San Vicente. Thank you, thank you very much for the great presentation. Representative Rivera? Again, thank you for being here, Mr. Paz. I know you have a busy schedule. Would Mr. Porras like to say a few words himself, or? Yes.
 This is, Mr. Porras, this board is fantastic. Yes, sir. Good morning, mayor and city representatives. My name is David Porras, and I'm the chairman of the board of San Vicente Clinic. And yes, we have a tremendous working support from our board of directors. Our CEO, Dr. Cristina Paz, and the staff there do a tremendous job to individuals who are either underserved
 or have no insurance, and so it wasn't for clinics that are funded by HRSA, we wouldn't be able to give medical services to the much-needed services that are required here in the community. So once again, we're asking for your advocacy, for your support, and we thank you for your support that you've given us so far. So thank you for allowing us for being here this morning. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you, Representative Rada. Mr. Prine.
 Yes, Mayor. We now return to page 7, to item 24 on the agenda, and Representative Rivera submitted the next three items, so I'll read them into the record. Item 24 is discussion and action to direct the city manager and city attorney to impose a moratorium
 on Article 27 of the City's Municipal Code for residential property owners who have filed an over 65 or persons with disabilities homestead exemption with the El Paso Central Appraisal District. This moratorium will protect a person over 65 years or a disabled person from receiving a citation from the city for overgrown weeds at their homestead property to go into effect immediately and expire on December 31st, 2022.
 Item 25 is discussion in action to direct the city manager and city attorney to create an amnesty period for residential property owners who have filed in over a
 65 a person with disabilities exemption with El Paso Central Appraisal District that have received a citation for overgrown weeds in the last 60 days and item 26 is discussion in action to direct the city manager and city attorney to create a permanent moratorium on article 27 of the city's municipal code for residential property owners who have filed in over 65 a person with disabilities.
 with disabilities exemption with the El Paso Central Appraisal District from July 15 to September 30th of every year calling it the 65 for 65 plus moratorium The moratorium will protect a person over 65 years or a disabled person From receiving a citation from the city for overgrown weeds at their homestead property during El Paso's monsoon season Thank you, and I was 17 maybe I think you said 27
 City Manager You're correct. City Manager Binder Council, Mayor, this item was placed on the agenda after having had a long and thought process about the rainy monsoon season which was coupled with the city's unable, inability to keep up with the maintenance of the old grown weeds in our city, in our city medians.
 The city opted to financially incentivize organizations to ask volunteers to help clean up the medians Therefore I felt it was unfair to cite some of the people site or find some of the people here in our community Especially seniors over 65 and persons with disabilities who have filed over 65 years of age or disabled homestead exemption with the central appraisal district I felt that the help was
 necessary for them to be on the set and I had a little presentation silly did you could you have the IT could you bring it up please okay so go to the next page please so an additional impact issues that impacting residential property owners 65 plus or disabled we had the
 more rain in the forecast as was reported by El Paso Matters on the 18th of October. Inflation rose in El Paso by nearly 10% according to Consumer Price Index. This was reported on KVIA September 26, 22nd. And a substantial portion of our residents are considered very low income with the city's poverty rate at nearly 20% higher than the state of Texas.
 state level reported in the annual action plan city of el paso texas 2022 23 which was prepared by department of community and human development next page please with the continued additional issues impacting residential property owners 65 or plus or disabled 25 percent of el paso households or house housing cost burden meaning that they spent more
 than 30% of their household income on housing costs. In other words, the rent, mortgage, utilities, insurance, et cetera. A particular concern is the prevalence of severe housing cost burden for households who are below 30% or on the area of medium income. 30% of these extremely low income households expend more than half of their income on housing costs.
 And these individuals and families are likely to be forced to make difficult choices to meet their basic needs for food, shelter, and warmth. City of El Paso, in 22-23, was prepared by the Department of, again, Community Health and Human Development. Nearly one out of five El Pasos live in poverty. As Ms. Sponsor stated, 90% of the people they serve are homeless.
 Are in the category of poverty right now so reporting the this was the One out of five opacens was reported in the annual action plan Which is also was reported by the Department of Community and Human Development for the city of Paso on 2022-23 next slide please here is the list of a
 ZIP CODES IN THE AREA WERE NEARLY 52% OVER 65 OR DISABLED RESIDENTS HOMESTEAD EXEMPTIONS PROPERTIES ARE FILLED WITH THE EL PASO CENTRAL APPRAISAL DISTRICT ARE FILED WITH IT I'M SORRY OR FILED WITH CENTRAL APPRAISAL DISTRICT ITEM 23 OF CITY COUNCIL PRESENTATION SLIDE 5 THE TOP 5 ZIP CODES IN THE AREA WITH RESIDENTS OF 65 YEAR OLDER ARE 79936 WHICH HAS 12342
 79912, which has 10,466. And 7907, who has 8,736 homesteads, medium household incomes, who are grouped in the income of 27,166. This is through the United States ZIP Code's organization. Information was obtained. 79924 has 8,246.
 while 79915 has 7,322 also medium household incomes at the income level of 27,134, again obtained from the United States ZIP codes organizations. Next slide, please. And what happens when your weeds are too tall? As we all found out this past weekend, you're out there,
 Volunteering with the city several meetings were clean throughout the community so far and understand one is left the El Paso Generally when they find that when we have a complaint El Paso finds the public for overgrown weed overgrown vegetation and weeds as was reported by KBIA on July 7 1920 1920 2022. I'm sorry We each dollars in 12 inches and
 Property owners will get a notice from the city code enforcement That says that they have seven to ten days to correct then they go back To inspect the property if not fix it will turn it over to they will be turned over to environmental services who? after a second warning will clean up the property for a hefty fee and
 average fine for the cleanup is $200 and just as an example I don't know that's what that was the case on on on our consent agenda item number four there was a in in District 3 that was a lien was placed on it at that point the homeowner will be charged with the expenses incurred by the city if someone fails to pay those then they are looking at having to pay interest on the charges they have accrued
 Homeowners who did not pay the fines could also face liens, making it harder to sell the property later. Next slide, please. Therefore, I'm asking the council support to protect our vulnerable population, and I make a motion to approve item 24, item 25,
 and item 26 with a slight amendment which i do uh we came up with at the end and that was to do uh to have to direct the city manager city attorney to create a permanent moratorium on article 17 of the city's municipal code for residential property owners who have filed and over 65 or persons with disability exemptions with the el paso cad
 Central Appraisal District from 7th from the time of June 15th to September 30th every year and develop a program and or partner with a nonprofit organization that can provide free of charge landscaping yard cleaning services to home property owners 65 or older or persons with disability who are unable to clean the physical activity necessary to keep up the overgrown weeds
 And with that, I make a motion to approve all. Second. Ms. Prine? Representative Rodriguez? Thank you. So my question is, I think that, you know, this is a great way to help our community, but logistically, how can this be pulled off? Who's that directed to? Either city manager or city attorney. Typically when council places items on the agenda, they...
 they put it on and then council votes on it as to whether or not we're going to research it and come back with recommendations on how to execute i think we would have to look at this the same way and be able to come back and explain to council how we would be able to execute the item that that was approved if it's approved by the city council okay so i know that you know as mentioned earlier we we started this volunteer program with environmental services um
 Don't know if next year and you know future years we can potentially maybe look at the surrounding high schools and Partner up with them where we if you know, some of their student organizations need community service hours Where we'll provide them for them by them coming and helping us clean the neighborhoods of these individuals
 Close by. We can grow the program. We already have a variety of organizations that are involved. I know that several of you have been out there with the different groups and you've seen a variety of different groups that have participated in the project, in this initiative. And so we can continue to grow the program and continue to add others as you've indicated. Okay. So logistically this is something that you all can do?
 the item that's being voted on or what you just asked me? Yes, the item that we're voting on today. We would have to go back and look at all the different parts to the request or the item that the council potentially approves. There would be different things that we'd have to look at from a codes perspective in terms of how we track all the addresses and things of that nature and it's
 thousands of addresses as the representative pointed out so we would come back with a with a workable plan if indeed we could do it across the board and we would explain how we would be able to do that or what challenges there would be when we brought it back I would hope that's how it would be passed given us an opportunity to look at it and come back and make any kind of operational suggestions in order to make sure we execute it properly
 Mayor, may I direct myself to Representative Rivera?
 So with this, is there a time period that you're allowing staff to come back with, I guess, a plan of how this could be logistically executed? Yes, I would ask for at least to give them four weeks because I know we found it on the CAD where they're registered already with a CAD 65 plus or disabled. So that would make that a lot easier for staff. But we want to give you enough time before you can come back and do that.
 And you know give us a positive spin on this to come back in four weeks. Yes, sir. Yes, sir Okay, and then my second question to you is Last four Expires in 22. So is this just oh no, it's the cat. That's for this time This this year and given you know my 65 day so which would end at December the 31st and then eventually start one with a permanent and
 timeframe for for a monster in season. Okay, so just this is actually being done in preparation for next year.
 Actually starting now immediately To do additional research to ensure that
 That we're actually capturing the people that you're intending to capture I think that there are times on the cat rules where people have claimed a 65 over an exemption and either the person has passed away and the exemption remained and then other people are living in the household and
 So it's going to be a little bit more research than just doing it immediately. The moratorium can come immediately, can't it? If they get a citation from this period, for this period right now that we start, or no? So moratoriums are instituted by ordinance, sir. So in order for us to do a moratorium, as Council may direct us to do, we would need to come back with an actual ordinance that says...
 And it more time is in place that would not issue citations of these types for these individuals Okay, because I remember also when with PD and I represent can Support me on this we had Amnesty periods where people with warrants were giving an amnesty To either come in and pay their fine or or you know pay one at a time Do you remember that and so I think that would be a
 applicable to this. Right. And I remember the amnesty periods we haven't done in a while, but I believe that those were also done by notice of council, like posting on an agenda. And then there was a publication period in the newspaper where people ran and we knew that there was an amnesty period. So there's still a process that we would need to follow that it wouldn't... I just want to be clear that even if council votes to approve this today, the amnesty period wouldn't begin now or there wouldn't be a moratorium starting today. Okay.
 And what's your time period? So the city manager asked for four weeks, but even if we came back in four weeks It would be for the introduction of a moratorium. Actually, actually I didn't ask for four weeks I think that the representatives said that they would give us four weeks As I pointed out there's a lot of different parts to this request We would we would do everything we could within that four-week period. I
 but the city attorney's pointing out that once it gets executed, if it were indeed to be executed, you'd have to have two readings on top of that. So that'd be two council meetings. So if we were to come back in four weeks, that would put us into the end of November, first meeting in December, then you'd have two readings after that, which would put you into January. And then that's moving really fast.
 terms of the ordinances and then reporting back to y'all on the on this particular item could it be retro on an ordinance to the date that it was introduced I
 we would have to research that mayor again as council and the city manager just informed you all when council members put items on the agenda of this type it's intended for you all to deliberate and provide us with feedback we're not required to do any research or have answers today simply because this is the first we're hearing feedback and then understanding what what you all intend this to do so we go back and
 Figure out what the workings are gonna be and then come back with our approach to executing your your your requests I'm sure this got a lot to do with the impact on your budget. Mr. Gonzalez. Did you like to I'm sorry It's the impact on your budget also Right. I mean it to me the moving parts would be the codes inspector making sure they don't give a ticket to someone Who's on the list who's disabled as an example of the city attorney gave another good example perhaps
 some elderly individuals who might be renting it out or renting it out to a family member or not renting it out to a family member, and maybe it'd be a younger person in that building or in that house, rather, and simply not mowing the lawn or whatever. But so there's a lot of different things like that that...
 I don't necessarily want to get into right now, but if you want, I can give you more examples, but those are the type of things that come to mind, and we don't want to make sure that, well, excuse me, we want to make sure that we don't,
 attempt to do something positive and they ended up with a negative if you give someone a ticket that you're not supposed to or someone that can take care of the lawn that is actually living in a home that's owned by someone who's elderly there's just a lot of different things like that I just want to make sure that we research it and vet it appropriately so that we can execute exactly what the council wishes to do thank you absolutely
 And I will say that we have moved on different fronts, not only with the staff that we have, I know that we've talked about COVID having an impact on our organization from a health standpoint, from a financial standpoint, and then now from an operational standpoint. And I know people are,
 are becoming impatient and that's the reason why we didn't wait, we created this other program where we could have volunteer groups show up. It's worked out really, really well. People who have showed up have been extremely positive and again, the work's getting done and I don't disagree with Mr. Rivera. This is a good idea in terms of how we execute it, that that's in the details.
 Well, just like I said, you know, with our IT capabilities, I mean, and they're already on the CAD system as well, does that make it a lot easier to eliminate those
 It's like with everything else, you know, you have the item, once it's approved, then we can take action on it as a staff and execute the different details that you're asking about. Like the city attorney said, when she said we're not required what she meant, and I'm not speaking for her, but the bottom line is, you know, council has to approve the item. That's in the council's rules and procedures. You know, we can't go off and start working for one council member that's, you know, that's
 has a great idea until the council approves it in one direction or the other and makes any kind of amendments to it and then we'll come back and come back with an execution plan. Okay, thank you. And therefore I ask, hopefully my colleagues will support this with me. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Representative Lesarga followed by Representative Nandez. Thank you, Mayor. So I'm curious about, do we know how many fines have been issued?
 Do we have that information at all on overgrown weeds? Representative, this is the Lee Worrell from the municipal court.
 And I'm sorry, Ellen, I don't know if you were going to address that. No. Well, first of all, Ellen Smyth, Chief Transit and Field Operations Officer. It's not a fine. So the bill that we sent is an invoice for services rendered. It's based on the number of hours that we're at a property and the number of tools and then the tonnage at the landfill. So it's not a fine. We're not allowed to fine. We don't have the power that the courts do or the police officers. So it's based on the actual services rendered. Okay.
 And then Lily did pull up the records on how many were actually filed, and they, go ahead, Lily. But there were just two, and they were both commercial properties. Neither one of them were residential. So the thing is,
 we give them a notice of violation. It's not a citation, it's just a notice that says your weeds are not within the limits of the ordinance, and we do give them their seven to 10 days correction, and then the officers go back and either you complied with our request, our notice, or you didn't. And then if you haven't, it gets transferred to Environmental Services for cleanup, and then we actually invoice you, just like a yard service.
 and 90% of the people, probably more, pay that invoice. We do a good job at cleaning their yards. And so for the few who don't pay it, many of them are protected by Homestead. We cannot file a lien. So we just have those invoices, and we send them out every 30, 60 days just to remind them, you still owe us, you still owe us.
 And then the ones who are not homesteaded, they're owned as rental properties. Those are the ones that you see posted on city council. So I just wanted to clarify the terms as y'all discuss this. Thank you. And you said there have been two commercial properties? That were actually taken to court with a citation and a fine by the judge. But those are very extreme. Typically residential properties don't go that way.
 And Helen, this is Lily. So from last September 2021 until October, 26 citations were issued, but 22 of those were dismissed. So there was only four citations that are two are pending trial and two did become warrants. But from what I could see from what I researched, I do not think they were over 65. I'm not done with my questions. Sorry. So.
 City manager, I guess you're gonna come back and give us the information on how much it's gonna cost For to provide the free landscaping and the yard cleaning service. We would look at all of those different Things that are in the item. Yes, okay Go ahead miss Neiman. Sorry
 Just for purposes of getting more information from the representative on this item, earlier you mentioned amnesty period or an amnesty. No, that was for the traffic violations, the example I gave you. Right, so then this would be a moratorium where moving forward we would no longer issue that type of citation to people who are disabled or have a homestead exemption over 65? Even during the monsoon, what we call the monsoon season. Okay, okay.
 Okay, so just for purposes of me gathering more information so we know where we're headed, as Ellen just explained, the city's providing the service so it's already work done and the reason the city seeks to recover is because it's using public funds to repair or fix a property that the city's now would be out that service. So we would need to have different discussions about whether that's permitted under the law or maybe
 addressing
 overgrown weeds in a different matter where we're not cutting the grass, right? And then not exceed, not using public funds to do that. And then addressing it in a different way in order to avoid this from happening. It's just another thought process that we would need to work through. Well, and also with respect to the thousands that you mentioned, Mr. Herrera, and in the way you've got it written, that if we paid for all of that, that would be a pretty big number in terms of cost if we're not charging them.
 One of the things we could do that we could add to what Ellen Smyth has indicated to you all that we're doing now, we could have a program where people are eligible, just like we do with recreational programs and other things of that nature throughout the city, where people qualify that maybe are under a poverty level, just a different criteria that we look at in order for them to qualify. Well, we could work with different charitable groups and or...
 just volunteers within the city as well,
 and Ellen and her group do some of that already with some of the other programs that they provide, that could be added as a feature for people that are disabled and elderly that live in different homes. That could be added and that could be a feature and still kind of meet the objective that you're after. Because if we did it for all the thousands that you've mentioned, we'll come back and show you what that'll cost. It will be significant.
 Okay, because This question was for miss miss Smythe because you said nothing about
 Yeah, I get it. You haven't given any citations out but yet there's cases out there being investigated, correct? Do you have those numbers by any chance? I don't have them today, but we can run a report Okay, because I've got them here from from the code enforcement bureau so far in the last 90 days if you want me to read them to you I will it's a 8862 Bushweeds cases investigated 6222 cases compiled with the initial inspectors and
 inspection, 2,640 notices of corrections were issued to bring the properties into compliance. 429 referred to clean El Paso.
 and 23 cases referred to municipal court. I guess those are the ones she mentioned. 21 cases were resolved before the court hearing, and two cases were pending for the litigation. That's what I have. And so I believe what Ms. Neiman is saying is when you talk about the citation, it's those two. Those are the ones that actually become the citation. So if your intention is to address it earlier in the pipeline, that's why I was trying to go over the terminology, but,
 when officers are out there, they don't know which house you live in. You know, they're looking, they're just going down the street. And so when they create a case, which is the big number,
 The research on who lives there isn't done until we decide it needs to go to a lien process, which is way after we sent the bill and you didn't pay. We find out you're not homesteaded. That's the only time we go to the Central Appraisal District is to send the certified letters. But before that, we're not going into the computer. And like you said, with technology, we certainly could go in, but the question would be at what point do we go into the computer to see who lives in which house?
 So just to give you more in the field, the actual how we would implement after we do our research, how and when and who. And I get it because I'm not just trying to advocate for the Mission Valley area, but every one of us has our group of seniors. I know District 4 in our research, they also have the disabled vets out there.
 and I think they were, if I'm not mistaken, they came in close second to the rest of the districts here. So we all have that vulnerable group that I'm trying to protect from any citation whatsoever. So I thank you for your information, Mrs. Smythe. Thank you, Representative Rivera. We'll go to Representative Nunez. No, Representative Rodriguez, and then we'll come back to Representative Nunez.
 Thank you, Mary. I just wanted to finish because I wasn't done from before, but thank you. Ms. Smythe, so I actually remember when I used to represent part of the Mission Valley, I did have a lady that would tell me, you know, when my weeds get really tall, I just have the city come clean them. I'd rather them do it. They'd do a great job. And then they'd send me a bill, and I'd rather just pay them. So, I mean, I guess I'm just trying to figure out if we're already –
 kind of doing what Representative Rivera is suggesting, what is it exactly that we are voting on? Because even if we approve this today, Ms. Neiman, it's correct, it wouldn't really go into effect. It has no power, right? Not as you all are speaking about it today, we would come back to institute the actual moratorium to stop issuing the citations. So basically the...
 by stopping to do that, then we no longer can offer this service to, like the constituent I used to have, to be able to clean her yard.
 Yeah, we would have to research options. But if I could remind you back before COVID, we had a really active program with Keep El Paso Beautiful where we would host the Gift to the River, the Gift to the Mountain, the Great American Cleanup, Pride Day. And those four events were mostly staffed by the high school students who needed their credits for graduation.
 And with the advent of COVID and then the, you know, schools not being in person and just coming back into the regular classroom settings, we haven't had the opportunity this year to reestablish all those relationships. But we intend to go back to have on the full blown high school volunteers to help us.
 Also, we do have, if you call our 2126000 Environmental Services customer service line, if you absolutely cannot clean your yard and you've received a correction notice, there's a phone number on that notice to call, and we will try and hook you up with volunteer groups already. We already offer that. We get calls from various churches and nonprofits who want to do something.
 And so when they say we have 12 people on next Saturday who can help,
 And then we also have this list of people who've called. We got a notice of violation. We can't do it. We can't afford it. We hook them up already. We're already doing that program. And so it's not a formal because it's between the resident and, say, the church. I mean, it's not a city program. We just exchange the phone numbers for them.
 And I think that those options that you just spelled out for us are great options, and I think maybe we need to do
 a psa of some sort a campaign of some sort to let people know that hey this was on before covid now that it's gone we're back this is what we're doing this is how we're willing to help you um and just give people more options right because the last thing we want to do is be citing people for for having weeds but at the same time we want to be we want to have a beautiful city as well and i think everybody's neighbors would appreciate if everybody's homes looked nice right
 so I guess my final thing I'm just very not clear I'm sorry representative about it I'm just not clear I'm not giving you a hard time as to what it is that we're we're approving here today we're if you've approved it's the direction to give the right direction for the city manager and staff and city attorney so we can somehow protect our 65 and plus and are disabled
 from getting a citation when they're the most vulnerable that can't go ahead and have the work done themselves. You know what I'm saying? And, of course, with all prices going up, landscaping prices are also going up.
 So, I mean, some of those are on a low-medium income, like I told you, I showed you. And others are in desperate need of – they make the decisions of what they're going to do. Are they going to pay their hospital or their electric bill or whatever? And so to get hit with a warning or citation like that is, you know, even harder on them.
 And one more thing just remember that environmental services also offers the neighborhood cleanup Dumpster to each one of your offices I think each one of you have actually had it one or two of those events earlier in the summer where we'll bring the roll-off box and provide the gloves and bags and then you're able to pull together a neighborhood association or whoever and
 And so those events also lend themselves to helping this population that Representative Rivera is talking about because a lot of those neighborhood associations already know who is living in the area that may need a little bit of extra help with their weeds.
 And so those events are still, you know, they're available on request for you. I know that these last several weekends have been focused on the medians, but we do still offer that other program if you want to look at that. Okay, so just final statement comment. This is just to ask direct staff to come back with a potential ordinance change, is that correct?
 that was run that by me again please this this item that you have placed it's just to direct staff based off of the conversation that we all are having right now this is just to direct staff to come back at a future date with information on how we could do a potential ordinance change so so as we're sitting here talking through this yes if if that's the best approach but as i'm sitting here listening to ellen
 There may be a fix without having to do an ordinance just in terms of what we're gathering information from Council in terms of what? Mr. DeVette us concern is and it's a matter of how we we're not issuing citations to these folks So it's a matter of understanding The problem and then approaching it in a different way Does that make sense sir? Well in essence
 This is all coming across also from the media as far as reporting all these weeds and everything else. And so I understand what you're saying. But after we –
 After I'm not here, you know, we have these continuous monsoon seasons and we don't want anything to change up because we don't know who's coming in Or or you know, whoever sits in whatever chair that is up here in the dais decides to change your mind inside people like that I would like to that's why I would like to do is form Isis issue to where it Has life well after we're gone. Mr. Rivera. Yes Can you make a motion based on what you would like to see I
 But I also amended 26, where it says, especially what I'd like to see is if they, if at some point, if they're already partnering with a non-profit, that was my extensive point here. For 26, it says develop the program partner with non-profit organization that can provide free of charge landscaping, clean services to property owners 65 plus or older,
 Persons with disabilities who are unable to complete the physical activity necessary to keep up with the overgrown weeds, sir Okay, so that's your motion. That's my amendment and and of course the motion was to approve all three. Okay, great Sir second second. She's all right. So that's the motion. So we know what we have now. Yes, sir So we don't continue to go back and forth. So so with that I know where we go to representative anillo followed by representative I'll see you
 Thank you. Mayor, my question, sorry, not mayor, city manager, how many of these cleanups are we doing for residents right now? Well, we have the staff that's working all the different medians. I mean, in terms of, you're asking for specific houses as far as what we're doing there? Well, no, I mean, that's what I'm getting at, right? Like, we know that right now we're having a shortage of cleanups.
 personnel to be able to deal with the medians right and so I'm just wondering like with the reality of our situation yeah but I think that mr. Rivera is referring to homes yeah we're doing what we're doing is medians with staff that we have also have a contract and then we've also started doing with volunteer groups cleaning up the medians as well
 and we are still cleaning properties that's my question so I can write I don't have it today but I certainly run a report and I'm sorry just want to say I don't want to speak for you mr. Rivera so please stop me if I'm overstepping but I I get what the intent of this item is right I think there's a lot of frustration from everyone right there's frustration from us there's frustration from staff they're understaffed the brain for some reason is just like not stopping this year
 It's never rained this often this late. We're all dealing in a situation that we're not used to. Residents are getting upset. They're complaining all the time to us about medians. And so then if they get this notification, whether it's a citation, whether their yard has been cleaned or not, they're getting frustrated because they're like, well, y'all are having issues, so why aren't you recognizing the fact that we've had issues?
 My yard I've had to claim three times this year. That's unfounded. It doesn't usually rain that often. And so I understand the public and Mr. Rivera's point is that
 We all kind of, on all sides, need to understand that this is a different year. It's harder for people this year. It's happening more often. And so I think the intent of Mr. Rivera's request is that, is for us to understand as well, whether that means we put a hold on cleaning people's yards for a little while and sending out those notifications, whether that means we do do an amnesty period, whether that means –
 and what i think would make much sense but i am not the expert here is that we stop doing residential cleanups and we put all of our personnel towards our streets and our medians and things that we're hearing a lot about but that is i think what mr rivera is asking for is y'all to make that recommendation obviously something needs to happen in the next couple months everybody on all sides are very frustrated i would say hopefully it's going to stop raining but it just rained a lot yesterday so we don't know and i
 The reason I'm supporting this, and I seconded it, because I think that we need to make reasonable adjustments to our policies to deal with the situation at hand. And I don't, and it's very hard for us sometimes, if I'm being honest, because we don't get a lot of information. And when we ask questions, we're kind of stonewalled in the fact, well, this is the policy and we don't have a lot of staff. And so I understand Mr. Rivera's like, I'm trying to find a reasonable amendment, but all I can look at is the actual ordinance and there's not a lot of guidance.
 So, again, I'm supporting this because I would love to hear staff's recommendation on how we can all, as a community, as a city staff, as a city government, work to understand that there sometimes need to be reasonable exceptions when the planet is actually, you know, changing the course of things. So that's all I wanted to say. I thank you, Mr. Rivera, for putting it up because I do think it's an important conversation. Thank you. Representative Salcido followed by Representative Molinaro.
 thank you mayor we definitely have seen unprecedented rain and that doesn't stop right so that's an issue but my question more is in regards to addressing who cleans the yards and how we can go through the best process
 I wanted to see if we could possibly find a way that we would look into people that actually have citations In the way of them to pay those citations that they get for other things To do community service for us like you mentioned like the yards the medians I don't know what the legal thing we would have to do But I think that that would be a good way of people being able to pay their their fines, right? If they don't have the money they can do community service for our community and help us
 also to keep El Paso clean beautiful and we all know that weeds medians are always an issue and Of course right now it's more in front of us because of this rain So I just wanted to see if I can how would the approach be for us to look at? That kind of way of getting that community service So it's kind of more for sure and also it allows people that you know They don't have the funds to pay those citations. They can do it with community service. I
 We can include that when we do our research when we come back. Yes, and it's not a fine. It's a bill. So yeah to pay off their invoice. I'm talking more about like the fines regarding like people that gets traffic tickets and so they know that that goes more into the court system like if somebody gets a you know a speeding ticket and they have to pay it and they don't have the funds so that they can in lieu of that to do community service.
 For El Paso to pay the fine. I think that yeah. We would need to look at the how we get there. Many of the cases that are prosecuted go through trial. We could.
 talk to the judges and discuss whether that could be part of a plea agreement. But again, we would need to do the research in terms of whether those folks would be part of a volunteer group to clean up properties. Okay, perfect. And for that, do I need to amend anything or that's something you all will look into doing already? Give them direction.
 And I didn't catch the entire motion that Mr. Rivera made earlier. I think that what I think, and I won't speak for the city manager, but what I think what I would request is that we come back with as many different options as are available to address this issue where it exists and then other options in terms of how do we address the real concern which is overgrown weeds.
 And we can also come back at the next council meeting with a report on the weed situation, just like we do with streets. I mean we have talked about what we've done, so if there's questions that y'all have, if some of y'all feel like y'all haven't gotten the answers, then we'll do it in a public meeting. That way you can, everybody can see the same thing. But what I described earlier is taking place and what Ellen has indicated, they're doing at homes where they get invoiced after they get advised of the high weed situation.
 But yeah, we can come back and give a report publicly so that everyone hears the same thing. Okay. Thank you Thank you, Representative Linard. Thank you very much mayor. So, um Representative Edda, thank you very much for putting this on the agenda I know our office received many calls on different places. I'm going to talk about the
 Marcos Uribe. So if you know Marcos Uribe, it goes in North Hills. It's a long street, but a lot of that street has what they call the double fronts or whatever words you want to use it. And so people, recent people that moved in, people who have been even there for quite some few years, they're getting these notices and they're upset.
 there I've been told they're veterans they're elderly they're disabled and that's fine they don't know anything about it they don't know anything about the ordinance so I really believe that there needs to be some type of education component that we're educating the public on this is happening now this 2022 I believe was a very unique year where we did have substantial rainfall
 I don't know how much it was compared to last year or maybe other previous years. So it doesn't happen every time, every summer, the monsoon season comes, but we really need to do a better job as far as educating the public. Those people who have a double front property, you are responsible for that. It's in the ordinance, but they don't know about it. And so when they get hit with a notice, all of a sudden they're like, they're screaming at us.
 as representatives what what are you doing how can you take this away from me you're giving me seven days to do this and you know we have to listen to them and we have to provide them with an answer so um the other thing too is so for example i know helen you were talking about the weeds and different properties i can tell you there's one property at the 4700 block of gt powers in district 4.
 For the last 10 12 years that I'm aware of that house has never been lived in the owner resides I'm gonna say in the East Coast in New York, New Jersey or something like that 4700 block of GT powers and so I know code enforcement has received many calls on that 3-1-1 has received many calls on that right now. The weeds are bad and
 and they will continue to get worse. And next year is gonna be a cycle. And I'm not sure if that, there are notices on the door, posted there, but nobody lives there. I mean, some windows had at one point been broken into and they're a little bit boarded up and those boards come down. It's bad. So I don't know what you can do about repeat calls for service in that one particular house. And I'm sure there's many houses and various districts throughout the city that's just not unique to that one block.
 And so when you also talk about
 Others that can help I know there's a gentleman by the name of Israel Dana who works for the County of El Paso And he's the charge for the juvenile probation department and they're you know They do require community service hours as part of their adjudication And so they're a great resource to reach out to and say hey on a Saturday We've got six juvenile offenders Let's put them to work three hours four hours and they get service credit as part of their probation period. So I
 Just something to add to that. Thank you, Representative. We do use community service volunteers from the courts at our five drop-off sites rather than in the yards. It's more contained and we have more supervision at those sites. And I know that the downtown management district also uses court-ordered service hours to help them in the downtown area. One more thing. And also, I know at a community meeting someone mentioned that –
 And I guess in years past, I don't know how many years, that there was, call it a chain gang, if you will, where inmates that are serving time in the Paso County detention facility, for whatever offense, I'm not sure, misdemeanors, felonies, that they were put to work. I don't know if that's something to be able to explore or not.
 We can look at it. We have looked at it previously, and we can look at it again. All right. Thank you. That's all I have. Thank you, Representative Mullen. I'd represent Hernandez, and then we'll call the question after this. Okay. Thank you. So I was listening to everyone's dialogue, and just I had to step away for a minute. But if I can address you, Representative Rivera, did you make an amendment? Okay. So for 26, what was the amendment? Okay.
 program and or partner with a nonprofit organization that can provide free of charge landscaping being serviced to home property owners 65 or older or persons with disabilities who are unable to complete the physical activity necessary to keep up with the overgrown weeds. Representative Rivera and I heard you say June 15th on that one is it June or July? On the initial on the initial initiative here it had from July to July.
 15th through September 30th. So it will be July 15th. Okay. Thank you. And based on what Ellen, excuse me,
 You got a really long title. Officer Ellen Smythe and the city attorney and city manager, is it your intent today to approve as is, or is it the intent to come back and provide recommendations? It's to direct to see if they can come back. Come back with recommendations? Okay, so voting yes today would give them the opportunity to do their due diligence in-house, to do a legal review, to check out operations and whatnot. Okay. Okay.
 And so just my other comment is just to thank you for doing this. We do hear a lot of these complaints. I do believe that there is some kind of resolve, some kind of program, even if it's not the idea from Representative Rivera or close to it, I really do believe that if we're going to hold residents accountable, we need to be in lead by example.
 This year has been incredibly frustrating to hear about weeds, but, and I've said this before, it's just been...
 extraordinary and unprecedented times that have called for thinking out the box and but also recognizing that there are some residents who may take issue with this because there's a myriad of issues whether they're homeowners whether they're renters maybe they just didn't get the exemption so there's a lot of concerns that could rise from this so I would feel comfortable having the administration do their due diligence internally and then report back
 but i'm happy to support this i think this gets the ball rolling and it allows for everyone to to start to think about how we can bring fairness and equity in our policies but also think a little bit more innovative with families or persons who are struggling and so we appreciate your your willingness to to do a deep dive on this but i am supportive to do that deep dive at this time thank you thank you mr prime
 Thank you, Representative Nunes. And, Council, there's three separate motions. Did you want to take them together or separately?
 Together. Together. Okay, so I'll read on item 24. It's a motion and a second to direct the city manager, city attorney to establish a moratorium on article 17 of the city's municipal code for residential property owners who have filed in over 65 or persons with disabilities exemption with El Paso Central Appraisal District to expire on December 31st, 2022.
 And the motion on item 25 is to direct the city manager and city attorney to create an amnesty period for residential property owners who have filed in over 65 or persons with disabilities exemption for the El Paso Central Appraisal District that have received a citation for overgrown weeds in the last 60 days.
 And the motion item 26 is to direct the city manager and city attorney to create a permanent moratorium on Article 17 of the city's municipal code for residential property owners who have filed an over 65 or persons with disabilities exemption with El Paso Central Appraisal District from July 15th to September 30th.
 every year and develop a program and or partner with a nonprofit organization that can provide free of charge landscaping, yard cleaning service to home property owners 65 or older or persons with disabilities who are unable to complete the physical activity necessary to upkeep with overgrown weeds and return to council in four weeks? Is that correct? Okay. On those motions, call for the vote. In the voting session.
 and the motion passes unanimously thank you council thank you thank you sir if council wish to recess for lunch till noon till noon there's a motion in a second to recess the city council meeting until noon all in favor yes anyone opposed and the meeting is in recess at 11 36 a.m yes sir council is there a motion to reconvene there's a motion in a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting all in favor anyone opposed
 The meeting is back in session at 12.04 p.m. We are on call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens of the city and these meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person
 or group's character or integrity, which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda, however, council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have seven members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Ms. Wally Schick.
 Followed by Stephen Stromer and Ron Komal. Good morning, Michelle. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. God bless every one of you. And I put you back to the United States of America because we lost you to unity.
 And today I would address you and don't put the gizmo on it, okay? Please. This is everybody's concern in El Paso and every one of it in the United States what I say today.
 First let me explain this flag. My mama at age 80 became a U.S. citizen because I wrote to President Ford why I want my mama buried in El Paso. And Richard C. White, our congressman, helped me and he sent her
 the flag that was flying over the Congress on her day, October 18, 1977. And Mr. Mayor, this is a flag for you to put in the greenery of your pot at home or at your business or here.
 This is the flag my mama held, and she wanted to be buried with the flag that flew over the Congress. I, as an American, not born here, knew that it was against the law to disgrace the flag. My mama is at the...
 cemetery with the American flag that flowed in Congress and I mean it with a sincerity heart I took the consequences and when I had her covered at the funeral I told the people the heck with the rules and the regulation I want you out of here and I want to close the coffin. I paid for it
 And this is the way I did it. I put the flag on her chest, I put the Blessed Mother in there, and then they can dig her up if they cause me problems. And today, I'm asking every one of you in unity to put the U back to the USA. And here is the flag.
 From the artist, Marcus. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. No, no, no, no. You've reached three minutes, ma'am. We have a war going on. Everyone gets three minutes, ma'am. No, no, no. I'm sorry. Ms. Sheck, I know we'll see you in two weeks. Thank you very much for being here. No. Yes, I thank you, and I got your letter here. I can't get a hold of number three.
 And she's supposed to be my representative, and I don't want anybody representing me that believes in birth control. Forgive me. I know, but thank you very much, Ms. Sheck. This is so important today. They have to arrest me. I want El Paso as a citizen. Ms. Sheck, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como. Thank you.
 Mr. Como will be followed by Carlos Carmona, Georgia Paul, Barbara Valencia, and Susan Martinez. Mr. Como's topic is poor decisions by city council. Good afternoon, Mr. Como. You'll have three minutes, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Schack, like always. I look forward to number 354, and so does Ron. Thank you, Ms. Schack.
 I'll see you next two weeks, Mr. Camus. Hello, everybody. How are we this morning, this afternoon, whatever it is? I lose track. I'm here to have some conversations about things that are happening. And let me apologize, Mr. Mayor. I wasn't aware you were going through things again. But these are things that need to be said.
 You in your dealership, you have a general manager, a service manager, a parts manager, sales managers. Every single one of those people had years of experience before they were put in a management position. You and I both know it. For a company, for a business, for anything to succeed in today's world, the person that is running the business, the facility...
 has to be qualified to run that business. The rate of success by a person who is not qualified to run a business, an entity, whatever you want to call it, is not a good average. You and I both know that. You and I are both businessmen. We've both been in the same business. You cannot...
 hire people and put them in charge of something if they have absolutely no clue what they're doing. We have situations in our city where an entity is failing miserably, and we have no plans on how to fix it. I've tried to come up with solutions. We've had a couple of meetings, but we haven't had any more. We can't adopt our way out. We can't kill our way out. We need to get some concern and care.
 Mr. Leaser you wouldn't hire somebody off the street because they were a friend to run your dealership. Why do we keep doing it? Why does the city keep doing this you need qualified personnel? The upper management teams and some of these things are not qualified and we need to fix the issue Please look at what's actually happening on the streets ma'am, you brought up a good point about on next door app and I'm glad you looked I
 But you all need to look at next door apps, lost and found pages. We have a crisis in this city. We need to fix it. We can't ignore it. If you look at the shelter numbers the last two months, you can no longer ignore this problem. We need to fix it, guys. What's it going to take? What? What do we need to do? We're begging you. This isn't right. Thank you, Mr. Como. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I appreciate your time. The next speaker is Carlos Carmona.
 Mr. Carmona's topic is rising cost of retiree health insurance. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Mr. Carmona, go ahead. Carlos Carmona, your phone is unmuted. Go ahead, sir. Can you hear me now? Yes, sir. Okay.
 Honorable Mayor and Council, thank you very much for what you do, and thank you for having me. I'm a retired city employee. I've been retired for almost 31 years. I got it backwards. I worked for almost 31 years with the city of El Paso, and I've been retired for about nine and a half. And the reason I'm calling it for you is to please consider retiring this year when calculating our health insurance premiums.
 As you know, as a demographic, we are more vulnerable to increasing prices overall, inflation, and of course medical costs and healthcare coverage. You've done very good and I appreciate you for holding the line for current city employees and not raising their premiums in the last couple of years. Thank you for that. So please, I ask that you do the same for us retired city employees. So that's all I had.
 Again, thank you for your time and may you all have a great day. Thank you. The next speaker is Georgia Paul. Georgia Paul, star six please to unmute your telephone. And the topic is increase in property taxes. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. My name is Georgia Paul.
 I was looking at the news over this weekend, and the people was talking about them raising their property taxes on the elders. And one lady said that, you know, everything that we do in El Paso comes from the property tax. So I figured we need another taxable income where you don't tax people out of their houses, right?
 where everything that the hospital needs, you're taxing the people. Everything the city needs, you're taxing the people. I mean, the people don't get a break. So I figure if you had another taxable income, then you wouldn't have to tax the elders out of their houses where they got to move to Santa Teresa and other places that's undesirable for them.
 So I figured everybody in El Paso are in a state of taxes. Smoke weed, smoke pot, marijuana, however you want to call it. So why can't that be a taxable income? Why can't you release some of the burden from the taxpayer, from the property taxes?
 I mean, the people in El Paso pay for the people that come across the border. We pay for the hospital, the schools, everything. Your salary comes out of the property taxes. So why can't you do something to help the people instead of hurting the people all the time? That's all I've got to say. You need to come up with another solution.
 And I figured the solution, everybody smokes marijuana. You can deny it all you want to, but they do. They smoke it. And they'll pass it in all parts of Texas. So why can't that be a taxable income that you can take the taxes from that and pay for some of these other items y'all want to do and not tax the elders and the disabled out of their homes? That's it. Thank you, ma'am.
 Bless you. Ms. Valencia is not present, so we'll move on to Susan Martinez. Susan Martinez, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. And the topic is Frontera Road Concerns. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Yes, good afternoon. This is Susan Martinez. I'm with the Jack White Neighborhood Association and also with the El Paso Neighborhood Coalition. And I'm speaking on behalf of my neighbors.
 Did you know that El Paso was ranked the 20th most dangerous city for pedestrians, with 215 pedestrians killed between 2010 and 2019? So the proposed use of Frontera Road by the New Mexico developer, with over 100 acres of residential development, is going to bring about an additional 2,000 vehicles to Frontera Road.
 FRONTERA ROAD IS AN EAST-WEST LOCAL STREET PROVIDING ONE LANE OF TRAVEL IN EACH DIRECTION FROM DONOVAN TO LA ADELITA. IT'S A DISTANCE OF LESS THAN ONE MILE. THE SPEED LIMIT IS 30 MILES AN HOUR. SO WE CAN'T SUPPORT THESE DANGEROUS NEW MEXICO PROPOSALS. WE'VE ALREADY MENTIONED TO YOU THE 224 HOUSE DEVELOPMENT ON 60 ACRES IN SUNLAND PARK THAT'S GOING TO DUMP INTO FRONTERA. WE'VE MENTIONED THE 50 HOUSES UNDER CONSTRUCTION IN NEW MEXICO AT ASCIENDA ROJA, BOY SCOUT, AND THE SAN GABRIEL STREETS.
 These three streets all intersect with Frontera Road. Now there's 40 acres in New Mexico, approximately 550 feet away from the 224 house development that's waiting for development. Did you know there's also a gated community all in Summit Park adjoining the Texas Willows neighborhood? It's got one road from Texas to get in and out. And the gate code is privacy, and the code is only known to New Mexico residents.
 Inside this area, there's a street sign. It says Appaloosa Street. But there's no street. It's a dead end, and it's blocked with thick growth of salt cedars. Appaloosa was originally designated the access and egress for the New Mexico portion of the Willows. So the neighbors have come up with some recommendations for you, and we hope that you will consider them and collaborate with us. We're happy to work with you. We propose you close Frontera with a cul-de-sac at Frontera and Girl Scout. Have Frontera comply with the Complete Streets Ordinance.
 and promotes health and safety and welfare of the community and incorporates trails and bike paths, close Hacienda Roja, Boy Scout Lane and San Gabriel Streets, all at the Texas border. See the original cul-de-sacs that were there. They're still in the street.
 We would like to see New Mexico use eminent domain. They can keep the privacy gate in the Willows, but cut through the salt cedars and build and pave Appaloosa Street so that access and egress will be into New Mexico. We suggest they also use eminent domain and design and pave new streets for adequate traffic flow in the 224 House development. Don't use Frontera and Girl Scout. This is substandard. Frontera and Girl Scout intersect at about 1500 feet, so there's only one entrance.
 Fully paved Futurity Street. New Mexico residents then can easily reach Sunland Park, McNutt, I-10 and the toll road for access and egress. So bottom line, Frontera Road can't support the traffic from over 100 acres of proposed New Mexico development. This is going to cause unsustainable traffic hazards and could lead to injury and even death. Let's work with Sunland Park to develop some street designs with excellent traffic flow. Thank you so much for your help. Thank you very much.
 Council that concludes call to the public. Thank you. Thank you everyone for being here and with that miss pine Pro Tem yes, can we go to item 48 which is the state legislative? Agenda update yes, sir item 48 is Discussion and action on the city of El Paso's legislative agenda for the 88th regular session of the Texas State Legislature Good afternoon council excuse me
 Great to see you all again. So this item today we're going to be talking about the final adoption of our legislative agenda. I believe Snapper and Lupe are joining us on Teams. I know Snapper was running around at another council meeting so hopefully he was able to join us. I believe IT that is the incorrect presentation. It should be item 48. Good afternoon Ms. Adams. Good afternoon. All right. I'm going to go ahead and get started.
 All right, so the purpose of today's presentation, as you all know, we've been coming to all of you since May. It feels like it's been such a quick timeframe bringing the legislative agenda to you, and today we're ready to finalize the entire agenda. So today I'm going to go over one additional priority. As you all know, in August you approved the 12 initiatives that we went over, as well as the council agenda.
 support and oppose items. So today we wanna talk about one additional priority legislative initiative as well as the revisions to the support and oppose section that our staff initiated. And then of course our final goal for today is to adopt the legislative agenda. Excuse me. So in terms of the additional priority,
 or in terms of the entire agenda. So we sent you all an email maybe last week or the week before that, that had the entirety of the agenda. It's about 10 pages long. So I didn't want to do a presentation that would bore you all and take forever to go through every single item. So for the sake of time today, we're only going to cover the changes from the 87th session to the 88th session. So you all have that in an email as well as in the backup, the red line version of the agenda is available for you all to view.
 So like I said, our goal for today is to adopt the legislative agenda. As you all know, session begins in January. And I wanted to remind you all that as we move closer to session, we'll continue to come back and update you on what's happening. Bills can begin to be filed in November. So once that happens, things are going to start moving really quickly. And we'll be sure to stay on top of everything that's happening, any bills that we may need to come back to you all for.
 I do keep in mind that this agenda is just our guiding document it's not final and it's some of the things are going to be rather broad and that's just to allow us to work through the session on anything that generally supports the city. As a quick reminder as you all know there is the priority legislative agenda or priority legislative agenda includes sections including their priority initiatives and then the oppose and support section.
 So these are just general principles that allow our legislative team, which is myself, Lupe, and of course Snapper and his team, to work through this session. So we don't know what type of bills we can anticipate. There's hundreds of bills filed starting in November. So like I mentioned, very, very broad principles, and this is just going to enhance our ability to work through this session. Thank you.
 In terms of a timeline, you guys have seen this multiple times, but it's moving as we're moving along. So in August, you all approved the priority legislative initiatives, the 12 of them, as well as the four council-recommended support and oppose items. Today, here in October, we're looking at one additional priority initiative, as well as the final adoption, including all of the revisions to the support and oppose section. As I mentioned, November 14th, bills can begin to be filed, and then session begins January 10th.
 We'll be sure to come back with periodic updates, anything that we think you all may need to take action on if it's not already covered in our agenda. And then of course those amendments can be made as we go. So overall today's requested action is just to approve the final agenda with that one additional transportation rider, which I'll go over right now, and the revisions to the support and oppose section.
 So in terms of the additional priority legislative initiative, it is a rider and it's going to be very broad. So just to seek riders for any construction or improvements to the city's transportation infrastructure system. And examples of this can include street extensions, obsolete bridge reconstruction, arterial corridor reconstruction, the Northeast Rail Spur, and of course, right in our national bridges. So this one's very broad. So in the event there's an ability for us to sign on to a rider, we'll be able to do so.
 So that is the additional priority legislative initiative we're asking for your approval for today.
 Moving on to the support and oppose section as you all know the documents rather lengthy There's a lot of sections in it. This just lists every single section. That's in that Support and oppose section. So we've been hard at work coordinating with all of our departments our eight external agencies And anybody that we need to partner with we've met with the chamber the border plex Just to work through each of these areas and make sure that our agenda is solid so we can move into the session successfully
 So like I mentioned, I'm only going to go over the revisions from the 87th to the 88th. So one thing we're going to do is add a pension section. This is a section that was not previously in the agenda. So we're adding that section with – did I skip? Okay, no. I'm sorry. My slides are out of order. Here we go.
 So we're gonna add a support item that enhances our city ability to provide pension benefits to our retirees and employees, and oppose anything that would restrict the pension's ability to manage our pension program, or oppose anything that would affect the city's pension liability, unless you all take action different to that. And I wanna mention I do have multiple staff members. If you guys have any technical questions about any of these items, I have the subject matter experts for each of these ready to go.
 So the next section, under the utility section, we're going to add a support item that would increase the proportion of renewable energies and the state's renewable generation requirements. So this would be support any legislation that would do that. Next, under the environmental section, we're going to amend it to read sustainability and environmental because that helps us cover a more broad understanding of sustainability and environmental sections.
 Under that we're going to add quite a few things. I'm not going to read them all to you, but mostly any legislation that's going to support climate change goals, renewable energy, the deployment of electric vehicles, charging infrastructure and net metering caps. So this is all stuff that we've been talking about, the council has been talking about for quite a while. Basically anything that's going to increase our energy efficiency.
 Next we're going to amend public health and safety to read public health and welfare and the reason for that is because we already Had a public safety section. So it was a little redundant and we needed to separate what the two were trying to do So we're gonna amend that and add to the public health and welfare section any legislation that supports the simplification Of the process to apply for snap which is food stamps. I
 And then we're going to have two deletions, I'm sorry, one deletion under public health and welfare, and this would be to delete the support of legislation that reduces background check requirements for telecommunications, and then delete one item from public safety, which is to, this is confusing, sorry. We're going to delete the opposition item under public safety to oppose legislation that will allow U.S. border agents to be carried as state peace officers. So both of those will be deleted.
 Next we're gonna add to the airport section point of order we would have to go we would have to make an amendment To delete those at this point. No sir. So once I go through all the changes We'll ask for it to be amended as recommended by staff. So they'll all be included in there. Okay Next we're recommending to add under the oops. I'm sorry under the airport section to oppose any legislation that would limit municipalities ability to regulate peer-to-peer car sharing companies and
 And then under animal services add a support item that would allow shelter animals to be spayed and neutered by veterinarians That maybe have a license from a different state. That's not from Texas We're also looking to add an affordable housing section section. This has not previously been on the agenda So under that section we're asking to support legislation that prioritizes viable transactions for 4% low-income housing tax credit applications and
 supporting legislation that would repeal the two mile same year rule or either support legislation that repeals it or that allows the municipalities to repeal it and then lastly support legislation that would limit the housing finance corporations to operate only within municipal city limits and
 Next we have our higher education section so every year we work with UTEP and UTEP's board approves a list of their priorities so this list comes from them. We're just supporting them in their efforts. I'm not going to read them to you because it's two slides worth of information but some of the big ones to point out is supporting them in their appropriation for advanced manufacturing and then also they also have an appropriation for the law school planning study.
 So with that, our recommended motion is to approve the legislative agenda for this ADA session as presented by me. And then really quick, just a couple next steps. So like I mentioned, bills will begin to be filed November 14th.
 session begins January 10th so right around the corner as I mentioned multiple times I feel like a broken record I'll be sure to come back and update you all with anything happening throughout the session anything you all need to be aware of and then of course if there's anything we need either further clarification modification or revision on the approved agenda we'll be sure to come back as a quick
 resources reminder if you will. I just wanted to let you all know, if you don't receive the newsletter from Focus Advocacy, I encourage you all to sign up for it. They send sometimes at least weekly, sometimes twice a week and it has information that's really, really important. I recommend that you all sign up for that and if you need help, please let me know, I can help you do that. I also wanted to let you know that we,
 we're able to set up a website for intergovernmental relations where people will be able to access the agenda and just have make it easier for the public to find information on our agendas as well as some of our lobbying contracts. So it's under the government section. I just wanted to show you all really quick.
 under government and intergovernmental relations. It's a very basic page. We just were able to launch it this week, but it's gonna house this agenda. It houses once approved and then last year's agenda as well and then just some resources. And then of course my contact information and information so people can find out who their state and federal representatives are.
 And then finally, the last thing I wanted to let you all know is El Paso Days in Austin has been scheduled for February 14th through 16th. So hopefully you all will be able to join us out there. And we're working with the chamber to get all those details finalized. So we'll be sure to send that out once we have it. And with that, I will take any questions. Thank you, Representative Nello.
 Thank you, Lindsay. I also, I know I bring this up often, but I really love the Focus Advocacy newsletter. It's very helpful. I want to, so I have a couple questions. One's a general kind of keeping us informed. And so I know last year there was...
 Some of the council wasn't aware, I think, of HB 14, which was a bill that specifically impacted municipalities. So I wanted to know if y'all have a plan to just, I know they're online, I know that they're searchable, but just to make it absolutely impossible for us to miss any bill that's filed that involves municipalities. Absolutely, so one of the biggest things that we're working on is getting a bill tracking system that will help us, so for us to track them, because there are hundreds of them,
 But I am hoping to do a better job of ensuring that you all have that information, if not weekly, maybe biweekly information on anything that is relative to the city. We wanna make sure we protect our interests
 both for the good and the bad so we'll be sure to stay on top of all of those and keep you all informed yeah I mean it's because you remember it was hard to have a conversation when some council members weren't aware of the bill and others are more informed and so yeah I think that you know just some kind of spreadsheet or email would be helpful but I want to go back to one of your changes that you mentioned I think it was when representative Schwartzbein he may be asking about this do ask for a point of clarification so we are removing
 The opposition, why are we removing that? So I don't know if Chief D'Agostino is still here. I don't know that I support that, so I would be interested in why we wouldn't be opposing it. Yes, I'm an office subject matter expert. Mario D'Agostino, for the record, opposing legislation allows U.S. Border Patrols to be carried out of state, so we're deleting that.
 So we want them to be recognized as state. We do want them because they assist our community. As we've talked about, everything we do here is based on that urban island. And we've talked about our partnerships across all the different entities. And they're a very big partner. So like when we had the August event at Walmart, they were able to come in and assist us.
 Without that, it makes the processing and the tracking of that difficult by giving by making them to be recognized by the state as peace officers. It allows that better cooperation and a lot more seamless. So if we get in a time of need and we need to call for additional units.
 They could come in and do that because they'd be walking under that state process and I respect your opinion But we collectively do not want that. I do not agree with that And I think using the Walmart shooting is a little disingenuous example of what could also be happening So I'm going to ask Lindsay that we take these individually. So, thank you Thank you
 I have a number of items to bring up there as well, and I would echo my colleague. I think that the Border Patrol does an absolutely essential job for dealing with our federal border and dealing with issues of federal government, however.
 I do think that it's important that there is a separation between our different law enforcement positions here and this really muddies the water in a way that I don't really understand it right now. I don't think the council really understands it. I again appreciate the chief's perspective on this, but without understanding it further, there's no way can I support this and I think that it's important to keep it as is.
 So that would be something that again, I would wanna vote on. One of the questions that I have is relating to slide 13. For affordable housing? Yes, so the support legislation that prioritizes viable transactions for 4% low income housing, what is a viable transaction as defined by the 4% low income housing tax credit applications? So I believe we have Abraham on the line from Community Human Development. I think he can answer that better than I can.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Pertem. Abraham Gutierrez, Assistant Director of Community and Human Development for the record. Mayor Pertem, that is basically oftentimes on 4% LIHTC applications. They get approved, but then the project ends up being not viable. And so this is very challenging since it's a very limited pool of 4% deals.
 and that reduces the participation from other folks that are shovel ready. So we would want to essentially limit the number of 4% applications
 To only have individuals that are shovel ready projects. I don't know if that answers your question, sir. So this would essentially prioritize it would essentially limit the market of people that could apply for this because if they hadn't done a 4% project, we wouldn't support it. That is correct, sir.
 Yeah, again, I think we need to take these individually. I don't know why we would take such an activist role in this when there isn't necessarily such an issue that we're seeing or at least been made aware of. So we're going to take these individually. One of the things that I'd heard from some other elected officials in the state, is Snapper on here maybe? Somebody from our lobbyist group? He should be on. Yeah.
 Are you questioning them all? Or just? I just have a couple and then I would like to make a motion to add something else on here as well, but we'll get to that as well. He was scheduled to be on. I don't know if the rescheduling of the presentation caused him to go to another meeting. Yes, I just texted him. He's joining right now.
 Well, there's two items, and as we wait for him, I'll just bring them up in general. One is we know that the state legislature in the past has done a number of preemptive bills meant to limit the ability for municipalities to do a wide variety of things, from banning Styrofoam to banning 5G to I don't even know what.
 at this point and there was a number of items that I know that was discussed that I don't necessarily see on here so I'd Like to understand a little bit more one relates towards the Discussion about the state legislator or the state banning cities from hiring lobbyists in the future and
 So that is one item that I don't see on here. If it is, I obviously think it's very important that we clearly state oppose preemptive banning of lobbyists for the cities to the state legislature. And then another item that I heard from a couple of elected officials in the state, not in El Paso, Texas, relates towards a preemptive measure of preemption for cities to charge for park fees.
 and park minimums for development projects. And so I was hoping to hear from Snap or somebody about both of those items if they're hearing any chatter relating to this I think would be pretty scary that cities would not be allowed to do a sensible minimum of requiring park space for developments. That actually totally makes me,
 It makes me kind of sad that that would even be discussed. What? I think that might be Lupe. Lupe Cueta, legislative attorney. Hello. I may be able to help out here. Good afternoon, council members. So before I answer more specifically your question, representative, I do want to point council out to within our legislative agenda, there is what's called a legislative principles agenda.
 and in that legislative principles section city council gives us the authority to oppose any bill that would that tries to reduce or preempt city council from taking any action that it currently can take using its homeroom municipal authority so there already is a general principle that allows us to do that so
 The two examples that you cited, those would be items that we would definitely oppose. Now, as far as that first item, more specifically, the one that deals with, and what we'll call this is community censorship. So, yeah.
 In the past, what the legislature has tried to do is it tries to limit municipalities' ability to hire people to assist them during the legislative process and so using taxpayer funding to hire lobbyists. But really what it is is it's community censorship. It's limiting our ability to represent the community there at the Capitol. And so there is a lot still, there's a lot of talk. We do anticipate something like that.
 coming up again during this legislative session, and we'll be working with other municipalities as well as other organizations to oppose that bill. And more likely than not, we'll hopefully be submitting, as we have done in prior sessions, written testimony on that. As far as the second example that you cited, what you're hearing that there might be an effort made by the legislature to try to,
 limit the municipality's authority to pass park fees. And then I'll transfer to some snappers joining us. I do know that there has been a lot of talk prior to this session concerning affordable housing. And from the building community, there's been a lot of talk from that community basically saying that there are a lot of
 regulations that municipalities have that prevent them from being able to provide more affordable housing. So the park fees that municipalities may be charging, that might be one of the things that they have talked about, but in general, that is something that more likely will also come up during this legislative session. The legislature will be looking at whether or not there really are regulations, ordinances that municipalities have
 that may impact the ability of builders to provide affordable housing, for example, in some of the fees that municipalities have. So we are working with other municipalities in anticipation of some type of bill coming up. And based on the principles that council has adopted, you would have given us the authority to oppose those types of bills. And I'll transfer it over to Snapper.
 If you've got any additional information to add, Snapper. Thank you, Lupe, and Mayor and Council. Thank you for letting me join today. And I apologize, we just finished up another council briefing. On Tuesdays are a busy council day. And so thank you. Lupe is exactly right. The issue of what cities and how we calculate our fee across the board, there will be.
 bills filed that have limitations from our standpoint to do that. That absolutely will be an item of discussion. And the bigger topic of what is driving this,
 affordability issues across the state. Unfortunately, throughout the interim, some of the Builders Association and development community around the state have testified that cities, either the delay in processes or the cumbersomeness of their process is what they deem to be a major factor in that.
 I will say that they've not presented a whole lot of testimony or evidence to that fact, that it's more rhetorical in nature or kind of highlighting bad examples that might be outside the norm. But the issue of housing affordability, city fees and development process, the attempt to preempt local authority, there will be no doubt be a major item of discussion.
 Okay, so is this something that that we need to take an active opposition of in terms of these these these two items relating to the preemption of lobbyists and preemption of Park fees I think under under the general principles You've already given us authority to oppose anything that comes up as Lindsay stated earlier In any bill not only these two bills these two items are issues that you that you mentioned representative. I
 But any bill that gets filed, any legislation that gets filed that seeks to remove your rulemaking, your ordinance-making authority, or preempt you in any manner, you have given us the authority to oppose. And we will be opposing it, those types of bills during this legislative session, as we have done in the past. And I know my 10 minutes is probably running out right now, but I know that we've had in the past, have put some of our priority items relating towards
 and film economic development in our community. And so I am gonna make a motion to add that as one of our priority items. I know that, I don't know if you guys have the language that we've done previously in terms of carving out an area within, you know,
 city above 500,000 people within 25 miles of the Texas border to look at adding additional film incentives if that doesn't pass and I would like to make a motion to have an item for us to oppose anything that would limit or shut down the current Texas State Film Incentive Program and to support any any items that would increase it.
 And I don't know if you all have that language. Maybe by the... I know there's a couple other people signed up to speak that we can...
 You can read that there in the record. We have a very dynamic film community. Again, it's important for people to understand that Netflix is right around the corner from where we are right now, both in Las Cruces and Albuquerque, there's major studios. There are dozens, if not hundreds, of El Pasoans that are employed by the film economy in New Mexico, and we are positioned here regionally to be able to take advantage of those dollars here.
 We need help from the state to be more competitive, but we'd be doing a disservice to our creative economy here in El Paso and those El Pasoans who are being supported by this work.
 Yes, sir. So the film and moving image industry incentive program is in the support section I didn't cover it today because it's not changing unless you all want to vote to make it a priority. It's under economic development letter F and it's Appropriates money for the moving image industry incentive program and creates supplemental tools for local communities to attract moving image projects and related jobs So I'd like to make an amendment at this time to make that to make that item a priority. I
 I don't know if there's a second. Thank you. Absolutely. Those are my comments for right now. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez. Thank you. We were, and this will be a question for Salope and Snapper. Are you hearing anything, or in the past legislative session, was there any decisions made on limiting a public health authority and or any legislation that would give,
 precedence or exclusive authority to any political subdivision or governor, the right to implement mask mandates or the opposite, the prohibition to limit mask mandates, um,
 I'm not sure how, like if the bills have been filed yet or if the committees have discussed this at all, but that's something I'm interested in, granted that we've already expended time and money and we're in active lawsuit and litigation against these prohibitions of mask mandates.
 Lupe, I'm happy to answer the representative's question, take a shot at it first. The issue of emergency management authority, declaration authority, and jurisdiction in the times of declared emergency, there will undoubtedly be.
 the again in legislation filed uh on that topic um it's been a major it was a discussion point last session during the course of the pandemic which we of course were actively in still and then i would say that that due to the winter storm some of that debate was cut short uh and kind of refocused
 and not really settled. I would say that there will be bills that are filed that further clarify what the governor's authority are, though some that we would probably support and some that would probably be against the positions that we've taken in some of the aforementioned litigation.
 And there will likely be bills that are filed that look to preempt local government's authority to act outside of it in times of declared emergencies. And so the issue will, again, be back.
 It often gets, you know, there have now become a distinction between public health orders and pandemic management and management of, let's say, a more typical disaster that we're more common to dealing with, like a hurricane on the coast.
 or tornadoes or something along those lines. And so this will be something that's debated. And back to Lupe's point that she was making on a couple other items, I think that overall our first...
 mission and the way we help look at this for you and evaluate things that are being proposed is to try to retain local authority for community and council-based decision-making as it relates to all topics, including emergency management. And so that's kind of where it is. Those bills haven't been filed. Pre-filing will start November the 14th.
 but we will absolutely see a large number of proposals, both good and bad, likely, from our perspective on that topic. Could I add, Snapper? So technically this would be local control, but it is –
 I guess where our arguments and facts of our cases differ from other communities is that we're leaning on the public health authority's authority to make this decision. So would that differ from local control in terms of a political subdivision or is there something where we need to specifically call out that?
 that we want to respect the authority of a public health authority, as opposed to a city council, a judge, a county government, or a mayor making that decision through emergency or disaster acts.
 You certainly could add that provision. I think that there will be a debate at the state level about where that jurisdiction lies as it relates particularly to, say, a public health crisis like a pandemic management.
 Having a specific item supporting the authority of local health entities to make those calls is certainly something that's doable. I would think it, and Lupe or Lindsey, please jump in. I would think if we see bills that are filed that limit local authority, whether that be the local government officials or the public health entity, which I think we will see,
 that we would be in position to oppose those under the current provisions of our agenda, but certainly I have any sort of clarification on that.
 Yes so on the very last page of the agenda that I sent you all that's also in the backup it has our general principles and I believe the third one is opposing anything that limits the city's authority so it's kind of broad to cover any of those bills that may come up. Sorry Lupe go ahead. And so I just want to get clarification from your representative.
 And I might need city attorney's help or the city manager's help on this issue, but it's my understanding that during the pandemic and under the existing statute,
 The health authority has the authority to issue a mandate or a health order, and then I think it stays for 10 days or a certain period of time, and then I think it has to go to city council. I think that's the way it flows. So the clarification that I kind of need from you, Representative, is, are you seeking to change the existing law
 or what is it that you want to accomplish? Do you want council to make that determination first or do you want the health authority to make that determination first or what is it that you want to either prevent from happening so that we can ensure that we watch out for that type of legislation or what do you wanna change, if anything? Sure, Mrs. Neiman, I can ask you to jump in. So Lupe,
 It's been a little while since I've seen that area of the law, but our interpretation allows for the local health authority to issue health orders that address public health, safety and welfare issues. So during the pandemic, Dr. Ocaranza, with our assistance in the health department, we're issuing health authorities in regard health orders that would address the pandemic at different locations. So we did it for.
 nursing homes we did it for homeless shelters we did it for schools etc right in places where we knew that he needed to provide additional assistance in order to prevent the spread of covid under that same authority the city council supported his direction to issue a county-wide mass mandate and then those are reviewed periodically however there aren't any
 expiration date set by statute, it's simply the authority given to him under state code and the health code to issue those types of orders to protect the public health and safety. That's what the authority was that Dr. Ocaranza issued his countywide mandate. And then it doesn't come back to council in terms of approval. But then to further provide context, if those orders were,
 essentially ignored because then the governor's executive order took precedence and so the question that we have posed in the courts today is who has the clear authority to issue those health orties is it a non public health official
 Like a governor or political subdivision or should that authority? rest heavily on a medical expert a Medical order as opposed to a political if you will order And this is something that we can discuss moving forward council as you know directed our office to file litigation against Governor Abbott and
 in regards to the mass mandate issued by Dr. Ocaranza and the question we believe still remains open and potentially open for the legislative session to delve into these issues and either clarify the Emergency Disaster Act
 or strip away powers from our local health authorities in terms of this type of power. So it may not necessarily be in regards to mask mandates in general, but in the future when you have another pandemic or another type of crisis that affects people's health, the question is going to be, Council, I believe, is interested in having a discussion about us
 being vigilant of any changes that would strip a local health authority's authority to issue directives or orders that would protect our local inhabitants. So as I understand it then, really what you're looking for is, we may need a clarification of the existing law to ensure that the authority to issue local emergency orders is retained or is held by the local health authority.
 That's correct. That's stated in current state law. Yes, that's currently stated in state law. And Lupe, if I can jump in, it was back to what I was commenting on and follow up on the city attorney's discussion. There will be bills filed that amend the Emergency Declaration Authority Act, which empowers the governor.
 And there will be bills filed that severely limit local government, including public health authorities, to go against those orders as they come out of the state, whether that be the governor's emergency declaration powers coupled with advice and guidance from the Texas Department of Health and HHSC.
 That is the position that the governor and legislature took. And of course, not our case that was filed, but several pieces of litigation during the pandemic did work its way to the Texas Supreme Court that were on similar questions, not exact as it related health, but it did relate to local orders. And of course, the Supreme Court sided with the governor's office in those instances.
 again ours is different i'm not saying that but but the issue of this will be there and what we're gonna i can guarantee you it won't be a discussion of clarifying it in favor of the local government it will be in the it will be discussed in the context of saying you do not have that authority um because that's the position that leadership probably takes and took during the pandemic uh
 expressed very strong resources there wasn't a bill that passed this last session
 i think again primarily because of the complications i think just of the session but also because the governor and the legislature were in a disagreement some members of the governor's own party and of the legislature did not agree with uh how broad of application the governor was applying his his authority uh expects to leave their executive order authority
 And so that is, I think, not because they were unwilling to clarify it one way or another for local governments. It was because of that executive level officer, the governor and the legislature being on so that nothing happened. This time around, I could see a greater push to set that dispute between the legislature and the governor aside.
 unfortunately go after local government authority in this regards and then let in the back to it the legislature has made a distinction between management of pandemic as a public health crisis versus a more natural disaster sort of public climate hurricane fires
 Okay, no, all really good feedback, and I agree that it's going to come forward. The discussion is going to be framed in a way that it's not preempting local rules or laws or authority, but rather...
 Elevating or empowering governor's executive orders, which you're right. It'll be framed in that way So I'm just curious now under the public health and welfare section. It mentions nothing about protections for public health authorities or even further elevating or empowering a public health authority to issue health orders I
 So long as it's tracked, I'm fine. I don't think it necessarily needs to be here, but if you feel like you need direct guidance from this body to place it on there, then we can. But I'll leave it to your discretion if you feel just having the discussion is sufficient. Well, since this is slightly different because we're talking about the authority granted to the health authority, not necessarily to city council,
 So it wouldn't be necessarily preempting city councils so much as preempting the health authority. What we can add into the health section is support legislation that allows the health authority to retain authority to issue emergency orders, oppose legislation that removes the authority of the health authority to issue emergency orders. I think that's simple. Go ahead.
 I might make one suggestion that you put, and I like that framing it as support, but support the continued authority of the local health authority to issue. That's correct. So, members of council, I would entertain a motion to add the support. Thank you.
 As mentioned by Mrs. Quyatt, Mrs. Prine, did you get that or would you like a repeat of the language? So the motion would read to support the continued authority of a health authority. Can you repeat that, Mrs. Quyatt? It would read support legislation that gives a continued authority to the health authority to issue emergency orders.
 And then oppose. And Ms. Prine, afterwards also, because I know this is a lot of information, I'll send you something in writing. Thank you, Ms. Cuéllar. And then oppose legislation. And then oppose legislation that removes the health authority's ability to issue authority, issue emergency orders. I think it's existing, Lupe, existing authority. Yeah. Existing authority. Existing. Okay, existing. Correct. So we have a motion, is there a second?
 Then and I'm mayor. I just have one more question Regarding the oppose for the public safety section and so I
 There's a recent event that just took place, which is the unfortunate mass shooting at a school in Uvalde, and there were Border Patrol agents that were on scene, and despite the politics of that. In the event of emergency events, is there like an intent or is there some form of legislation or concern from the public safety?
 legislators or the public safety stakeholders that are seeking to actively have Border Patrol agents who were not with this item we're not asking Border Patrol agents to do the law enforcement work of a police or sheriff is what I understand but you're you're saying in the event of emergencies you you want to give authority to a Border Patrol agent to be able to respond to local events and so can you just please clarify on that
 Mr. D'Agostino. Yes, ma'am. So that is correct We're asking for them to be recognized as state police officers Texas is one of only a few states that do not recognize them as peace officers So while they can intervene for felony type events This would just allow them that that that further where they can they could intervene for for other items as well it's only it's not intended for Border Patrol to do El Paso police or sheriff's job and
 or for El Paso police or sheriffs to do border patrol's job. This is for an emergency, extraordinary circumstances. If they're right there and they're seeing an offense being committed, we'd like them to respond and then for, by all means, for emergency situations such as the unfortunate Evaldi incident or any other incident where we might need that extra response force at the time.
 Right, and then... And I would just add, it's just simply another strategy. It's a force multiplier. Instead of hiring additional officers, you can't hire them fast enough. This is just one more force multiplier. So I just would add that to the context of what the chief just said. But I also think in the August 3rd shooting, there was a patron at Walmart who was a border patrol agent who was not armed, but she had, I believe she had her duty weapon in her vehicle at the time.
 Would in that event Which she had been able to respond without of uniform from what I understand Yes, because that's a being a felony in progress so showing you probably able to respond to that I have chief Talamantes on the line if you'd like to ask is there any great? Yeah, is there any added protections to burger protections if they're considered peace officers? Like let's say there's a dispute or there's a let's say there's a
 some type of like after an event there's always lawsuits of something that comes up is there a purpose for this for the peace officer is it just to respond or is there a protection for us agent board which regions yes ma'am and I'm a little chief tell him not to spend on that but it should offer the protections of a state I'm sorry mayor it's just thank you I've gone over my time out just if we can hear from
 Yes, good afternoon, everyone. Yes, as far as like Chief De Agostino was mentioning, Border Patrol, like other federal agents, have the authority to arrest powers and search and seizure powers for felony offenses only. However, since at any checkpoint or at any point of entry and within 100 miles of that,
 Border Patrolmen also will have the authority to intervene on certain Texas laws. For example, DWI, Drug Revolving Intoxicated, public intoxication. Even though it's a misdemeanor, it's a public safety offense. So they also have the authority for that.
 And to answer your question, ma'am, as far as the border patrolmen, that's why you see them on occasion that they stop a driver that's driving really reckless, and they might stop them and call for police to take over the investigation or take over the individual as well. Does that answer your question, ma'am? As it relates specifically to a peace officer designation, is there any added protections or –
 I mean, I guess it sounds like they already have the authority, so can you explain what change happens if there is a designation of a peace officer?
 They're not considered peace officers in the state of Texas. There's a few other states like California that I know of that they're not considered, but they do have, like I mentioned, arrest, search, and seizure powers for all felonies, also for certain misdemeanor offenses. But as far as to be able to intervene on any breach of the peace, which would be any assault in progress or any...
 fight or going on assaults going on in their presence, they can also intervene. The only difference would be that they would turn them over to the local police authorities. But they can intervene and all that. I don't see any – and they obviously would have the protections from the government as far as when it comes to civil lawsuits.
 But chief if that if the state took an action to classify them as peace officers in the state of Texas would that not offer them protections under the state of Texas for responding to a crime that they currently can't respond to. So wouldn't that give them the protections. I believe that's what Representative Hernandez is asking.
 In that case, it would certainly give them some other recognized protections from the state. However, as far as enforcing misdemeanor laws and aside from the felony offenses,
 they can still intervene, like I mentioned, on breaches of the peace or DWIs for everyone intoxicated. But I think where it comes to answer your question, I think where it comes a little bit of a challenge for them is their policies, their individual agency policies as to being armed and being able to intervene on certain offenses. Thank you, sir. Representative Nolo.
 Yeah, I want to thank Chief Talamontes because I think that you really pointed out what the issue was, right? I think we originally had brought up the August 3rd But we know that Border Patrol has the authority to intervene in a situation like that but I think you really articulated where my concern for this was is is What happens to an individual when Border Patrol intervenes, right? if something like this is passed they will no longer have to turn someone over to the local authorities and
 which then you have Border Patrol in this community that is bi-national,
 You're allowing them to intervene in civil cases and then take that person into their federal custody And I just think that we owe this community a lot more You also mentioned a really great point that I hadn't even thought of Was that they have jurisdictions a hundred miles from the border for certain things, right when we need them they can respond I think that opening up to allow Border Patrol to do civil and
 any kind of be involved in any kind of civil situation is just the long-term very harmful to this community and so again I would just like Lindsay I actually I asked to take these all individually is it easier if I just make a motion to delete that one yes I'm because there's quite a few sure yeah I'm sorry I thought about to you so I would make a motion to delete that item is that the one with the peace house yes sir second
 And then I also, since I still have the floor, I know Representative Schwartzman had brought up some question about the 4%. I do think he's right. I have a lot of questions about that that I don't know can be answered today. And so I actually wonder, I know that y'all want to finalize this as soon as possible, but bills haven't been filed yet. Can I make a motion to postpone that one item? Or was it all the two?
 tax credit ones or just only the one about the viable transactions relating to four percent because i i would love to learn a lot more about that i think it is a it's just a very sensitive um situation and i'm also just not i think i support it but i'm super not comfortable voting on it today so i would like to make a motion to postpone um the item referenced by representative schwartzbein in regards to the four percent housing credits i don't know if there's a second second
 Thank you, Miss Adams. Yes, thank you. Thank you. And with that, we have motions after motion, amendments. So, Ms. Pryor, you have 10 minutes. Yes, ma'am. I'll try to remember everything that was in all the motions. Representative Rivera, you had your thing. Did you want to talk about the peace officer's item at all? No, he's already representative. Thank you for that, though, Mayor Pocan. But Representative Nello covered that for him.
 So you you pulled his name out the first motion that I have was made by Mayor Pro Tem shorts fine seconded by representative Rivera and this was to make the Legislation a priority related to I'm sorry miss Adams. You'll have to help me with this Under So
 Just for clarification, Representative Swartzbein, so currently we have it in the support section. So what you'd like to do is remove that from the support section and add it as a priority legislative initiative. So what we have in the support section, you want to move over to the priority legislative initiative section. Is that correct? Yes. So that should be the motion.
 Do I need to read the language that's already written or no? Yes, please. So the language is support legislation that would appropriate money for the moving image industry incentive program and create supplemental tools for local communities to attract moving image projects and related jobs. And again, the reason for us is we've gone in support of the film industry and the film community here previously, and I think it's important to continue that. Thank you.
 So this motion is to, as Ms. Lindsey read into the record, and this is to move that legislation from the support section to the priority section. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Rodriguez votes nay. The next motion I have.
 was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, and this is to support legislation that removes the local health authority's existing authority to issue emergency orders and oppose legislation that would remove the local health authority's authority to issue emergency orders, is that correct? Existing authority. That removes the local health authority's existing authority. Correct.
 I'm sorry on the support one did you say removes? Or did I hear that wrong? I'm sorry it would be to oppose legislation that removes the health authority's existing authority to issue emergency orders and support legislation that gives continued authority to the local health authority to issue emergency orders. Yes. I apologize I was on mute so let me just jump in real quick.
 So it should read support legislation that gives continued authority to the local health authority to issue health orders and then it should also the second one is oppose legislation that removes a local health authority's existing authority to issue health orders. Is that what you read? I just want to make sure. Yes. This motion was made by Representative Hernandez seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine
 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes 6 to 2 with representative salcido rodriguez voting name the remainder of council voting aye the motion carries the next motion is was made by representative anelo seconded by representative rivera and this is to lead to delete
 the legislation under the public safety section that will allow u.s border patrol agents to be carried as state peace officers is that correct yes ma'am and i want to thank you for being able to articulate whatever we're trying to do over here this motion was made by representative anello seconded by representative rivera
 And just in terms of how this was originally was something we were going to oppose. Yes, so with this motion it would stay on the agenda. As opposed to what? Okay. With this motion the opposition would stay on the agenda. On that motion call for the vote. In the voting session and the motion passes 5-3 Representative Shortsvine, Anelo, Molinar, Salcido,
 Rivera voting aye, Representative Hernandez-Rodriguez, Lizárraga voting nay. The motion does pass. And then the final motion was made by Representative Anello, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, and this was to postpone, and I'm sorry, Representative Anello, it was to postpone the section,
 I'm not entirely sure exactly which one it was what representative shorts one had reference and Lindsay has that yes It's the first item under the affordable housing section. So we would be postponing the item relating to Supporting legislation that prioritizes viable transactions for 4% low income tax credit applications Okay, this is to postpone the section under affordable housing and
 that supports legislation that prioritizes viable transactions for 4% low-income housing tax credit applications. For two weeks, is that enough time? I think we would have to ask Abraham. Actually, in looking at this, I don't know if we can already do it. If not, I'd like to make a motion to actually postpone all three. Okay.
 because in looking at them, I'm still trying to understand how housing finance corporations as well as the same year rule and waivers for that. So I'll amend my motion to postpone all items under the housing section. Maybe we can get briefed by staff relating to this or legislators. I had a second, I think it was Representative Woods. It was my second. I think the second. I will support her friendly amendments to her amendment. So this is postponed for how long?
 Two weeks. Postponed for two weeks.
 The three items under affordable housing section to support legislation that prioritizes viable transactions for 4% low income housing tax credit applications that support legislation that would repeal the two mile same year rule for low income housing tax credits or allow municipalities to approve a waiver of the rule and support legislation that would limit housing finance corporations to operate only within the municipal city limits. And this is to postpone those three items for two weeks.
 And this was, and staff is asking if we can move these items to the next work session, November 7th work session, yes? Okay, thank you. On that motion, call for the vote, Mayor Pro Tem.
 Thank you and the voting session the motion passes 6 to 2 representative shorts fine. I know Representative Rodriguez voting name the motion does carry and council before you approve the legislative agenda. We do have public comments Mr. White We have comment from mr. White. Good afternoon. Mr. White. You have three minutes, sir. I
 Thank you. Good afternoon, council. For the record, my name is Scott White. I am the deputy director of Farm and City, a statewide nonprofit that is focused on not just safety but quality of life. And as of a few days ago, I'm also now director of Vision Zero Texas. Thank you.
 So, of course, I'm very proud to see what's going on into this agenda, but we're also working on some legislative agenda items that we think the city would be interested in. Last session, I worked with Representative Schwartzbein to reach out to the council to get the safe neighborhood streets.
 bill onto your legislative agenda. This bill would lower the speed limit in for residential streets, making them safer and aligning with Vision Zero goals, not just at the state level, but with the Vision Zero program here in El Paso. This year's version would be an opt-in version, so any city could choose to opt-in or not.
 and they could choose to lower the residential speed limit from the unposted 30 miles per hour to either 25 or 20. This would make our streets safer as it would lower the speed limits there across the board, and it would not require the use of any studies, require any additional signage. All that would be required is some education to let the public know,
 If this is something that the city would then choose to do as they would opt in We also have other agenda items that we think might be beneficial Especially in regards to safety and one is eliminating parking minimums at bars this way we reduce the potential need to have encouraged people to drive to bars and this would also encourage people not to drive home afterwards and
 which is not a healthy situation, as we all know. But this also leads into some transportation reform. Right now the state does not fund urban transit. They only fund rural transit. And we would like to see the city support using Prop 7 funds, the mobility fund, to support and help fund urban transit. And this would also potentially help work better with what the county is doing with their transit program.
 This would also impact affordability of housing as some people would no longer need to worry about getting a Car and have to decide whether they want a car or they want a place to live that it has a fixed residence And of course we also need to make sure because I have not seen the full Legislative agenda to make sure anything that supports complete streets or vision zero is part of the city's agenda Thank you. Thank you public comment. I
 Do you have a motion in a second? Okay, there you are. Go ahead.
 Hi, Lindsay. Based off of the public comment, I know we don't normally address it, but that's during call to the public. But some of the statements that he said, some of the ideas that he said. On call to the public, you're more than welcome to ask questions. Okay. Yeah, this one I can. I mean, on call to the public, no, but on this you can. Okay, thank you. So I know that we have supported lowering the speed limit in the past, which I think is a great idea. I have kids. I live in a cul-de-sac, and we can't be outside because people are speeding through our cul-de-sac.
 The other one was the parking lot, the reducing the parking at bars. I think that's a great idea too. Are those two items already part of our, of anything that we're supporting? No, they are not. They're not? So how can we get them on there?
 So we can definitely come up with the language and we can either do it today or since we're coming back in two weeks, we can definitely come up with that language and vet it through staff and then bring it back to you. Okay, so I'd like to make a motion to bring it back in two weeks with language to support those two items, please. Was there another one? I'm sorry, those were the two that really caught my attention. And also the transit. And the- Excuse me, sir. Excuse me, Mr. White. Can you come up to the microphone, please?
 Yes, it's the using the Prop 7 statewide mobility fund to support urban transit. Okay, so then I would also like to add that one, please. That's why people on the line can't hear you. We can, but they can't. Thank you. And these were the two items on urban transit, and I didn't catch the other. It was for lowering the speed limit from 30 to 25 in residential.
 and lowering the threshold for parking at bars to encourage more responsible driving. Thank you. And you want these two to postpone them to the November 7th work session as well? Yes, please. Okay, the motion was made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Anello, and this is to postpone those two items for two weeks to the November 7th work session.
 It was to bring them back, right? To postpone. Yes, we'll bring the language on November 7th for y'all's review. Okay, thank you. The voting session is open, counsel. In the voting session, the motion passes 7-1. Representative Molinar voting nay. The remainder of counsel voting aye. I'll make a motion to approve the agenda. Motion was made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve the legislative agenda as revised. Call for the vote.
 While we're voting, I would just like to thank Lupe Snapper and Lindsay and wish them luck in the upcoming session. Thank you so much. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Thank you, Council. Thank you. Ms. Prime, we'll go back to the agenda. Yes, sir. Well, that brings us back to page 8 to item number 27.
 Item 27 is discussion in action to direct the city manager to outsource companies to help with a weed cleanup efforts Across the city and the this item was submitted by representatives Rodriguez and Salcido Thank You mayor, so this is just another idea that
 we can put out there for council to help the community. As we heard earlier, the weeds are a huge problem in our community. And I understand that it's not because we're not trying. It's because we do have a shortage in staff. The other thing is that I am full aware that, especially on Motwohid, there's a lot of frontage that belongs to the homes. So a lot of that problem was because...
 We were not addressing the issue, I should say, because we were not cleaning up our weeds. Again, not because we didn't want to, but it was because of lack of staff. Now that our medians are being cleaned up on Motwood, specifically in District 6, we can now go back through code enforcement and ask the frontage, the people that have those homes, hey, we cleaned up ours, please clean up yours.
 And so to help continue with those efforts, we are asking our city manager to come back with outsourcing some of the weakening up efforts throughout the city. Ellen Smyth, Chief Transit and Field Operations Officer. So yes, ma'am. We do have funding for contracted help and this year we did go out for bid twice and we didn't receive any bidders.
 And we inquired, as we know, we always get four or five of the same companies every year why they didn't bid. And they told us they don't have the people to fulfill the obligation. And they don't want to get a report card or get terminated for not being able to comply with the contract. So what we're doing now are small jobs. Instead of doing a whole year, we'll just say $50,000 until that money runs out.
 And so then they're able to find enough workers for a very limited short period of time. So we have tried that as well, but absolutely. We will continue to go out for bid. We will continue to solicit help from our partners, the other businesses that have historically always helped us.
 Okay, so by them not being able to, I guess, fulfill a contract, we're not terminating them, we're not penalizing them, we're making it easier for them. Correct. We're understanding because we're on the exact same boat as them. Right. So we're trying to adjust the terms to be shorter term, you know, less money. Okay.
 even just seven weeks, if they can just find enough people to work for us for seven weeks, that type of thing. So it's a short obligation, and they feel better about accepting the terms. Okay, so absolutely. This right here, this item, is a short-term solution. It's just to help us catch up with...
 The weeds that we have across the city and it's to show the community that we are absolutely trying to get our city cleaned up Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Okay, so with that I would like to make a motion to approve Second so I miss white. So you're telling me that you've already you're already doing this. Yes This item is something you're already doing right now and you're having a little bit of an issue because of I
 The workforce and people are having a hard time getting people to do it But so you're starting to downsize the scope of the project to be able to do small certain areas exactly This one that you so you've been doing this all year. Yes, sir We've been trying to hire all year and contract out all year. And so like the city manager reference, we're always trying to adjust our approach to be more inclusive and meet the needs of what's going on in the community and
 and so we're hoping that these smaller little contracts 50,000 and under will be our short-term answer and i think you'll see that as the colder weather starts to occur which were in the 30s this morning we'll see a lot of that vegetation and stuff continue to die on its own attrition so thank you for that
 Thanks, Ellen. You actually answered a lot of my questions, but I still I just want clarification because we can't hire anyone outside of the like the bidding process
 Right. So the rules, you bid it according to the Texas Procurement Rules, and after the second attempt, if you still don't have any bidders, then we can negotiate. Sure. But that's still the rule. So I'm just, if I can ask the representatives directly, I'm wondering what you want staff to be doing differently because they're already, we can't just go out and hire someone to clean up weeds. We need to go through a bidding process. And so I'm wondering what you want them to do outside of that.
 Sorry. All we're asking for is to continue with the creativity, the great work that you all are doing and finding solutions. And I know that this is what this item is about. It's about finding further solutions. I know the volunteer programs were a huge success, just really trying to emphasize on, hey, you all are doing a great job, but a little bit more can be done. And that's all this is doing.
 Okay, so Ellen, I mean, I agree. Y'all are trying very hard. No one can deny that. Glad to support an item that asks you to keep doing what you're doing. But also if I can, I have a question about other things that we can do. So we have to go through a bidding process to hire anyone. Are we able to partner? I know we talked partner with nonprofit for volunteers. Are we able to partner with a nonprofit who can then go hire and contract out themselves under their own rules?
 I...
 Yeah, did that make sense to you? Yes, of course. And that basically is what... We do have some basic requirements on their insurance and minimum wage and nondiscrimination. So we have our basic requirements that they cannot, you know, they can't ignore those. Because we do that with, like, Exceed for janitorial service. Exceed is actually one of my best partners. They help us at the landfill with litter. They help us on the roadways. I know they've worked at the airport. So they are a consistent...
 Wonderful partner. But you still need to go out to bid for those partnerships? For those there are exemptions, but again, they're working with us already. Yeah, and I would love to put you in touch with the COGS Area Agency on Aging. They cover, they have a foundation that previously covered
 three categories one being hearing aids when the federal government started covering hearing aids there was a conversation about what can we do with this extra money can we do home repairs or landscaping for individuals um so i'll send out an email today and maybe that can be a solution to trying to help with the dollars that they have thank you thank you representative now so i'll see though followed by representative
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, this item was mostly put here just to find short-term solutions additional to seeing this proactive council suggesting a lot of solutions and other items.
 That's really the intent of it. I know that you mentioned that we needed to change some of the wording, that you were having some issues getting these long-term contracts. And so that really is this to make sure we're pushing forward for that to get done and for us to get these small businesses to help us out in a time like this. So I definitely, we see the need. Very proactive. We're trying our best. So I want to say good job, and you're trying your best too.
 to address this and uh... and also for this council to come up with solutions then that's what we need to be doing so thank you so much figures absolute service and thank you represents a cn red regis for bring this to the table so for so we can have this discussion today i am
 During our cleanup event, there was a lot of folks who had a lot of solutions and recommendations and just been profoundly proud of the way the community has responded. I know, Ellen, you were at the volunteer recognition event along with the staff.
 with Representative Rodriguez and Rivera, and just hearing the stories from those families and why they wanted to be part of their community and be part of the solution, it was really encouraging. But with all of those events and cleanup events, I heard a lot from the public that,
 they would like to see a little bit more innovation. So potentially and possibly as you mentioned, going into direct negotiations, because you said already there was no bidders. So as a result, we don't have to work with someone who bidded with us, is that correct? Because we can just go into direct negotiations. And some folks who came to my cleanup event said, could we partner with the city on contract to do community-based cleaning?
 So, hey, I would like to partner with the city so then I can go clean my neighborhood and then you would have captains of blocks and captains of neighborhoods or what have you. And I said, those are also really wonderful ideas. And in the event we don't have responsive or responsible or any bidders, then I really do believe we have an opportunity here to pilot with those small scale contractors, neighborhood by neighborhood or district by district, however you want to do it.
 And there's a lot of interest. There is a ton of interest because I heard from also churches, and you mentioned this earlier, who said, you know, we will actively do this on a volunteer basis because we see there is a need and they want to be part of the solution.
 So I do think that the idea from city manager's wife, Sandy, these neighborhood scale cleanup events may be the way we go given the fact that our weeds grow overnight. Like I've seen them grow overnight in my house. I don't know how. They always come up. And then they're also really hard to pull out. And so I've heard about that option. The other option I heard were from some of the attorneys.
 They said we might have an opportunity here to partner with the county juvenile or adult probation community services in lieu of an arrest or in lieu of paying a fine. Can we go out and partner with some of these entities so that we can have those folks who are looking for second, third or fourth chances like I have in the past?
 be willing to do cleanups to clean my neighborhood, but also in lieu of a fee or in lieu of incarceration, I would be willing to do that. But it takes a little bit more organizing, it takes a little bit more work through our city attorney's office and administration, but I think that the success that we've seen these past couple of weeks
 it just merits that we should get a little bit more innovative and because we're experiencing staffing shortages we may not have a choice folks we may absolutely have to go through these small-scale contracts partnering with these these courts and then getting those commitments ahead of time because we already know spring isn't by March February or March you're already starting to see the weeds come back up right and so you have a short break from the weeds
 and so i do want to thank representative rodriguez and salcido for bringing this to the forefront because it is going to take it more innovative outside of the box thinking to address address our weeds we we tried warning you all that is going to happen but um i i appreciate it and i am happy to support this today thank you representative is my pro tem
 Yeah, no, I think it's a good idea to look at what's more done. I mean, we're already hearing stories about some of the pothole issues as well, and we know that we still have a deficit. How many vacancies do we currently have in the department?
 Oh, gosh, I don't know that number off the top of my head. I'd have, it changes every day. Okay. So I can send you that information. So I think, too, that's something important to help the public understand as well, is that like many other institutions and companies, we're dealing with vacancies as well. So and that's obviously impacting service. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. And with that, I'm sorry, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Just a quick question. Here's my.
 On the commercial side, do you predominantly cater to the industrial area or is it strip malls or anything goes on the cleanup?
 We do try and patrol all of the top 50 corridors. That's the most traveled areas where, you know, it's most visible for the Keep El Paso Beautiful. And predominantly those are businesses, strip malls and what have you. But we also have our complaint-based call-ins. And if a specific address is given in some industrial park off the side, then we'll investigate those as well.
 Okay, and is there a special wall is there is it stricter than it would be to a residential area or? Park or wherever you else we I mean, but you get those nonprofits would be I
 Oh, we would be open to, you know. Okay. Although the industrial, they should, if they really make a for-profit, they should be able to afford to do their own weeds, but we'll deal with that on an individual basis. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Salcido, to direct the city manager to outsource companies to help with the weed cleanup efforts across the city. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open.
 And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Anello not present. The next item is 28, and this is discussion in action on a resolution that declares the expenditure of District 2 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed $1,600 to be used towards a District 2 fall festival. Mayor Pro Tem. Lou to approve. Second. Motion and a second.
 This motion was made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Shortswine to approve item 28 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously.
 Item 29 is discussion and action on a resolution that the City Council declares the expenditure of District 1 discretionary funds funds in an amount not to exceed $25,000 to improve the Westside Community dog park and lower Tom Lee dog park to serve a municipal purpose I was one ahead of myself. No, I'm a proton
 No, this is just there's a number of dog parks are there current district one CDBG program calls for a dog park and lower Tom Lee and so This feels like this would be a prudent opportunity to add shade Additional benches in an area where there's tight budgets already. Thank you their motion like to make a motion to approve There's a motion made by mayor pro Tim shorts fine seconded by representative an ello to approve item number 29 I
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 30 is discussion and action formalizing the name of the City of El Paso Open Space Preserve to read Lost Dog Nature Preserve.
 This is Representative Shortwine's item. Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, colleagues. This is a item that was a leftover item when the NAPLAN was officially named NAPLAN Nature Preserve. This does not change the
 abilities and the activities within lost dog or with NAPLAN passive recreational uses as well as a conservation easement is still fully acceptable and allowable this just gives it a formal name moving forward which again aligns with the NAPLAN nature preserve and other open space areas within the city of El Paso and with that I'd like to make a motion to approve we do have public comment on this item we have mr. Scott white good afternoon sir you have three minutes
 Good afternoon, thank you once again. I'm in full support of naming this land the Lost Dog because before the only name it really had was the Lost Dog because that was the trailhead. And so it's great to take that and extend it across that whole region. So thank you, Representative Schwartzbein. And I hope the entire El Paso community, I was hoping to see those who supported that come out in support of this because, you know,
 These kind of changes need to be fully recognized and fully honored. And the people who did the work to make it preserved do need to be recognized as well. And though Judy wasn't part of this one so much, it was part of her agenda. And I would have liked to have seen the other people who worked so hard out here to support it because that shows their continued support for these things. Thank you.
 But that said, I support the name change. Thank you very much. Is that Ms. Prime? We have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. It's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem. Short find seconded by Representative Anello to approve item number 30. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Lizada not present. Item number 31.
 Is discussion in action on a resolution that the City Council declares the expenditure of District 1 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed $2,500 for sponsorship of the Vanguard Conference hosted in our community to promote visual image of the City of El Paso? Motion to approve. There's a motion made by Mayor Pope, Tim Shortsvine, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 31. On that motion, call for the vote.
 the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 32 is discussion in action to approve a resolution that the City Council declares the expenditure of district 8 discretionary funds and an amount not to exceed $5,000 for the painting of a mural on the basketball court surface at Tula Iribali Park in collaboration with local muralist jesus semi alvarado serves a municipal purpose
 There's a motion made by alternative mayor for Timothee Zaragoza taken it by Representative Rivera to approve item 32 on that motion call for the vote Voting session is open. Thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously That brings us to the operational focus updates item 34 is a presentation and update on accomplishments and capital project impacts good afternoon mayor council San Rodriguez chief operations officer and
 If I can bring up the presentation, please. As I'm bringing up the presentation, if I may, Sam, if I can just...
 DO A PRELUDE FOR THE COUNCIL. WE HAVE THE CAPITAL PROJECTS UPDATE ON THIS LIST, ON THIS AGENDA, AND THEN WE'RE GOING TO GIVE A STREETS UPDATE AS WELL AND ALSO THE PAVEMENT CONDITION INDEX STUDY. AS YOU KNOW, THERE'S A BOND ELECTION THAT'S COMING UP IN NOVEMBER. I WANT TO SHOW YOU THE WORK THAT'S BEEN DONE ON CAPITAL PROJECTS, THE WORK THAT'S BEEN DONE WITH THE STREETS.
 then how the criteria is used in order to do those street improvements because I know there's a lot of discussion a lot of questions that you have a lot of questions that you get from your constituents and so these presentations are set up in a way to be informative but also to be instructive relative to what's been done and what's going to be done if the vote is positive in November
 So what this presentation will cover is the accomplishments over the last eight years, looking at the community impacts and a lot of the discussion obviously with the bond program coming up with the climate action. Some of the things that we're already doing in the capital programs are going to be tied into some of the policy recommendations that are anticipated to be in that plan. Also looking and reinforcing the federal and state grants that we received. You just received the presentation from Elizabeth Triggs two weeks ago.
 just to show you how that funding is being used to, again, further the investment in our infrastructure. And then also talk about future investment as well. With the new facilities that we've just built and some of their existing assets, the facility and the investments that we're gonna have to be making as a city to be able to maintain those facilities will be important. And there'll be a follow-up presentation from our Streets of Maintenance department that dives into more information about facilities that we have in our city.
 So we're very close to 1,000 projects that will be accomplished over the next fiscal year. We're anticipated to complete an additional 70 over fiscal year 23, and 30, 50 are anticipated to start construction. So we've completed to date, since 2015, 461 capital projects that range from facilities to parks, street reconstruction,
 you name it, and also 483 resurface projects that are part of the almost 1,000 projects that we've completed to date. The community impacts, our capital program is a significant component of our economic activity in our city. We've stimulated or created over 42,000 jobs here since 2012. These are jobs that are strictly labor related to what we track in our labor.
 in our wage software system that are tied to construction projects. And then you have all the ancillary jobs that are also created through consultants, inspections. A lot of the projects require security guards and whatnot. It's a very significant aspect of the jobs that we've created here in our city.
 Within the investment that we've had the capital program is a big component of our economic activity as well Tied to some of the other incentive policies with economic development. The capital program has helped the city able to
 Track and the amount of visitors that we have throughout our new facilities when we build them whether it's a trail whether it's a new facility the visiting public is is making their effort or making use of the facility than the investments that we're making in our in our city and
 Part of the bond program that's coming up as we recommend in the City Council adopted is the top 50 arterial program That would be part of proposition a we estimate that about 15 percent of our daily trips travel through these roads So we're gonna make a very significant impact into the daily lives of a lot of our population out there And once we if this bond passes on the expenditure side we have
 As I was starting to mention, part of our policies with economic development, the investment that we're making has also helped the city overall, tracking a 40% increase in retail spending by being tracked by Replica, one of the systems and softwares that we use for data. Again, just a very important part of our economic activity, as well as tying into our infrastructure.
 I mentioned climate action. This would be a big part of the bond program if it passes to develop that. One of the things that we've been implementing as part of our capital projects is tree planting, whether it's in our parks or our streets and our medians that we've done in our top 25 corridors, all tied into the tree canopy that helps with the heat island effect. Energy efficiency is also a big part of it. LED conversions, whether it's in our streets or facilities.
 The runway that we're currently resurfacing at the airport, for example, is gonna replace all the lights to LED as well. So energy efficiency is something that we track and implement as part of our projects. HVAC systems as well. We have an energy management system that we use at most of our city facilities that allows us to track and be able to set certain temperatures. Again, the overall energy efficiency and building performance will be something that will be tracked in the upcoming plans.
 With the federal state grant programs, since 2015 we've received almost $250 million in federal grants from the various agencies, whether it's FAA, FTA, FHW, and TxDOT, with an additional investment from the state at $86 million.
 You saw this slide from Elizabeth Trick's presentation a couple weeks ago, but just to highlight and remind you all that we have a very different approach to these grants. It's very integrated across multiple departments as well as other agencies and partners around the region that's allowed us to receive $66 million just this past fiscal year.
 Tied into a lot of our strategic planning or strategic initiatives that the City Council has adopted to include the airport the advanced manufacturing Campus started discussions with the EDA already on that development as well as additional funding for Sun Metro to for the lift and the electrification of their fleet on the future investment in
 Part of the discussion that we had with City Council as part of the 2012 Community Progress Bond included the Quality of Life Bond Program and we received direction from City Council to begin the development of a future Quality of Life Bond Program. To that effect, we started development of the two master plans, Mary Frances Kiesling and Memorial Park. Those should be coming to City Council for adoption here within the next two Council meetings.
 Outline funding to begin the development of updating our existing master plans for parks open space and trails plan So that we can have a good understanding of our facilities and where the service gaps are at as well as also look at the facilities from a usage standpoint understanding where the where the population is the age of the facility so that we can right size the services to match their population and
 Within facility maintenance, just to remind you, we've opened new facilities, multi-generational community centers that are going to need investment in terms of maintenance and operation and capital replacement. Our ballpark continues to operate and is in need of replacement dollars as well. The Mack and Children's Museum are scheduled to open next year. And even though the Children's Museum is going to have the partner that's going to
 basically provide the funding for the operations, two thirds of the funding. It's still gonna require capital investment in the future. Our water parks and spray parks, specifically the spray parks are likely gonna be investment and then inflexible funding for paints and upgrade of equipment in the near future. As I mentioned, there will be an additional presentation that will dive into some more of the facilities that we have in our inventory. I'm gonna turn the presentation over now to Robert Cortinas for the next several slides.
 Thanks, Sam. So obviously as a part of executing these capital projects is how we go about paying for them in a fiscally responsible manner, shifting away from some of the old practices of the city financing a lot of these projects and the shift towards utilizing our annual set-aside funding or utilizing cash on an annual basis to pay for these projects. So I've got a few slides here just to go over some of the financial numbers.
 I talked about this at a budget update a while back, really highlighting the importance of being able to utilize that cash in the annual budget and not have to go out and finance, whether it's some of the residential street projects we're doing, the purchase of the police and fire equipment replacement, instead of financing utilizing those on a cash basis. So you see the bullet point there at the bottom. The city's past practice, if we had gone out and financed those items, you're talking about an additional $49 million of interest costs built onto that $70 million of expenditure.
 So that's real life savings. Not only is it providing the police and fire departments with the equipment they need, but again, it's doing so in a cost-efficient manner for our community in order to keep our taxes lower. So not insignificant with what this council has approved, the annual $10 million for streets, $7 million on the annual basis for police and fire equipment. And then with what you all approved this year, the general fund capital maintenance, to start to put dollars towards park amenities, facilities, and vehicles as well.
 So not only utilizing that cash basis, but also, again, refinancing opportunities. Last year, very, very strategic in how we went about doing our two debt issuances last year. We did one in the early spring. We did another one a little bit later in the year. Allowed us to take advantage of not only refinancing no debt to get historic low interest rates, but also allowed us to move forward with issuing some bonds for some of the projects that were in the queue at a much lower interest rate of what we had seen historically. And so what that does is
 plays a key role in what you all adopted as part of the budget of being able to minimize and actually lower the tax rate in the current fiscal year. You all have seen this slide several times before. This is the current status of our CIP of what's been issued, what's pending to be issued over the next several years. The far right-hand column there shows just over $407 million of debt still to be issued, a large majority of that related to the 2019 public safety bond, just slightly under $246 million.
 And again, this debt is to be issued between 2023 and 2028. Robert, if I may, Council, if you can just take a look at this particular slide. The 2020, 2012 rather, quality of life bond package is almost complete. We essentially just have one big project left. Everything is either complete or on schedule to be completed.
 the street infrastructure one the 17 and the 18 that you see up there a lot of those are filled with streets obviously the 2012 is a street infrastructure but the capital plan in 2017 and 18 that a lot of you came in with the idea of let's let's be more aggressive with streets so let
 it's a lot of discussion about streets and potholes there's a lot of neglect over decades and so that lack of investment led to what you see up on the screen this screen is catching up with the street needs that we have in our community as well as the potholes you see so just want to make sure that you take a look at this slide closely because you've been paying attention to the needs of the streets it's just that it's such a big need
 there was so much neglect that took place over years that even the last seven or eight years that we've been focused on this effort there's a lot to catch up on as the staff has indicated to you before forty four million dollars is what the PCI the pavement condition index says that's needed on an annual basis we had zero dollars in 2014 that were set aside with
 with cash on an annual basis. Now we have 10 million, still 34 million shy on an annual basis of investing in our streets. So that's why you see these bonds that the majority of them that I just mentioned on 2012, 17, and 18 were for street improvements that were vastly needed, and yet you still see a lot of needs in our streets. Just wanted to make that point. Go ahead, Robert. So I included this slide. It's an old slide, it's 10 years old.
 Just a little bit older than 10 years. So this was presented October 16th of 2012 So maybe asking why am I showing a slide that's 10 years old because it's important It's important because not only are we talking about an upcoming bond But it's the highlight and really show not only the council but the public of what we've managed to do over the last several years So this slide is a copy and paste of what was presented 10 years ago and what they were highlighting here was what the impact potential impact was going to be and
 with the 2012 quality of life bonds passing and the 2012 street CIP that was done through COs. And so, again, this was 10 years ago. At the time, they were projecting that in 2023, the debt rate would be at $0.31. So they did, no different than what I do now, what I've presented you all, all the assumptions. And so they were projecting the debt rate to be at $0.31. Our current debt rate right now with what the council adopted August 23rd of this year, the debt rate is at $0.277. Okay.
 So just under 28 cents. So we're about 3 cents lower than what they were projecting at that time 10 years ago. Not only are we lower on the rate, on the debt rate, but you've done a lot more projects over the last several years as well. So we're talking about all of the street projects Sam's talked about, all of the investment in public safety, the investment in animal services facility. The investment, yes, in some of the parks and museums that we have signature projects underway.
 So not only about keeping that rate lower but also doing additional projects as well to continue the momentum of getting some of these things Done, maybe have a question mayor To finish talking Okay, go ahead and then we'll go to the questions go ahead So I showed this slide again So they were projecting to be at 31 cents at that point in time. This is again only incorporating 2012 quiet life bonds you saw
 This slide here, which is all of the different capital projects SAMS presented on that were included in those various CIPs, again, primarily focused on the investment in streets. This is what the current debt model looks like. Again, only projecting to get to about $0.316. Again, just slightly above what they were projecting to be at 10 years ago and not factoring in all the various capital projects, again, that are included in all of these various CIPs. So again, a much, much lower debt rate and then more projects being done at the same time.
 Mae hwn yn yr aros cyfrif tax y ddynion, ac rydych chi wedi gweld y sleid hwn am amser, ond eto, yn ymwneud â hynny, mae'r hyn yr ydym wedi'i weld o ran cynydd y cyfrif tax dros y diwrnodau diwethaf. 29% o hynny dros y diwrnodau diwethaf, neu cynydd 13% ers 2015, mae ar y llawr gweithredol. Felly mae'r llawr gweithredol yn y gweithgareddau diwrnodol, mae'r buddsoddiant yn y ffordd polis, y buddsoddiant yn ein adran ffyrdd, y buddsoddiant yn ein strydau, ein parciau, ein amgueddfey
 Mae'r cynyddu cyflog wedi cynyddu dros y cyfnod hwn ers 2015, gan ychwanegu 4 cwm neu 60% o'r cyfnod honno. Ac eto, dyna'r canlyniad sy'n caniatáu llawer o bethau y dywedais amdano. Felly, y cyllideb, y defnyddio'r pago, ac addysgu'r cyfrifon arbennig llai o'r cyfrifon, sydd wedi'u galluogi i ni ddim ond gwneud y prosiect cyflog, ond hefyd i fynhymru'r effaith ar y cyfrif.
 Hefyd, mae hynny wedi'i gosod drwy fod yn hyderus ar y ddechrau cyfrifol o ran y cyflogwyr a sut rydyn ni'n ei reoli. Mae'n ddigon strategol, ac mae wedi rhoi cyfle i ddod i ddiddordeb yn yr gweithrediad fel y dywedais yn ddiweddar. Ers 2015, mae'r Gweithle a'r Gweithle yn mynd i fyny drwy hyd yn oed 90 miliwn o ddolr. Y ddau adran yna'n unig. Yn ymlaen, 90 miliwn o ddolr. Dyna arian ychwanegol i staff, gafaelau, gwaith, materion, gwasanaethau, yr holl gwaith sydd eu hangen arnynt
 Mae'n y cyfnod o ym mis 24 ar y cyfrif. Mae 90 miliwn o ddolion yn y cyfnod o ym mis 24. Mae'r cyfrif yw'n ymwneud â'r ddolion sydd wedi cael ei ddysgu ar y sleid ar y llawr. Felly mae'r cyfrif yn ymwneud â'r ddolion sydd wedi cael ei ddysgu ar y llawr. Ond rydym yn gwneud cyfrif am ychydig yn ddwy o hynny mewn dau adran yn unig. Yn gyntaf, mae'n ymwneud â llawer o hynny. Mae'r gwasanaethau a gyflwynwyd Julie Baldwin a'i gynulleidfa yn y cyfarfod diwet
 amser ar y llwyth o'r isaliadau a'r ffordd rydyn ni'n mynd am ymchwil am y llawer o'r rhanau allweddol yr ydym yn eu cyfrif.
 Yn ystod o'r polis a'r fferm, rydych chi'n gyfarwydd iawn gyda hyn hefyd. Yr hyn sy'n rhedeg i'r fuddsoddiad yn ein gweithle. Roedd gennych chi gyflwyniad yn dda iawn i'r cyflwyniad diwethaf. Mae'n arwain y rhai o'r rhanau allweddol y byddwn yn parhau i fuddsoddi yn ein gweithle, nid yn unig drwy'r cyflwyniad, ond hefyd drwy'r cyfrifoedd gwahanol, ychydig o'r hynod o gynlluniau, y troed gwahanol drwy ein dysgu LinkedIn, sy'n darparu mynediad i tua 100, os yw
 Mae'r rhain yn gwrsau gwahanol sydd yn amlwg i chi ddod i'w ddau am. Mae'r ddynion yn ei gwasanaethu i ddychmygu ein gweithwyr i ddatblygu'n gweithredol, i ddysgu newydd sgiliau, i ddysgu newydd ffyrdd i fynd amgylch nid ymwneud â'u swydd, ond pethau sydd angen iddyn nhw i'w hyrwyddo drwy gydol yr sefydliad. Felly eto, mae'r Cyngor y ddynion wedi bod yn agos iawn gyda'r hyn rydyn ni wedi ei wneud o ran y penderfyniad. Rydych chi wedi gwrando ar y cynghorau.
 Yn ogystal ag yna, mae gennym am y fideo 30 sgyn ar hynny. Os yw'r IT yn gallu chwarae hynny i mi. Ydych chi'n barod? Ie, sir. Rhywbeth yn dda. Yn ddiweddarol gan y Rhywbeth. Diolch. Felly, Robert, yn sleid 26, sy'n y graff sy'n dangos y gweithgareddion a'r gweithgareddion a'r graff,
 the red part that's the debt that we have as far as like bonds that's the current tax rate the current well the very top one but like for example that red part that includes only the debt right correct okay it's the debt service tax rate so in 2012 i guess it was very steady for like i don't know a couple of years three years and then that's when we started to see that increase
 Does this also include, so I'm assuming that increase was due to the quality of life bond, correct? And the street CIP, the 2012 street CIP and all of the other COs that the city is issuing every year. And the city has issued, I didn't include it in this presentation, I'll do it in a future presentation, but every year, I went back to 2007 and I have every year where the city was issuing COs. Not only COs but pension obligation bonds that were issued in 2007 and 2009.
 212 almost 213 million dollars for police and fire pension obligation bonds, which is also a key in this Increase in the debt service rate and I know I think you presented before right to see a similar model to include What could potentially happen if voters approve this 20 correct? It's not in this but it was on the presentation that we did in August 16th it's about 2.7 cents on top of what I presented on the step model and
 Instead of thirty one point six pushing close to thirty four cents, which if the council remember back in August of 2019 before the public safety bond was approved We did increase the maximum amount of the debt service rate allowed for the debt management policy We went up to forty cents in anticipation of what that 2019 public safety bond would do at the time We were estimating getting close to forty cents. We're nowhere near So this is including the two thousand remaining amount for all of the debt. We have to issue We're only going to get two hundred thirty two cents
 So even with the community progress bond up for vote in a couple of weeks would still keep us around 34 cents Which is still well below And that's the maximum allowed by whom the state our debt management cities debt management policy, okay and so if I go back to 23 It was showing that it was predicting that we'd be at 30 point. That was back in 2012, correct? And
 when they were presenting the quality of life. Correct, they were showing what the estimated or potential impact was going to be from the $473 million quality of life and the 212 million street safety that was done through COs. So it was .3093? Correct, they were projecting at that time that the rate would hit 31 cents roughly. And it didn't? It did not come anywhere near. As I mentioned, right now the current debt service rate is 27.7 cents, which includes,
 all of these projects, so all of this debt that's been issued in that middle column, so the 2017 capital plan, 71 million, 2018 capital plan, another 84 million, 2019 capital, all of that, all of those projects are in addition to what they were projecting at that time. So not only are you getting more projects done, but it's coming in at a much lower estimated debt service tax rate. Okay, so I guess all I would, I mean, I really, this is a very telling graph right here, the one on slide 26.
 All I would want to see, I guess, is maybe like a super impulsion on this graph or this slide of the one that we're predicting if this bond passes this election. And that's it. Thank you. Thank you. Representative Hernandez. Thank you. And I'm sorry to make you repeat this, but I just want to be clear on slide number 17. Mr. Cortina's, this was the projections from the 2012 Quality of Life Bond, the debt service model.
 Yes, that 17 was a slide that was presented in 2012. It's actually slide number 24. And I just thought I was able to zoom out of the slide, and I saw all of the language on the side. And it's interesting that you bring this up because...
 I have not conducted an analysis, but just based on experience, every time there is a forecast or a model I have seen historically for bonds or even CO debt issuances, they're incredibly conservative, and I know that's what you have to do.
 BUT IT'S FRUSTRATING BECAUSE WHEN I TALK TO CONSTITUENTS, I SAY THESE ARE JUST MODELS. I MEAN, THEY VARY EVERY YEAR. THEY VARY FOUR OR FIVE TIMES A YEAR. BUT YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT THE CURRENT, I GUESS, THE CURRENT STATE OF THE FINANCIAL MARKETS IN ORDER TO COME UP WITH THESE MODELS, AND IT DOESN'T PREDICT
 any future variances or any future policy changes or even congressional acts to help reduce inflation. We can't take that into consideration, but it is clear that the voters of El Paso and even this body, that even though we see these projections, these are worst-case scenarios and we should be prepared for that.
 However, in my experience, I have seen time and time again that, in fact, it's quite the opposite, that we never hit those high points. And even when we get close to those high points of the debt model, we then find a favorable market and we refinance the debt, further saving taxpayer dollars. And it's just incredibly frustrating to hear.
 self-proclaimed budget analysts who say the opposite. Because the reality is that if you don't issue the debt, my alternative would be to artificially increase your tax rate so that I can pay for these, which are significant capital improvements, which would even be more expensive to taxpayers to increase their tax rate so that I can pay this on an annual basis with cash. No one does that in their household unless you're independently wealthy.
 So that's a good point. That's the point I made on the KVIA 7 extra comment was some of those projects that are in Not only in those various CIPs, but what we have in the community progress bond You first have to talk about particularly in those reconstruction projects. These are very very expensive projects the Schuster project alone I know I'm very happy about that. My kids go to the seat just so they can drive on that road It's a 13 million dollar project for that one Street alone. I
 And so, I mean, it's like buying a house. You know, a lot of us can't go out and pay cash for a house. You finance it. It's a very high-priced thing that you typically use financing for. But the thing that we've talked about and what we're doing is utilizing that cash basis now for a lot of those resurfacing projects. No, we're not at the full amount yet, but the council is shifting towards that methodology, which is what we need to be at. But even then, it's not your property taxes. Yes.
 Their fees, essentially, in my opinion, in a more equitable way so that that sole burden is not placed to just property owners. And by doing that, you save on interest. You save on interest whenever we do the cash. We use cash for streets. So I know there's a lot of discussion the council has, and y'all get emails, and everybody talks about all the interest issues.
 because of all this need that's out there. And when you bond it, you have to pay that interest. So by putting cash aside annually to pay for these improvements, is what Robert was saying and what you're talking about, I believe, as well, in the long run saves the taxpayers that interest that they have to pay or they don't have to pay in this case when we have the actual dollar set aside to pay for those improvements. Absolutely. And I just wanted to reiterate to the public, even though,
 folks don't listen to these financial discussions as much as they should is that this is the most prudent and fiscally responsible thing to to um issue out low-cost interest
 certificate of obligations or voter approved debt, whatever it may be, so that the impact to homeowners is not too significant in one year and that we can accomplish more citywide because the need is great and there have been concerted efforts year over year to de-invest into our streets and to our public facilities and if we don't pay for it now, it's going to be monumental in the future.
 These costs are not going to go away. They're only going to increase. And these decisions are critical to make sure that our infrastructure and our public spaces are good. This is also an economic development concern.
 If you don't invest into communities of color, if you don't invest into our infrastructure, then the greater cost down the line will disproportionately impact your most vulnerable citizens because then the cost will be greater down the line. And so these decisions today, and I hope that the voters of El Paso agree that these investments into our infrastructure is going to save money in the long run. And so it's unfortunate that misconceptions and misinformation is circulating.
 But the reality is, is that we have to play catch up. And if you don't make these investments today, it's going to cost taxpayer dollars more dollars in the future. And so my hope is that we can continue to share this information, our debt models. And then not to mention, Mr. Cortina, as you mentioned earlier, the debt management policy.
 Are there limits in your debt management policy that protect taxpayers further from over-debt issuances based on the amount of revenues you bring in? Yeah, not only in the city's debt management policy, there's also state law that we need to follow as well as far as the maximum amount allowed of debt that we're allowed to carry. We're well below those thresholds right now.
 so what that means is you can't over issue debt if your revenues are not there so like in our household I can't just go ahead and issue go and buy everything I want under a credit card or debt if I can't demonstrate that I have the income to pay that back that's no different from
 from a government, you can't just issue an over-issue debt if you're unable to demonstrate that the revenues are there to pay back that debt. So those are state laws and those are embedded into our city debt management policies. So the notion that this body is being fiscally irresponsible not only is untrue, unfactual, but incorrect and should be corrected, especially by those who are self-proclaimed budget analysts.
 But the other thing I wanted to mention, and just kudos to you, I spent a lot of time talking about our debt management policy, our debt issuances, and just our state of the finances to professors at UTEP, through budget analysts at UTEP, and students, and they have nothing but good things to say, not only about our bond ratings, and these are folks who are experts in this field, by our bond rating decisions, they confirm some of our bond rating decisions,
 then they also believe that our debt issuances are reasonable and necessary and Could be demonstrated as a public good because those dollars are being invested to the people These are your these are your goods. These are your public spaces. These are not my spaces. There are spaces so I do want to commend the capital improvement department the city manager and all of the work that you do in your finance team mr. Cortina's because It is incredibly invaluable what we're doing. Thanks. I
 All excellent points. And again, it goes back to a lot of things you hear Mr. Gonzalez, myself, say. It's about the long-term sustainability, not only on the operations side, but on the capital investment side as well. We need to continue investing, again, for when we're not in office, when I'm not here, when Mr. Gonzalez isn't here. The streets will be here forever, hopefully.
 So we need to continue to invest in those things. And one of the other things, Mr. Nettis, that you said that was very, very important and that I want to just add context to what you said, and that is that we talk about our budget being $1.2 billion. That's with all funds. A lot of people don't get what that means. Less than half of that, actually it's closer to a third, is just what comes from people's property taxes.
 So when we talk about the general fund, we mean what hits the people's pocketbooks in their property tax. So these other funds are things like the airport, which doesn't hit the general fund, things like Sun Metro that doesn't hit the general fund, things like that that are outside of the fund. So it's less than half of that $1.2 billion, and we've –
 I say we, the council has made the good decisions and votes to make sure that about 10% we're now setting aside cash wise so that we can lower our costs on interest and then invest in things like police and fire equipment replacement that we were bonding in 2013 and 2014. Now we have money set aside cash to pay for that and that's not interest. And that shouldn't be something you put up on an interest
 uh loan type of situation uh that would include the police cars right whenever we that was purchased all at one time that was done with bonds and it shouldn't be done that way it should be done with cash and so those kinds of things that the council has has steadily voted on and made these kind of tough but but good financial decisions is what's places in the position we are in now financially we're in a strong financial position
 The bond Raiders and and the comments demonstrate that and the fact that you know The budget is sound and when we put that in front of you and we do the caffer the comprehensive annual financial report That shows that that we're doing it the way that the citizens want it to be done lowering the interest and placing more dollars into cash Set asides for actual improvements. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Gonzalez. Thank you Mr. Cortina
 And with that, Ms. Pratt, I'd like to take item 45, because I know Chief Diagostino's here on it, and him and myself and Ms. Neiman have a meeting in a few minutes.
 Yes, sir. Item 45 is a presentation discussion in action by the city's off managers office and office of emergency management Providing information on key activities efforts and processes related to the migrant crisis and that the City Council ratify the increase of contract 2022 dash zero nine seven one charter bus transportation services for an additional two million dollars for a total amount not to exceed eight million dollars Motion to approve
 Motion and a second without miss prime. Yes motion a second. There is a motion second. Would you like me to call the question? Their presentation on this yes Good morning mayor and council. Jorge Rodriguez emergency management coordinator for the office of management. So just a brief update on the current status
 So as we've seen through the most recent Department of Homeland Security policy, we've seen a significant decrease in CVP encounters at the border as you can see from our last report in October 11th We were at 2100 encounters at the border and we seen a dramatic drop as of October 20th also a decrease in our community releases those coming to our
 Our local NGOs as you can see we've also seen a significant reduction there and of course we haven't seen any street really system September 15th
 Also, in terms of our unsponsored migrants, we've also seen a significant decrease, and that's contributing almost to almost zero unsponsored migrants seen within the community. And that's primarily based on the Department of Homeland Security policy. This was implemented on October 12th, and this essentially just provides a safe, orderly way for
 those are nationals that are seeking asylum and They have a process where they can take up to 24,000 violence violence in the United States This gives them a two-year parole Where they can be within the US and that will lighten that a little bit further. I
 So for those to be eligible, they have to have a financial supporter, a sponsor essentially, someone that can account for their expenses during their parole period. There's an extensive background checks that they go through. They also have to meet certain requirements for vaccinations and other public health requirements. They will be ineligible if they have been removed from the United States in the previous five years.
 Also, if they cross without authorization in between the ports of entry and of course other other other actions that if they take will make them ineligible. If, for example, if they don't meet those vaccinations and public health requirements for the beneficiaries. So to participate, they have to be a valence with a national. They have to possess a valid passport. They have to be outside of the U.S. when they apply there.
 They need to have a sponsor and then of course you have to go through the background checks And then also they have to be have the ability to pay for their own commercial travel to the US If and when they are approved
 They, the sponsors have certain steps that they have to take to once they identify their the Valenzuela asylum seeker, they have to fill out federal forms, they have to show proof that they have financial, that they can financially support the Valenzuela for during that two-year parole period and that would include any immediate family that might make up that family group.
 So to be eligible, of course, like we stated, they have to, for the sponsors, they have to be a US citizen. They have to have protected status or be an asylum or parolee recipient of deferred action and deferred enforcement departure. The sponsors themselves have to go through their own security background screening and of course they have to demonstrate that they have sufficient financial resources to support the asylum seeker.
 For the beneficiaries and immediate family. Those are the spouse or common law of the National excuse me for the balance one national And if they have children they have to be under the age of 21 that are unmarried They're 18 they have to travel with with the parents These remaining steps are essentially just a summary of what I just covered. These are included in the backup
 And in terms of the messaging that the Department of Homeland Security is providing to the region within Mexico, but also directly to the Venezuelan nationals regarding this program, so there's been broad communication out, and we've seen that. But there's more information on this website listed here.
 And in terms of impacts, we look at October, you look at September, we were close to 1,000-day releases. Those weekly releases were upwards to 6,100. And, of course, for the month of September, we're right at 21,000 for October. We really didn't start seeing the effects of this until, I would say, the weekend following September.
 the passage of the new policy and we saw a pretty dramatic decrease in In apprehensions at the border, but also in community releases So this graph kind of gives you just the terms of in terms of scale The reductions and you can see that that prior week when the policy was was was not in place We were close to 5800 per week and that's dropped down to about 2700 so
 We've seen that Chief Diego Sino will cover some of the ongoing migrant operations that we're doing now As we look forward and he'll cover that, you know before chief there's you know comes up there's just a story that came out one of the local TV stations that said that a
 report by the Border Patrol which will be on their next report but saying that Venezuela crossings have decreased by 80% and since this new program came out go ahead sir thank you Mario D'Agostino
 So covering the key areas as we've talked about before, we focused on welcoming, welcoming to the community. We looked at sheltering and how we could handle sheltering. We used the hotel system. We made sure there was food and feeding operations, that they had the basic necessities they might need from the minute they were welcomed into the center. We provided transportation, both local and long distance. And as we have been for months now, we're providing city staffing within the NGO shelters.
 So our welcoming center, our last CBP drop-offs were on October 18th, last Tuesday. Our last charters went out on the 20th, which was Thursday. So those last two charters did go out. We have since shut down completely, been demobilized, and remain our efforts in helping those NGOs, as we've talked about, whether it's in the shelters themselves or in the food bank or the Salvation Army.
 Our Welcome Center, looking at the numbers, since we opened on September 7th, we were open for 44 consecutive days. We saw well over 19,000 people and we provided transport for just shy of 14,000 individuals. There are transportation cities of choice where the first was New York City followed by Chicago.
 We also assisted those over 5,000 with travel assistance. So those are the ones who have sponsors and that's where we've talked about where we gave them the connectivity, we gave them the charging stations so they could power up and that's how we assisted them with their endeavors. Our transportation transition, so we've been doing for a long time, we've been utilizing Sun Metro and they've been providing transportation between airports, bus stations, between shelters and now welcoming centers.
 And they also supported directly out of the NGOs to those same locations. Our long-distance charters, as we just talked about, there was over 290 charters, 294, sorry, 13,900-plus unsponsored migrants were transported. And again, our last charter did leave on October 20th.
 Our charter coordination from the onset, we were providing daily manifest with real-time ETAs. So that was whether it was through Chicago or New York City, we made sure we were communicating with those who needed to be communicated with to include their NGOs on the ground who were actually gonna be receiving these individuals. Again, looking at our transition, we have our NGO sheltering hospitality sites and we have our search hotels. Our city staff is embedded to provide the support at those locations.
 And what it does is that increases our shelter capacity within the NGOs. As we've talked about several times, volunteerism is low. COVID did have an effect on volunteerism just as it has with the workforce. And so that is an ongoing operation where we are supporting through personnel. These personnel were hired under that same grant that we're seeking reimbursement, is the FEMA Emergency Food and Shelter Grant. And they have been approved for these long-term operations.
 Our city sheltering, so our own emergency operations sheltering hotels, we were utilized to throughout this operation. We made sure that we provided them food, had the security and the shuttles they needed. Our last day of operations for that was as well on October 20th.
 and in our covet isolation and quarantine hotels as we've been doing throughout the covet pandemic those continue to go on and that's to make sure we don't have those large outbreaks in a congregated setting so whether it's in the ngo or homeless shelters we're making sure that we can isolate them again we've covered this slide the last couple of presentations but but i think it's important to talk about hotels versus emergency sheltering it allows us to scale when needed
 When you're looking, when you're doing hotels, we just enact one of the contracts we do have currently in place, and we can start reserving rooms at that rate. When you look at a large facility and you start looking at rent, you're having to hold that for the what ifs. And so it's more cost effective, but most importantly, it's about the privacy and the safety and the individualism of those who are utilizing the service. So it provides their own personal restrooms, their showers, and it allows that isolation, as we've talked about as well,
 Lot of what we a lot of the people we saw passing through our community were single adult males And so it does allow that separate ability So you don't have them all congregating in one large area when we did the cost rundowns We're looking at about a hundred and eighteen dollars per day per person when you're utilizing a hotel Situation when you're looking at the emergency congregate shelving, which is those large term places we we asked for us to for a
 We asked for bids or proposals so we could look at what those costs would look like and so this example right here was based On 500 people and so when you look at that that's costing about 167 dollars per day
 our feeding as we talk about our feeding transition so we provided the food at the emergency sheltering hotels and that was three meals a day. We also looked at our migrant welcoming center and we made sure that everyone had a hot meal before they actually embarked on their journeys. So we made sure they had that and we also made sure that we had provided them with the snack and meals to last them for their journey as they took on the charter.
 Again, as I talked about earlier, we do have staff embedded with the Food Bank and the Salvation Army. We've provided over 39,000 meals. And our isolation and quarantine hotels, again, that's three meals a day, and we still provide those operations as well. Our dashboard, this last week, we were able to add and update it where we're including the financial piece. So I think that's an important piece. As we're winding down now, I understand that, but at least we have that financial piece so we can all track at the same rate.
 I want to pass the presentation over to Nicole Cody. Nicole Cody managing director of budget and strategic sourcing. So here you can see the cost recovery for third quarter. We're still working on the submission for the four point six million dollars through October 20th. We saw expenses of about four million dollars. Please remember we did receive the two million dollars on October 12th.
 So here on this slide, you've seen it before, but what I'd like to highlight, of course, is that working with Congresswoman Veronica Escobar's office to continue to request new or additional funding for the FSP grant to support the southwest border. Under the humanitarian relief guidance, we did receive word from the chairman
 of the board on October 20th as well. And this, remember, this is regarding the percentage of the population that is served. So it has been increased from 30% to 75% through the end of this calendar year. And then lastly, we'd like to highlight, of course, our partnership and collaboration with El Paso County. They did receive an award of $6.3 million for the fourth quarter from October 1st through December 31st
 Included in those costs or in the estimated award was both the migrant support center, the lease for the facility that they're located at, Amistad Transportation, as well as the personnel to support. They do have a contractor running the current migrant support center.
 They do have the ability, from what we understand, to be able to scale up to 400 to 600 people per day, as well as included is a million dollars for the rescue mission to provide shelter for the migrants. After December 31st, of course, there's no funding yet identified. And I'll pass it back to Chief D'Agostino. She went through that slide rather quickly on the third quarter of the 4.1.
 I think it was 4.4 million still owed. We haven't submitted that yet, I want to be clear. And then we've spent money in October. So the total outstanding is 6.6 million, I believe. But again, we haven't submitted the third quarter yet because the staff is still reviewing that because they need to make sure that there's no issues with the request or anything on the items that they're submitting. And that'll be submitted within the next two weeks or so.
 So in closing, on this final slide before I check if you have any questions, moving forward. So as we all know, the county processing center is up and running. It's been running for a couple of weeks now. And so looking at that, they started earlier this summer. They sought out grant funding, and they also worked to take in bids and contracts so they could look at how they do this operation. While they were doing that, we had this crisis come upon us. We had to stand up. We had to do what we did.
 THE OPERATIONS WE DID. AND WE'RE AT A POINT NOW WHERE THE NUMBERS OF UNSPONSORED HAS DROPPED SO LOW THAT'S WHY WE MADE THE DECISION TO CLOSE DOWN AT THIS TIME. THAT COUPLE WITH CBP, I MEAN, THEIR NUMBERS WENT FROM HUNDREDS TO ZERO OVERNIGHT. SO BEING PROACTIVE IN HOW WE DO THINGS, WE'RE LOOKING AT GOING FORWARD. AND SO WITH THAT COUNTY PROCESSING CENTER OPEN.
 It allows us time to get reimbursed first and foremost as city manager talked about third quarter. We have expenditures over four million for this fourth quarter already. Yes, we did get some upfront money, but we want to make sure that we're able to recoup everything back that we've spent on this. And so at this point in time, we're going to go we're looking at.
 Besides those reimbursement is focusing on an advance and funding opportunity So we want to make sure that we can secure those fundings a two million What was was was the start but we want to make sure going into the to the next operation that we have that money up Front so we don't have to be at risk of this and having to have this money out ahead of us We want to make sure we have it on our side so we can operate safely in our tours of the Rio Grande Valley We did talk to other communities. They did receive some some money a large sums of money a
 THIS TIME LAST YEAR, SO THEY'VE BEEN OPERATING OFF OF THAT FUNDING THIS ENTIRE PERIOD. WHAT WE WANT TO DO IS WE WANT TO SECURE THAT SAME TYPE OF FUNDING BECAUSE AS WE KNOW, WE'VE SEEN THIS, WE'VE BEEN PREPARING FOR MONTHS ON TITLE 42 GOING AWAY. SO I'M GOING TO GO BACK TO THAT SECOND BULLET. TITLE 42 IS WHAT'S CHANGED THIS TODAY. IT'S THAT VENEZUELAN POPULATION WHERE THEY NOW HAVE A PROCESS, AN ORDERLY PROCESS WHERE THEY CAN COME INTO THE COUNTRY. THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT.
 That orderly process was captured under Title 42. That's what allowed them to expel them right now. And so just a key point to remember is we're planning for when Title 42 goes away. So this crisis we saw right now is just the tip of the iceberg to what we might see if they do get rid of Title 42 or these safety precautions or these policies.
 laws that are in effect today, if those were to go away, and we did see that open up to a broader category, we could see numbers that made this look to a small scale. So we want to be prepared for that. Again, I'm going to close up by talking our focus now, outside of reimbursement, is making sure that we can lay the groundwork and the fight so that we can get that future funding, that upfront funding for any future operations. Thank you. Is that your final slide? Yes, sir.
 Thank you again for, you know, I know it took a lot of work, but I want to thank you all. I know that working with a lot of your partners and the county and Mr. Gonzalez and your team, and I think you all learned a lot, you know, in 19 and, you know, move forward, continue the work and continue to learn the process and procedures.
 I think that we took a humanitarian crisis and made it a manageable crisis, and I think that's really important. And I want to thank you all because everyone went above and beyond, you know, time day in and day out, and, you know, whether, you know, it wasn't an 8 to 5 job. And I know that I was talking to the border patrol, and they had some people come in from out of town talking to them, and the question they asked them is, do they work at nights and weekends? So, you know, it's a great job.
 it's a seven day a week 24 hour job and uh i think that this community really stepped up and an incredible job and um and not only you all but also the citizens and the county and everyone else that was able to work together so again i want to thank you all for taking a humanitarian crisis again and making it a very manageable crushes where it was never our citizens and our
 visitors were never endangered at any time. And that was the important part to make sure that they had shelter, food, and that our community was always safe and they were always safe. And I thank all our law enforcement and all the partners for doing, again, an incredible job of making sure people were treated properly and it never became an issue within our community. Thank you. And I'm very thankful to you, Mr. Gonzalez, and your team, chief and chief behind you,
 for all the hard work that you guys have done and again all the partners who were able to work with that i think we found new partners every day that were willing to work with us so thank you and i really appreciate the the job that's been done and now we can uh you know we can't forget what happened because i think that just like you said chief we don't know what's coming you know right behind but we need to continue to be prepared so i couldn't agree with you more on that uh representative rodriguez followed by representative anello
 Thank you mayor, so just clarifying on the money situation again on slide 25 Fourth quarter we're still pending the submission, but it says four point zero two million dollars were the estimated cost and then reimbursement status Those two million dollars. That's our upfront money, right? That's not That's not part of our reimbursement. Is that correct? I?
 Let me before you go so you don't get the fourth quarter. It's not over yet So we're not submitting fourth quarter yet where we just finished third quarter and what mr Gonzales is saying we're talking to submit is third quarter one fourth quarter ends which will be on December 31st And we'll have the opportunity to submit that I will hope since you know the operations have gone down that we'll be able to submit for upfront money on that quarter and
 But right now we're only working on third quarter and that's the one that Mr. Gonzales was talking about that we can hopefully Get expedited and refunded once all the documents are prepared and everything is all the
 T's are crossed and all the eyes are dotted moving forward. So I just want to make sure on that I appreciate that mayor but on their graph here it says fourth quarter Yeah, so so that's why I'm asking that question those two million dollars received on 1012 and then it says pending submission Are those two million dollars? are we subtracting that from our estimated four point two million or is that in addition to subtracted
 So we've received $2 million up front for this quarter. So all we would be submitting, if we were to submit today, but the mayor is correct, we wouldn't submit until after December 31st. If we were to submit today, it would be for $2 million and $2.02. But the third quarter, which we haven't submitted yet, we're going to submit in the next week or so, is $4.6 million. Okay.
 Okay, so the first two quarters we've already gotten reimbursed. Those were very small amounts as you can see up there, 157 and 81,000. The third quarter we haven't submitted yet. It's 4.6. What they've said is through the fourth quarter already we spent over 4 million. And then we did get the 2 million. That confused things with the way the federal government gave us 2 million for future expenditures
 So in essence, you can take the $8.86 million, you subtract the $2.2 million, and that's where you get the $6.6 million that's still owed so far. But as the chief said, both chiefs, there's still expenditures that we're incurring every day.
 So that's the reason why this slide shows to you and everybody who's watching, we're still owed $6.6 million, but we've been reimbursed for everything we've submitted to date. But it is important to note that October 1 is a new fiscal year for the federal government.
 And so it's just dependent upon how that funding is in place. And right now I believe they'll be doing a continuing resolution at the federal level to continue funding of the budget. So that's what's up in the air in terms of what funding is available and how it will be made available for reimbursement. So essentially we already expended the full $2 million, correct? Yes, we already spent that. Okay, so we're back to general fund money again.
 Yes, ma'am. Okay. And so then my other question is on slide 27 where we finally got clarification that 30% of the migrant population served. It was that cap was raised to 75%. Is this only on travel? No.
 Expenses or what is this on? Yes, it's really regarding the number of migrants who traveled. So, for example, right now we're going to the item called the action on this item is to increase our limit from six or six million to eight million dollars. That's a 75 percent that we're going to get reimbursed.
 We are submitting for reimbursement for all expenses that are related to the migrant surge and crisis. So the 75 percent is only related to the population served so it's the number of migrants that were released to our community during the third quarter. It's related to the people. So this is good news. What it says is everyone that we transported were
 very Confident that we probably will receive reimbursement based on the way this guidance is stated so this slide is good news because the transport were the lion's share of our costs and Now we're within the guidelines. We were within the guidelines before but this gives us even more assurances and the chief can Miss Cody can add to that but this is a very very
 Important slide because it's good news for us. Okay, and so the $8 million that we're going, or the extra $2 million that came before us today for a total of eight million, that's not included in slide 25, correct?
 So can you please repeat what is what's your question? The $8 million. So right now we were at $6 million for travel costs. And we're adding. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. The total cost is 8.86 million like you see up there. That's the total cost for everything. Okay, so does that include the $8 million, the additional $2 million that we're going to expend today? So they're not separate accounts, right? Right, it's not separate. So 8.8 represents,
 everything that has been expended for this effort.
 including first and second quarter that we've already received reimbursement for so third quarter at the 4.6 we need to look at it as separate because right now as the mayor said in the city manager We are working at creating that packet. So it it's a lot because it's reimbursement We have to make sure everything is paid. Everything was reconciled. Everything is down to the penny, right? Yeah, and so that is based on what has been expended for the third quarter So we're just looking at the fourth quarter at this point, right? And
 So the fourth quarter is $4 million, and we received two million up front. Okay, no, I don't think you're, okay, so, or maybe I'm not understanding. Let me try and rephrase this question. So right now the item that we have before us is to increase that budget of $6 million to not exceed $8 million to the bus scene service, charter bus transportation services.
 that account, those $8 million that we're essentially approving, is that included in this cost recovery analysis on slide 25, or is that a separate cost? Okay, so to be clear, so you're approving, yes. So what you're approving is the ratification because you've approved to spend up to $6 million for charter services, and the resolution of what you're approving, we're at 6,095,000, I believe is the number, so just under 6.1 million that we spent on charter services.
 We need to get that ratified because we've exceeded the $6 million amounts that the council approved.
 We're doing eight million because we've been doing two million dollar increments. We do not anticipate going up to eight million. Like I said, we're at 6.1 roughly right now. The 6.1 million dollars of expenditures related to charter expenses are included in what you see on the screen. Okay, yes, that was my question. Thank you, because up until now, it was my understanding that it was two separate, I guess, bills. No, all of those costs for charter services, that 6.1 million dollars for charter services that we've used,
 are included in third quarter and fourth quarter i believe we started in august utilizing chargers okay and then this one is because i know we were saying that it was the first time that that these items were coming before us it was saying for it was for the next 16 month that does not that's not stated on here but it is for the next 16 month months correct the time period has not changed only the dollar amount okay all right i have no further questions thank you
 And I think it's important to, and I'll go to Representative Nillo, but that right now our transportation assistance is at $6,095,000, but $2 million, which is really the item on the agenda, really wasn't this thing, the item on the agenda was to approve to extend the
 the transportation funding if needed right now it's not needed right now we have no transportation needs right now we've not trans have any transportation for anything so the only thing we have right now is that the transfer without be we have not audited obviously but uh so we're we'll do that when we get done with the third quarter but right now we to our best our estimation is 6 million 95 000 the 2 million will not be used it's not money that we're going into
 to have as a negative. It's just if we do for some reason need the funds for any transportation moving forward, it'll be already approved to move forward. No other, there won't be into up here that this $2 million all of a sudden will become a negative. Right now it's up to $8 million. It's right now we've only spent $6,095,000. And if we do continue,
 to need will have the room to do it that's correct mayor that we have the last thing that's really important because we're talking about yeah we have the elasticity if you will like you've stated correct we have the local emergency ordinance it gives us the ability to spend this gives us the elasticity to do it if we have to because we don't know what could happen next week or after the elections if you will and the policy changes and then we could have the sky fall so absolutely that is correct but right now we have ceased
 transport operations and we just have that elasticity just in case chief you have anything to add to that because our two million dollars is not a debt at this point no it's a cushion no no no it is nowhere here and there won't be anywhere because we haven't spent it it is number one to cover the
 Point one of the six point one million number one for that and then secondly like you've already stated like I've already repeated If we need it, it will be there depending on what occurs in the next 30 to 60 days Thank you, and it's important to also note that the local taxpayers have not spent any money It's been reimbursed anything. We've asked for to this point has been reimbursed by the federal government and
 to the taxpayers of El Paso? The first and second quarter, which is a small amount, yes sir, has been reimbursed. We did get the two million ahead. We haven't submitted the third quarter. We're hopeful that we submit it, that we will get reimbursed for it 100%. And the other slide that was shown that was good news, that they increased the percentage of the numbers that you transport of the population that we receive from the region. So that was good news.
 Yes, sir. But we have no reason to believe we won't be reimbursed. But, yeah, I mean, until we get it, we don't have it. Right. And that's exactly what we said with the $2 million, and we got it two weeks ago tomorrow. So, like you said, the local taxpayers are not at any money. Anything we've submitted for, we've been reimbursed month to date, year to date. Yes, but we do have $6.6 million so far that we've spent. Thank you. Yes, sir.
 I want to take a second to really acknowledge the congresswoman. I think it's a good conversation that y'all were just having. We don't have the money yet, but we have been reimbursed every time. She has gone really above and beyond to make sure that we are all in contact with FEMA, that there is every opportunity to have a discussion. I know I've done it two or three times. I imagine y'all have been in those conversations a lot more.
 And and again, we don't have that money But but she has done everything that she can and gone again above and beyond To really to help us out. And so I just want to take a second to acknowledge her Yes
 I'd like to highlight too she's also assisted she's bringing some members of the House Appropriations Committee to town this week so we have an opportunity to speak with them later on this week to talk about future expenses that upfront funding other funding streams other opportunities we can look at so those are some of the conversations but that's been through her office coordinating that. Yeah and I think that's a good transition into kind of what I wanted to discuss next which Mr. Gonzalez had kind of hit on is is the fiscal year ends.
 November 1st the election October 1st in September 30th their fiscal year starts October 1 it's a month later than ours but also you know the elections will change the outcomes on us potentially getting funding in the future I know we were all in a meeting last week about really having the conversation now so we don't end up in this situation again I don't know what what is
 I had to leave a little bit early so I don't know what the end result of that is but you know as a member of this council in this community I would really love to see OEM really take on that role it's like county city and I don't mean in any way like running their shelter or anything but really facilitating those conversations and really being a part of the solution in that regards obviously not directing you to do that I know you are all doing that already and a part of all those conversations
 But I do really think this is an opportunity. You know, Jorge, I've worked with you for years outside of this council. I've seen you really step up when you're passionate about something, and I really think that this is a moment for you to shine, and I would love to see you in that role and be really proactive in those conversations. Again, I've seen you work. I have all the faith in the world in you, and I know that you can do that well. Thank you.
 So before you respond, Chief, I do want to say that the Office of Emergency Management has been working issues since 2018 with the immigration crisis and also we've dealt with the August 30 event as well as the pandemic. When the Council, when the Mayor issues a state of emergency, OEM does take over all of the operations.
 there hasn't been one declared and so they have been coordinating with all parties so they've been as Missanello said they have been coordinating all those efforts with all different entities to include the county and when the chief the other chief when he mentioned that we stood up the migrant Welcome Center and that we were sheltering through the hotels we had to do that because we had we just had to respond we couldn't just allow as the mayor pointed out a humanitarian crisis to go unmanaged
 And because the council approved the local emergency ordinance, that gave us the ability. And again, thank you all for doing that, because had you not done that, we would have had people on the streets. And we would not have been able to go outside the scope of what we are authorized to do to be able to really assist like we were able to do. Now, with regard to the funding and the reimbursements, we're working on that. And we have mentioned the congresswoman every single meeting. We're about to today, but Ms. Snell will beat us to it. But she is right. We have been working with her office. She has helped us.
 to attempt to shorten the time frames, expedite it, and we believe also that the 25 to 75% that was in conjunction with her office working with us and pushing for that. The mayor has been in constant conversation with the White House and also with other entities as have we with the other federal agencies. So all of that combined has really gotten us to the place we are today. We are going to be very vigilant on those dollars that are still owed to us.
 because it is a federal issue, and we wanna make sure that we go after that, and we know that the Congresswoman is gonna be extremely helpful with that as this council, and as of the time that we started this, the mayor also has been very engaged in this. Go ahead, Chief. Thank you, and then the city manager essentially covered it, but I appreciate your comments, Representative Inouye, and OEM will continue to coordinate those efforts, so thank you. Thank you. Representative Moulinard.
 thank you very much mayor so a couple of things number one um it's hard to begin to thank everyone that's been involved i was there on thursday august or assuming october the 20th to see the last people leaving i believe there was 50 or 60 leaving and so that was uh
 Quite different from before when we were there the first time or at least when I was there the first time and many of us as well, I'd like to thank everybody that really did a fantastic job and to see these people's their faces and everything that's happening a huge huge transition in their life and
 And so I know the city manager has stepped up, but Mr. Rome, so I'm not sure if you can handle this or not. Well, you can't handle it. I'm sorry. Sorry. You can't handle it. You can handle it. Anyways, just for posterity's sake, let's just say using this, call it the Venezuelan humanitarian crisis here in El Paso or whatever you may want to title it.
 it but if there could be for example a a paper done on this that'll cover all the aspects of this so not all of us will be here should something else come back again i know the city manager uses talent pipeline and he uses it well very well but people are going to leave people are going to retire people are going to change their minds about different things and so we need to have some type
 Living document that says hey, this is what we did in the past. This is where it works Well, these are the stumbling blocks that we came across however We overcame them whatever way and whatever needs the financial aspects what we're covering here today and just small things like that so and be a part of a like maybe a a
 the end of the road part but a cross-functional team to and that analyze that and come out with a written product as far as that And then of course to be filed with a city clerk Yes, sir. I'll start and city managers come back and then of course we'll defer it to chief D'Agostino But it's incredibly important for us, you know as a with our commitment to continuous improvement and as a learning organization That we do document everything that we do. I
 We have been dealing with this crisis for many years now. This is not the beginning, and I don't mean to be the downer in the room, but it's definitely not the end either. We are going to see more of what we've gone through. And so yes, there are lessons learned.
 There are best practices again. We've benchmarked we've had other organizations and other communities come to us We've gone to them because we want to make sure we're doing the very best that we can It is incredibly important for us though that we are not only responsive in a Dignified and humane way to those that find their way crossing but also that we're providing a safe and
 and fiscally responsible environment for our community members here in El Paso. So with that said, I'll pass it to city manager and then to Chief D'Agostino to continue with the response to your comment. So Mr. Molinar, after every event, when it's completed, there's an after action report and that's very good of you to bring up.
 You probably remember that with the police department's paramilitary operations, so has the fire department, so has the Office of Emergency Management. And the military, for the rest of you, they do after-action reports on virtually everything right after an operation is complete in order to learn from it and get better. And so, yes, sir, we will do what you have talked about.
 That's part of the process of what the Office of Emergency Management does. It's just that this operation, as Mr. Rome has pointed out, is not over yet. So they're not going into a full-blown scale after action report, but we're certainly taking notes as we go along. Thank you very much. That's all I have.
 Thank you. And you're right, Mr. Gonzalez. You know, it's an ongoing moving process, and we'll continue to be prepared. And that's one of the things that last meeting we had, Chief, that we talked about, that, you know, we need to be prepared for what comes behind. And this is...
 It's a perfect example that this came after a lot of other things that had happened that we'd been prepared for. So I agree with you 100%. So you're right on that, Representative Rodriguez, followed by Representative Salcedo.
 already talked once I don't know you want representative Salcido to go and I'll go after her thank you mayor again just wanted to reiterate basically the good job that this staff has me done for for the migrants and in the center that we had in place again I do want to say I know you mentioned something about us asking for future funds in regards to FEMA
 And what is that process is that you said that's something that we're gonna be doing this last quarter So so we asked in September we asked them for 10 million. They were able to come up because it's the end of that funding cycles Mr. Gonzalez talked about they were able to get us that two million dollars up front going into this quarter So what we're doing now is going back and asking for the additional funding not just what they owe us as far as reimbursements or what they're gonna owe us and reimbursements at the end of the fourth quarter, but also that future funding and
 So we're looking at that and we'll be asking once they get their appropriations, once they get refunded, we'll be asking for that future funding as well. Okay. That's something I'm greatly in support of, just having some funds from FEMA. We know this is going to happen. We just don't know when it's going to happen. So I think that we need to really look at those numbers. I think we have really good numbers now. And I think we're not a –
 being overreaching, I don't know if 10 million is really what we need. I think it'd be more than that, but yeah, I'm in great support of asking for those additional fundings and being proactive and not reactive and using general dollar funds, monies. I think the amount of money we really would be looking at is probably a 20 to $25 million number. McAllen got a big number up front.
 And so it's important also that what Ms. Jerome said that we all take note of, and that is that, as she pointed out, it's not over. It's going to continue, and our costs continue. We have to embed people into the nongovernmental organizations and nonprofits because if they fail, this whole system will come apart.
 because they are a large reason why we've been successful, because they've been doing their job and then some throughout this entire process. So that's the reason why it's important that we did embed people into their operations
 So we have ongoing costs. Even though the transports have ceased, we have ongoing costs with this operation still because there's still migrants crossing. There's still, we're still working with them. And yes, the county did get some funding from the feds in order to do the welcome center they're doing, but they're working with people that are sponsored only.
 So the fact that we pushed this out that we're not transporting anymore and that's being supported at every level So that they know that that's something that we're taking a hard stance on and everyone's supporting that that that change in trajectory is changing The cost that we're having to incur. Thank you It would be great to have that funding up front because if we had sat there and waited for an answer from the federal government We would have had
 incredible amount of street releases because we would not been able to do the incredible job that you all did chief so I think it's important that you know we look forward to having that but if we had waited and waited we would have had the street releases which we've not had in over 30 days represents I'll see though followed by represent an Ella
 Kind of, not really. Okay, so sorry, going back to slide 25, just something that caught my attention one more time. The first quarter that was reimbursed, which was from January to March, was that strictly cost in relation to the migrant situation, or was there some COVID stuff also in there or other things?
 That was COVID as well. So that was our COVID isolation rooms and our feeding operations for that. Okay. So that was, I guess, a mixture of, well, actually, that was probably the majority of what was going on at that point, right? Was COVID during that? Okay. Also, for future presentations, would it be okay, or actually, can you all please include when we submit it for reimbursement and exactly when it was received, just so that we could have a better idea of how long the government is taking to reimburse us?
 We could add that column. Okay, and so right now I know we're still pending submission for both third and fourth quarter. As far as the third quarter, we haven't even submitted, correct? That's correct. Okay, so once we do, will you please let us know that hey, we've officially submitted, and again, do we have an ETA of when we will get that reimbursement once we've submitted? We don't have an ETA at this point in time,
 Not until we submit it. We've got to submit it first before we can go speak to them to get reimbursement. The first quarter took nine months. The second quarter was done quicker because there was more attention paid to the reimbursement. The $2 million, I think when we asked and when we received it,
 30 to 45 days? Less than that. That was probably about a two week process. A two week process. For the second quarter? For the two million. No, for the two million. Oh. So there's more of a hyper vigilance from all parties and we've brought that to the attention of the federal agencies and the federal, our federal congresswoman as well. So we believe that when we submit the third quarter we want to get that certainly before the end of the year.
 Okay, so again just for future presentations just some just more information on on that graph because I think that's important That's an important detail for we'll let the council know when it gets submitted. That's a good question Well, we'll submit was what's on an email out to the council? Okay. Thank you. Thank you for that representative And then we'll take the question
 Thanks. I think my answer is going to be similar. The answer to my question is going to be similar. But you said that the reimbursement percentages are about 75 percent. Did you say that? No. No. No. Okay. I thought I heard that. The 75 percent is on long distance transportation. So out of the population that's coming to the community, the federal government allows reimbursement to transport up to 75 percent of that total number of people. Okay. So my question though is.
 We haven't done that under those guidelines, right? We were doing it previous to those guidelines. Does it impact how much we spend? Geez, can I chime in real quick? The 75%, Ms. Sinello, is really confusing everyone. The public, the council. The bottom line is the transport reimbursement request that we submitted so far,
 you know, we expect 100%. The 25% that was in place before, 75%, we keep talking about the population number. So I think that for the sake of this conversation, we're going to submit 100% of our costs associated with transports. That slide where we showed the vacillation from 25 to 75% was good news because it said the numbers that we receive and what we transport, in other words, if we receive 10 people,
 And we transport seven, we'll get 100% of reimbursement. That's what that 75% rule means. And we have not been transporting 100% of the people. We weren't even transporting 75. And we weren't even transporting 25% with the numbers that we have been using up to this point. So that's what that percentage stands for. How many people that you receive are you transporting? It has nothing to do.
 That we haven't been getting or we were not going to get a hundred percent reimbursement for the people We transport because this this this percentage helps us with that Thank you, and we're still receiving People and we're way below that percentage. That's I'm saying so we're so We're right below that percentage. Thank you. So we're like you said we're not even at 25% So thank you for that with that. We have a motion in a second. I
 Yes, Mayor, the motion was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Anello to approve item 45. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, and the motion passes 5-2, Representatives Anello, Hernandez, Molinar, Rivera, Lizárraga voting aye, Representative Salcido, Rodríguez voting nay, and Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine not present.
 May we go to items 42 and 43? The applicants have been sitting in chambers. Thank you.
 Item 42 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning of lots 17 to 20 from a 3sp apartment special permit to see for commercial at 21 on 1 Texas Avenue and item 43 is an ordinance granting a Special permit to allow for infill development with a reduction in rear yard setback and side street yard setback and 100% parking reduction also at 21 Oh 1 Texas Avenue
 There's a motion made by Representative Lizárraga, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve the ordinances on 42 and 43. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Shoresvine not present. Council if we can return to page nine. The next item would be 35.
 Item 35 is a streets and maintenance department facilities management update. Good afternoon. I was just waiting to see if mayor Okay. Good afternoon council Victor Morales facility engineer for streets and maintenance and I have a facilities update An operational facilities update for you. Let's see So the facilities division basically touches on goals four and seven Just to give you an idea
 We recently created the facility engineer position because there was an identified need for a liaison between the technical staff that handles the maintenance, plumbers, electricians, that sort of thing, the user departments, and management.
 Those are three very different groups of people that someone needed to kind of help coordinate the information. Additionally, the facility engineer is also going to be providing additional analysis in order to do better planning and development of any of the facilities that we have that need any of the work done. And we're going to take that information in order to develop strategies to address issues
 the maintenance challenges we have, which are significant. And once we implement those strategies, we'll be able to also work those into a continuous improvement program so that we can be improving our processes.
 So the facilities management maintenance responsibilities. We take care of most of the facilities for the city except those that are covered by the airport zoo Sun Metro and El Paso water. That still is the majority of the inventory. It's about 240 city buildings and structures which corresponds to about 3.2 million square feet of buildings. This is things like the regional commands fire stations libraries rec centers administrative buildings pretty much everything.
 We also help the Parks Department by dealing with the bathrooms parking lots the electrical system and to include the park and trail lighting and we also manage the utilities for all the city-owned facilities We're the ones who make sure everything gets paid and we also administer third-party facilities contracts like the janitorial and security and
 contracts. We're the ones who make sure that they're doing their job correctly and recently we're also taking care of COVID-19 contracts. So in years past we've given you an idea of how old our buildings are and I thought this time around it'd be helpful to give you an idea of how that age applies to the maintenance needs.
 So from the day a building opens to about when it's old enough to drive, you would expect to not have any major renovations needed. There will be maintenance needed at all times, but the big stuff won't really start happening until you get to the 17 to 29 year mark. For instance, HVAC units tend to last 20 to 25 years. So that's when you start seeing the need to spend a decent bit of money to keep your buildings functional.
 And then from 30 to 49, more work is needed. And it's worth pointing out that from 17 to 49, that's about half of our inventory right now is in the age range.
 And then after 50 years, ideally, your buildings would be refreshed, brand new, kind of like the Mulligan building was when that was dealt with. Unfortunately, that's not really where we're at right now. There's actually a very large backlog of renovations that are needed, and it's worth noting that this is a backlog that developed over many decades.
 And we have buildings that are over 100 years old that haven't received enough maintenance for most of their lives. So it came from multiple previous administrations. So in order to deal with this sort of backlog we perform a facilities condition assessment.
 Basically that's something we do periodically for every five to ten years or so to really go in depth and look at exactly what's going on with every one of our facilities. We walk every foot of every building we check every roof we check every possible part of it.
 Because it's so in-depth, we can only do it every so often, but that is on top of the regular maintenance and inspections that we do on a day-to-day basis. This assessment helps us find issues that we normally wouldn't find through day-to-day operations, and ideally it gives us an idea of what needs to be addressed before something breaks.
 The best case scenario a lot of times is that we find a problem, we identify that it needs to be corrected, we can order the parts, get ready to do it, and then during a downtime, we can potentially go in there and get it done so that none of the users notice an interruption in service.
 Previously we have completed a condition assessments in 2007 to 2017. Those have generally been used to develop the facilities capital projects things like renovations additions. The larger scale projects that CID takes care of often have the genesis from the condition assessment. Unfortunately.
 At that time we haven't really set up a regular funding for maintenance needs. We've generally been taking care of improvements but we have a we have a budget to do maintenance to do the actual maintenance out in the buildings.
 and we have the improvement budget, we haven't covered things like a maintenance, capital maintenance needs like new roofs, new HVAC systems. Those have been ancillary to things that are handled through capital improvements. So if capital improvements is doing a renovation project, we might also include an HVAC system or a roof as part of that project. Or if there's an emergency, if an HVAC system stops working in the middle of summer, that's an emergency, we jump on it, it gets taken care of, but that's not the ideal way to handle it.
 So we started a new assessment this year. It's probably going to take us about a year to do it. And it's like I said earlier, it's going to be an evaluation of every part of every building, obviously focusing on major systems like the roofing, electrical, HVAC, plumbing, those sorts of things. And it's also going to cover smaller things. So it's really thorough and it really gives us an idea of where we are with our facilities.
 And we're going to use that in order to establish a capital maintenance program similar to what you have with capital improvements. And I'll cover more of that in a moment. But so far what we've found in the assessment is there's a lot of need for new HVAC units, new roofs. Additionally, there's a lot of painting that's needed and that's an important part of maintenance.
 new electrical systems pretty much everything you can think of one of our buildings needs it and Just to put it in perspective the money that was budgeted this last fiscal year for some of the maintenance needs Would cover maybe two or three roofs, so it's a pretty significant cost that we need to help we need to plan for and budget for over multiple years and
 Some of the strategic challenges that we've found as we've been doing our assessment is, like I said before, we've got a significant backlog of deferred maintenance. That's probably one of the biggest issues. And since there's no funding for capital maintenance, this year we're going to kind of be limping along a little bit. But ideally, in future years, we'll be able to give you an idea of what needs to happen so that you can help us with funding for those things. We've also seen a significant growth in our inventory.
 and the variety of buildings and functions, things like the splash parks, museums, all of that. It's fantastic for the community, but we have to understand and learn how to maintain some of those parts, some of those buildings and venues. And finally, actually this is probably what is the biggest concern for us right now is workforce recruitment and retention.
 I know you heard it from multiple departments. You know everybody's having a shortage but unfortunately the facilities department was particularly hard hit by the pandemic. As you can imagine you can't really work from home and you can't really isolate in a bubble if you have to go to every building in the city to perform maintenance so.
 Unfortunately that meant that a lot of our staff ended up retiring or finding an alternative employment that they felt was was more suited to what they wanted to do during the pandemic. And we lost over half of our staff over the course of the pandemic. So I mentioned the capital maintenance program. DIRECTOR HARRIS I'm sorry we have a hot mic. Can you please mute yourselves if you're in teams.
 We're gonna base it off of the information from this assessment we're performing right now as well as the maintenance inspections we also perform. That's gonna allow us to update it every year.
 So that we can keep you up to date as to what's going on What needs to happen and how buildings of their condition has changed over time It's not uncommon for something to be looking just fine one year and a couple years later You realize that something is breaking or something's not working, right? And now that has to be at bumped up the list so we're gonna work to give you that information on a regular basis and
 which is going to include establishing measures and indicators so that we can prioritize things. This will be things like the severity of the facility issue. Like I mentioned a few times, HVAC systems are pretty major.
 and also the impact on the usability of a facility. If something's going to completely shut down a regional command or a fire station, that's top priority. Other things, of course, have to be slotted in behind that, but we're going to figure out how to give you that information so that you have a list of these are our top priorities, these are the things that need to be addressed.
 and that'll help with planning and budgeting, which is gonna be data-driven. It's not gonna be based on an opinion, it's gonna be based on what actually needs to happen, and this will allow us to get regular funding established for the capital maintenance needs. And so moving forward, we'll finish the conditions assessment, we're gonna develop the capital maintenance program, address our workforce needs, and we'll be coming back regularly to provide quarterly updates to city council and leadership,
 And that's the presentation at this point. I would just like to just add and underscore that this isn't the first assessment we did. We did one back in 2016 was actually started in 15 and completed in 16. So if you're thinking in your head why are we just now doing an assessment assessment was done before just realistically
 the ones that got priority were police and fire not only for police and fire police in particular for personnel police and fire equipment replacement also streets and then there has been some money set aside for some departments like the quality of life departments like parks in particular and others but it hasn't been enough as you can see we showed you a slide earlier with almost 90 million dollars have been set aside for police and
 and fire and and we showed the tax rate and we juxtaposition that next to it so you can see the need and how great it is just for those two departments of which constitute over half of the city's budget in terms of the general fund which is more driven by property taxes so that's significant in terms of the amount of money we've invested in it but
 as you can see, even though we've done that and done a bunch of investment in streets, there's also more investment that we need to do in our facilities. We haven't forgotten about it. It's just something that, you know, it's going to cost more money. And so we keep it top of mind, and that's why we're presenting it to you. That's why these bond packages are put together. I mean, I think it's very easy to say that we're going to, you know, cut this, cut that, and do this and do that. But when you look at the reality of what has not been invested, because there's been so much of that kind of
 talk out in the community and not have the education of these different issues, things don't get funded. And so now we are funding things, but as you can see, we're still behind in a lot of areas because it's been neglected for so long.
 Thank you, Mr. Gonzalez. Thank you, Victor. I just wanted to commend you on your beautiful PowerPoint. It was really, I love the graphics that you used, and it was very appealing. So kudos to you and your team. Representative Hernandez has a question.
 I just wanted to just to agree with Mr. Gonzales and there's there's so much need and it's so important that we're at least have a plan we're prepared and so I'm thankful that you all have conducted those assessments just just wanted to go back on your initial comments you mentioned that your department is also responsible for parks maintenance
 Yes for the amenities like bathrooms rec centers parking lots, etc. Are do you also overseeing the the port of John's porta potties No, okay, it's because it's at parks because bathrooms at parks and
 okay no I was gonna ask a question about that I frequent parks I have five children that I take to soccer practice all throughout the city I'm essentially a taxi driver for them but I do use a lot of the bathrooms and I do have a lot of problems with the state of the bathrooms and so so for the folks who are listening often there's no toilet paper there's no hand sanitizer there's there's just nothing available so I have
 because I have a baby, I always have white bees with me. I just get frustrated that if we're gonna have these contracts at all of our parks, if we can just make sure they're stocked, because they're never stocked, ever. And if there ever is, I'm like, it's a miracle, these are stocked. Our parks are popular, and they're even more popular after the pandemic, so I think we need to stock and maintain them at a higher level. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
 Richard Bristol streets and maintenance. Yes, ma'am. We've had a lot of problems with vandalism and with theft in our bathrooms at the parks in a couple as we do these management briefs will bring in the parks group and perhaps we could do a series on Vandalism the type of issues that we're seeing any more questions. No. Okay. I'd like to move Miss prime I'd like to postpone items 36 and 37 for two weeks I have a second on that Second there's a motion
 by alternate Mayor Potemly-Zarraga, seconded by Representative Hernandez. And this is to postpone items 36 and 37 for two weeks. I just have a quick question before we do that. Mr. Bristol, I was just looking at the website, I'm sorry, at your presentation and just to look at the website and I'm going crazy finding the website. Yes, ma'am. It's under the community bond, community progress bond link.
 Okay, do you have the exact address? Yes on the city's website? Okay, so the city's website and if you go to the community progress bond section There's a little area it says view PCI results and part of our presentation would have been Navigating you through that and show you that how to access it I can't find it. But I mean It's right there on the website. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. I
 No, we're postponing it for two weeks. There's a motion on the floor to postpone items 36 and 37 for two weeks. On that motion, call for the vote. The voting session is open. Representative Brooke, thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously, Representative Shortsby and Anello not present. That brings us to the introduction of ordinances. These are items 38 and 39.
 Laura before you go on to those items for the record Laura Cruz Acosta communications director for the city. Staff have asked me to bring forward real quick for you in terms of how to use the PCI. So I wanted to bring forward that item very quickly just that discussion. Did you want to reconsider that item? I think we just postponed it. We already voted.
 Okay items the introduction of ordinances these are items 38 and 39. Second. There's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by alternate mayor Pro Tem Lizardo to approve the first reading of ordinances items 38 and 39. On that motion call for the vote in the voting session the motion passes unanimously.
 Representative Shortspine and Anello not present. That brings us to item number 44 on the agenda. Item 44 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning at 8636 North Loop Drive from A2 apartment to C3 commercial and imposing a condition. Motion to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido. To approve item 44, there is no public comment.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representatives Schwartzbein and Anello are not present. That brings us to item number 46. Item 46 is discussion and action on a resolution adopting the El Paso Complete Streets Policy Mobility Advisory Committee Enabling Policy. And we do have a public comment on this item.
 Good afternoon Mayor and Council Joaquin Rodriguez with the capital improvements department. Can we hear public comment Joaquin. Sure. We have Mr. Scott White. Good afternoon sir. You have three minutes. Once again good afternoon everyone. Thank you for what you've been doing and I want to thank Joaquin for his leadership on this project. I believe we're
 moving on a good direction. The only thing I would like to suggest is just a reminder that when we formed the bicycle advisory committee, everyone was on a two year term, which meant that when those terms ended, almost every, we had the potential of losing every member of that committee, which would have meant losing the institutional memory of what happened as a part of that committee. So I know right now it's proposed to have two year terms,
 Certainly encourage you to keep that in consideration that perhaps this first Round of nominees be staggered in some fashion so that we don't run into that issue in the future Thank you. Go ahead walking You know see the presentation yes, we can well can you make it full screen Is it not full screen? I think that might be on IT side IT Are you able to full screen that if it's easier to just share from? I?
 From what's in the backup IT, you can go ahead and do that as well. I have no preference. Okay, that'll work. You can go to the next slide, IT. So just a few sort of background slides. Again, the Complete Streets policy really touches on all of our strategic plan goals, more specifically goals two, three, and seven. Next slide, please.
 And some quick background, the Complete Streets Policy was adopted June 16th of 2022. Since adoption of that, we have established the Technical Review Committee, which is made up of internal department members,
 We have analyzed the roles and responsibilities provided by those technical review committee members and reviewed and voted to essentially mirror those same roles and responsibilities onto the folks that we would be looking to assign to the mobility advisory committee from members of the public. So again, per the Complete Streets policy.
 This quote here is within 90 days of the adoption of that policy. Capital improvements, streets and maintenance planning inspections in consultation with the Technical Review Committee shall draft enabling policy that creates the new Mobility Advisory Committee and clearly defines the roles, responsibilities and makeup of that committee. So that is what we are here to do today. Next slide, please.
 In terms of the Technical Review Committee, again, it's made up primarily of internal departments, plus one member of the Complete Streets Coalition. Now, the intent is for that member, if you remember, the Complete Streets Coalition was a group of...
 members of the public, different industry professionals who helped advise us while developing the Complete Streets policy. So the intent would be for that Complete Streets coalition member to be replaced by a member of the Mobility Advisory Committee once it is formally established.
 So this is a list of the different departments that are currently involved in the technical review committee. Again, these are the departments who have a vested interest in our streets programs, our capital improvements programs related to transportation infrastructure, and the complete streets implementation. Next slide, please, Saiti.
 So our recommendation for the Mobility Advisory Committee really is in keeping with the Complete Streets policy that you all adopted back in June. Our recommendation is for there to be 18 members total, two members per representative district, and then two members citywide. Our recommendation at this point is not to have council or the mayor's office.
 directly appoint those members, but we would work while reviewing applications for the Mobility Advisory Committee to ensure that we have that geographic distribution across all districts, including those citywide members. We do recommend a two-year term for each member, but there is a two-term limit, so members could carry over and
 serve the Mobility Advisory Committee for a total of four years and no holding over past 30 days. This is consistent with the Bicycle Advisory Committee and with a lot of other committees here within the city. So again, the selection of those members, they would be selected by the Technical Review Committee. What our proposal is and was reflected in the Mobility Advisory Committee report
 enabling policy that you're acting on today is that we would establish sort of a call for applications. Members of the public and industry would submit their applications. The Technical Review Committee chairs would shortlist those interested prospective members to ensure that their that their their qualifications align with what we're looking for in the Mobility Advisory Committee. And then finally the TRC as a whole would vote on that final membership.
 As far as the interface between the Mobility Advisory Committee and the Technical Review Committee, the Complete Streets Policy really does call for these two committees to work in tandem in implementing the Complete Streets Policy. So once the Mobility Advisory Committee is formed, they would appoint a member of their committee to serve on the TRC. Next slide, please, CIT. Thank you.
 And finally, looking more specifically at the responsibilities of the Mobility Advisory Committee, they will really serve as a resource for the TRC, not as an advisory committee to counsel, but as a committee that acts in tandem with the TRC as a resource for the TRC as we look to
 amend or update any policies or design standards within the City, or as we look to, you know, those different programs that are impacted by the Complete Streets Policy and its implementation.
 Our recommendation is the MAC will meet at least quarterly unless the TRC needs to meet with them for some reason more often than that. Their focus will really be on implementation of the Complete Streets Policy, ensuring that they're holding the TRC accountable to hit those milestones that are within the Complete Streets Policy that was adopted by Council.
 They will be working with the TRC to review standards and methodologies, standards as they relate to our street design standards, the recently adopted street design manual, and methodologies for project selection and prioritization within our different street and transportation-related programs. Again, they will not have direct review responsibility of individual projects. Their input would be more at the program level.
 Next slide, please. And as far as the interface between the Technical Review Committee and the Mobility Advisory Committee,
 The TRC will provide support for the Mobility Advisory Committee in terms of preparing agendas and provide them with updates on the status of Complete Streets policy implementation. Again, the Mobility Advisory Committee will appoint one of its members to serve on the TRC. And then finally, the TRC will prepare an annual report for the Mobility Advisory Committee. The annual report will really focus on the
 different steps outlined in the Complete Streets Policy and progress towards implementing those steps. Next slide, please. So again, our recommendation is to adopt the Mobility Advisory Enabling Policy as presented as it is consistent with the Complete Streets Policy and intent. The Bicycle Advisory Committee, which served a similar role,
 Does sunset at the end of this year so our recommendation would be that council not take any action to reestablish that committee as the mobility advisory committee will now serve a similar function but will sort of have to have a broader scope than the bicycle advisory committees.
 Again, if Council does approve of the Mobility Advisor Committee in this form, we would then put out that call for Mobility Advisor Committee applications. We'll work with the PIO to develop an outreach strategy, maybe some social media posts, something along those lines, to build interest and make sure that we get a sufficient amount of applications. And then we would move forward to review those applications. Okay.
 And that is the end of the presentation. I'm happy to answer any questions you all might have. Thank you Joaquin. Representative Anello has a question. Thank you. Thanks for the presentation Joaquin. I think this is a great idea to sunset the bicycle advisory committee into this. However I am having a little bit of heartburn about there not being a council.
 appointed person I guess my question is if staff is Appointing members to the committee who has the ability to remove them to remove them? Yeah, or do they not be removed? So when we have committees right there this city doesn't do it other cities there. You cannot remove a committee member all of our committees that the person can be removed or someone else can be appointed by the council member and
 Since this is staff appointing, I kind of have some concern over that. I don't think in any way you would do what I'm about to say, Joaquin, but there could be the idea if someone was asked to leave the committee that they were asked to do so because they didn't agree with staff, and we wanna make sure that people that are interacting with these kind of committees have the ability to give their opinion, whether it differs from those presenting to them, right? And so I guess, yeah, my question would be, can someone be removed from this committee by staff if appointed by staff?
 So the enabling policy as it's drafted doesn't have a, you know, any specific language for removal of members. I don't think that's something that we accounted for. But the TRC would be responsible through a biannual application review process to establish what that membership is. I think if you wanted some specific language to
 Give the TRC the authority to remove members. We would have to amend that. No, I don't want you. I don't think that would be appropriate. So that's why I was asking it. Yeah, so that's not in there now. I don't foresee us being in a situation where we need to remove someone. If someone is, you know, not showing up to meetings, not being responsive to.
 you know, to what the TRC needs in terms of supporting our implementation of the Complete Streets Policy, I would foresee us just having a realistic conversation with that person rather than needing to have any sort of formal removal or granting anybody authority to perform a formal removal.
 Okay, and I don't know if legal has anything like in our charter any other ordinance that would But then they're also sorry this one the doctor city attorney's office I
 They would also be subject to Robert's Rules. Robert's Rules deals with individuals who don't necessarily continually or miss a lot of meetings. Those provisions would regulate, I guess, the attendance or the ability for an individual to remain on the platform.
 As it's drafted, that would be the basic provisions. It can't run afoul of our charter. And then, of course, Robert's rules would regulate as well. What is the language in the charter that you're referencing? I'd have to look at that because it speaks just more generally about, like, term limits, holdovers, information like that. Okay. Okay. That helps. I will add in the enabling policy, there is.
 I feel like it's section 3 terms it's part D which does say that the MAC shall follow Roberts rules of orders for conducting its meetings. So so yeah correct. There would be some removal procedures within that. DIRECTOR MACKLIN FISCHER. For absences. I just again and you know if I'm being honest I'm I'm really terrible with reappointing people to a board so I completely understand that.
 Y'all wanting to make this as successful and streamlined as possible, but again, we don't want to see I mean We've heard it about other boards where staff doesn't agree what members of the committee have said again I don't think that you personally are going to do any of the things that I'm about to mention We just don't want to you know, have a committee where people are being removed I
 by staff because there's some disagreement, but you're saying that that's not possible or outlined in the policy? The only way to be removed is if you have consecutive absences, which I think it's, per Robert Rules of Order, it's two unexcused, so it would be three unexcused absences?
 I'd have to check on that. I'm not. It's something like that, yeah. And I think that's reasonable. I have no problem with that. But I just want to confirm that that's what we're saying, that the only language for removal is based on Robert's rules and absences. It's Robert's and then obviously the charter provisions. Sure. So they would term out, based on this, they would have two consecutive terms and they'd probably have to defer to the charter to help us interpret it. Okay. Thank you. I feel a lot more comfortable with it then. I appreciate y'all's answers.
 And just to sort of add something to that, Representative Minnell, the purpose of not having council in point was not necessarily just for streamlining, but also to
 to really reinforce the equity component of the Complete Streets Policy. I think by ensuring that we're appointing folks to the committee based on their qualifications and what their roles and responsibilities would be within the committee, we're sort of ensuring a more equitable distribution of membership rather than appointees who might not be chosen by members of council specifically for their role.
 you know, for what they're contributing to the committee. So we've worked, Kyle Ibarra, our Complete Truth Program Manager, has worked to develop sort of a couple matrices of membership that ensure that we're checking off all these different subject areas where we think members of the public or of industry would be helpful to the TRC in providing that feedback that we need to sort of broaden our
 our understanding of what Complete Streets means and how to implement those goals and policies from the adopted Complete Streets policy within our daily programming. Thank you very much. Thank you Joaquin. Representative Salcido has a question.
 Yes, ma'am. Thank you in regards to the staggered terms or I know that those are not staggered at what? In regards to like institutional knowledge who's gonna be there that is going to be able to continue to reiterate What the board has done or wants to continue to do so? I think we address that in a couple ways first of all the two-year terms we do have the I
 Two term limit. So it's very likely that a number of the committee members will hold over for more than just their initial two year term. But additionally, that the mobility advisory committee is going to work closely with the technical review committee that is comprised of city staff.
 So city staff will provide that support that's needed to make sure that that knowledge base does carry on and does hold over. We also intend to record all of our mobility advisory committee meetings and upload them to a website that we're currently developing for the Complete Streets program and the transportation planning program as a whole. So a lot of that
 you know, background will remain in place on the city's websites and sort of be memorialized in that way. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Joaquin. Representative Rodriguez has a question. Thank you. So, Joaquin, I just have a very simple logistics question. How much is this going to cost us?
 So as far as outside expenditures, there's no funding source for the Complete Seeds program specifically right now. This is staff time that is sort of a part of our
 You know, our daily responsibilities as staff. The technical review committee will also meet quarterly and it's about a one hour meeting. So if you know if we wanted to get into weeds of it, we could come back and give you what that staff time is costing us. But, you know, Council adopted the complete streets policy.
 unanimously to us that sort of direction that this needs to now become part of our streets and transportation program culture. So it's not something that is going above and beyond what we feel is within our regular scope of work. Okay thank you. Motion to approve. There's a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Tempore Zaragoza seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 46 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session.
 The motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representative Rodriguez voting nay and Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzwein not present. That brings us to item number 49.
 And this is discussion in action on a resolution that the city reviewed and approves the issuance of the unlimited tax bond series 2022 by Paseo del Este Municipal Utility District number seven with the acknowledgement that the issuance of such bonds does not constitute debt issuance by the city of El Paso. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Lizárraga to approve item 49.
 That motion call for the vote Representative Salcido has a question. Mr. Cortina's. Thank you alternate mayor pro temp Just one day just to get clarification. It's it's here will not constitute debt issuance by the city of El Paso So I just want to make sure that that's that's correct. These are political subdivisions of the state So they again have their own property tax rate individuals who live within these muds do not pay city property taxes They pay the budget to my property tax rate. Okay. Thank you. I
 The voting session is open. Thank you. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Shortline not present. And the last item is number 50, and this is discussion in action on a resolution that the city reviewed and approves
 the issuance of the unlimited tax bond series 2022 by Paseo del Este Municipal Utility District number five with the acknowledgement that the issuance of such bonds does not constitute debt issuance by the city of El Paso. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Lizada to approve item number 50 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 mayor pro temp short fine not present council i believe we've gone through all of the agenda items that brings us to the end there's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting all in favor anyone opposed and the regular city council meeting for tuesday october 25th 2022 is adjourned at three at four o'clock pm