Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, October 24th, 2023. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding in council chambers along with Representative Kennedy, Mayor Potem Manelo, Alternate Mayor Potem Olinar, and Representative Salcido. Representative Rivera is running a few minutes late, and Representative Hernandez just arrived. Thank you.
 It is 9.01 a.m. Now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Senior Police Chaplain David Mayfield. Well, once again, Mayor Leaser, members of the council, thank you for allowing me this opportunity to come and pray for you and for our city. I invite those present to join in praying in their tradition as I will pray in mine. Creator God, author of all,
 We ask that you bless the gathering of this council today. Guide us as we deliberate over plans, the plans to improve and prosper the city, and plans to address the problems that result from so many people living together. Bless each member of this council and help them to govern with wisdom and compassion. Help them to do the hard job of working for everyone who has come to live in this city, regardless of origin.
 Finally, Father, I pray that your mercy and grace would flow to our city as we work toward the benefit of those who live and work and play here. We ask all of this in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Now may God bless this council, the city of El Paso, and the United States of America. Amen. Thank you, sir. May God bless you.
 and this morning to lead us in the pledge of allegiance we have students from sageland micro society elementary we have jackson villanueva robert hernandez kayra garcia campos ethan rodriguez angelique avicia tiana flores
 Nolani Martinez, Allison Aguilera, Lily Sotelo, Kayla Rodriguez, Brian Medrano, Kelly Evans, Dario Chavez, Allison Camacho, Delaney Enriquez, Angelo De La Cruz, Emma Hernandez Jones, Javen Correa, Ethan Bala, Ayani Carrasco, Lily Villanueva, and Abigail Artagal. Mr. Brown. Mr. Brown. Can we, I brought your cushion back.
 Well, yeah, last time, yeah. For the record, Representative Fierro and Representative Canales have also arrived. Did you get Representative Fierro? Yes, sir. Oh, okay. Thank you. Ms. Pryor? That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is epidemiologist day. Which is the first one? Okay.
 That would be me. I think Representative Marpoten. Thank you. So proclamation of the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas an epidemiologist is an investigator who studies the occurrence of disease or other health-related conditions, states, or events in specified populations to include carrying out research to investigate the transmission of diseases and develop means for prevention and control.
 And whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health monitors disease occurrence in our population by collecting, analyzing, and providing statistical data on responsible diseases and sharing this information with the community. And whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health conducts surveillance, investigation, prevention, education, and controls activities to reduce the spread of communicable and infectious diseases in the Paso del Norte region.
 And whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health works in collaboration with our regional partners, including Texas Department of State Health Services, Region 910, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC, Army Public Health Fort Bliss, Secretaria de Salud de Chihuahua, Jurisdicción Santaria 6,
 New Mexico Department of Health for a healthier Paso del Norte region, and whereas the City of El Paso Department of Health provides education and technical support to healthcare providers and the community in the management of diseases of public health importance, and whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health ensures compliance with regulations and laws to protect and promote health in the community of El Paso, Texas.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the City of El Paso that October 24, 2023 shall be known as Epidemiologist Day. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Good morning. Good morning, Honorable Mayor Leeser, City Council Members, and El Paso Community Members.
 My name is Loretta Hernandez. I'm the current lead epidemiologist with the Department of Public Health. First, I would like to give all the glory and thank our incredible team, awesome team standing behind me, who began with us at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic back in 2020, and stuck it out with us to the very end of their contracts for the emergency response, in which most of them will go on to other positions tomorrow and others next Monday. We had 200 plus staff helping us during the emergency response and have had a handful of the team left
 that made it to the very end, which are 22 of them in epidemiology standing with us today. We could not have mitigated the outbreak over the past three years without them and are very grateful for their time and commitment during the outbreak over the past three years, and we're grateful for the time that we had them. We can't thank them enough. They were our true pillars of strength and support.
 When during those three years the epidemiology program worked seven days a week, sometimes mandatory overtime, all holidays and all weekend days with no vacation time off and no time to spend with their families until finally Thanksgiving of last year we had our first holiday.
 We were a relentless team that did what it took to get through the numerous cases that had to be investigated, contact traced and monitored, followed up until we could release the individuals from isolation who were positive for COVID-19 and also dealing with deaths. The pandemic is no longer a public health emergency, but it did teach us that prevention, education, preparedness, communication and teamwork are vital when anticipating the next outbreak.
 Thank you to our health leadership, Dr. Ocaranza and all of our health leadership, all of our city leadership for their guidance. And thank you to all the El Paso community for their patience as we all nervously had to learn just what we were dealing with during that unprecedented time, which was a historical time.
 As we move forward, we continue to perform surveillance and monitor the health of the El Paso community behind the scenes to keep outbreaks at bay. We perform case investigations on over 90 other notifiable conditions aside from COVID that are reportable by Texas law. And we continue to monitor any variants related to COVID-19. The team also assists with outbreaks in the community that are in congregated settings such as nursing homes, detention facilities, assisted living facilities, migrant shelters, homeless shelters.
 for any refugees seeking asylum. After the pandemic, I think just about everyone, every household finally understood what an epidemiologist was.
 otherwise known as disease detectives. And since then, we have received many requests for career day appearances at schools where we hope to inspire and plant the seed of epidemiology as a career for our future generations. Our team is here to assist with any education and prevention in order to maintain the health of our community for everyone to experience an excellent quality of life. Thank you. Thank you, and thank you all for...
 being here and I think you know as you talk I think one of the best biggest things we see is that you know awareness and then how to prevent and continue to be prepared so I thank you for that thank you all. Thank you. The next proclamation is El Paso Harmony School of Science Day. Lipset Adnondas. Hi good morning welcome.
 Proclamation of the city of El Paso, whereas Harmony Science Academy, El Paso and Harmony School of Science in the Harmony Public Schools West Texas District have been named 2023 state schools of character by character.org.
 And RAS each year, character.org, certifies schools and school districts that demonstrate a dedicated focus on character development that in turn has a positive effect on academic achievement, student behavior, and school climate. To qualify for the school of character designation, campuses must implement comprehensive multi-year character educational programs.
 programs and undergo a rigorous evaluation process in 2023 only 15 schools in Texas and 73 schools across the nation receive character school honors
 and whereas by fostering learning environments that emphasize positive values and personal growth Harmony Science Academy El Paso and Harmony School of Science are providing students with important instruction that will serve them well throughout their lives and each school's commitment to this endeavor is truly commendable and whereas the city of El Paso congratulates Harmony Science Academy El Paso
 and Harmony School of Science on being named 2023 State Schools of Character by Character.org and for winning fifth place against the top 100 rocketry teams from across the country at the 21st Annual American Rocketry Challenge at Harvard.
 at Great Meadow in the Plains, Virginia. And RAS teams at the national finals represented 27 states from Alaska to Florida. And at the national finals, a coin flip determined that competing teams in the first round of competition had to launch the rockets to 875 feet with a flight duration of 43 to 46 seconds.
 safely carrying one large hen egg and the top 42 teams conducted a second launch that was required to reach 825 feet with a flight duration of 41 to 44 seconds.
 And RAS, by winning fifth place, Harmony Science Academy automatically earned a spot in the NASA Student Launch Initiative to continue their exploration of rocketry with high-powered rockets and challenging missions parameters. And RAS members of the winning team include students Jacob Borras, Rodrigo Valdez, Galilea Rodriguez, Thomas Zhou, Alaric Webb, Ian Ambriz, Kiera DeLolera, Jose Cruz,
 their coaches Ursan Tanjo and Hasee Toussaint and now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that October 24th 2023 shall be known as El Paso Harmony School of Science signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser congratulations good morning
 Good morning, good morning, honorable mayor and city council members. Just I want to say a few words about Harmony Public Schools. Harmony Public Schools is a system of 62 Texas public charter schools that provides rigorous, high-quality education focused on science, technology, engineering, and math.
 Through a caring and collaborative environment, Harmony provides students from traditionally underserved communities the opportunities to excel through project-based learning where they learn the skills necessary to become a contributing global citizen. In the year 2000, Harmony Public Schools opened its first school in Houston, Texas, and still houses central administration in the Houston area.
 Since expanding, Harmony has grown into all major areas of Texas, including West Texas. Currently in El Paso region, we have six campuses serving over 4,100 students, and we've opened our first campus back in 2006. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. And if the students come up and introduce yourselves one at a time, we'd appreciate that.
 Hello honorable judge, mayor, I'm sorry, and committee and all citizens of El Paso. I'm Mariana Mendoza and along with Rocketry for Harmony Science Academy, we're also here for SLS, Service Leadership Society. My name is Mariana Mendoza, president of SLS Society and among the other Harmony Public Schools students. Thank you. Hi, I'm Audine Martinez. I am also in the Service Leadership Society in Harmony Science Academy and it's great. It's a great school. Thank you.
 Good morning. I'm Pisi Martinez. I'm also an SLS at Harmony Science Academy. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joanne Yedit, and I am the Service Leadership Society treasurer. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Yareli Gonzalez, and I'm vice president of Service Leadership Society Club. Thank you. Hello. My name is Gwen Rodriguez. I am in the Service Leadership Society, but I'm also on the Rocket Tree team. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Edward Payan and I'm part, I'm an SLS member and as well a rocketry member. SPEAKER 2 Good morning. My name is Rodrigo Valdez and I'm a mentor in the SLS club and I'm also in the rocketry club. SPEAKER 3 Good morning. I'm Jacob Porras and I'm also a member of the rocketry team. SPEAKER 4 Good morning. I am Thomas. I am part of the rocketry team. SPEAKER 5 Good morning. Believe it or not I'm not a student but my name is Perla Aguilera and I'm the dean of academics over at Harmony Science Academy.
 Good morning. My name is Michael Lean Sapisi and I'm the principal of Harmony School of Science Elementary. Good morning. My name is Arsene Tangio. I am a coach of the Rocketer Club. Good morning. My name is Mahmoud Chambagui, Harmony Science Academy, El Paso Campus principal. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Anais Vasquez and I am the science teacher at Harmony Science Academy and as well as the sponsor for the students. And I do have Gwen Rodriguez that would like to say a few words.
 Hello. I go to Harmony Science Academy. I'm in the Service Leadership Society and as well in the Rocketry Team, which began in the year 2018. That's when we started our Rocketry Team at Harmony Science Academy. And every year since then, we've qualified for the Nationals. And last year when we qualified for the Nationals and we went to compete in Washington, we actually got fifth place out of 798 teams competing in that area.
 Thank you all, and I want to thank you for being here. And, you know, one thing I've always said, that the youth is the future of our city and our country, and by getting to meet you all, our city is in great hands. Thank you. For the record, Representative Rivera has also joined the meeting. The next proclamation is National Veterans Small Business Week. No problemo, Leonardo.
 Good morning. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas nearly one out of ten small businesses across the United States is veteran-owned. From main street storefronts to virtual high-tech startups that advance America, veteran-owned small businesses are a pillar of our economy and contribute to the foundation of our nation. And whereas veteran and military spouse small business owners are resilient,
 discipline, and mission oriented, thanks to their commitment to serving our country and communities. And, whereas we resolve ourselves to strengthen our communities, we must empower and support the giants that veteran entrepreneurs are in our economy. And whereas National Veterans Small Business Week highlights the programs and services available to veteran entrepreneurs through the U.S. Small Business Administration and resource partners.
 And whereas the City of El Paso supports and joins in this national effort to help America's veteran-owned small businesses start, grow, and recover their businesses after a disaster and help our communities thrive. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that October 30th through November 3rd, 2023 shall be known as National Veterans Small Business Weeks. Signed Oscar Leaser, the Honorable Mayor for the City of El Paso.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and members of the City Council. Thank you for having us here this morning. My name is Dante Acosta. I'm the District Director for the U.S. Small Business Administration El Paso District Office, which encompasses 10 western counties in the real part of West Texas. Up there, I don't know what that is, but this is West Texas, right?
 And with me today is Leanne Vega, our PIO and also our lender relations specialist. And with me on my left is Amy Rodriguez, our outreach and marketing specialist and administrative officer.
 And I want to once again thank everybody and thank the public for being here. I know you're all here for us and not Harmony. No, right. The Rocket Club is definitely very exciting. And a lot of those young people will go on and start their own businesses and that's what we're all about at the Small Business Administration.
 And I want to just highlight a couple quick things and move on here. But the SBA wants, with this proclamation and with Veterans Small Business Week, we celebrate and empower the service member, veteran, National Guard, reserve member, and the military spouse entrepreneurs, which is a very important component.
 during this National Veterans Small Business Week. We're celebrating America's hashtag VetBiz and hashtag MillSpouse business owners during this year's 10th Annual National Veterans Small Business Week.
 Events hosted across the country by SBA and its extensive partner network highlight information about the resources available to veterans, service members, and military spouse entrepreneurs. I would like to encourage people to check out our website at sba.gov. You can see all the events there if you know any military members or spouses.
 our veterans we'd like to encourage them to avail themselves of our programs we have an upcoming program called reboot which is a big component of our assisting veterans service members that have transitioned to civilian life and are considering or have opened small businesses and again all that is available on our website as long along with our boots to business program and our veterans business outreach centers which are available we do have what's the date Amy I forgot already the
 Boots to Business Reboot? Yes. Sorry, November 8th at the Small Business Development Center over on the Vycout campus of the community college here in El Paso. One of our wonderful resource partners. So I encourage you all to avail yourself of their information. And all small business owners, not just veterans, but we are highlighting our veterans this week.
 coming up and we really are proud of them and all that they do to contribute both while they're in service and after their service serving the business community as entrepreneurs once again merely sir and members in the City Council behalf of our office across the street at the US Small Business Administration District Office we thank you we thank you for your time and attention thank you you know it's a
 I know Veterans Day is coming November 11th, but in El Paso, we're very thankful for all our veterans and all the people that have served our community. And then the biggest compliment any veteran can make after they've traveled the country and the world is to come back and retire and open a business and be part of our community. So in El Paso, we believe that it's Veterans Day every day, and we want to thank all the veterans that are here today and all the veterans in our community. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. The next proclamation is World Polio Day. Dr. Salcido. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas World Polio Day is held on October 24th in celebration of the birth of Jonas Stock, the American researcher who developed the first polio vaccine in 1955, and whereas polio vaccinations rate in Texas are around 93%, and whereas in 1985 Rotary launched a
 and in 1988 helped establish the global polio eradication initiative to immunize children of the world against polio. And whereas polio cases have dropped by 99.9 percent, and since 1988, and the world stands on the brink of eradicating the disease, and whereas the date, Rotary has contributed over 2 billion and countless volunteer hours to protect nearly 3 billion children in 122 countries.
 from death and paralysis from polio. And whereas the efforts provide much needed operational support, medical staff, laboratory equipment and educational material for the health, workers and parents, and whereas the members of the El Paso Rotary Club sponsor services, projects to address critical issues such as disease, poverty, hunger, illiteracy and environment in the El Paso around the world. Now therefore be proclaimed by the Mayor and the City Council of the City of El Paso October 24th,
 2023 shall be known as World Polio Day, signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning, Mr. Melver. Good morning, Mayor Leaser and City Council. My name is Jimmy Melver. I am the District 5520 Polio Plus Chair for our district. We're represented by the El Paso Clubs here. We do so much in the community, but this day happens to be our Polio Day all over the world.
 There are, in 1985 is when we started the Polio Plus campaign to eradicate polio. People that have lived back in the 50s will remember when people were in iron lungs. That was the only means of survival. Back in the 70s, President of Rotary International looked at the world map and saw that it was polio all over the world, even in the United States.
 So he challenged all the Rotarians all over the world, which is 1.2 million Rotarians, to eradicate polio. We are this close to eradicating polio. There are polio in only two third world countries. There are six in Afghanistan and two in Pakistan. Four years ago, there was a total of 167 polio cases.
 And so we challenge all the Rotarians to donate money, and we have been doing that for many years, and we are getting very, very close to eradicating polio. And we're very, very proud Rotarians, and I would like to introduce the presidents of our clubs here. So ladies first. Good morning, everyone. My name is Celia Jota. I'm representing Zaragoza Roti Club from El Paso.
 morning mr mayor city council i'm patrick saravia president of the northeast el paso rotary club mayor isabel hello eric smith i'm the president of the sunrise rotary club here in el paso again i want to thank you all very much for the propagation okay i'm sorry hello my name is raul cota president of camino real roadie club from el paso thank you sorry again let me thank everyone for our
 Doing this proclamation and God bless America and the final proclamation this morning is Ron Roth day Whereas after 30 years of dedicated service Ron Roth is retiring from the Planning and Inspections Department And whereas he started working for the then building services department in 1994 and has served as the chief residential building inspector for the city of El Paso since 2006
 And whereas Ron's knowledge, dedication, and contributions to the development community have greatly improved and fostered a collaborative working relationship, and whereas his guidance and leadership has left a lasting mark that lays the foundation for generations of future inspectors, and whereas Ron has assisted, educated, and served an immeasurable number of El Pasoans on their construction projects,
 Whereas we are extremely grateful for Ron Ross devotion and passion to the city of El Paso and the development community Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that October 24th 2023 shall be known as Ron Roth day signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser Good morning. You know, mr. Roth. I Probably met you before then but 1974 as you know
 Your mother hired me at Silla Vista Mall, and I was the janitor for her place of business, and that's how I originally met you and your mom. I think of your mom quite a bit because she was one of my first bosses I ever had, and then when I ran into you here when I got elected, and then we started talking, it's such a small world. So congratulations for your great service. Thank you, Mayor, Council. Thank you very much.
 I'm deeply honored and humbled at this recognition. It's been an interesting 30 years, but I've had a good time, and I want to thank you all. Mr. Weston, Mr. Atiwe, affectionately known as Boss.
 Mr. de la Cruz affectionately known as boss also just for the opportunities to progress and get to the point where I'm at thank the city of El Paso for employment for 30 years thank you very much thank you mr. mayor Tony that a cruise planning inspections for first and foremost thank you for this proclamation for a Ron Roth
 Following up with where as for Ron, even though the boss might kill me after this, I get out of the building. Whereas Ron really hates this type of recognition because he feels that overall the work that he has accomplished throughout his 30 years is a collaborative effort, which really makes him the leader that he has shown to be in the last past 30 years.
 I just want to say to Ron, thank you for everything you've taught me in my last 20 years with the city, and hopefully in the next five years we'll be RVing Yellowstone together.
 Good morning, Mayor and Councilor. Ray Adalto, El Paso Association of Builders. Thank you for allowing me this couple of moments to thank Mr. Ron Roth for his service to the community, to the building community and development community. He will be missed a lot. I think every particular house that's been built over the last 30 years has been a great source of support.
 has his fingerprint, somewhere is on it. And that type of fingerprint you can't replace. So from the community of builders and developers and homeowners, business owners, construction people, we wanna thank him for his service and thank you for allowing us to have him once again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. And Mr. Roth, there'll be a big vacancy
 And we thank you again for everything you've done. And, you know, I'm sure you're saying this was my job and I did my job, but you did your job well. Thank you. Ms. Pine? Mayor, would you like to recess at this time for photos? Motion to recess. There's a motion and a second to recess the council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 936 a.m. in order to take photos with this morning's honorees.
 Folks we're going to go ahead and take photos out in the lobby area we're going to start with epidemiology day followed by the Harmony School of Science then the veterans small business followed by World Polio and then Ron Rothay. If you could all could first group of epidemiology could. Anyone opposed. The meeting is back in session at 9 56 a.m. and that brings us to the consent agenda.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem? I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions.
 Page 12, item 35, postpone two weeks per city attorney's office. Page 13, item 36, move to the forefront of the agenda per Representative Anello. Counsel, are there any other revisions? Yes, I want to delete item 24. I'm going to repackage it for reintroduction in two weeks. That is page 8, item 24. Second. There's a second? Second. Second.
 Thank you. Mayor, we do have public comment on three of the consent agenda items. We have item five. This is a resolution by the City Council of the City of El Paso electing to participate in tax abatement agreements and establishing guidelines and criteria governing tax abatement for economic development prospects in the City of El Paso in accordance with Chapter 312 of the Texas Tax Code. We have Ms. Lisa Turner that signed up to speak on
 Good morning, Mayor counsel. What are your intentions here? What what are your intentions here? I have a city council meeting why mayor I can I can speak to this The at the tax abatements the tool we've used we used it when I was the economic development director back in 2014 It's a tool just like a rebate is every time. There's a project
 It's just another tool if if an abatement makes more sense to the project as opposed to a rebate That's part of the incentive package and we bring it to the City Council for the City Council to evaluate and approve It's nothing more than that My opposition to this is simply put two percent of our management business financial computer and engineering stem jobs Are only occupied by women construction forget it there's none involved women are underrepresented across the board and
 and I can't see handing out tax abatements or any other benefits to anybody else who does not increase the number of women that they have working in areas like this. You all have that ability to pick and choose what companies you wish to do business with and who you wish to give the taxpayers monies with. It's high time that this city quit undervaluing the value of its women in this city. We don't pay them properly,
 Across the board whether you're in business or here at the city They're not paid properly and they're disrespected for the very hard work that they put in every day. I know Mr. Ohm sent me that the wage rate which was fourteen dollars and eleven cents. Those are poverty wages Poverty wages how in the world can you survive on that? especially if you happen to have a child or about to give birth and
 Women are not represented in these jobs, and I think it's high time the city take a position
 and start demanding. When you do business with somebody, they have to tell you to break down. If they've got women working there, fine. You can do business with them. If they don't, go look somewhere else. Thank you. No, Mr. Turner, I agree with you because the state of Texas minimum wage, as you're aware, is seven and a quarter. And I'm not sure how anybody could ever live on seven and a quarter. And that's one of the things, our household medium income in the city now is up to $16.50 roughly.
 So I agree with you that, you know, the state of Texas needs to change the minimum wage structure, no doubt. I'm not worried about the state of Texas. I am. I'm worried about the city of Texas. I am, because guess what? We're part of Texas. That's where you have the ability to do. But we're part of Texas, and shame on Texas for having that type of low wages. To me, that's a cop-out. You have the ability to pay the women a proper wage. We do, and we do, Ms. Turner.
 Mr. Turner also has a question on item number seven and this is a resolution that the City Council approves a change order in the amount of three hundred twenty one thousand four hundred eighty seven dollars to Hensel Phelps construction company for the furnishing and installation of class a fire rated felt panel above the new linear plank ceiling to meet National Fire Protection Association 13 code requirements for the El Paso International Airport again women according to the
 workforce solutions, borderplex. There are basically no women in construction in this city, and yet we hand out millions and hundreds of thousands and millions of dollars to companies who discriminate against women. It's got to come to an end.
 Ms. Turner also has a question on item 14, and this is a resolution to amend the October 10th resolution ordering a special election to correct the date by which applications for mail-in ballots are due from November 25th to November 28th. So it's just to correct the date, just no difference from the last one you passed?
 Laura Pryne, City Clerk, that's correct, Ms. Turner. We're just correcting the date for the deadline to file an application for a mail-in ballot from November 25th to November 28th. All right, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Turner. So there is a motion made by Mayor Potem Anelo, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to item number 36 on page 13 that was moved to the forefront. And item 36 is discussion in action on a report regarding the feasibility and benefits of issuing El Paso City Identification Cards to residents and an implementation plan for implementation of an El Paso City Identification Card program. Good morning, Dionne Mack, Deputy City Manager for Quality of Life.
 Hello, Ms. Young-Mack. Good morning. Good morning. IT, if you could pull up 36 for me, please.
 as that's coming up i will be joined in this presentation by mr juan gonzalez from the city attorney's office thank you so much we are delighted to bring back a feasibility study that was ordered by council back in april we will be covering the overview and background as well as the feasibility study components and also our recommended next steps
 I just want to take a moment to acknowledge the team that did the heavy lifting. I warned them that I was going to point them out and ask them to stand up. Stand up, folks. Stand up. I'm so proud to be a part of an organization that regardless of the work, we have a talent in the organization to get it done.
 And I'm just so proud to have all of them come together with their expertise in a very short order to make sure this was well researched, that we were bringing forth the best recommendation we could for our community.
 SO WE WILL GO OVER OUR OVERVIEW AS I MENTIONED THIS WAS A TIMELINE AND WE WE CAME TO YOU BACK IN APRIL WE WILL BE GOING TO THE COMMISSIONER'S COURT NEXT MONDAY FOR PRESENTATION AND WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT IN TERMS OF RECOMMENDED IMPLEMENTATION PLAN IF APPROVED TODAY WOULD BE TARGETING APRIL OF 2024.
 Juan Gonzalez, for the record. So one of the first things we did when we started this program, or actually this project, is we wanted to identify all the local, state, and federal laws that would be relevant in
 Provided some sort of guidance moving forward so that whatever solutions we provided and offered to council were actually implementable We identified various regulatory requirements from the state as far as record retention we identified areas that could be helpful for us and being able to move forward and then we made sure that our
 What we're proposing doesn't run afoul of the Patriot Act, the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, and the Real ID laws. With that then, we are able to move forward with the rest of the presentation.
 So I know we've had the discussion before and we know that there have been various programs across the community. One of the things that we all talked about and we've discussed broadly across the community is understanding that having an ID is essential for civic and economic opportunities within our city. So what we are presenting here is really an identification, a form of identification for our community members to make better use of the services within our community.
 We wanna make clear, as Mr. Gonzales said, it is not intended to replace federal or state ID as previously mentioned, so it would not be utilized for any of the things listed on this slide.
 And so we talked a bit about some of the things that we would want to have as benefits for this as we were moving forward. We talked about banking, hospitalization, housing, the ability to be able to pick children up from school, filing a police report. We will be talking about and implementing some of those as we move forward. We are also in communications and have partnered with
 variety of Texas organizations who are doing this work throughout the state and so we've got some ideas about some other organizations that we'll be talking to about accepting this if approved today and so just a reminder we were working on the feasibility and benefits program as well as developing a plan for
 you know i'm sorry we have a hot mic will you please make sure you're muted if you're joining us in teams please make sure your microphones are on mute thank you miss man thank you and number two was developing a plan for implementation
 So we had a multi-part resolution that was brought forward, as you may recall for item C, at the adoption of this year's budget, there is funding that is allocated towards this program, as well as we have the verbal commitment continuously from the county to help us to also support the program.
 You'll be seeing all the other items that we have listed in terms of our response to make sure that we were thorough in our research and in our recommendation moving forward. One of the things that we heard a lot was about privacy, and so I'm going to turn it over to Juan to talk about it.
 So as we mentioned before, we wanted to identify the state and federal considerations to make sure that you wouldn't run afoul of that, but also be able to promulgate solutions that would address the potential cardholders' privacy concerns, which was at the utmost of their consideration. We identified the areas that would be helpful and that we wanted to make sure that we addressed, which included the Texas Public Information Act, which was
 and along with various records management and retention statutes. There's existing specific code regulations with regard to the library exceptions as far as how those records are handled for those requests. We're leaning upon this to address a lot of the privacy concerns that the potential cardholders would have.
 Once we've kind of set up that construct, then staff, which Ms. Mack mentioned, they did some really good benchmarking to be able to provide us with really good solutions as what are the best practices in order to be able to move a program like this forward. We tied that in just generally to the specific legal considerations, which included the application process. How do you, what's the best prospect or best way to, you know, to get the best results
 confirm identity without running afoul of individuals' privacy concerns. Then we also addressed how the cards would be used, how they could be used. We also worked with risk management to make sure that we mitigate as much risk as possible for the entity, us, that will be issuing this moving forward. And I think with that, then Ms. Mack will take over on the rest of this presentation.
 Thank you so much. So as I mentioned, we had a variety of questions that we gathered and wanted to make sure that we answered in response to the resolution. And one of the things that we really wanted to make sure we focus on, as I think we heard, is one of the questions when we had the resolution move forward, as well as looking at some of the transcripts from other cities who engaged in this effort.
 process was the question of security. And so we had our security team as well as everyone that you saw stand up have a variety of meetings and discussions about how we can add additional security features to our card. Unlike some of the other institutions that I'll be talking about moving forward in the presentation, we will be adding and recommending a security feature that allows you to scan a QR code on the back
 that will allow you to validate whether that card is a counterfeit card or not. And so it does cost a few more cents, but we think it adds a lot of legitimacy to the card, and so we've already worked through those processes of what that might look like.
 One of the other things that we thought about was the data management piece and really thinking about data transmission, because as you just heard, privacy is a huge concern, and it was one of the things that really kept some other municipalities from moving forward. Because we're utilizing, and our recommendation will be to utilize the enhanced library card model,
 They already have the security provisions of coverage under state laws you saw in the previous slide. And so we think we've addressed those issues and concerns that we see as being prominent as you're implementing this type of program. So what we did was we went through every model that we saw out there in terms of program. And so there's local government run programs, the enhanced library card primarily here in
 In California, there were some third party as administrator programs that really require you to go out to get a vendor and RFP for that process. We did take a look though at San Francisco, which utilized that process in the beginning, and they have since gone to a free card and not utilizing that vendor in the same way. So they would not, from my perspective, based on that program, have been a huge cost difference in terms of how we look at that.
 We do see nonprofit-run programs that we'll talk about in a few moments, and that was something that a few cities had to lean on because of the privacy concerns. So these were the organizations we looked at. We chose New York and Chicago because those are very well-established programs, and then we tried to look for programs that were underdeveloped, underdevelopment, or recently launched like the 2018 moving forward.
 The enhanced library cards were programs that are continuing to be launched throughout Texas, and we'll talk about those as well.
 So here are the programs that we looked at across the nation. New York and Chicago really are the programs that have been very well established with lots of registered users. But then you start to think about programs like Miami-Dade. They did a wonderful job. They did an RFP. They went to council like four times. They had the funding. They pushed out their announcement, and then they ran into the privacy issues that we just talked about.
 And so although they had the political support locally, they did not have a way to be able to address some of the privacy concerns for people applying for that card. And so they moved to a nonprofit organization called Branches that is now running that program. So it's not a city program. Wake County, North Carolina launched very similar to Miami. It's also a third party organization that is running that program.
 Minneapolis tried to launch their program back in 2019. Beautiful website, FAQs, everything is there. Same thing, it was a privacy concerns and issues and so you'll see that posted on their website. The latest one to launch, to announce a launch is Kansas City and so we were tracking that, they announced like in June or so
 One of the things I liked about the Kansas City model, although they had not launched, was the way that they were utilizing their health department as one of their key partners. And so that was one of our takeaways from that program, and we'll continue to see if it launches. But just, again, it became about privacy, which became one of the hindrances to how people could roll out some of these programs. Yes.
 And so as you see in Texas, one of the things that we've seen various large municipalities do is lean into the enhanced library card. I think we have seen since 2020, San Antonio was first to launch the program. Harris County continues to grow their program. Austin launched in May, and they're rolling out to various locations.
 San Marcos has one location, but they have been sticking with it, and we're hearing others who are really looking towards having this program move forward. The benefit are the benefits that you heard Mr. Gonzalez say in terms of that protection for privacy,
 As a library director, I have to say, protecting people's privacy and their records and understanding those systems are things that I know really well. We're really proud that this is something that libraries could do to serve our community in addition to the library services that we do traditionally.
 these are just some examples of what other organizations cards look like we would go through a design process if approved today our recommendation would be to come back to you in about late February or so and so we will have some of the things that our implementation plan sort of worked out but I would really like to make sure that as we're talking about development of our card do we include our community
 that we make sure that we have practitioners who may be serving those communities at the table to make sure as we're thinking about the documents that may be required i just want to highlight here because i got the question over the weekend these cards are meant for residents you know you're you're asked to show your proof of residency as well as your proof of id proof of identification
 So these are processes that libraries already have in place. Our goal is to make sure that we can have our card as widely accessible as possible. And so we wanna make sure that we're taking a couple of samples of these various lists and making sure that nothing is missing in terms of types of documents that may be available to people. I really like this Harris County model because I recently went to renew my driver's license and I took everything I had because I could not figure out on the website what I needed.
 and I didn't need any of that. And so we wanted to be as simple as possible for people, clear about what you need to bring,
 And I just wanted to let you know that we have no intention of retaining any of the documents that people bring to apply for this. It's the same as what we do with library cards right now. We ask for residency, we ask for identification, we verify that on the spot, we return those original documents to the applicant, and then it becomes a part of our system of record that falls under our confidentiality laws.
 So we found various promising practices as we looked at various programs throughout. We loved the idea of the pop-up events that we could partner with various community organizations, that we could partner with each of you if you would like to have us come out to do a registration in your district, that we would be able to do that beyond the bounds of a building.
 One of the things that we saw as one of the other best practices was making sure that our registration process and the website was very clear and that we had the ability to have community education awareness campaigns ongoing and a staff person sort of committed
 so we did do a cost comparison of the two programs in terms of a local government run as well as the enhanced library card as you are aware we have around 84 librarians or library staff who work and are issuing cards and so that cost is already something that we are providing
 so you'll see that the cost of providing an enhanced library card the recurring cost is less than what it would cost us for a local government run program we
 We did fully develop what we thought a local government run program would be to make sure we completely understood those costs and expenses. And what we did was do some sampling to understand what it would take for an individual to be able to issue a card. It was about 12 minutes and sort of backed up holidays and all those type of things to land at one and a half people, two and a half people to be able to issue about 10,000 cards
 excuse me cards and and taking into consideration travel and other things and so this would be the cost and as I said would Be really liked about the model that we saw In that was being launched in Kansas City was the fact that they were utilizing their health clinics And so we do like the idea that if we were to even consider a program like this that our health clinics would be a resource for us as they would be for pop-ups as well and
 So our recommendation is the enhanced library card. As you saw, it has been successful since 2020 without any opposition or litigation around that card. Our library will be turning 130 next year.
 AND SO WE'RE THE LONGEST RUNNING LIBRARY SYSTEM IN THE STATE, AND WE HAVE THE ABILITY AND CAPACITY TO BE ABLE TO ISSUE THESE CARDS AND MAKE SURE WE'RE TAKING CARE OF THE DATA AND KEEPING IT CONFIDENTIAL IN THE WAY THAT WE WOULD WANT. SO OUR RECOMMENDATION FOR THIS MODEL WOULD BE TO START A PILOT THAT WOULD BE AT FOUR LOCATIONS.
 We would have one additional FTE that would really be primarily for the outreach and training, as well as the pop-ups that we want to have throughout the country. I mean, country, throughout the county. Again, we did talk about the partnership with the county, and so we think the pop-ups will give us the opportunity to make sure that we're covering the county area as well. And we will be partnering with the county to make sure we can publish that schedule and have that available on our webpage.
 So one of the things that we did look at was making sure that we have more than a number of cards that we think we will be issuing. We did study a variety of other entities and we know that the 10,000 is at the very high end, but that does give us the flexibility as we're going through procurement of the cards a little bit more or less that we're well within the price that we are listing here for you.
 Again, one of the things that we talked about with the county was we do have a non-resident library card fee that is in place. And so I've already had initial conversations with Ms. Keller regarding an MOU that would allow us to have them pay and reimburse for any cards that would be issued.
 for any non-resident or non-city residents, according to the schedule that we have in place, and that would be coming back to you for approval and amendment to our Schedule C. So I do wanna go over our service inventory here. One of the things that we knew was important was that making sure that
 We had a conversation with the various departments who accept ID for various purposes, and we do have here listed our agencies who will be willing to take the card. In addition, I've begun conversations with Sun Metro because I love the idea of Chicago has their card is also their Sun Metro card. And so that's something that we will be talking about in the next year, year and a half or so, as they're doing some upgrades to their work.
 One of the questions that we did get in terms of this program and we've seen as being a question in some other municipalities was the participation of our police department. And so we do have our police department willing to accept as well as to share.
 And so these were the organizations on the county side who have already come back and say that they will be accepting the card, and I'm sure this list will grow. As you're looking at other agencies, for example, Austin is adding like every other day agencies who have decided to take the card
 or even other programs that are not city affiliated, they can let us know that we're accepting the card, and then we put it on the website so people will know that they can use it in those places as ID as well.
 and so our next steps as i've said will be working on the mou with the county again we're presenting next monday to the county commissioners we are going to continue to work with the financial institution we have one here who will be speaking with you a little bit later we also want to make sure we're continuing to work with other partners i've already begun the conversation with you know my portfolio in terms of ways that we might be able to utilize it as a discount card
 And so that would come back to you all for consideration by a schedule C amendment. We need to complete the procurement For the process we did have conversations and dialogues with people who are already pre-approved and allowed to have that conversation Thank You miss Paula for keeping us on track and
 And also, it's also about training. As you know, each one of our departments have policies and procedures that will need to be put in place to make sure that we can roll this out well. We will need to make sure that everyone who will be interacting and engaging or accepted, we have that as a part of our written documents, as well as any training for any of the departments that are listed.
 We also want to take some time, as I mentioned, to finalize the variety of documents that can be accepted. I do want to make sure that we're engaging the community to make sure that we're not missing anything in terms of documents that can be listed there. And we've included in the number that you saw as 105 for the pilot, around $7,000 for outreach and marketing.
 to make sure that even printing documents, making sure people know about the program, any of those costs and expenses would also be included within the plan as we move forward. So our recommendation is to establish, this is part of me, I'm talking too fast, establish an enhanced library card program to be administered by the library department, and we have the motion here for your consideration. Can we? Sure, Ms. Pryor.
 Yes, we do have several members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Irma Cruz. I think we have 19. Irma Cruz, followed by Elian Castorena. We have about 16, and then we did receive comments, statements from other members.
 Buenos dias. Good morning. Lo voy a hacer en español, pero mandame. Va a tener seis minutos y por favor, pause para que la intérprete asista. Ah, muy bien. Gracias. Gracias. Buenos dias, representantes de la ciudad. Mi nombre es Irma Cruz y soy parte de la Red Fronteriza por los Derechos Humanos. Good morning. My name is Irma Cruz and I'm part of the Red Fronteriza por los Derechos Humanos. Por años he visto la necesidad de miles de familias para poder realizar sus diferentes actividades diarias.
 Actividades que muchos de nosotros damos por hecho. Over the years, I've been noticing the necessity of thousands of families to be able to perform their daily activities which we already give, we already take by giving. Tales como recoger a nuestros hijos a la escuela, sacar un acta de nacimiento a nuestros hijos, abrir una cuenta en el banco, cambiar un cheque,
 such activities include picking up our kids from school, getting a birth certificate for our children, open a bank account, cashing a check, picking up a package from the mail, and so many other more activities.
 La creación de un programa de identificación comunitaria no solo facilitará la vida a miles de paseños, sino que reconocerá la identidad de miles de sus residentes. The creation of a program for community identification will not only make life easier for thousands of El Pasoans, but it will also recognize the identity of thousands of its residents.
 This will bring us a benefit that more people will be able to interact in a better way with different agencies and entities to satisfy their different necessities.
 Hoy creo que es un día histórico, no solo para la Red Fronteriza, sino para la comunidad del Paso, Texas. I do believe today is a very historical day, not only for Red Fronteriza, but for the community in El Paso, Texas.
 Hoy agradezco el apoyo que ustedes como representantes den a esta propuesta y espero que muy pronto todos podamos tener una identificación del paso. Muchas gracias. I would like to thank the support from you as representatives and also for this proposal to be given. And I really hope that all of us can have an El Paso ID soon. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Orozco. The next speaker is Eliane Castorena.
 Good morning you have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning council members, Mayor Leaser, my name is Ylenka Estorena and I'm part of BNHR, Border Network for Human Rights. I come here today to urge you to vote in favor of this community ID card. If passed this will not only be a historical event but it will be changing the lives of so many here in the borderland. The lack of an identification negatively affects the lives of residents but impacts more the marginalized communities.
 With a community ID members of our community will finally be able to open a bank account, pick up their sk- their kids from school, and just simply identify themselves. I hope you have grasped the importance of passing this program today and the effects it will have on the communities you were elected to serve and represent today. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Miriam Guerrero. Miriam Guerrero followed by Betty Camaro, Alan Lizárraga,
 Miriam Guerrero, good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. My name is Miriam Guerrero I'm here on behalf of border network for human rights in support for item number 36 in our community ID campaigns I'm community a community ID is identification card issues by or with approval of our local government
 IF ADOPTED, OUR CITY HAS THE OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE A PHOTO IDENTIFICATION CARD AVAILABLE TO ALL EL PASO TX RESIDENTS. THIS IDENTIFICATION INCLUDES THE BASIC FUTURES OF ANY ID SEARCH HAS INDIVIDUAL'S NAME, PHOTO, ADDRESS AND SIGNATURE. CURRENTLY, TEN OF THOUSANDS OF EL PASO RESIDENTS CANNOT A GOVERNMENT ISSUED ID, THIS INCLUDES
 This includes senior citizen, veterans, individual experiencing homelessness, transgender, disabled, mixed status families, and victims of domestic violence. Without the right from OFID, a person may not be able to open a bank account or check a check or cash a check.
 pick up a sick child from school, access healthcare service, file a report with the police department, borrow a book from the library, or even collect a package for the post office.
 A community ID for all El Paso residents is to step in the right direction to guarantee that everyone has access to VITA and essential services they need. Today I ask you to help us create a more quality
 credible apostle for all by support item number 36. I am a apostle. I support the creation of a community ID. Thank you The next speaker is Betty Camargo. Betty Camargo followed by Alan Visarraga and Fernando Garcia. Good morning. You have three minutes Thank you. Good morning. Good morning mayor. Good morning City Council. I
 My name is Betty Camargo I'm state's program director with the Border Network for Human Rights. I do want to start by thanking Representative Anelo for her leadership and for being a champion on this such important issue which is a human rights issue. And there were times that it wasn't very popular or receptive and she was still there.
 to Representative Hernandez for guiding us in moments where we were unsure where this was going. And finally, for all of you for showing leadership and understanding how essential this is for our community. The study that we just watched is really the culmination of the long battle campaign, I Am El Paso, that border network and our border community has led and has never given up on proving that a human rights
 Proving that a human right should always be fought for with an organized community behind it in today's Texas climate El Paso is once again showing that integration is important We are directly addressing these issues and working towards a greater inclusion and justice for all It is important that the state of Texas in our country as a whole recognize the value of every human life and the importance of providing basic rights and protections to all individuals and
 I am proud to stand with the community of El Paso today in hopes that today you can vote yes to implement an enhanced library And therefore together we can continue to fight for the rights of all individuals. Thank you again representative And I know representative at none this the border network and all those who have worked tirelessly on this issue Thank you. The next speaker is Ellen. These are Followed by Fernando Garcia. Good morning. You have three minutes. I
 Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, City Council. My name is Alan Zaraga, and I am here on behalf of the Border Network for Human Rights. And I also want to thank Representative Hernandez, Representative Anello, and Ms. Dionne Mack, and all of BNHR who have worked on this issue for quite a long time, an issue that many of us in this room hold very close to our hearts.
 As I prepare my comments for today I reflected on the purpose of this campaign. I reflected on the hours, the days, the months, and the years that the BNHR has arduously organized the El Paso community towards a community identification program. I reflected on the stories of mothers who cannot pick up prescriptions for their sick children. The stories of parents who were unable to pick up their child from school. The stories of heads of households who were unable to cash their hard-earned checks.
 I thought about the survivors of domestic violence and those who are currently experiencing homelessness. What is being proposed today at its core represents the belief that all of us, regardless of our background, regardless of our circumstances, deserve the opportunity to live a life with dignity. We deserve the opportunity to have the right to an identification, and we deserve the opportunity to take part in the everyday privileges of a community life
 And this campaign symbolizes the privileges of local belonging. We must acknowledge that identification is security, it is visibility, and it is the access to those vital services that most of us take for granted. A community identification card will provide access to a range of municipal and private services, including library access, access to financial institutions, and emergency services, among others.
 By doing so, this card will help better identify city residents and it will provide them an easier access to public and private services. This will make for a better and more connected El Paso. Today I ask you that you uphold the values that make El Paso a beacon of hope in our country and in our state. I ask that you too reflect on the barriers that thousands of El Paso residents face on their daily basis, and that you vote in favor to bridge these gaps.
 I ask that you remember your duty to address the needs of all El Paso residents, and that you provide all of us here an equal opportunity to participate in our booming economic development, that you give us an opportunity to share in our community's safety and security, and that you begin fostering community integration. I am El Paso, and I encourage this council to vote in favor of item 36, and I support the creation of a community ID. Thank you.
 Next speaker is Fernando Garcia followed by Rosa Avila Veronica Macias. Good morning. You have three minutes Yeah, buenos dias. Good morning mayor City Council first. I would like to thank the very hard and dedicated work of the city of staff and
 Dion Mack and the team, you did a great job. And I would like to tell you that Borrero is behind the proposal fully. So this has been a long journey and there's been several champions on this. I would like to recognize the leadership of Representative Arnello. I mean, she was the one that introduced the first proposal in 2014, 2015. And here we are, I mean, nine years after
 Talking about it and maybe passing today also represent Hernandez that actually had have several conversations with City Council members and most of the community that Understood that this is an important issue for our community. This is about community safety. This is about Creating the conditions for businesses and integration and
 This is good for our development in our community. So Border Network launched that campaign that is called I Am El Paso. As you see there's like big ID cards there. We've been using it since then because we believe that this is good
 for our community. I would just like to recognize all of the members that actually took time from their jobs or their schools to be here with us. It's not everybody, but I think these represent the thousands and thousands that actually signed signatures, petitions, and participating in multiple city council meetings like this to present their support for this issue. So thank you. Un aplauso para ustedes. Muchas gracias por estar aquí.
 Gracias.
 So again, I would like to just say again, reinforce this idea that these community IDs are good for businesses. I think we do have representatives from financial institution today that is gonna speak about how this ID will be used precisely in that financial institution. We really recognize also that their leadership, they're gonna introduce themselves in a minute. This is good for community safety.
 police department, the chair's office will be able to use this ID to identify that person, which is at the end good for community security. And this works well with the police department, which I believe also they are behind this proposal.
 And this is good for the overall community. And I wanted to say that yes, it's been mentioned that certain communities are more propensity not to have IDs, but everybody's gonna get the chance to get this library card. I'm gonna get my library card. So probably 10,000 is not gonna be enough. So hopefully we're gonna have another round. So thank you for doing this. We hope that today you're gonna make the right decision. Gracias.
 The next statement was submitted by.
 Rosa Avila, the statement reads, good morning, my name is Rosa Avila, coordinator of the Border Network for Human Rights. I come on behalf of the community of District 1. I come to tell you the importance of obtaining a municipal identification card. With it we go to the school for our children, enter the hospitals, change checks, and most importantly identify ourselves with the police officers, and that would be security for the community and for the officers. That is why we ask for your support of all of you.
 The next speaker is Veronica Macias. She will be followed by Susana Herrera, Adriana Cadena, Samantha Singleton. Good morning, Ms. Avila. Tienes seis minutos con la ayuda del intérprete. Por favor, pausa después de unas frases para que le pueda asistir. Gracias. Buenos días. Buenos días. Mi nombre es Veronica Macias. Pertenezco a la Refronteriza por los Derechos Humanos.
 Good morning, my name is Veronica Macias and I am part of the Red Fronteriza por los Derechos Humanos. Yo quiero dar las gracias a todos ustedes representantes. I would like to thank all of you representatives. Gracias por el apoyo a ustedes que nos han dado. I would like to thank you for the support that you've given us.
 y que hoy en este día tome la mejor decisión para toda la ciudad del paso. Muchas gracias. We hope that you make the best decision for all the city of El Paso. Thank you. Gracias. The next speaker is Susana Herrera. Buenos días. Mi nombre es Susana Herrera. Buenos días. Y yo esta mañana quiero agradecer primero que nada a las personas que hicieron todo el trabajo, toda la presentación que nos dieron ahorita. Fue un harto trabajo.
 I want to thank you and I also want to thank the representatives who have been listening to us since 2016. There are representatives who are no longer the same. Mrs. Herrera, please pause so that the interpreter can assist you. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Susana Herrera and I would like to thank you all first for all the work and the presentations that you provided us today to all city reps, even the ones that have been here since 2016. Even if you're not the same ones, we appreciate all the support you've given us.
 Y esta mañana espero una resolución favorable y que todos podamos salir de aquí con una nueva vida, con una nueva identificación, que para muchas personas aquí en El Paso, Texas, sería indispensable tener esa identificación. And today I am hoping for a good resolution on this issue since this would be really, really helpful for all people in El Paso for this identification.
 And because it's a human right. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Orozco. The next speaker is Adriana Cadena, followed by Samantha Singleton. Adriana Cadena or Samantha Singleton? Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council. My name is Samantha Singleton, and I am the policy director at the Border Network for Human Rights.
 All of the individuals prior to me have talked about the benefits of this card, and I can continue with that, and the individuals behind me will talk about the benefits of this card. Why is it important to have a proper photo ID? Because you know who you are, but the other individual doesn't know who you are.
 It allows you to be a part of something. To identify yourself to another individual is very important. It's extremely authentic. Why is it important to open up a bank account? So you don't have cash on you. Because if you do have cash on you, you have the possibility of getting robbed.
 and then you have to go file a police report. But if you don't have the proper identification to do it, you probably won't do it. So the person that doesn't have identification is the individual that's losing out in the community. We have an opportunity today, or you all have an opportunity today, to do what you've been saying
 for so long that El Paso is strong that El Paso is capable of showing humanity. You have the opportunity today to show other cities in the state of Texas and the United States as a whole how to properly incorporate an identity card whether it's called enhanced library card that's the minimum of the concern. The maximum is what is the priorities what are the benefits.
 And today you have the opportunity to show nationally how to do it and how to do it correctly. So I think that alone is a reason for you all to consider the approval of this agenda item today. Thank you. The next speaker is Graciela Baeza. Graciela Baeza. Buenos dias, tiene seis minutos y por favor pause después de unas frases para que le pueda asistir el intérprete. Buenos dias. Muchas gracias, buenos dias a todos.
 My name is Graciela Baeza. I'm a representative of the Human Rights Frontier Network in support of point number 36 of our campaign. Good morning. My name is Graciela Baeza. I'm also part of the Human Rights Frontier Network. And I come in support of item number 36.
 A ID helps thousands of residents here in El Paso. If approved, it would help parents pick up their children in schools, change a check, which is very simple, very easy, and helps us all. It would also help us open a bank account, and if they do any damage, any complaint, we can report it to the police.
 NID can help over thousands of people here in El Paso to do simple tasks like picking up their kids from school, cash checks. It can be really, really helpful for everybody to be able to open a bank account or even make police reports when needed.
 I got a squat or sake a la poyo a nuestro programa de identificación de la comunidad y por favor este agradecemos a todos que nos den la oportunidad de aprobar say este programa yo apoyo el paso con la identificación ID gracias we thank you for your support and all in the opportunity to bring this to you and I support El Paso with this identification ID gracias
 Thank you, Ms. Orozco. The next speaker is Lisa Turner. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Mayor of Council. Is there a need for this? Yes. But I was curious because I heard privacy concerns. And none of my IDs, I believe, protect my privacy. So can someone tell me what the difference is or explain that to me?
 Deon Mack, deputy city manager. Some of the cities actually collected the documents and stored the documents within their database.
 And then that led to open records requests for that information and documents. Even in well-established programs like New York City, they had a challenge to that from a state assembly person. It went through a full litigation process for them to determine that those records were actually protected, and then they decided not to start to retain those records.
 And so those become the conversations about what happens to those documents, what do we store, what do we keep, and how are those available to any other agencies through an open records request. And so that's what we've seen in practices across the country. So we will not be retaining documents from individuals. So is this a government ID? It is a city of El Paso ID. I'm curious because, well, as you know, I'm a trans one, and sitting in the courthouse
 My name change of order. Anybody wants to go look for it, all they have to do is search it. It's a public record. I see this as a public record, and I don't know if you can just choose not to take it and keep it. I don't know what the procedure is, but will Texas allow you not to? Since this is an El Paso ID card, it becomes a public document.
 So isn't all that information to require that public document now public record? That's the only thing again I know it's a needed it's needed but this is something I see that needs to be worked out one Gonzalez for the record so the the idea is a municipal ID it's an ID issued so that the holders can avail themselves of services that the city provides and
 any other ancillary uses by third parties that's within third parties agreement to do so but for our purposes the idea is being issued so that the holders can avail themselves of city provided services and goods with regard to the privacy concerns we're relying on since it is going to be a library card on the specific statutory
 regulation which allows us to withhold and actually makes the certain information associated with the issuance of the library card confidential
 What it does, it's more about minimizing the exposure of how the card is used and protect the identity of the person and how they're using it with regard to the availing themselves of the services as opposed to the actual privacy concerns of the individuals associated with their documents. We're addressing that latter concern by
 doing a verification when they're applying for the enhanced card and we're not keeping records where you were requiring and miss Mac mentioned in the presentation there's certain documents that will be accepted to verify the individual that is requesting it is indeed that individual and we will
 keeping records of that the library card will be issued just like all the other library cards Except this one will be enhanced. You'll have additional Information in it. I'll obviously have a picture typical library cards. Don't it will also have in essence of the self-verifying QR code functionality that other library cards do not have Thank You. Mr. Gonzales the next speaker is Dulce Carlos followed by Yvonne Diaz and
 Buenos dias, Ms. Carlos, tiene seis minutos y por favor pause después de unas frases para que les instale la interprete. Okay, lo haré en inglés. Just be patient for my English. Good morning. My message is a gratitude to the entire team that has been supporting this ID proposal for all their efforts to push for community IDs.
 to become a reality and provide an example as an inclusive city that cares about the well-being and identity of all. Some of the needs that will be covered with this identification that will be approved today that will be approved today will be for those people who need to pick up some controlled medication from the pharmacy for themselves or for their children's
 for all those parents who have a conflict to register or pick up to their children in schools or academies of development activities, for those who need to put the utilities of their house on their own name, or for those people who had to leave their homes due to domestic violence and who are trying to recover their dignity and identity.
 This is just to mention a few of the many needs for identification. Thank you again to all the representatives and the mayor of this beautiful city for listening to us in this fight for an ID, and to the entire team
 FOR EXPRESSING THEIR EXTREME CONCERN AND HAVE PULLED OUT THEIR EFFORT INTO CREATING A SAFE AND SECURE ID FOR OUR COMMUNITIES. IN COMMUNITY, DULCE CARLOS. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU. THE NEXT SPEAKER IS IVAN DIAZ. MS. DIAZ STAR 6, PLEASE TO UNMUTE YOUR TELEPHONE. IVAN DIAZ, GOOD MORNING.
 Good morning, everyone. I want to first of all start by thanking the Human Rights Network for being in these five for so long and everyone involved, the Representative Hernandez and Representative Alex Anelo. I think this is extremely important that it gets passed this morning. And I'm not only speaking for myself but the DACA recipient.
 I mean, the times that I remember going to the library, even when I was in high school and, or even like after high school, when I was in college, and I wasn't able to get a rent book because I couldn't, I didn't have an ID, or I'm also speaking for my parents. I remember my parents being robbed by my dad, like so many times because,
 He did not have an ID to cash his checks. And my mom, I remember crying so many times coming back home that she had so much trouble to get my brothers or my siblings out of the school early for a doctor's appointment just because she did not have an ID. It's not only about that, it's also about like, I'm a former case manager and I'm
 I remember having some of the clients not having an ID for over 10 years, 20 years, because of different difficulties and different—they've been born in different states, and how difficult was it for them and falling into the system.
 So I think this is important, so important for the community, for people that live in El Paso, even we want to acknowledge or not, we have a population, I'm part of that population that needed those IDs like over 10 years, but I was still here and I think it's important to acknowledge people
 former or veterans or formerly incarcerated and people, immigrants that are, we are all part of El Paso community. And I think it's a step forward that we do approve this community ID so we can all continue to be united in El Paso and continue to make this community strong as somebody else said earlier. So I thank you and I ask you to please vote yes on this item.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Carlos Manchaca. Good morning. You have three minutes. Thank you. Buenos dias. I'm Carlos Manchaca, former city council member in New York and resident of this incredible county of El Paso. I'm here to say thank you. Your unanimous vote.
 ensured that the incredible team that Ms. Mack led and the incredible voices that you're hearing got us to this place. What I want to comment on is that relationship that everyday El Pasoans have with their city.
 This is one of the most intimate kind of tools that you're all going to be working on and hopefully after today's resolution a good resolution passing will allow you to build the kind of community trust with the city of El Paso. This is not a state or federal program this is a city. This is the most intimate relationship that any resident can have is with their city. You impact the city more or you impact people more than some of the other levels of the state and federal.
 What I also want to do is lift up the voices that I heard today in terms of the things that the city can do to provide everyday people in El Paso to pick up their children at school to cash a check. But I also want to highlight something that may not have been talked about too much, which is the relationship with the police. Okay.
 For me, this is one of the things that surprised me the most in the work that I did in Brooklyn. Part of what this is going to do is also give a tool to the police to have a relationship that is not confrontational from the get-go. This is going to allow for people to engage the local police departments and have a relationship. Those things are going to make our community safer.
 And that's something that I think I just want to not only say, but anticipate as the police department has said yes to signing up to this resolution. And the sheriff's department will give a different relationship, hopefully a better relationship, between communities that don't have identification and those that do. And finally, I want to say the following. Thank you.
 The financial resources is something that continues to be a thing that plagues communities that don't have identification. This is going to open up opportunities and different tools to get built around the identification card. This is something that I think is still in beta form in a lot of ways. But I think in El Paso, Texas, you're going to be able to build things that other cities are going to be able to look to you to make happen.
 And so thank you so much for all the incredible voices, which I'm going to say is a total of six giving it on a way. And I'm just going to continue to listen to that beautiful and visionary and transformative project before you today. Thank you. And it's speaker is Dania Angeles. Dania Angeles followed by Genesis Rocha. Good morning. You have three minutes. Hi, good morning, Mayor Council.
 I'm here on behalf of Raiz Federal Credit Union. We are a community development financial institution. As you all know, we used to be teachers
 We rebranded about a year ago and a lot of why we rebranded is to let the rest of El Paso know we are open to all. And we are rooted in uplifting and empowering our city by providing financial education. We can't do that if there's not an ID in front of us. We can't open a bank account if we don't have that piece of ID that gives them that human dignity.
 So we are here today to support the border network for human rights and to ensure that we close that gap. And we are rooted in providing financial education. We have a whole department that is focusing on providing that to our community members that are underbanked and providing those financial services.
 So we are here before you today to support the El Paso City Identification Card, and we will work very closely with Border Network for Rights to ensure that we accept this ID. Thank you. The next speaker is Genesis Rocha. Good morning. You have three minutes.
 Good morning, my name is Genesis Rocha. I too am here on behalf of Border Network of Human Rights. I support item 36. It is our community ID campaign. Currently, thousands of El Paso residents cannot have an ID issued to them. That includes many senior citizens, veterans of this country, individuals that are experiencing homelessness, the transgender community, people with disabilities,
 MIXED STATUS FAMILIES AND VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE. WITHOUT AN I.D., A PERSON MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OPEN A BANK ACCOUNT, CASH A CHECK, PICK UP A SICK CHILD FROM SCHOOL, ACCESS MANY HEALTH CARE SERVICES, FILE A REPORT WITH THE POLICE DEPARTMENT, WHICH IS VERY NEEDED IN OUR COMMUNITY. BORROW A BOOK FROM THE LIBRARY, WHICH MANY PEOPLE NEED ACCESS TO THE LIBRARIES.
 or even collect a package from the post office. A community ID for all El Paso residents is a step in the right direction to guarantee that everyone has access to vital and essential services that they need. Today, I ask you to help us create an equitable El Paso for all of us and to support item 36. Thank you. Thank you.
 The final speaker is Adriana Cadena. Adriana Cadena, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Hi. Hi, good morning. You have three minutes. Hello, can you hear me? Yes. OK, thank you. Yes, hi, this is Adriana Cadena, protecting immigrant families coalition in support of this resolution. I just wanted to mention and thank the city council
 It's an important component for individuals to be able to have an identification through a library card, be able to have a form of which they can be able to establish identity,
 Being able to go to school to pick up their kids or being able to present it to get a service that they may need. And so I just want to applaud for the consideration of this resolution and also, you know, confirm, let you know that it would make a big difference as you've heard through the different types of testimonies from students.
 the community on the impact it will have on individuals' everyday life. And this would be, I think, really remarkable and historical for the city of Paso to be among the very few cities around the country that actually are able to address their needs of all of their residents. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you. And we did receive four other statements also in support of the program. Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Thank you. Thank you, everyone, for being here. Muchas gracias a todos por estar aquí. And with that, Representative Mayor Pro Temp.
 alejandra thank you mayor um thank you everybody for speaking um it's really exciting to be here today um this is one of the first items i'd ever put up at my time in city council in 2017 and we came extremely close
 Unfortunately, the tie was broken against by former Mayor DeMarco, and I'm really excited to be here with the new administration moving forward. Since 2017, this community has gone through a lot, the pandemic, the August 3rd shooting, and there were many times during those instances that I heard community members, city staff, other governmental entities really say, like, I wish we had a community ID to help people.
 Political ideologies aside, we know that there are individuals in our community who do not have identification and get left behind. And there is no negative or setback in helping those people advance themselves with healthcare, in education to pick up their children, and as we heard from Raees Bank, banking institutions and financial literacy. There's no negative to that. And so I'm really excited here today.
 I want to take a second to recognize Chief Pacillas. I know that he has been working on this very hard with staff. I also want to recognize Norma Martinez. I think we lean a lot on libraries these days, and so appreciative of you being open to these ideas. Of course, I want to thank Dion Mack,
 and Eric Gutierrez who have been working very hard on this for months, meeting with the community, I think is something that may not be very obvious to people watching is that this has really been a collaborative issue. I think it has been a really great example how staff has sat down with community members and built something, right? We really wanted a community ID meeting
 We know that for a lot of reasons the library card is a little bit better But we wanted to make to merge those two programs and I think we have a really great product here And that is because of the collaboration and the work on staff I'm gonna get a little emotional here But this is the first thing I put on council and it's not lost that this would be the last thing one of the last Things that I do and I'm really happy to be able to work up this with be an HR and staff It has been an honor. So thank you all
 So I'll make a motion to implement an enhanced library card pilot program at four library locations with a potential expansion to additional locations in the future based upon available funding and need. Second. One motion, two seconds. Representative Arthur Fierro. Thank you, Mayor. Ms. Mack, please. Can we go back to the slide where you showed the information needed to apply for one of these IDs, please?
 There you go. I know it's just an example, so it's really tiny. Thank you, no, well, it's give you, let you in on a secret, I don't have my glasses, so I can read it anyway. In that, on that slide, what is the differences between what's on there, what we're gonna ask for, and what the state asks for for license, or a state ID?
 So I think all the key, because I actually looked at all the state issue ones, a lot of those are already here, but as you get to the bottom of the list, say for column three, it starts to talk about your Sam's Club card and Costco card, additional things that you might be able to get towards some points. And so we want to make sure that in those categories that we've thought about the things that we may have available within our community,
 that we want to make sure that we include on the list. It isn't radically different than what you see in terms of recommendations or requests for some of those IDs that you see other places. So the SAMS card or the Costco card is just an additional proof that
 that I'm stating who I am. Correct. So what this does is a point system, and so we really like the idea of a point system because I think it gives you points for each item that you have. Of course, if you have the first column, which we have listed here as your veteran's ID or your permanent resident card, that's a full three points, and you don't need additional. But if you happen to not have,
 those documents and you can go to column two and take one of those documents and then column three and have a combination of those to get to the number of points needed for identification. So you stated that next week you'll be going to present in front of Commissioner's Court to be a partner on this. Correct. Have you heard or have they communicated to you any changes or differences they want
 that you haven't presented to us they have not so the only conversation that we've had is real support about how we move forward and being a true partner in this we've talked about the costs and expenses and again i put this here as an example because one of the things that i think is going to be important that we didn't do during this process is that i want to make sure that i have community practitioners um come together to make sure i'm really covering this
 military and veteran affairs. We've already talked about rapid rehousing and making sure we have somebody in that space. I would like to make sure for foster care. We talked about people who may have experienced a domestic violence who may not want their address. And so there's some categories that we still wanna make sure that are very inclusive.
 OF THIS DOCUMENT AND THEN WE'LL MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE COMING BACK TO YOU IN ABOUT LATE FEBRUARY OR SO WHICH WILL BE COMING BACK WITH WHAT THE LIBRARY CARD WHAT THE CARD LOOKS LIKE WHAT THE DOCUMENTS LOOK LIKE A CHANGE TO THE FEE SCHEDULE AND WE ALSO HAVE TO COME BACK WITH THE MOU AND SO WE'LL CONTINUE TO GIVE YOU SOME UPDATES THIS ONE I LIKE BECAUSE IT WAS CLEANEST AND IT WAS THE MOST COMPLETE AND THEY HAVE REALLY BEEN VERY ACTIVE IN TERMS OF ENGAGING COMMUNITY AND THE NUMBER OF CARDS THEY'VE ISSUED
 So just for it's clear in my mind you're gonna go next week to commissioners court they potentially will make changes so even if we Approve this and move forward. We're not approving the project until after the February time period It is my understanding that that we would be moving forward today and the city would be moving forward with the project regardless if the county chooses to participate or not and
 But the county came to us asking that we launch this. And so I don't anticipate seeing any changes to this process. Ms. Keller has been very active in discussions and conversations and meetings. My concern is not that they'll participate, but that they'll suggest and make changes.
 I think any suggested changes would be in the MOU and that MOU would come to you all for approval. So there will be nothing, they don't have authority to do it. Okay, so that won't be until February. I just wanna make that very clear. Also, can you touch on the status between the banking, the school districts, UTEP and community college?
 So one of the things that we talked about was an implementation plan. And so one of the things that we'll be doing first is working on concurrently working on finalizing this document, working on the design for the card, but also the hiring of a person who is going to be primary to outreach and in the community.
 Once we have that person in place, I believe we'll have the bandwidth to have someone continuously go out and provide education about this program. I think it'll be more solidified in terms of design, what the card looks like, and then we can make sure that we're having conversations about how do we get school districts and others to continue to sign up. And as you're looking at other cities and municipalities, we're continuing to see services expand.
 And I think one of the things you heard is the key things that are important. We've got those, but we know that there's more conversations and dialogues that need to happen. Thank you, Ms. Mack. Mayor Allen, one more question for the chief, please. You know, he walks slower now that he's officially the chief. Chief, your opinion on the safety of these IDs and how they're going to be used in our community. Former representative from Brooklyn, Mr. –
 I don't have my glasses. Thank you for that. Mentioned that it could enhance the relationship between police and citizens. Are those statements pretty accurate? Peter Pacillas, for the record. So it's all going to be in the design that Ms. Mack talked about. They're going to have to talk about the design so that it doesn't have the potential for
 the ability to be easily counterfeited or forged. So that's going to be worked out in the process. Also, between the relationship with the community and the police department, police officers, you're always trying to identify somebody out there. And sometimes when we're out there in the field and can look at both representatives, you would ask somebody if they didn't have something. You might ask for a school ID card or something like that just so you can get a –
 Foot hold on who you're talking to so this will help if they come to make police reports or things of that nature What it will not do is it does not allow them to drive a vehicle Legally, they still have to get a driver's license for me the state of Texas or the state that they live in Thank You chief. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir Canales
 Thank you, Mayor. I want to express my very strong support for the implementation of the proposed enhanced library card program, as outlined in the feasibility report that city staff worked so hard on. Thank you again. I know it's been a many months long effort, and that was just presented to us by Deputy City Manager, Ms. Mack.
 The initiative, it really holds a huge promise for our community, and I believe it's a big step in the right direction for a more equitable future for El Paso. The essence of the Enhanced Library Card Program is to ensure that all of our residents, regardless of their background or their circumstances, have equal access to all of the civic and economic opportunities that El Paso has to offer.
 As stated in the presentation, it's not an identification for voting. As the Chief just mentioned, it's not a substitute for a driver's license. It won't grant eligibility for government benefits or serve as a proof of legal age for the purchase of alcohol or for tobacco. But it will be a crucial tool for those El Pasoans who find themselves very often unable to fully participate in our society because they don't have a state ID.
 The lack of a government-issued identification can be a real barrier for living a fulfilling life. It can really hinder people's access to fundamental services, like opening a bank account, being admitted to a hospital, picking up prescription drugs, or picking up children from school, among the many, many other things that we heard from speakers, from the public who came up here today to support the program.
 This card, as mentioned, will also allow people to be identified by the police department or the sheriff's office when they need to report a crime, or by a paramedic arriving on the scene of an accident, or by a property manager considering their application for a rental property.
 I think we have a responsibility as a community to reach out to those El Paso ins who are most vulnerable and To ensure that they can fully participate In all of the opportunities that our city provides the enhanced library card isn't just a card it's a testament to our community's commitment to leaving Noel Paso in behind and
 I think that commitment is something that's already embodied by our libraries. Libraries, and I say this all the time, remain as one of the last spaces where one can spend their time and meet new people and have fun with friends, learn new things, and even access formal education, all while not being asked to spend any money.
 So the library system is a true benefit to the public, and I think it's a perfect landing spot for this program for that reason. I'll acknowledge former New York City Council member Menchaca. Thank you for being here today and for showing your support. When I lived in New York City before I moved back home to El Paso, I went through the process of applying for a New York City municipal ID. It's known there as the IDNYC.
 This card came with a lot of additional benefits through various partnerships. Free access to museums, discounted membership at things like fitness centers, and even special offers from stores and supermarkets, including Costco. Even as someone who was fully able to access a state ID in New York, I was able to directly benefit from the IDNYC program.
 I know that our staff is exploring a lot of the additional ancillary benefits of our enhanced library cards and I know that many more will emerge organically once the cards are circulating in the community. The proposed implementation of this program both aligns with and learns from the best practices observed in various communities across the United States who have already implemented this type of program. The city of El Paso has issued library cards for decades.
 to our residents. And as Ms. Mack explained, our library staff already verifies identity and residence when someone signs up for a library card. So this is a small additional step. I think augmentation of our library cards with a photo and with some additional information and security features makes perfect sense. I applaud the team working on this project for arriving at that very elegant implementation solution for us.
 To address Ms. Turner's question about privacy concerns, the library staff member who's issuing the card will review the required identity and residency documents submitted by the applicants and go through a process to properly verify the authenticity of those documents and then return the documents to the applicant.
 upon issuance of the enhanced library card so copies of those documents won't be retained by the city government after the card is issued and I think that's a very Apt way of conducting this where we do have verified Documents, but we don't retain those I urge my colleagues on the council to support this enhanced library card program today
 and really to embrace a vision of El Paso that's more livable and more accessible for all of our residents. The Enhanced Library Card Initiative will really empower El Pasoans and make our city a better place for all of those who call it home, whether they are from here or they choose to be here, because it's a special place. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir.
 representative followed by i think representative nandas thank you permission i hate it twice sorry thank you mayor did you okay thank you um well pretty much everybody everybody has said what i'm about to say but miss mag thank you so much for a great presentation you and your staff go above and beyond always without fail as in your determination to bring back to council something that's that's uh
 Prove that we can we can work together as you know a council and come up with a solution In your case and and my colleagues case you knew where I stood the beginning of this at the very beginning when it was first Introduced your your your your staff has gone above legal Mitchell Gonzalez from the city attorney's office has gone above and beyond to to actually cover all bases as has been said before All your experience I guess
 in the New York area has really brought forth that information to El Paso and El Pasoans alike. I do have some questions though on the program itself. It's strictly being run by the City of El Paso and regardless of what's the outcome of the county's meeting will be, it will be a program under the City of El Paso, correct? Correct, so it's a City of El Paso program because the library system is actually a city department
 And so our thought was that to make sure that we're also serving people who reside in the county because they do have the opportunity now to Apply for and to be issued a library card that the county will be paying that cost and expenses for the enhanced library
 library card and one of the things that we're working on is looking at the issue time. We saw five years as being one of the better time frames versus what we have right now and so we're looking at some of those pieces. The county will be paying the costs and expenses that will be associated with providing that service under our state requirements and so we know our per capita number
 And so I've already had an initial conversation, they'll be paying that per capita amount for every card that's issued. In addition, we also talked about sharing of costs and expenses for the most expensive piece, which is primarily a person.
 as well as mileage that would be associated with that. So the ongoing cost, you pretty much see sort of like a 50-50 split, because the cost is really the person rather than the cards. Okay, and we're assured that even after those of us that are here right now are gone, this will continue to be funded, or how long do you foresee this program to go on? So we're running it as a pilot, and I think we'll, for a year, and I think it's gonna give us a lot more information about the number of cards that are being issued.
 I know that we primarily looked at the total number of people who we thought might need access based on some data that we saw over a three-year period, which was 30,000. But we saw far fewer numbers that were being issued other places. Recall also that the library already issues cards. And so once we no longer have a huge supply and backlog, then we'll utilize some of that already allocated resource to help us to actually purchase a card.
 Just to be clear, the actual card itself costs $1.71. So I don't see the challenge being not having enough cards. Once we make that initial investment of the cameras and those pieces, which are about 4,500 each, it isn't a huge lift for our organization. I think the biggest cost we have right now is about $63,000 for an additional person. We need an outreach person anyway.
 But they'll give us a better sense of whether that's enough and how we move forward And so I really see it as being very embedded into the work of the library and really us being able to be on the Cost of that initial equipment having it be a part of what we do every day because it really is Thank you so much. Thank you for your again. Thank you for everything that you and your staff did as always you came across with flying colors and You know what?
 Well, you'll hear my vote. Thank you. Thank you so much. And I've got a question for Chief Macias, though. You can take your time, sir. And maybe you in participating in this program here, and I forgot to ask Ms. Mack another question, but have you talked to DPS about them? No.
 accepting this as a form of ID so they can get a valid Texas driver's license or Texas ID state well a DPS they have their and it's a statewide program so they have their system on how they mandate or they check somebody's identity so they're gonna use their same system
 that conversation with them, we haven't got that far, if they're gonna accept it as a form of ID for whatever enforcement they're doing or report taking or any of that type of thing. Okay, but it's really, what I'm trying to get at is to also encourage them to get a valid Texas driver's license here, or if they don't drive a valid Texas ID card, both cards will support it, and you and I know that as far as, and representative Molyneux, as far as a police officer is concerned, having two IDs is just as important.
 having one right so so I was wondering if you had met with a DPS any of the DPS administration on that no I haven't I haven't talked to him but they would accept this as an ability for somebody to establish themselves with a Texas ID card or driver's license and and you don't have to be but miss Mac the question I forgot to ask you is are you all encouraging them to move on to how that second ID with the state of Texas once they get their card
 So we're really primarily focusing on people who have not had the ability
 to apply for some of those other forms of ID so that they can utilize this ID locally. I think it certainly provides an opportunity for us to pursue anything the council feels that we should be asking those questions of once we have staff in place to do that. I don't think it's a bad thing to explore those opportunities, and we have Chief Zarur who's on our cross-functional team, and we're taking notes, and I'm also speaking with Mr. Gutierrez. I think a lot of this is gonna be once we have the program developed,
 just really asking the question, setting meetings with people and showing them the documents and showing them the benefits and allowing them to opt out. I think that we do have a huge opportunity for people to utilize this program and document as best practice and for a variety of reasons throughout our state. Okay, again, thank you, thank you so much, both of you, appreciate that. And now for my colleagues, Representative Anelo, Representative Hernandez.
 This shows, I know you guys knew where I stood, and I tell you what, your tenacity and your work with the community and staff has brought up a real program that we can say it's a valid working program. I thank you all for sticking with it, making sure we had the right proper guidelines in place and so forth.
 So that people having these cards or being assigned these cards will have something valid to prove to everybody else and everybody's done their part. So I thank you both. I thank you both for not giving up on this and continuing this. So thank you so much for that. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez, followed by Representative Molina.
 Hi, good morning everyone. Wanted to give a special thank you to our team. I think that was really the missing piece here was to have the dream team behind the efforts of BNHR. And the stars and the moons have finally aligned.
 to create what is going to be so beneficial for generations to come, and I'm so proud of each and one of you. When they said no to you in the 2000s, you continued to persist, you came forward. They said no to you again in 2019, that didn't stop you, you persisted, you came forward.
 and you fought for what you thought was right, and I'm incredibly proud of all of your hard work, the countless hours and meetings, even just planning meetings, Samantha and Betsy, you guys, I mean, you've met a lot with me, so I can imagine how many other key partners you met with. And of course, with the strong leadership from Fernando and all your hard work, thank you for not giving up, and thank you for fighting for what's right.
 You've heard from Council, and I'm sad to see you guys still holding that. I know you all are tired. So we talked about why it benefits families, why it benefits El Pasoans. You heard what it's not. I think we really need to cover that very clearly for the friends of the media.
 What it's not, it's not here on a standalone card to give migrants or mixed status immigrants new rights. And so we just want to be clear that that is not the intention. The intention here is to have all El Pasoans, regardless of your status, to have a clear membership to our community.
 And I'll send a message in Spanish. I'll try my best in Spanish. Nunca dejaste de luchar por lo que es correcto. You never stopped fighting for what is right. Y con esta identificación, juntos somos sin fronteras.
 and together with this ID we can avoid the concerns of borders wars and forever you will have a membership of our community and that is key that we care for you we want you to have generational wealth we want you to be able to get your prescriptions and to care for your children and with this community ID this enhanced library card this was a very eloquent way to
 to address the concerns, the security concerns. That is unfortunately derived from the state that we're in in Texas. But with staff, with all of the support, everyone, you all did such a wonderful job. And this is just the beginning. So now let's have a conversation about how we can make it more inclusive and more accessible to everyone. And then, as you're aware, the city of El Paso, we approved residency fees for municipal services.
 And so now you're able to establish your residency, you're able to get discounted rates so that you can take advantage of our municipal services, you can enter into public facilities, you can go into the public without fear from your government and it'll help with weaving that trust between the public and our law enforcement and public safety. But we didn't get here by ourselves, we got here with your continued fight
 and with your determination, and so we're all very incredibly proud of your hard work. And I only have one question. Where are we going to celebrate? Congratulations. Thank you. I can answer that question in four different places. But anyways, good morning. Thank you very much. Thank you for all of you who came here to give your voice to this event.
 item here Different at all skistanaki in frente de nosotros so apoyo equipo que es eso de la ciudad talk a Ciaran what bastante sanyo's Mac I do have a few questions for you
 I know you mentioned veterans, but this would be issued like to a repatriated veteran that has been deported to another foreign country and they fight to come back to the United States after having served in the military defending our country. So with that, they become eligible for that as well. As long as you can provide the documents that are requested.
 then that's the key piece. I have been in conversations with Mr. Albright, and he's traveling today, sir, so I apologize that he's not here, but he is in my portfolio, to talk about the various ways that we can ensure that people could, we can help them to get the documents if they're missing the documents, because sometimes that's the case. You don't know how to apply for things that you're eligible for, how to replace documents that may be missing.
 And so we've talked about some of those pieces. And so I think that we will find a variety of ways to make sure that it's available, including the one that you just gave us. Okay, and also do you have a starting age
 that someone is being able to apply for this? We are choosing 18 for the pilot. We do see that some municipalities do have a younger demographic. We think that that helps us to be more manageable and very focused.
 on folks who may be without and working in those situations right now. Beyond the pilot, I would like to introduce that we are starting to have additional ages included with that. One of the things that we identified as we're relaunching our volunteer program is that sometimes we have young people who are coming to work and their school ID don't have an address on it.
 And so how do we ensure that we can provide that? But right now we're starting at 18 to make sure it's manageable for us. All right, thank you, ma'am. If we could have Chief Macias point to the mic, please. By the way, Chief, he's the last one on here, so you'll be okay. Quickly, no. Thank you very much, Chief. Appreciate everything this gentleman and I go way back. But anyways,
 Training for our police officers. Of course, that's always it's always ongoing and you have a Land in effect now to or will soon be
 have a plan in effect to have training for our officers? Yes, so once this is established and the ID card, the format, things of that nature, yes, we can do that, and we can do it relatively quickly, either through training bulletins or roll call training, both ways. Okay, thank you very much. That's all I have for right now. And for those of you holding signs a little bit higher, please. Thank you. I want to, again, thank...
 Ms. Neiman and your team, city manager, Colonel Weston and your team, and Mr. Garcia and your team, this didn't start in 18 or 19. I think Mr. Garcia will remember probably somewhere around 2013. And we kept trying to do the same thing, and we kept getting the same answer.
 So, and we weren't working together and we didn't unite as one with the community and the city. And that's what it needed to be. You can't continue to always go the same direction and expect a different answer. And that's what we were doing for a long time. I think Mr. Garcia, you were here. I know you've been in front of us numerous times and Ms. Mack and the rest of the team
 you were thinking outside the box. How can we do this? How can we make something that we know it's been turned down, we know that it wasn't going to work,
 How do we make it where it will work? How do we do something different and then look around? And I think we looked at other areas. We don't want to be like anyone else, but we don't want to make the same mistakes someone else made. So that was really important that we looked around and saw all the areas, what they did, what we liked, what we didn't like about it, but also bring it back as –
 how it fits our community, how it benefits our community, and to get police involved. I remember back in 13, we didn't have that involvement. And now we have all department involvements and we've all learned.
 you know, we talk about COVID, we talk about things that, we learned that if we all spoke with one voice and we acted in the same and went the same direction, we would succeed. And I think this is no different. So congratulations to the city team and numerous, and this council, because this council was very resilient and making sure, and I know Ms. Nello, Mayor Pro Tem, he got teary eyed because you saw the success of the hard work. And so,
 Mr. Garcia and your team, you didn't give up. And I know it wasn't pretty easy to give up because at one time you brought how many signatures? 20,000? Yeah, I remember that. Yeah. Yeah, Ms. Pryne's still counting them, by the way. But because we understood we were going the wrong direction and we changed it. So thank you again for...
 continuing to advocate but continuing to adjust and adapt as we did as a city and now as a community. And right up, you know, when we get elected, our number one priority is public safety and public safety for all. And I think this is a perfect vote, as you'll see, that this council is prepared to make sure that we protect every citizen in the community of El Paso. So thank you all and thank you for working hard. Thank you.
 We have a motion and two seconds, remember? Yes, sir. Commissioner Stout is not able to be here today, but he also sends his support, and I'll share his statement with council. There is a motion made by Mayor Potemanelo, seconded by Representative Hernandez, to approve item number 36 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, may we move on to the next item? Thank you. Thank you.
 The next item is number 23, and this is discussion in action, that the City Council declares that the expenditure of District 7 discretionary funds in an amount not to exceed $1,000 to books or gems for use towards the purchase of books and serves a municipal purpose of providing educational and cultural activities to the residents of the City of El Paso. This is Representative Rivera's item.
 If you can please take the discussions out to the foyer. Can we go out to the foyer please? Thank you, Mayor. This item has, you know, I put it on the agenda before and it's been approved. It's for purchase of books for our children in the areas where they're needed most. And so I would ask my council to please support me again on this as Books for Gyms is really a fun and nice program to have for,
 for our children of all ages. Second. Second. Hold on, I'm gonna make the motion, it's my motion. Wait a moment here. So therefore I make the motion to approve. Second. Thank you. Mayor, we do have public comment on this item. We have Ms. Turner that signed up to speak. Good morning, Ms. Turner, you have three minutes. Again, good morning, Mayor, Council. My apologies, Representative Rivera. I couldn't hear a word you said.
 because of the background noise. It is a very worthy program, and I believe you were here the first time it was passed as well. And it buys books for much needed population down in one of the areas that I represent.
 My question is, what are the rules for this, for use of discretionary funds? There's plenty of them. Pick them. Huh? There's plenty of them that change. Pick them. For me, there's that extra mark. No, no, no, I'm serious. What are the rules that you go by? I'm not picking on you. It just so happened to come up.
 This is for public use well that's for sure one of them and that's this is what this is for Do you have something that's written down mayor if I can can I address? Miss Turner's questions This is a process that we've done historically out of the city attorney's office most recently council approved an amendment to the budget resolution And you can see I don't know the specific Paragraph, but we can provide that to you
 What happens is that the council members ask for permission to use their discretionary funds, and we have to show that it meets a municipal purpose, that the city will have the ability to control that the money is used as stated. We document it, and then we show that the city receives something in exchange for the benefit. So it also, that is what we call meeting a municipal purpose, or the public purpose involved in the use of those funds. And that's primarily what all of our funds process go through.
 So is there a requirement like nonprofit status or what or anything like that? It doesn't necessarily have to be a nonprofit status, but historically members of council have used their discretionary funds to use nonprofit organizations who receive the use of these funds and traditionally we use it when there's a government program that is already funding portions of it. You see it a lot in parks and
 And they are non-profit or dimension human. They are yeah. Yes, sir So we can certainly provide additional information in the backup But as a result of the change in the truck in the ordinance in the resolution this past budget We are doing this process method every time. Okay. I just needed to know and understand. Thank you There's also contracts that are involved in in these Thank you
 Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Turner, I just wanted to point out to you, the full language of the agreement is posted with the backup. It's a full 11-page contract that outlines the— You gave me everything I needed. Okay, perfect. Just in case you'd like to see it there, it has their insurance requirements and indemnification and everything about the agreement. Don't read it to us. I won't today. Ms. Prine, there's a motion and a second. Okay.
 Yes, Mayor, we also received a comment for the record by Emma Acosta, and it says, I'm writing to convey my heartfelt support for the proposal to allocate District 7 discretionary funds not exceeding $1,000 to Books Are Gems, an organization that is deeply committed to nurturing the educational and cultural development of the young residents of El Paso. As the Executive Director of Books Are Gems, I want to express my sincere gratitude to
 for considering this initiative which aligns with the city's goals to enhance literacy and foster a love for reading among our children. Books Are Gems has consistently demonstrated its dedication to enriching the lives of our youth by providing access to quality literature and fostering a love for reading. Our programs and community engagement initiatives offer a myriad of benefits that extend well beyond the pages of the books themselves. It is critical to recognize the numerous advantages
 that this $1,000 donation will bring to our community. Number one, improve literacy. Bookstore Gems has a proven track record of enhancing literacy rates among young readers. Our efforts are not only to promote better reading skills, but also encourage a lifelong love of learning. Number two, educational enrichment. Research has shown that children
 who own at least 20 books tend to perform better in school and are more likely to graduate high school and are inclined to pursue higher education. By providing books to children, we're not only enhancing their educational opportunities, but also increasing their chances of success in school and beyond. Number three, community building. Books are gems.
 Serves as a hub for community fostering a sense of belonging and pride among El Paso residents. This donation strengthens the sense of community and reinforces the city's commitment to its residents.
 Number four, cultural appreciation. By offering diverse books and cultural materials, Books Are Gems encourages cultural appreciation and understanding among our youth, contributing to a more inclusive and diverse community. Number five, future leaders. By investing in our children's literacy and education development, we are nurturing the future leaders of El Paso. The benefits of this initiative will be felt for generations to come. Unfortunately, due to
 a compelling personal matter, I'm unable to attend city council meeting to present this proposal in person and it goes on and I'll be happy to share this with council. Thank you. Thank you. With that, there's a motion from Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Canales, to approve item number 23. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Anello-Canales not present.
 That brings us to items 25 to 33. These are the first reading of ordinances. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve the introduction of ordinances, items 25 to 33. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Zanello-Hernandez-Canales not present. That brings us to item number 34. Item 34...
 is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the issuance of City of El Paso, Texas, water and sewer revenue bonds, Series 2023A, in the aggregate principal amount of $8.6 million to the Texas Water Development Board to finance certain wastewater system improvements and resolving matters which are necessary to affect such issuance. And we do have public comment on this item, Mayor? Yes, sir. What kind of debt are we issuing? Commercial paper or...
 good morning council uh renee leone uh with el paso water uh their water and sewer revenue bonds 2023 and just exactly what were you going to spend the money on uh the funding is uh going to be used for first time wastewater service in the montana vista area and the bonds are issued through the texas water development board at a low rate too yes sir at a very low rate that's the benefit of this program is a twdb so what is that right i know it's real low
 I'm sorry what was the rate I know I believe it was three point six thank you that we have a motion in a second yes mayor the motion was made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Molina to approve item 34 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representatives on a low Hernández canal is not present the next item on the agenda is number 37
 item 37 is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to execute a chapter 380 economic development agreement between the city of el paso and desert pass townhouse llc good afternoon elizabeth triggs with economic and international development we do have public comment on this item mr turner yes sir miss turner okay yeah again i would like to uh express my displeasure about using tax money
 and you not knowing if these people are employing any female workers. This was the $12 million project, construction, and again I'm relying on Workforce Solutions, Borderplex numbers. There aren't any women in construction, and nobody's making an effort to get any in construction. And I'm tired of seeing my money benefit only one gender and women being excluded from decent paying jobs. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner.
 We got a motion and a second? Yes, Mayor. The motion was made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve Item 37. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Zanello, Hernandez, Canales not present. That brings us to Item 38. Before we go there, Representative Molinar wants to reconsider Item 22. He just wants to add something to it. Yes, sir.
 Right. Can you make the motion to reconsider item 22? Yeah, there you go. Yes. There's a motion and a second to reconsider item 22. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The motion passes. Item 22 is a notation of the P-card transactions for the period of August 21st to September 20th, 2023 for Mayor, City Council, Representatives, and staff. Representative Maldonado?
 Thank you very much mayor. Ms. Bryan. Thank you very much for your consideration on this item. So, um yesterday during the agenda review I did ask a few questions as far as how many p cars are currently inactive in for the city of el paso Mr. Cortina's did mention there was 434 And we all received the the spreadsheet. So that's good however recent events this year 2023 have
 Changed many things for the city of El Paso and operations. We no longer get served lunch by the city of El Paso Taxparadigm and that I'm and I accept that our city fuel cards have been removed or taken the program has been suspended Thank you very much. Mr. Colonel Weston. I have not a problem with that either but we do have it or we had a situation where I
 we were in the limelight in a negative way reference to p cards and how much money was being expended and we had certain departments that were expending over a half a million dollars that's taxpayers money and we can go back and try and figure it out but i say we can't undo the past but we can move forward and so now there is an item where we are putting on a monthly basis the p card expenses for our us as the
 City representatives the mayor's office and I accept that as well However, I'd like to make a motion today to have both the city attorney's office and the city manager's office added to the Every time we post this on the agenda and also post it onto the website I don't believe this item was posted for action council. I
 It was posted for notation only. It's not. It's for notation only. Yes. So we can bring that back. So I would recommend that it be posted on the future agenda. Next time they bring it back, they'll have that on there. Thank you. All right. Thank you. So let's approve the item. We have a motion to approve the item.
 As it is. Oh, there's no action. No action. So why did we have it on consent? It's on the consent agenda, and you approved, you noted for the record. No, but then we voted on it then. It's only, Mayor, it's listed on the agenda for notation only. For notation only under consent agenda. Right, it's on the consent agenda for notation only. So we did vote on it. Right, that you noted that you received the information that you requested.
 We shouldn't have voted on it, is what I'm saying. Yeah, so we shouldn't have reconsidered it. We shouldn't have voted on it, and it's for notation only, so maybe next time we'll put it in a different spot so we don't vote on it. It's always included with the consent agenda along with other notations, such as campaign contributions. I get that, but we voted on consent agenda to approve as submitted, which means we voted on this item. Yes, sir. So we shouldn't have voted on it. So we need to vote on it. We just voted to approve the notation. Right, so it's notation only. So we shouldn't have voted on it anyway.
 Okay, so we'll just move forward to item 38. What do we need to vote on in this? Because it's notation only so so mayor you vote to accept everything that's on the consent agenda It's the same thing that happens when you post the items for a notation from Fowlack So it's simply that you're recognizing that you've received the information. So do we need to take a separate vote now? No No
 But we open, yeah, we just reconsidered it. Right, but the reconsideration was to have Mr. Moulinard state that he had received the information he asked for yesterday. There's no action required. Right, exactly. That's what I was trying to say. Thank you. Next item, 38. Yes, sir. Item number 38. Item 38 is discussion and action on the school zone safety strategy. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Joaquin Rodriguez with the Capital Improvement Department. Yes.
 IT, can you bring up the presentation for item 38, please? IT, this is a presentation for item 38, please. Okay, thank you, IT. You can go to the next slide, IT.
 Council good morning Joaquin Rodriguez with CID this item is a response to your action taken on September 12th in regards to school zone safety In addition this item really ties in closely to the recently adopted vision zero action plan, which you all adopted in June of 2023 there were a number of strategies and recommendations from the vision zero action plan that specifically addressed a
 school zone safety and the Safe Routes to School program. So this is a presentation of our recommended strategy moving forward to address these concerns. Next slide please.
 In response to that action item and in response to what we'd like to achieve with school zone safety, there's really a few things that we want to focus on. The first of which is understanding our existing conditions. So that's going to consist of working closely with Streets and Maintenance Department in creating an inventory of missing or outdated infrastructure and also identifying outdated ordinances where there's room for improvement and room for streamlining our internal processes.
 There's also a lot of ongoing maintenance that's currently happening, which we can expand and rethink to make sure that we're using our resources as efficiently as possible. One thing that we've been working on in the capital improvement department, which we'll touch on later in this presentation, is really creating a data-driven prioritization to ensure that we're focusing our resources and future investments on schools that, based on the
 Crash data and a number of other factors are what we would identify as high-risk schools. Some of the things that we're looking at are mobility data, census data related to vehicle availability, and of course crash frequency from the state crash database.
 In addition, what we're proposing as part of this strategy is to adopt a formal Safe Routes to School action plan. We feel we can develop that plan internally using staff and CID. And additionally, we'd like to focus that engagement effort not on not on a sort of resource driven engagement effort from our staff, but on leveraging the resources of the Mobility Advisor Committee and the Vision Zero Task Force to accomplish that. Next slide, please.
 So this is just a snapshot of the Vision Zero action plan to reinforce that there are a number of strategies and recommendations adopted in that plan that we feel would really help us respond to the action item from September 12th, but also just address school zone safety in a more holistic manner. Next slide, please. So I'll pass it over now to Randy Garcia from our Streets and Maintenance team to talk to you about some of our ongoing efforts.
 Good morning council mayor Randy Garcia streets maintenance department. This slide illustrates a project that we completed in partnership with the American Heart Association El Paso Independent School District and the mobility advisory committees. So the streets went out there and built out these curb extensions we designed them in-house while he was able to get these partners together to really engage the community and let them know what safe routes to school is going to be like. Once it was completed you could see the results there. Next slide please.
 so another quick build that we did is streets of maintenance here as part of our maintenance program was um installing what is the first rapid flashing beacon it's a pedestrian crossing to enhance the the pedestrians in the right-of-way um this is a new technology textile recommended it's part of the new traffic control devices that are being pushed out there and they're being asked to um to bring out to the community so they can be aware of what's out there
 So this is just a new build that El Paso High and you'll see more of these going forward as we work with the with the school districts. Next slide please. This slide illustrates points that align the Safe Houses School Program and our school zone safety strategy with the Department of Transportation American Heart Association Plan El Paso and of course Vision Zero. This promotes improved public health for the kids walking to school and be more active and it reduces car dependency dependency and traffic around the school zones. Next slide please.
 This slide illustrates our high injury network that was brought up through Vision Zero as Joaquin said earlier. The points are actually schools that surround the high injury network, so that's where we want to put our initial focus on. This is going to be a very data-driven process and program we would go through as we develop the strategy. So we just want to really illustrate that we are using data to come up with these ideas and the strategy that we'll present going forward. And next, Anizet from CID will take the floor.
 Good morning. Anna Mesa-Zent. I'm with the capital improvement department. If we could go to the next slide please. So the content of the action plan is going to be formalized through a focused public outreach but we have identified some major concepts that we would like to include in the plan. The first one is going to be an inventory and analysis of the existing conditions of the infrastructure in the existing school zones.
 The other thing is a equity based prioritization outline and this will be a prioritization list that is data driven and equity based where we identify schools that have higher volumes of walking and biking to school.
 lower socioeconomic status and higher concentrations of collisions with severe injury type. So in this context we will measure socioeconomic status by identifying median household incomes within these schools as well as their accessibility to vehicles within their households.
 And in this context also as we evaluate crash data we're going to weigh all of the collisions that are occurring in these school zone areas by perceived injury type meaning that killed or seriously injured collisions are going to be weighed higher than lower injury collisions in the school zones.
 So another major element that we're intending to incorporate is a solutions and strategies, which will identify the ways that we are going to achieve our goals in this plan. And that goes hand in hand with a decision making matrix, which will identify what solutions and strategies are appropriate in what context.
 We will also identify relevant state legislation and policies that pertain that are existing that pertain to the document as well as recommendations for future legislation and policies. And then lastly, an implementation matrix which will clearly guide and identify who is responsible for what action items and what timeline is appropriate for which action items. Next slide please.
 So the goals that will be incorporated in the document are going to be guided by focused outreach. However, we are proposing four goals that we would like to see actualized for the plan. The first one is to create a safe, connected, comfortable infrastructure network for children to walk and bike themselves to school.
 The second goal that we would like to achieve with the data driven equity prioritization analysis is to prioritize areas that are at risk, underrepresented and highly utilized. And the last two goals are to provide a clear and implementable pathway for future improvements and to effectively reduce vehicle speeds and improve safety through design and enforcement.
 So we have identified four major phases for this action plan. The first phase will be focused outreach that will occur with the Complete Streets Mobility Advisory Committee as well as the Vision Zero Task Force.
 Complete streets policy as well as the vision zero policy have overlapping goals and overlapping methodology with what we are proposing for the safe routes plan and we would like to leverage the background knowledge and existing expertise that the members of those organizations already have that understanding with and
 We would also like to leverage their existing partnerships. Many of them belong to our institutional partners that we will be likely expecting to incorporate in the implementation matrix and that we will utilize during implementation.
 So we will utilize the input received during that initial outreach phase to create a public draft and then we will present the public draft to these focused outreach groups as well as the city council to receive input to incorporate into the final draft which we will present then for plan adoption and then the final phase after plan adoption will be implementation which we will use the implementation matrix and our relevant stakeholders and partners to complete and execute.
 Next slide please. So our next steps in the short term we really want to look at updating our current school zone.
 traffic installation inventory so looking at again missing missing or deficient schools on installations retrofitting anything that's missing or deficient and enhancing in first for site the third bullet there's really just to show that enhanced infrastructure I'm like ranch Randy mentioned the RFP's in the curb extensions that's really gonna require school district funding for us to execute then moving forward we want to continue to support those quick build and demonstration projects with willing partners
 We're going to continue to expand that outreach through the Mobility Advisory Committee and the Vision Zero Task Force. What we really would like action for today is to move forward with developing the formal Safe Routes to School Action Plan. Again we would be doing that internally so no.
 no funding aside from just our staff time would be required to complete that and then just as another note here another piece of this strategy working with MPO funds we are in the middle of an upgrade to the city's traffic management center we're really going to be looking at deploying and implementing intelligent traffic system updates to our entire network
 So again the action we're looking for today is for direction to move forward with the development of the formal safe routes to school Action plan and happy to take any questions you all might have for us. Yes, mayor There's a motion made by representative Piero seconded by representative Molina to approve on that motion call for the vote
 Really quick, Mayor. Joaquin, just what is your timeline? Representative, go ahead. Sorry. I'm sorry. I forgot that I had this question. What is your timeline on the things in the last slide? We think we can get the action plan adopted and drafted within six to eight months. Okay, great. And then we would, again, we would be moving forward with a lot of the things like creating that inventory of missing or deficient infrastructure. That's ongoing. Yeah. So that's going to be happening during the development of the plan. It's not like we're going to wait six months before we start anything.
 great and here are you working with the committee that you all have set up so we we haven't started doing that yet once we have this action to move forward with the development of the action plan we'll start to have some targeted meetings with the mobility advisory committee and division zero task force specific to this safe routes to school plan great thanks appreciate it you're done thank you very much thank you sir the only questions I have so I
 Slide 12 is your whole motion indeed or just to continue support bullet number two Yeah, so the action that we need is really the second to last bullet develop a formal safe routes to school action plan The other items are things that we're already working on as part of our day-to-day operations Both within CID and streets and maintenance. All right. Thank you for clarifying that. Thank you mayor. Thank you, sir The voting session is open
 in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously mayor may we move to call to the public please thank you
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity Which are not pertinent to city business nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda However council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda this afternoon We have seven members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Elizabeth Crawford and
 Her topic is Seeing a Little Louder, Holocaust Survivor Testimony. I don't see Ms. Crawford coming forward. Oh, she's in. Go ahead, Ms. Crawford. Star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Yes.
 Yes, good afternoon. Thank you so much. Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford. Good afternoon. Shortly after I began sidewalk counseling at a very large abortion mill in New Jersey, I was handed a pamphlet.
 that's entitled Sing a Little Louder. The lady who wrote it is Penny Leah. That's going to be read later by Gray Fetouche. It's a very powerful write-up. It's about a man who had lived through the Holocaust in Germany who considered himself a Christian, and yet he and the others in his little church and many other little churches did nothing about what was being done in the Holocaust.
 The article draws parallels to the situation with abortion. In the United States, the article will be read a little later by Gray Fetouche. Saying a little louder is the name of it. Some of you want to look it up later also. We're told in God's word that Satan is the enemy of our souls. And we do not...
 against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. We're also told that the God of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not, but by the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, through the image of God, she shines unto them.
 So you know all about deception, but Jesus Christ is the light of the world. The word Holocaust by definition means burning. In recent months on the East Coast, one of the largest medical waste companies was fined almost $2 million for improper handling of medical waste.
 But the story behind the story is that within that medical waste are the bodies of unborn babies who were aborted, not according to regulation, I guess, by the waste rules being used for energy. It's absolutely barbaric. What have we come to in our nation? Thank you.
 The scriptures say that the thief comes only to steal and to kill and to destroy, but Jesus said, I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly. Thank you so much. Hope you have a good afternoon. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Gray Fetouch. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. The topic is abortion holocaust. Thank you very much for listening to this very touching story. Sing a little louder by Penny Leah, a pro-life speaker.
 Several years ago, I was ministering at a church in upstate New York, and I spotted an elderly gentleman standing at the front of the church. I caught his eye, and my heart broke. I had no idea what his story was, but his face was etched with pain. I knew that he had something I had to hear. His old hand took mine, and he began to speak. He said, I was a young man living in Germany during the Holocaust. I considered myself a Christian. I attended a little church with my family from the time I was a small boy.
 We all heard about the atrocities that were happening not far from us in Auschwitz, but it was too difficult to comprehend. What could we do anyway? There was a train track behind the church, so we were familiar with the sound of the whistle and clacking of the wheels, but one morning we heard noise coming from the train. It was the sound of wailing and moaning. We were shocked when we realized that there were people in those boxcars. They were being led away to their deaths.
 The dear old man began to weep. I stood there in shock as tears rolled down my face. He continued, week after week the train whistled blue and we heard the sound of those poor Jews crying out. It was so disturbing that we devised a plan. We moved up our song service so that when the train passed by, we would be singing loudly. We sang as loud as we could to drown out their cries. If we could still hear them, we would just sing louder.
 Years have passed since then and no one talks about it much anymore, but I can still hear the sound of that train whistle in my sleep. I can still hear them crying out for help. God forgive me. Tonight I came here and I heard your cry, he continued. You wept over the millions of babies who have died right here in America, and it's happening all over again.
 GOD SAYS IN 2 CHRONICLES 7 14 IF MY PEOPLE WHO ARE CALLED BY MY NAME SHALL HUMBLE THEMSELVES AND PRAY AND SEEK MY FACE AND TURN FROM THEIR WICKED WAY I WILL HEAR FROM HEAVEN AND WILL FORGIVE THEIR SIN AND WILL HEAL THEIR LAND. THANK YOU ALL FOR LISTENING. THANK YOU. THE NEXT SPEAKER IS STEVEN STRUMMER. MR. STRUMMER'S TOPIC IS TREES FOR DOWNTOWN. HE'S COMING UP. GOOD AFTERNOON, MR. STRUMMER. GOOD AFTERNOON, SIR. IT'S A POEM.
 What would life be without trees? Life isn't pleasant without trees. Come here to find out, in the summer you'd sweat it out. What would life be without trees? Life isn't pleasant without trees. I know I've lived here without these. Run to the shade if there is any shade. Life isn't pleasant without trees.
 Dear Council, life is tough without trees. In our border outside, think of these. They add to our life a canopy of life. Dear Council, life is tough without trees. I look at our desert, the desert far land, in Israel of Haifa by the sea. They add to the shade a pure desert glade. I look at Haifa near the sea.
 I pray we look at the trees. I know you are busy as bees. They make us content. No, I haven't invent. To counsel, I pray, behold trees. I weep at a life without trees. It's hard to sleep at night without trees. I sure miss the sound of trees ever found. I weep at a life without trees. Life is poor of heart without trees. I weep at a life without trees.
 It's hard to sleep at night without these. The burn of my face as tears strut down my entrance. Life is poor, ever poor without trees. We are the most treeless downtown ever found. Without trees so scarce, hardly found. Could there be, ever be, more trees here, my plea? Oh Lord, dear Lord,
 I have a list of 13 places that will send us trees if we ask them if you want to read it. Thank you very much for hearing me, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Strummer. The next speaker is Ron Como. Mr. Como's topic is Animal Services Advisory Committee and Animal Services. Mr. Como, star six, please to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 I'd like to apologize for not actually being there in person for a change. I wasn't able to. Little concerned that Ms. Walley hasn't been here in a couple of meetings. I hope everything's okay with her. I'd like to revisit some of the things that we discussed at the last City Council meeting. The pretty little black pup that nobody took care of his five freedoms or worried about how he's being treated humanely.
 I want to bring to your attention the fact that the dog was taken into the shelter after being hit by a car. And when a rescue questioned the man in charge what the situation was going to be as far as vet care, and she was informed it would be probably the first of the week before anybody saw the dog, she offered to take the dog so she could get it to a vet. At that point, conversations went dead. After a period of time, she contacted me with the screenshots asking me if I could check on it.
 I also asked the person in charge what the status was and what was going on with the dog and never received any information. A couple days later, we find out the dog either died or was euthanized, but we don't really know for sure. I'd like to know why, as a rescue, this dog was not turned over to a rescue so we could get it immediately to a vet. Sorry, I'm going blank again. As far as ASAC goes,
 We had conversations about term limits. Our city rep at the ASAC committee read city policies and procedures on term limits and they stated that no one could be on the ASAC committee for more than, or serve more than two term limits, two terms, I'm sorry. At that point, they were at their term limit and they would have to be off for four years. Not abiding by those rules still,
 even though it was brought up at a previous meeting and as far as i know the the one that doesn't hasn't put anybody on still has it i request that we do that the other thing i'd like to bring up is we keep being told we're on the no kill equation the no kill equation is everybody knows that anything to do with uh no kill information was written by nathan winograd
 Nathan Winogrand was questioned on whether El Paso was using his no-kill equation. His response was, I have no clue what El Paso is running on. That's got to give you a clue that the man that wrote the no-kill equation is not seeing his plan implemented or being used in the city of El Paso.
 I think it's time we address that concern and want an answer on what we're really following. And then we need to ask when and where and what month and what city council meeting that these plans that we've been running since, what, April of 2020 have never gone through city council. Thank you, Mr. Pomer. Thank you, sir. You've reached the three-minute limit. The next speaker.
 is Barbara Valencia. Topic is Animal Services, the implosion of this department. She will be followed by Mark Piero and Lisa Turner. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am. Good afternoon. 151,808. It's not just a number.
 Standing utterly by while watching the collapse of animal services, the city's department that oversees the lives of living, breathing, feeling companion animals is inexcusable and unacceptable. The animals I will be showing you are the animals that are in animal services foster care program. Animal services put these animals back out into the community with no follow up being done. Basically abandoning them within the community.
 This puppy came into the program two years ago. As of today, she is out in the community and not spayed. This little kitten, she too, came into the program two years ago, she has not been spayed. This little puppy, he came into the program with the city two and a half years ago. He has yet to be neutered, but he is out in the community. This little kitten has been in the program for a year and a half, she has not been spayed yet.
 This puppy came into the program with the city two years ago. Out in the community, she has not been spayed yet in two years. This kitten, same thing. Two years, not neutered. And this puppy, he's been out there for two and a half years in the community. He has never been neutered. This goes on and on and on.
 There are over 2,000 of these out in the community. What has happened to these innocent animals? Their responsibility, the responsibility for these animals lies with the city. You are responsible for these animals. For three and a half years, we have watched animal services go from a fully functioning municipal shelter to a department that has a lack of any compassion and care for the animals in our community. Abandoning these animals and their responsibilities to these animals
 and a department that has been absolutely with no oversight or accountability. You have been witnessing the implosion of this department and your solution is to buy an old school while a larger shelter is absolutely needed. It does no good if you allow the collapse of this department to continue. City officials are protecting incompetent management at the expense of the animals community members
 and taxpayers. Until you address and fix the internal issues within animal services, no matter, it doesn't matter how many schools you buy and convert into shelters. $151,808 is what the taxpayers are paying the director of animal services, a person who is obviously unqualified for this position
 As a taxpayer, community member, and local rescue, I stand before you to present a vote of no confidence for the current Director of Animal Services. Thank you Ms. Valencia. You've reached a point of comment. It's time to bring in a competent director to pop- The next speaker is Mark Fierro. Mark Fierro's topic is Animal Services. Can you hear me cry at night? Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 I read directly from Animal Services website where it stated on at least two different portions of the website that this is an open admission shelter. Animal Services Management has since taken those words off the website. This blatant attempt at concealing and misleading the taxpayers of El Paso has not gone unnoticed. Removing that statement does not absolve Animal Services nor the City of York fiduciary duties and responsibilities to the taxpayers.
 Courts across the country have ruled against cities and their municipal shelters for closing shelter intake as violations against the taxpayers and fraud in the rulings it states open admission shelters are operated by Municipalities and are paid for by tax dollars They are to admit every stray animal in their jurisdiction regardless of health age Breed or temperament. Can you hear them crying? I
 They're out there. Managed admission shelters that are municipalities and are paid for by tax dollars must maintain open admission policies to admit every stray animal in their jurisdiction regardless of health, age, breed, or temperament. Can you hear them crying? They're out there. Limited admission shelters may accept animals based on self-defined criteria and are to be privately funded, not publicly funded.
 No tax dollars can be used for these privately funded shelters and rescues. So I just want you to think, just for a moment, about the animals that we see in our community. The young dogs, the older dogs, the little kittens, and the larger cats. Some are strays, some are lost, some grew up on the street. They have no other life now. We've left them there for over three and a half years.
 Why has it come to this? Where's our leadership? Can you hear those animals crying at night? There's a young cat, a little kitten, a little puppy, somewhere looking for its mom. Where is she? She's on the street. She's laying there. They're wondering, why aren't you kissing me and hugging me? Why aren't you licking me and cleaning me? Why aren't you feeding me? Mom's dead. Can you hear me crying at night? They're out there. You don't have to look hard to find them.
 and the final speaker is lisa turner ms turner's topic is disrespect of board member commission members good afternoon miss turner good afternoon good afternoon mayor of council i'm the mayor's appointee to the women's rights commission and i take this position and responsibility seriously one of the things i'm trying to get through is paid maternity leave yes it is revolutionary for the state of texas but everywhere everywhere else in the country it's not
 I want to point out to you that the Texas Maternity Mortality Report noted that 90%, 90% of all maternal deaths in 2019 were preventable. 90% of those women could be alive today, but they're not. If you're a black woman, you're 5.85 times more likely to die in childbirth than if you are a police officer on the streets.
 It is dangerous to give birth. Whether you're black, Hispanic, white, Native American, Alaskan native, you're at a minimum twice as likely to die than a police officer on the street. I'm getting gaslighted from staff. Staff is also doing their best to mislead. I don't know who's behind this, but it's objectionable. I object. I object.
 Schneider Electric offers 20 weeks of paid maternity leave. Amazon Warehouse Jobs, we just got a warehouse out there. They'll pay up to $20 an hour. They have 20 weeks paid maternity leave. There are companies that have 52 weeks paid maternity leave. We have squat. The American Psychological Association states that it's an urgent necessity for women to have paid maternity leave.
 maternity leave it cuts down on interpersonal violence postpartum depression it cuts down on that it's a 51 percent decrease in hospital readmissions it will save the city money it will increase morale it will lower absenteeism and you will be in competition for other women who want to work here why would you want to work for the city when i can get 20 an hour at amazon if
 and 20 weeks of paid maternity leave why would i want to come here it's an economic benefit not asking for a whole lot four weeks prenatal 12 weeks after paid time off to take the child to get their checkups prenatal and the year following birth it's not a whole lot of money thank you you owe it to the women mayor that concludes call to the public this afternoon thank you
 We'll go to item 39. Yes, sir. And then 40. Yes, sir. And then we'll take lunch recess. Thank you, sir. Item 39 is discussion in action to approve an amendment to the appropriation of $3 million for the implementation of high-speed internet throughout the city of El Paso from the coronavirus state and local fiscal recovery funds. Representative Pirro.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I have questions in regards to this issue. What I received yesterday didn't go into detail or answer the questions that I had. Specifically, do you want me to ask them now? Okay. Specifically, what's the difference between what you're recommending now and what the original plan was? I may not. Yeah. Yeah.
 Good afternoon, Joel Martinez with the IT department. The difference between what we originally recommended and what we're recommending now is the method of implementation of the services.
 The services originally called for direct access to internet at the household level. Through our findings and through discovery and looking at how this would be best accomplished, we identified that it would be better suited if we provided the services through our digital El Paso network because it also presents an opportunity for us to provide that internet access
 to some of the facilities that we're currently standing up throughout the city. So, for example, Eastside Regional Command Center, Eastside Sports Complex. So because we have the services going out there, we're able to broadcast our broadband network. So is this going to eliminate the opportunity for it going directly to the homes?
 It will eliminate it through this specific fund. However, there are federal programs such as the BEAD program, which is an incentive program for anybody that qualifies for WIC or SNAP. They today can qualify for these $30 a month incentives for them to participate.
 I guess, subscribe to internet through any service provider that's available in their area. So there are federal funds that are available to accommodate for this need as well. Mayor, I don't know. I don't...
 I don't understand why we're not focusing more on servicing the households where single parents have children that need to access the Internet. They're not having access to it. I'd like to make a motion to postpone this to the next meeting so that we can get more – so I can get more information. And, again, I didn't – the information I received yesterday didn't answer any of my questions. This will allow us –
 This will allow me a couple weeks to be able to get my questions answered the ongoing cost is also a concern of us in order to fully implement a project like this if we were to Use the the funds to allocate as we originally intended Funding would not last beyond that one and a half and two year mark And so we we but essentially at that point be presented with the same issue we have today have a motion
 I really thank Representative Fierro for bringing that up. I think that this council was told in May that we were going to go and address the connectivity issue at the home.
 I think if we have decided that that's not the way, it needs to be presented to me, and I mentioned this yesterday, and how this is benefiting the community. I know we had a presentation in which you said the digital El Paso footprint, and I'm so proud of myself for finally getting that correct, would be expanded, but I have a lot of concern about the use of ARPA funds from the staff and from this organization.
 And we've had this conversation before. I cannot tell by looking at this plan, if we had to go into lockdown again tomorrow, how the use of this ARPA dollars would put us ahead from where we were in 2019. And we've seen this with resurfacing tennis courts. I don't know how that benefited the community.
 I have not seen an expansion of our health services, our transportation, our educational services with the use of ARPA dollars to benefit this community. And while I'm not saying your program doesn't do it, there's nothing written down on here that shows me how we are making our community stronger.
 Since now that we're getting another two weeks, hopefully I also want you to address how you've determined these locations and I brought this up several times No one has ever pointed to the study done by UTEP that showed the actual areas in this community that were lacking Connectivity being the lower valley right? It said east side. They're broken up into graphs central east west south
 And I don't remember what the fourth one was, but it was not northeast. When you look at the actual needs on the east side, that's all south of I-10. In fact, when you look at the maps, it's extremely concerning to me that nobody at the city said, oh, where are we going to add connectivity? Let's go to the one place in the entire city that has one small dot.
 We looked at areas, and I'm not going to say that the downtown Saguna Vario area, and I'm not going to say that the Triangle area do not need services, but when you look at the amount of connectivity that exists in those areas, I do not feel comfortable that we are looking to put ARPA dollars in there.
 Do we need better connectivity in our city services? Yes, but I am absolutely concerned that we are once again using ARPA dollars to offset maintenance in our own facilities. These dollars were supposed to make us stronger as a community moving forward. And I'm sorry that I'm directing this all at you. I feel really bad, but these dollars are supposed to make us stronger as a community. And I have not once been able to see a use of ARPA dollars do that.
 I've been happy to support economic development. I think that's extremely important. That will make us stronger moving forward with jobs, but there are other needs and services that we have not addressed at all. I was happy back in May when I saw that we were going to do that. I'm not seeing this on paper with this program. I'm not saying that what was presented in May is the best use of those dollars, but I would also like for you to show me other programs that are used across the country to make sure that we are addressing those connectivity issues. So thank you, Representative Fierro, for that motion.
 Mayor, thank you, Mayor. Before you, on your second, I'd like to reconsider that motion. I would prefer that you come back with us, to us, with a plan that includes a private-public partnership to help leverage those dollars to be able to access, people at home be able to access it, along with the digital El Paso. Mayor, that would be my motion. So what's your motion? For, for, that's what I told the mayor.
 DELETE THE ITEM AND BRING IT BACK. I'LL SECOND YOUR MOTION. THAT'LL BE MY MOTION. SO WE HAVE A MOTION AND A SECOND TO DELETE THE ITEM AND BRING IT BACK. SORRY, THE MOTION WAS MADE TO DELETE BY REPRESENTATIVE PIERRO, SECONDED BY REPRESENTATIVE ANNELLO. SOMEWHERE LIKE THAT. TO DELETE. YES, MA'AM. ON THAT MOTION. POINT OF ORDER. WHAT'S THE TIMELINE COMING BACK? IT'S NOT. IT'S NOT? OKAY.
 We're going to have to evaluate the timeline based on the conversation today. That's why I thought it's best we delete it. On that motion to delete, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes 7-1. Representative Hernandez voting nay. The motion does carry. That brings us to item 40. Thank you.
 And this is discussion in action to authorize the mayor on behalf of the city of El Paso to sign a resolution as part of the city council approved application to the office of the governor, Texas Military Preparedness Commission for the Defense Economic Adjustment Assistance Grant for construction of the McGregor Range Water Line Booster Station replacement. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by Representative Piero. To approve item 40 on that motion, call for the vote.
 in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to the end of the agenda there's a motion and a second to adjourn the city council meeting all in favor anyone opposed and the regular city council meeting for tuesday october 24 2023 is adjourned at 12 41 p.m thank you