this is the meeting of the el paso city council for tuesday november 7 2023 it is 9 03 a.m president presiding is mayor leaser also present in council chambers is mayor pro tem alternate mayor and representative canales representative ero are running late rivera is joining us
 virtually but I don't see him representative Rivera are you there so well Markham is running late and then we'll keep thank you ma'am and now if everyone please silence their electronic devices so it is not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso rabbi El Paso police rabbi Levi Greenberg master of the universe
 Look favorably upon the honorable mayor, the honorable members of this council, and upon all of us gathered here this morning, and bestow upon us all the joy of life, good health, and prosperity. Bless these people who have been chosen to make laws and decisions for the inhabitants of our city with wisdom and understanding in their noble pursuit of justice and equality. We live in turbulent times,
 times of war and strife, which although may be happening across the globe, impact our conscience here as well. A time when the land of Israel is called upon to defend its borders and protect its citizens and all of its inhabitants. In the current annual cycle of Bible study, the Jewish world is currently learning the chapters about the life of Abraham, the patriarch of the Jewish nation.
 who was promised by God that his descendants would receive the Holy Land as an eternal inheritance. The sages explain that the Bible begins with the story of creation because the day would come when people would accuse the Jewish nation of stealing the Holy Land from others. Therefore, the Bible sets down the premise that God is the creator and master of the world and he alone chose to gift the Holy Land to the Jewish nation. Almighty God.
 Help us be aware that although we may be physically distant from the battlefields, we are all called upon to participate in the spiritual battle against evil by doing more acts of goodness and kindness. Our positive actions here in El Paso will make a difference because every act of kindness generates a powerful light that banishes much darkness and will certainly eradicate this despicable darkness we all abhor.
 As Maimonides declared, one positive good deed, spoken word, and even thought can tip the scales and bring salvation to the entire world. May we merit very soon the fulfillment of the biblical prophecy. No nation shall lift its sword against nation, and they shall not know war no more.
 May our borderland region serve as a beacon of light, strength, and moral courage as we do our part in preparing the world for an era of global peace and tranquility for all. May this occur speedily in our times. And let us say, Amen. Thank you.
 Good morning, everyone. And just a little reminder, today is Election Day, and the polls are open until 7 p.m. today. And in Texas now you can vote at any poll. You don't have to vote at your precinct that you normally would vote at if it's open to vote anywhere. And I do urge everyone to exercise your right and make sure that –
 You vote with that, Diana. Thank you. The first proclamation is Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month. Who's got that one? Go ahead, sir. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas Alzheimer's disease is a progressive, degenerative disease of the brain, and the disease is not a normal part of aging, and there is currently no cure,
 And whereas, currently there are more than 6 million Americans living with Alzheimer's, 400,000 of those here in Texas. And there are over 1 million unpaid caregivers here in Texas, providing over 1.7 billion hours of care each year. And whereas, the Alzheimer's Association is leading the voluntary health organization in care and support, and the largest nonprofit funder of Alzheimer's research.
 And whereas the city of El Paso acknowledges the mission of the Alzheimer's Association to eradicate the disease through the advancement of research, to provide care and support for all affected, and to reduce the risk of dementia through the promotion of brain health. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that November 11th, 2023, shall be known as Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Day, signed by our honorable mayor, Oscar Leeser. Would you guys like to come up? Come on up, please.
 Thank you all for being here. And, you know, it's a bad disease that, you know, right now there's no cure for. And I lost my dad about, and Jacob, who's standing right there, took care of my dad for many years. And my dad loved him. He'd take him to Rudy's. So...
 He loved to go eat barbecue and Jake would call and say, hey, can I put him in my car and I'm going to go take him? So he loved that. But, you know, he lost his battle. And then my sister, at the age of 65, so it doesn't mean you have to be old, also lost her battle with Alzheimer's. So this is something that we do need to be aware of and continue to have public awareness. You guys like to speak?
 Paul Ferris with the Alzheimer's Association. Thank you all for having us and honoring us today. You know, El Paso was just ranked 10th in the country for those living with Alzheimer's disease. So, you know, it's here. It's not going anywhere. And through your support, we'll be able to continue to fight the disease. We do have our walk this Saturday. I'm going to turn it over to our event chair, Jacob Boggs, to say a few words on that. Thank you. Thank you, sir, and good morning.
 Hello, everybody. Jacob Boggs, executive chair for the walk this year. And we'll be having it at the zoo on Saturday. So you can go online and register, alz.org, alz.org. And feel free to start a team or just register. And please make a donation if you can. But come out to the walk. It'll be at 9 o'clock. Gates open at 8 o'clock. So please come and enjoy yourself. Thank you. No. Thank you. I appreciate it.
 The next proclamation is municipal court week Thank You mayor good morning if you all want to come up to the podium
 Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas municipal courts play a significant role in preserving public safety, providing community outreach, teen courts, and promoting quality of life in Texas, and whereas more people come in contact with municipal courts than all other Texas courts combined, and public impression of the Texas judicial system is largely dependent upon the public experience in municipal courts.
 And whereas the city of El Paso has hosted municipal court week since 2012, and whereas state law authorizes a municipal
 and to either appoint or elect a municipal judge for a term of office. In El Paso municipal courts, our state courts and judges are members of the state judicial, and whereas the procedures for the City of El Paso municipal courts operations are set forth in Texas Code of Criminal Procedures and Other Laws of the State of Texas, and whereas the City of El Paso is committed to the notion that our legal system is based on principle,
 that independent fair incompetent judicial will interpret the apply the laws that govern us. And the judges and courts personnel should have complied with the laws and act the manner that promotes public confidence and integrity impartially of judicial and whereas El Paso municipal judges are not policy makers for the city of El Paso, but are bound by the law
 and canons of judicial conduct and are required to make independent and governing bodies of the City of Council, City officials and employees. And whereas the City Council recognizes that the Constitution and laws of the State of Texas contain procedural safeguards in criminal cases for all defendant including Indigenous defendants and support the City of El Paso Municipal Courts in complying with such legal requirements. Now therefore be proclaimed
 the mayor and city council of El Paso that the week of November 6th through November 10th, 2023 shall be known as Municipal Court Week. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Council, and leadership. My name is Annabel Casas. I'm the Assistant Director for Municipal Court. Thank you for the proclamation and recognizing Municipal Court. I'd like to begin by acknowledging this group behind me, which represents our Municipal Court team.
 All of those also are bond stations and the rest of the court team that is encompassed by judges, bailiffs, multiple people that make up the municipal court team. Their contributions are indispensable to our success. We proudly serve as the initial point of contact to the legal system for most people. It's through our collective efforts that we make a difference.
 We are truly honored by this proclamation. Municipal Core Week is recognized through the state of Texas from November the 6th through the 10th. Thank you. Thank you. I have a few that would like to say a few good news and introduce themselves.
 Good morning everyone. I'm Sophia Garza. I am the senior juvenile case manager at the municipal court I oversee juvenile case management and also the teen court Myself and one other case manager. I just wanted to announce that we were awarded from the Texas Bar Foundation a grant That will help not only grow the program but also put out more awareness for our youth. Thank you. Thank you very much. Diana?
 The next proclamation is Border Network for Human Rights. Mayor Prokof? Thank you, Mayor. Proclamation of the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the Border Network for Human Rights was founded in 1998 and is one of the leading human rights advocacy and immigration reform organizations located at the U.S.-Mexico border. And whereas BNHR's general purpose is to facilitate the education, the organizing, and the participation of marginalized border communities to defend and promote human and civil rights.
 And whereas, B&HR assists the border communities to work in creating political, economic, and social conditions where every human being's dignity and rights are equal. And whereas, B&HR utilizes the principles and articles contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the Constitution of the United States, particularly the Bill of Rights, Amendments 1, 4, 5, 6, and 14, as a tool along with human needs and the experiences of impacted immigrant and border communities.
 And whereas, BMHR has hosted 10 Hugs Not Walls events, reuniting over 3,000 families, and demonstrated the strength and resiliency of the immigrant community, showcasing the urgency of a comprehensive immigration reform. And whereas, the Border Network for Human Rights will celebrate its 25th anniversary on November 18th.
 and whereas the City of El Paso commends and congratulates BNHR for their continued advocacy and resiliency to help marginalized communities in our city. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the Council of the City of El Paso that November 18, 2023 shall be known as Border Network for Human Rights Day. Signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Congratulations.
 good morning
 todo el trabajo que han hecho, todo lo que han esforzado para que hoy estemos aquí nosotros, que somos una organización que hemos luchado por más de 25 años, y yo vengo en nombre de todas las comunidades que nos representan, agradecerles, y pues que sigamos trabajando porque todavía hay muchas cosas que tenemos que cambiar. Gracias. Gracias. Mi nombre es Fernando García, director exsecretario y fundador de la Nación de la Nación para los Derechos Humanos. Buenas tardes.
 Buenas tardes. Hace 25 años que trabajamos en las comunidades inmigrantes en la frontera. Hay una lista de cosas que ha hecho Border Network, pero creo que me gustaría mencionar que no estaríamos aquí si no fuera por los organizadores de Border Network, que han entrenado a más de 700 líderes en nuestra comunidad durante esos 25 años.
 Ahora mismo, las redes de votos están integradas por cerca de 1.000 familias. Esa es la estructura de la red de votos que permite lanzar todas estas campañas. Así que quiero agradecerles a todos, al Consejo Mayor, por esta reconocimiento, por esta proclamación, porque es importante para nosotros reconocer que hay una comunidad que lucha por sus derechos, no solo los miembros de la red de votos, sino a todos en El Paso. Así que gracias, lo aprecio.
 Gracias. Gracias, señora Hernández.
 Good morning. Good morning. Proclamation City of El Paso, whereas our city is home to a diverse and vibrant community of entrepreneurs who contribute to the fabric of our society, creating jobs, inspiring innovation, and fostering a culture of resilience and creativity. And whereas the spirit of entrepreneurship is a foundational pillar for social vitality and a force driving economic growth, innovation, and community development in the city of El Paso, Texas. And whereas during the week of November 13th,
 y
 Y mientras que pedimos a todos los empresarios, agencias, instituciones y organizaciones de El Paso para activamente se involucrar en eventos y iniciativas que campeñen la entretenimiento y alcanza a los innovadores y visionarios que enriquecen nuestra comunidad y fortalecen nuestra economía local. Y mientras que esta celebración de esta semana unirá a nuestros líderes, empresas y organizaciones para promover los valores y virtudes de la entretenimiento. Ahora, por lo tanto, siendo proclamado por el Mayor y el Consejo de la Ciudad de El Paso el 13 de noviembre,
 El 19 de noviembre será conocido como la semana de la entretenimiento global de El Paso, signado por el honorable mayor Oscar Leaser. Felicidades. Gracias, señora. Soy Nancy Lowry, con el Centro de Medicina de la Fundación de América.
 Thank you, Mayor Leeser, City Council, City Manager, Carrie Weston, and the Economic and International Development Department for your support of small businesses and specifically for your support of Global Entrepreneurship Week 2023.
 Small businesses are the backbone of our community. They generate 44% of US economic activity and account for a half of all jobs and more than half of all private sales in the US. By creating new jobs and opportunities, they drive growth and innovation. They are the economic engines of our communities.
 Global Entrepreneurship Week celebrates the importance of entrepreneurs in our community and communities throughout the globe. It's celebrated in over 200 countries. GEW is a time to celebrate spotlight entrepreneurs, expose new people to the calling of entrepreneurship, and support existing innovators and small business owners.
 It also serves an important function as a vehicle for entrepreneur support organizations. We like to call ourselves ESOs.
 to collaborate and engage with each other. This year, local ESOs have joined together to offer over 17 events for entrepreneurs, whether they are formulating an idea or have an established business. Events are being hosted by the SBDC, the SBA, UTEP, the El Paso Chamber, the Innovation Hub, Pioneers 21, the League of Business, the Innovation Center, Fab Lab, Kauffman Foundation, One Million Cups, and others.
 City and International Development, City Economic and International Development Department has led the effort to make sure that the word gets out and arranging to have a page on EP Business Strong listing all of our events. So thank you again to the city for their support as we celebrate and honor and recognize entrepreneurship.
 And I have here a flyer with a list of events if anyone wants them. And I think someone else would like to say a word. Thank you. Thank you, Nancy. Good morning, everyone. Hi, my name is Sandra Arlen Morales, and I am happy to stand here today to witness the proclamation of the El Paso Global Entrepreneurship Week. As an active entrepreneur myself, I appreciate initiatives that benefit local entrepreneurs and small business owners alike.
 As a creative, it excites me very much, as I already saw the many ways this collaboration can actually grow. As a founder of the Ladies of Business Club, general director of the League of Business, producer of an entrepreneurial podcast, editor of The Real Entrepreneurs magazine, I understand the importance of creating purposeful alliances like this one in pro of local growth and progress. Thank you very much for your support.
 Good morning everyone I'm Laura Butler, executive director of Pioneers 21. Just want to share that this week, this year's Global Entrepreneurship Week theme is bring your business idea to life. And I want to ensure that if you are an entrepreneur already,
 Want to ensure that everyone invites an entrepreneur that has an idea and hasn't brought their idea to life that they bring an entrepreneur With them to one of these events. Thank you, and I can't wait to see everybody next week at all of our events For the record Representative Kennedy joined us at 921 a.m. The next proclamation is Winterfest 2023 presented by Shirley gate. I
 Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the Sherla Gate Lights Parade and Winterfest Celebration is one of the City of El Paso's most beloved signature events, and whereas San Jacinto Plaza will once again be covered with more than 400,000 mini lights, oversized decorations, and a 55-foot holiday
 And whereas the season includes winter themed attractions and family friendly programs in and around downtown with a featured outdoor ice skating rink, holiday trees and displays. Plus, visitors can take a stroll along the bedecked Paseo de las Luces to see festive holiday decor.
 And whereas Winterfest, sponsored by Shirley Gate, has become a tradition in our community, and the City of El Paso and various partners strive to make the season bigger and better for El Pasoans and visitors from around the region to enjoy. And whereas the annual Lights Parade draws out nearly 50,000 people to witness the spectacular opening day event and reflect on the magic of the season.
 And whereas last year more than 360,000 people attended Winterfest throughout the season in order to appreciate the holiday spirit in a free, healthy, and safe environment for family fun and festivities. And whereas the quality of life for all El Pasoans is improved with the celebration of our cultural and historical heritage via the holiday fiestas and countless programming events on the streetcar, at public libraries, museums, and the zoo.
 And whereas the celebration provides decades of fun-filled memories of taking selfies while skating on the ice, enjoying hot cocoa while strolling in San Jacinto Plaza, or taking photos with Santa Claus on his sleigh. And whereas the El Paso community and more than 160 local businesses, such as Share La Gate, this year's title sponsor, come together to support the annual Winterfest and its mission every year.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that November 18th, 2023 through January 1st, 2024 shall be known as Winterfest 2023 presented by Shirley Gate. Signed by our honorable mayor, Oscar Leeser. Thank you. Before you get started. Good morning, mayor and council. Hold on one second. I got a question for you. You talked about the hot cocoa. It tastes a little different than most cocos. What's in it?
 Well, of course, Abuelita, sir. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Ben Fyfe, Managing Director for the Record. We are excited about the opportunity to begin Winterfest season once again. As you know, this has evolved from a very modest light display a number of years ago to what is now the largest holiday experience in the Southwest.
 That kind of growth is not possible without support from our partners throughout the community, and especially financial support from partners like Share Legate. That support has helped us grow the event over the years to serve almost half a million people throughout the festive season. It also leads to an estimated $8.9 million impact revenue.
 in the downtown core during the holiday season, supporting countless local jobs, and most importantly, as Representative Canales said, creating cherished holiday memories for El Paso families and visitors. So I would like to bring to the podium, to say a few words, our title sponsor from Sherrillagate, Sam Lagate. Good morning. Good morning, Council, Honorable Mayor.
 It's our pleasure, Jim Scherer and I, to collaborate with the city to bring this fabulous, growing, as he said, every year event. Jim and I have sponsored the Parade of Lights for the last five years. It's been a very, very moving event just to see all the people and families of El Paso come together. And particularly in this holiday season, which seems to be a holiday season with a lot of world strife,
 It's so nice that here in El Paso we have a place we can all come together with our families, share something, share each other, share each other's families, share the joy of the holiday season. So Jim and I, Jim Scherer and I want to particularly thank you and our law firm, Shirley Gate, for the honor to get to collaborate with the city on this. So thank you very much for what you guys do for our city.
 Thank you, and thank you for being a partner, not in this, but a lot of other things. We thank you for that. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Diana? The next proclamation is for Veterans Day, and it will be followed by a TAPS performance by Fernanda Gomez Luna and Andrew Freeman.
 Good morning. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas November 11th has long held a cherished place in the heart of every American who recognizes the sacrifices made by our military. From the inauguration of this treasured holiday in 1918, known originally as Armistice Day, Day of Peace, after World War I, President Wilson declared November 11th to be a day of reflection.
 Whereas President Eisenhower on October the 8th, 1953, issued the first Veterans Day Proclamation encompassing all military conflicts and acknowledging every military member who has served and officially recognizing November 11th as Veterans Day. He wrote,
 Quote, let us solemnly remember the sacrifices of all those who fought so valiantly on the seas, in the air, and on foreign shores to preserve our heritage of freedom, end quote, end. Whereas we recognize the sacrifice of the men and women of El Paso who have served in defense of this nation and loved ones who stand beside them.
 memorializing the heroes who gave the ultimate sacrifice and all those who have not returned home. Whereas the El Paso, Texas flags across America, also known as Old Glory Memorial, is dedicated to enriching public respect and appreciation for the United States flag and instilling patriotism
 patriotism since June 14, 2003, will conduct the 31st Northeast Veterans Day Parade on Friday, November 10, 2023, and invites the entire city of El Paso to this event.
 Whereas the Northeast Veterans Day Parade honors and celebrates America's veterans for their patriotism, love of their country, and willingness to serve and sacrifice for the common good, raises awareness of those who have served, and salutes members of our military currently serving. And whereas the City of El Paso has among its citizens, volunteers, and employees, individuals who have served in the United States Armed Forces, we are reminded that
 of our obligation to them to serve our veterans as they have gallantly served us. And as we gather here today, let us not forget that freedom is never free, and our nation and our community is ever more indebted for their courageous service. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that November 11, 2023 shall be known as Veterans Day. Signed, the Honorable Oscar Leaser, Mayor for the City of El Paso.
 I think it's important that November 11th is Veterans Day, but in El Paso we thank and respect our veterans every day, and we thank you all for your service. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, Mayor and Council. We come from northeast California.
 Darryl Marne will hear you say east side is the best side, but we want to let everybody know We come from Northeast and we're going to have a parade in Northeast veteran parade on 10 November this coming Friday from the hundo pass to the flag site Memorial Old Glory Memorial Located right off of Diana and 54 we welcome all to attend and
 We are honored to have a city representative, Paul Albright, who's going to be our grand marshal this year. So we want you all to come out and help celebrate him as he represents our veteran community on that day.
 We also, we also fortunate to have Veteran of the Year, Donna Juarez, who was part of our Flags Across America. She's going to be, she's going to be honored as well in terms of representing Flags Across America on that day. So we welcome you, Mayor, and the Council and everybody in the City of Avaso to attend our parade on this
 this coming Friday at 10 o'clock from hundo pass to the flag site thank you thank you
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. Good morning, Sheriff. Everyone in the house. We just wanted to, after the parade, we'll be having a ceremony down at the Flags Across America, and we would greatly appreciate your attendance. I would be remiss if I didn't just tell you that everywhere I go across the USA, I'm a retired command sergeant major. I did 32 years in the military, honorably and on active duty.
 i can tell you everywhere i go and even when i post on facebook people are amazed with the support that we get from the el paso community we love what we get here that's why i stayed i'm originally from florida i could be back on a sunny beach well really i feel like i am because i'm in northeast and i got a pool so i just want to say thank you we really appreciate it and please come down to the parade and also come out to the ceremony afterwards by the way i'll be one of the guest speakers
 Y'all ready to play? Everyone stand, please. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, would you like to recess the meeting for pictures, or should I continue with the consent agenda? Let's recess for pictures. Can I have a motion to recess, please? Second. All those in favor? All those opposed? And the city council meeting for November 7th is on recess at 936 a.m.
 Thank you. Do we have a motion to I guess you all are the government class from America's high school Thank you. Yeah, we have a motion to reconvene the regular City Council meeting for November 7th motion to reconvene All those in favor other suppose and the meeting is back in session at 1109 a.m Mayor I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions page 3 item 6 delete per Airport and
 Page 11, sorry, page 11, item 26, move to the forefront per Representative Kennedy. Page 21, item 44, delete per Capital Improvement Department. Second. And we also, Mr. Mayor, we have item 21, Ms. Lisa Turner has a couple of questions. Yes, ma'am. Ms. Turner, who was that? OK, Ms. Turner. Good morning, Mayor, Council. Item 21, did you know that this company,
 has had to pay an $11 million in fines for misbranded drugs. In other words, they sold drugs to people who were not supposed to receive them. The DOJ nailed them to the wall, and I'm just curious why we are doing business with a company that sells drugs to people, organizations that aren't allowed to have them. Now, where did I get this information from? I don't know.
 The American Veterinary, my eyes are bad, the American Veterinary Medical Association and the Department of Justice, that's where I got it. They pled guilty to misbranding veterinary drugs. So I'm gonna be quite honest with you, it was an over 200% increase over the previous contract. Of course, that's to help pay for their $11 million in fines. I don't think that's our responsibility. I think contracting,
 And our financial officers should have caught this, should have paid attention to this. And I would ask you to delete this and go out for another contract. I'm also worried when you talk about misbranding drugs, did that have any impact on the lives of our animals at the zoo or within the shelter? I mean, did we get what we paid for? If you paid for 50 milligrams of drug X, did you get a...
 Drug that drug X with 50 milligrams in it or did you get something else? Because so I have a lot of questions. I don't know where to go I don't know what you all should do, but I know one thing you should not do and that is vote on this until such time as You give a clear legal opinion from our
 City Attorney on what you should or should not do because if you do go forward with this you are actually doing business with a drug Dealer because that's what you are you sell drugs to people who are not supposed to have them you're dealing in drugs. Thank you Mayor I would like to amend my motion So page 9 item 21 postponed two weeks per representative vanilla All right
 So all matters listed under the consent agenda will be approved with one vote.
 Will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by City Council members Prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda When the vote has been taken if an item has not been called up for separate discussion The item has been approved council may however be considered at any time any item during the meeting This is items 1 through 25 and
 With item 6 to be deleted item 4 to be deleted as well in item 21 to be postponed two weeks item 26 to the forefront It is the first item on the regular agenda already. I know I reminded representative Kennedy that so it's item 6 and
 44 item 6 yes item 44 to be deleted in item 21 to be postponed two weeks Yes, ma'am, and the motion was made by Mayor protein Manolo seconded by Representative Rivera. Could you repeat those numbers one more time, please? I'm sorry. I apologize That's okay page 3 item 6 to be deleted page 21 item 44 also to be deleted and
 And page 9 item 21 to be postponed two weeks. Thank you. You're welcome. Voting session is open. One second please, Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. We have folks from animal services here. I just want to ask a question about item 21. Do we I'll let you come up. Sorry. I can't imagine this would be an issue but I just want to make sure in postponing this two weeks do we have any issue in terms of availability of food? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 needed Animal services director for the record there would be no issues postponing for two weeks. Okay Current contract is still active. We won't have a gap. Correct. We still have medications that we are using. Okay. Thank you Chief also is were you aware of any item that Miss Turner was talking about where you're aware of that? No, I was not Okay, so if we can research it through and kind of let us know we'd appreciate it. Thank you. Yeah, I
 Yes, sir. Go ahead sir. Yes, I would like to be briefed on that as well, sir I don't know the rest of council was free, but I recall getting briefed on this issue. Yes, sir We'll get everybody everybody will be briefed. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Yeah. Yes, sir We will make sure that all representatives as and the mayor will also receive individual briefings on this item Yes, ma'am. Thank you for that. Thank you polling session is open representative Rivera the 21 is up not the consent agenda. I
 Maybe. Okay. I understand it would be the consent agenda. It is the consent agenda. It's part of the consent agenda. Yeah, it is. 21 is. We were showing it. Consent agenda goes through item 25. No, I know, but I just don't want to be voting on item 21. I just want clarification because that's what's on my screen. Let me do it again. Thank you. It's just that we brought up the item when Ms. Turner spoke. There you go. Voting session is open.
 so you can so she removed item 21 is the other two remain the same yes thank you mayor thank you sir and the voting session is open representative salcido representative rivera hi and the item has been approved unanimously moving on to the first item on the regular agenda item 26 and that is discussion in action
 directing city attorney to bring a proposed amendment to the rules of order back to council relating to requests to appear by video Conference at City Council meetings and adherence to Robert rules of order in executive session I know you would you like to take item 27 as well together since they're related or keep them separate They'd be up to represent Kennedy. You want to take it? I think they're the same They're related issues, but I don't think they should be taken together. Okay, all right
 All right, I knew you want to turn your light on so go ahead and speak sir. Yeah, thank you I Know that we had with there had been some discussion about the process for Emergency appearance electronically and by video and I think that there's more parts to this issue than just the process for us to make that decision because I think there's some other legs and
 some other tentacles to this where it's the number of people that we allow to bring it in to a meeting the number of People that are allowed in any one meeting number of meetings in a row on video conference I think there is a wide range of things that need to be looked at with this I mean the city attorney and her staff works with this kind of thing on a real regular basis and
 and I think it's best that we ask them to come back and I would look to the council and say, I mean there have been some discussions I've heard about, we do have a problem if we have too many people that are on video conference with a quorum, potential quorum, what's the process for doing it? I know that we talked at one point every week a certain area or certain council member was the first person up
 and if they didn't utilize that, then that was open. But I would like to look at that, and the other one is a clarification from the city attorney. Robert's Rules of Orders, it says it's for the entire meeting, which would include part of executive session, and I just would like a clarification from the council, from, I'm gonna say council, I mean city attorney, use of Robert's Rules of Orders during that meeting also, and we may have to discuss that somewhere other than right here.
 Can I can I address the question. Mayor. So as to the second item on the agenda in regards to Robert Schultz of order you're correct that the same process in regards to the order of speaking and the time should be followed in executive session but if the council directs us we could add additional language that would provide that.
 for the council and for the public to understand what the decorum and the rules are in executive session. It's everything except for voting clearly which only happens in an open session but we can certainly add that language. Which is a small divergence from the Roberts Rules of Orders right. Correct. OK. Correct. And then I would imagine that that the council and mayor you would be comfortable with giving the members of council the same amount of time to speak.
 in executive session that is currently afforded to them in open session, which is currently the 10 minutes until everybody else speaks and then they're allowed to speak a second time? Is that what you would like to do? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. And with the video conference, I mean, I wanna make sure that we have some parameters. We all, at one point or another, really need to be able to video conference into a meeting, but I wanna make sure that it's not open for,
 either abuse or one where it kind of goes off the rails, where we're having a hard part getting quorum and things like that. So I'd like to have this city attorney kind of sit down and take a look at what rules we're gonna need to put into place. So for purposes of feedback from the council, as you all know, and Representative Kennedy's correct, we limit it to two people appearing virtually. The issue becomes when you have more people
 You have just under you have a quorum or six people present in person. If one person gets up and you're at five, you lose quorum. So what we wouldn't recommend is to allow more people to attend virtually. If you already have the two slots taken, it would be up to council to decide if you want to allow a third person to appear virtually in the event of an emergency. But then that would leave.
 six people in person and then sometimes other things happen where a person is already gonna be absent anyway and they're not appearing virtually. So you run into those types of issues. What I would recommend is that we come back with some proposals. I know Ms. Prine would probably have some feedback in regards to how to manage that process and then who has the final say in deciding when a member of council is announcing
 past the deadline of the posting, that they won't be able to be present at the meeting and if that is considered an opportunity to appear virtually and who is that vetted through, if it's done through the mayor's office or if it's done directly through the city clerk's office and they have the final say as to whether they do appear virtually or not. Okay, but I would make the motion that we direct the city attorney to come back with proposals on this guided by the will of the council.
 I'm up for some . Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Ms. Neiman, also, don't we already have a standing policy on who can request or whose turn it is to be able to appear virtually? That's correct, and I would,
 Kristin Hamilton Karam is here and so is our city clerk and they can explain to you the specifics but you're correct that we do Have a rotation already available for the council. Yeah, I think this items more for incase an emergency or
 sickness unfortunately for somebody that cannot be here how we can have some type of ability to do something like that, but also Some kind of guidance on how we're going to do it so we don't end up without a quorum and cannot have a meeting Miss Hamilton. Good morning
 Karen for the record good morning members of Council Kristen Hamilton Karen for the record. Yes representative Fiatto There is a currently a resolution in place that does address And it does require that members notify the city clerk's office No
 Later than the Wednesday prior to the meeting so that it is posted on the agenda and it also discusses that Members of Council there's a time frame on the resolution that's in place That members of council cannot reserve more than three months in advance so that it gives everybody an opportunity So that somebody isn't saying I'm gonna be virtual for the next one year. So nobody else can do it. Um,
 So it is kind of in place to allow members of council the flexibility to be virtual when they're traveling. It does provide notice to the public. So with this change, it would eliminate that ability to provide notice to the public on the agenda under TOMA with a 72 hours advance notice if there's an emergency. I have one more question for Ms. Neiman. Ms. Neiman, would it be possible to,
 to do a training on an executive session in regards to what the rules are, what the mayor, maybe even give us a,
 a one-sheeter on whether the mayor, you know, what the rules are for, and you may have already done it. I may have forgotten, or I wasn't paying attention when you did it, but I would request that we have the opportunity to have some sort of training. We can certainly do a training either at a council meeting or individually for the members of council. I know Ms. Pryne has a Robert Tulta border training as well that she's provided in the past, but we can certainly do that, yes, sir. Okay, that's...
 That's into my question. So I have nine minutes left. Thank you, eight and a half. But I think that also we need to take into consideration that prior to COVID, we did not have virtual attendance at all whatsoever. This is something that was brought on through COVID, which we have moved forward in our community. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. I think my questions were largely answered. Again, the,
 the procedures and the in-person quorum, I think is all established in the resolution. So we can discuss that in the next item. Thanks. Do we have a second on the motion? Second. We have a motion and a second. So we do have a motion made by Representative Kennedy, and that is to direct the city attorney to come back with a proposal and seconded by Representative Canales. Voting session is open. Oh, Ms. Lisa Turner has signed up for item 26 as well.
 You have three minutes. And I knew that. Ms. Turner? Again, good morning, Mayor, Council. Let me say this. If you're experiencing an emergency and you can't make it here, you're not going to be able to attend a meeting virtually. Common sense. Now, I can see an exception. If you had just given birth and you're at home taking care of your child, I can understand that. But I don't see any other emergency that can keep you out.
 I've been here. I expect to see all of your smiling faces here every time you have a meeting. This is where you're supposed to be. You ran for this office. This is where you're expected to be. Now, let me talk about executive session. You have zero security when you all are in executive session and you've got two members coming in virtually. We don't have virtual attendance on executive session for that reason.
 Okay, let me ask you a question. Is that going to happen in the future? Well, that's what we have now and will continue you cannot do that because you cannot you have no security Well, that's I'm saying so we don't do that. We agree with you. My concern is simply this is This is where you belong during meetings if you have an emergency outside of a childbirth This is where you belong if you can't make it because of the emergency You're not going to be able to attend a meeting because of the emergency. I
 Because if you're attending the meeting, then it really wasn't an emergency to begin with. Let's be honest here. This is where you belong at city council meetings. This is where your citizens expect to see you. And we need to do away with this. COVID's over. There's no pandemic. Nobody's locked down. This is where you need to be, period. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Representative Kennedy.
 I'm sorry representative mayor Pro Tem yeah mayor I just I wanted to to address something that you had said is this is actually something we had the option to do prior to covid we just didn't have the infrastructure for it I do think it is important I remember my husband was in a coma I was here every week for budget and council meetings it was something that we explored then because we did have the option we just didn't have the technology set up and I I do think
 I agree with Ms. Turner. I think that if you've just had a baby, I would hope that you would take time to not work. But I know that some of us do want to work all of the time. And so I do think that there are emergencies in which this is warranted. And I think it is an important thing. I know I myself, a few weeks ago, had been exposed to multiple people who had.
 tested positive for COVID. I kept testing negative, but I sat in the corner over there by myself with a mask just to make sure everyone was safe because we didn't have the change to this policy in which last minute I could do virtual, but I had a lot of important things on the agenda. And so, um, I kind of risked exposing a lot of people to COVID because I couldn't not work. So, um, I think this is important. I appreciate a lot of the comments. Um, and so I'm going to be supportive of this. Thank you. Thank you. Um,
 Representative Kennedy, you have another? Yeah, I was just going to say that. That was the particular issue I was going to say. If somebody tests positive on a Sunday or was having contact, I would prefer if it was available that they be able to attend remotely. Not only COVID, strep, the flu. Yeah, there's some, you know, and I do appreciate that Representative Vanilla went over and infected Representative Canales' area rather than mine. All right, thank you. With that, we have a motion and a second.
 We do have a motion made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Representative Canales, and that is to approve. Representative Rivera? Voting? Aye. And the item has been approved. Moving on to item 27. Who didn't vote? Oh no, you didn't add them on there, okay.
 Item 27 is discussion in action to direct the city manager and city attorney to prepare an amendment to the resolution adopted July 5th 2023 entitled process for City Council members to attend City Council meetings by video conference resolution to establish a process in
 for a member of council to request on short notice to appear by video conference at a posted meeting in cases of unforeseen circumstances such as sudden illness personal family emergencies or other urgent matters in accordance with texas open meetings that representative canales thank you mayor yeah this is uh substantially similar to the previous item on july 25th 2023
 the council adopted both the allow allowance and the rule of order rules of order to allow for the the virtual attendance but then also passed a separate resolution to lay out the rules of that attendance by videoconference and so this is just the corresponding change to the resolution and I did in the backup
 Clarify that this is not intended to increase the number of council members who may appear by videoconference That's currently fixed at 2 in the resolution and would remain at 2. So this would be only in the case that one of those two Video conference slots is available that a member of council could request to appear by videoconference at short notice And again, it would remain as a first-come first-served basis now
 I think this specifically, I left off any specific direction that this would be done via notation on the additions to the agenda or the revisions. I do think that might be an elegant solution to this.
 AND I WANTED TO CLARIFY AS WELL THAT THE TEXAS OPEN MEETINGS ACT HAS ALLOWED FOR THIS APPEARANCE ON SHORT NOTICE FOR THIS ENTIRE TIME. OUR OWN RULES VIA THIS ADOPTED RESOLUTION LIMITED THE OR I GUESS ESTABLISHED THE DEADLINE AT THE 72-HOUR PRIOR POSTING DEADLINE BUT THAT'S NOT REQUIRED BY THE OPEN MEETINGS ACT.
 And so in adopting this today, we would be providing notice to the public that there may be attendance on short notice in case of emergency. And I'll close by saying there, I think there are many, many emergencies or short notice reasons that a member of council may need to appear by video conference.
 You know, that day when Representative Anello moved over here to avoid any potential infection of the rest of the council, she was able to do that because I myself was at home. I unfortunately had to miss that meeting because my wife and other family members had COVID. I was very directly exposed to them.
 I was perfectly healthy and would have been able to participate in the meeting if I was able to attend virtually.
 but it would have been very irresponsible for me to be here in the chambers. And so I think this is a perfect way to remedy that situation. We all want to be able to be here in person, but for the times where we still want to work, we don't want to miss council meetings, but we simply can't be here again for health reasons or other emergency reasons.
 like a you know, perhaps a sick child in the household who Needs care can't be at school. I think those are perfectly good reasons for someone to be able to attend virtually That's the reason for this change. Thank you, Mary. Thank you, sir. Mr. Mayor. We also have Lisa Turner for public comment We have represent Kennedy first
 Yeah, I was going to – my concern is, I mean, I don't want to direct the city manager to take a look at the resolution because I think it's outside the purview of his expertise. I would – I mean, I think it's more appropriately directed towards the city attorney. I don't want to limit what we do with this, and I think that 26 is wide enough that it encompasses whatever is in 27 to be moved forward. So, I mean, I don't want to –
 PASS AN ITEM SAYING BRING US BACK PROPOSALS AND THEN DO WHAT HAVE ANOTHER AGENDA ITEM THAT MUDDIES THE WATER. SO I WOULD I DON'T SEE A REASON TO DO THE SECOND ONE. POINT OF INFORMATION? AS I UNDERSTAND THE FIRST ITEM ONLY DIRECTED A CHANGE IN THE RULES OF ORDER. THERE'S A SECOND ACCOMPANYING RESOLUTION. SO THIS WOULD AMEND THE RESOLUTION, NOT THE RULES OF ORDER. I DISAGREE.
 Think it was wide enough on the first item that it was wide enough to have the process to which we discussed which you talked About all right Miss Neiman will first item give you that flexibility to do that. Yes, sir It's broad enough to give us that we receive feedback on what council Thank you with that way of mr. Turner I'm sorry. Go ahead sir Well this awful change I know mr. Prine had a process in place where
 it would go down districts if they decided to, if they were in line for the next go round to request a video conference. Is that gonna do it with this or is the second choice gonna be open? Or if that makes sense to y'all, I'm trying to find out if she's gonna change that or not. Like if I was up next and I wouldn't wanna use it, then it comes open to another representative that might need it.
 Good morning again, Representative Rivera. This is Kristin Caron from the City Attorney's Office. The resolution that previously during COVID included like an order of members of council who would be the first come first served member in order has been overwritten and there is no longer that stipulation. So currently it is straight first come first served each meeting week.
 since June of 2023. Thank you. So that is no longer in place already. Thank you, ma'am. Anything else, Representative Rivera? No, that'll be it, sir. Thank you, sir. Representative Ferrer will be your... Mayor, I was just going to ask Ms. Neiman if we were able to just remove it from the policy, but obviously, or the resolution, but obviously it already has been. I don't understand why we needed it, and especially after COVID, and Representative Canales' decision
 We have one slot available if somebody needs it virtually. I think that's more than enough. I think that's what she said though I think that's what Miss Hamilton just said. No, I was I was agreeing with her certain there Yeah, I would never disagree with her. Thank you for the record. Thank you. Thank you, sir This will be your final time representative Thank you. I move to approve There's a motion in a second we do have miss Turner Call them something happened
 Again, my reservations on this, you've taken, you've turned this into a perk so you don't have to show up to work. It's no longer a necessity. This is a perk for you all now. And it's disrespectful, quite frankly. Now, I can understand if you've got COVID. That's fine. But if you're staying home because you've got kids that are sick, I have to ask you a question. Are you paying attention to your kids or are you paying attention to the media?
 As a parent and grandparent, I would be paying attention to my kids, not the meeting. That's just me. This is a perk. I don't appreciate it. I don't like it as a citizen. I expect you to be here. I can understand having this in place for an emergency, such as Ms. Sinello's being tested for COVID. That's fine.
 Just giving birth to a child. That's fine. But all this other stuff I look at this wall with all these mirrors on there before we had this and just have to Wonder how in the world did they able were able to conduct meetings without? Being able to have a conference it's important for you to be here because this is where you have the ability to interact with the citizens in this city and
 You're sitting at home and you don't like what's going on You'll just walk out of the room and when it the voices change you'll come back in and you didn't hear anything You weren't listening here. You kind of have to listen You have to listen to what we say when we come up here and speak whether you want to hear it or not I don't like this. This is a perk. You should do away with it. I
 It should be only in extreme emergencies, but you've turned it into a perk like a holiday You've given yourself holiday where yeah, I don't have to go in I can sit around here at home You know, maybe water the plants scratch my head paint and do something else around the house Instead of give my full attention to the meeting like when you're sitting here looking at everybody This is important. Your presence is important the fact that you're not here is
 Because well, you don't want to you want that day off? It's an insult to everyone who voted for you and to those who are citizens of the city. Thank you. Thank you. Miss Turner Diana for clarification representative canal is your motion is to direct the city manager in the city attorney to prepare an amendment to the resolution that will establish a process to request on short notice a
 to appear by video conference at a posted meeting in case of an emergency. Correct, as it's posted verbatim. Okay, unforeseen circumstances such as sudden illness, personal family emergencies, and other urgent matters in accordance with Texas Open Meeting Set. And the motion was made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Hernandez. The voting session is open. Representative Anello, Representative Rivera, and the item has been approved.
 with representatives Kennedy, Molinar, and Fierro voting nay. Item 28, that is discussion on plan of action from noise ordinance cross-functional team to include goals, data received from police, and time frames to be presented to city council in 30 days. And we do have one member of the public signed up to speak, Mr. Mayor. Representative Finales, you want to...
 is this your item sir no represent fear i'm sorry go ahead first thank you mayor thank you uh represent canadas for co-sponsoring this you know um i wanted to please what's his last name go ahead which is the his last name um mr franco yeah alvarado franco that's what he was he wasn't talking to you that's how you mr franco in the back yes he was talking to mr franco behind but mr alvarado you're already up yes please go ahead
 I wish I had a name tag. Mr. Alvarado, thank you very much. And not to put you on the spot...
 THIS IS REALLY A REQUEST FOR INFORMATION. I THINK THAT THE CROSS FUNCTIONAL TEAM PROVED IT'S IMPORTANCE DURING THE SHORT-TERM RENTAL DEBATE OR CONVERSATION. WHAT RESULTED WAS A YEAR-LONG STUDY. I WANT TO JUST ENSURE THAT WE ARE FOLLOWING THAT SAME PROCESS, THAT WE'VE INVESTED SO MUCH MONEY IN HIRING A CONSULTANT, THAT WE ALLOW THAT PERSON OR THAT COMPANY TO DO THEIR
 their job. And so that just wanted a little bit of clarification from you, and it can be 30 days from now, it can be next meeting, whenever you're able to compile it all. But some of the questions that I'd like answered is what is the ultimate goal? I know that we have a cross-functional team.
 already put together and involved. I want to make sure that we have not only constituents who are deeply passionate and affected by it, but also we have stakeholders. I want to ensure that we have the Restaurant Association, the realtors, that those members that are on the front lines have the opportunity to have their voices heard and to somehow shape this resolution when it comes back to Council for Reconstruction.
 hopefully it's approval at the time I also want to encourage you to share the data with us on council as far as what the police department has compiled as far as complaints as far as issues they've had with with bars you know these are all issues that I think are going to be important for us to make our decision but I want to make sure that they're they are shared with us in the beginning so that we understand what
 what the best practices are being looked at and what the ultimate goal is going to be. Mayor, I just wanted to ask for that, and I know that Representative Canales asked to co-sign it. Thank you. Go ahead, sir. Thank you, Representative Carroll. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I think, again, this isn't posted for action today, so we're not directing you to come back with anything specific, but I do think we just want to –
 GET A LITTLE BIT OF AN INTERIM UPDATE. IT'S BEEN APPROXIMATELY SIX MONTHS SINCE WE APPROVED THE CONTRACT FOR THE CONSULTANT. AND SO WE'RE JUST LOOKING TO SEE ANY PRELIMINARY INFORMATION THAT EITHER YOUR TEAM OR THE CROSS-FUNCTIONAL TEAM OR THE CONSULTANT HAS DEVELOPED IN THOSE SIX MONTHS. AND THEN REPRESENTATIVE FIERRO MENTIONED A FEW OF THE STAKEHOLDERS. I WANT TO ADD TO THAT LIST THE NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATIONS.
 I think it's very important to make sure that the consultant is engaging with those folks as well, either through the individual associations or through the neighborhood coalition, or preferably both, to get feedback from residents as well as some of the other industry stakeholders and the folks that Rep Fierro mentioned. So, again, I know this says 30 days. We can't give you direction on that because it's not really posted for action, but...
 I can just ask you to hopefully come back to us in a reasonable amount of time with some sort of interim update. Thank you. Certainly. Good morning, Mayor, members of the Council, Steve Alvarado, Code Enforcement Director. Sorry about that earlier error. No, we're going to come clean. He did mess up your name. I was covering for him. I get called a lot. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 But once again yes to respond to your questions we are including inclusive of numerous members of the public. Gephardt Greater Paso Realtors Association Texas Restaurant Association Downtown Management District also Kern Avenue Neighborhood Association are members of our transformation team the transformation team is equivalent to a cross functional team. RHI is a consultant that we have hired to work with.
 They completed phase one phase one was inclusive of them flying out here on the weekend of October 28th through the 30th. On October 28th we did have a assessment daytime assessment of these neighborhoods Cincinnati downtown management district. We also went to Zaragoza and we'd had a nighttime assessment. We were here till 3 in the morning on October 28th. Just basically getting an overview of what occurs in these areas.
 Then we had meetings follow up meetings on Monday October 30th. There's a total of three meetings for phase one transformation team meeting was held at 10 a.m. Great turnout great input. You know we're not always going to agree which is great. It gives us greater insight of different perspectives by all means. We also had the.
 Business owners venue owners operators are meeting that was held at 4 o'clock. That was with RHI directly City no city staff was inclusive. They wanted a one-on-one with them as well and we had a Department head meeting that was also had held that day great turnout great input and
 Phase one was completed that weekend phase two they will be back here January 8th through the 10th will be a listening session with the transformation team venue operators and public safety. They also have a women's networking meeting that evening as well that they plan to do. And we could send an email to invite everybody as well. Moving forward we are looking at having community meetings in each of your districts.
 That will occur probably the end of January, first week of February, so you'll get an invite a couple weeks before. Let us know what your availability for those meetings is as well. So that's kind of where we're at right now. The whole process will take about eight to ten months. We're looking to come with you with options at the end of this assessment. It's a total of four phases. Phase two we're currently in. Phase three will occur probably mid-February, maybe March.
 and then they'll come back at the end of probably May or June with their options to present to everybody at that time. So it's kind of an update of what we have right now. Any questions you may have for me, I'm happy to answer. Mr. Puro? I just want to thank Mr. Franco for the great information and the follow-up. Thank you, Mr. Franco. Appreciate that. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Alvarado. Appreciate your time. Thank you.
 Is there any motion or? We do have a member of the public signed up to speak. Thank you. Go ahead. Mr. Albert Rivera. Mr. Rivera, you have three minutes. How are you doing? Good morning, sir. I'm here to give you some insight about my complaint against Hush Hush and the noise that they're doing. Number one, the police department is underfunded with decimal meters. I call them all the time.
 and they show up without a meter to do what they're supposed to do. Code enforcement don't do their job. They come and they take pictures outside the bar and they take off. Sometimes they go to the back and they do the meters, and sometimes they don't. This bar is getting way out of hand on the sound that they're producing. They've told the police department, the bar, the owners have told the police department that they have an extended permit for sound.
 They do not have an extended permit for sound. The court enforcement has told me there's only one bar in town that has that. The other thing, if you guys are going to do your assessment program and your studies, why don't you make sure you do a study with the bar without a roof? I don't know how you're going to monitor that. I live three feet next to that bar, and I hear that sound way over 70 decimals.
 And they've been given tickets and they've been given other tickets for overcapacity. This bar is out of control. We need to be using the bicycle police officers at night so they can deter drinking in the cars, speeding, and fighting in the parking lots. We just had a big fight this past weekend at the Later Later Bar. Somebody got really hurt real bad.
 The fire department had to be called out because there were overcapacities. This bar is out of control. Your studies are useless. And I can't wait eight or nine or ten months for my sanity to get where it's supposed to be. I need something immediate.
 We don't have enough code enforcement officers to be out at night when the noise is from when the noise is at 1032 to 1 30 in the morning We don't have any police officers out there to do what they need to do to help keep the neighborhood safe I need some results I'm tired of coming here complaining to you people about something you all want to do your studies your studies aren't helping my mental state of mind and it's coming to a head and
 This issue with this bar. I don't know what you're going to do. This bar needs to put a roof on their bar if they want to use the 70 decimal as their limit. They need a roof on the bar. They don't have a roof. Thank you, Mr. Okay. Thank you, sir, for being here. There is no action on this item.
 Next item is item number 29, and that is a management update on development of multifamily affordable rental housing. Good morning, sir. Abraham Gutierrez, Assistant Director with the Department of Community Human Development. Very pleased to be with you all this morning. If IT can bring up the presentation, please. Item 29. Good morning. We have a hot mic. Please mute yourself.
 Good morning members of City Council and Mayor. Abraham Gutierrez, Assistant Director with the Department of Community and Human Development. I am here to present you today a management update in our efforts associated with multifamily affordable housing. I think this is something very, very exciting because this is a plan that represents an unprecedented local investment in our community in terms of the affordable housing units in production, what we're seeking to do in the future, and most importantly, how we're seeking...
 to address the affordable housing challenges in our community. Next slide. Maybe I should just, there we go.
 So we always want to give you a quick update in terms of what we do with community and human development. We wanted to get you right up to speed in terms of the portfolio of services that we offer to the community. Obviously we have, and you guys have seen this recently, the adoption of climate sustainability. I think it makes perfect sense in terms of the work that we do for mitigation and adaptation for climate, but also
 Overseeing civic empowerment, that is our volunteerism efforts, equity, access, we talked about those things. After that we have human services, right, with the task of overseeing our homelessness efforts. I think this is something that's very important, particularly as we transition out of the pandemic, to look at the work that we've done in terms of ensuring that folks stay out of homelessness,
 And finally, the reason that I'm here, our neighborhood development, which is overseeing our affordable housing efforts. Very, very important that we give you this update because we're very excited to essentially let y'all know that
 From our position, we know that homelessness is a housing problem. From our position, we know that investing in stable and affordable housing, along with support services, of course, is critical to the solution to ending homelessness. And of course, we understand and we coordinate very well with our sister departments how high cost and low wages can push families into homelessness that only places then a higher strength in our support systems.
 Of course you can read there our motto if you will. I'm not going to read it but if you want to take a look at it I think it's something that really captures what we do very well with community development. So basically to give you a little bit of background we released a notice of funding availability about spring of 2023 where we've asked developers to come back to us with affordable housing deals within our sale limits.
 But one of the things we learned from this council and obviously from executive leadership is to make sure that we are actually pushing them to maximize the purchasing power of those sellers. Meaning to make sure that they're actually not just utilizing our funds, our HUD funds, which is CDBG Home, but also ensuring that they're leveraging their funds with their private investment. So a deal that is perhaps maybe $10 million could maybe be a deal that it's $20 million and really increase the...
 production of affordable housing units and rehab those affordable housing units in our community. So we follow that model. We push that model. That was a model actually that was also recognized by our friends at HUD. Also a model that was recommended by consultants in that you don't just do a deal with federal funds anymore. You seek other leveraging of funds. You make sure that there's also private money to make sure that you increase the affordable housing units.
 So we were very pleased that we put out $19.2 million of our funds. And what we got back from the developers was a total investment of $50 million. So we're talking about, in essence, an investment that will produce 258 affordable housing units. That's huge. That's never happened in our community in terms of a deal this size. Normally speaking...
 We put deals like this, we put deals associated with federal funds, and then the developers only use those funds to produce these affordable housing units. This is something that it's a best model, it's a best practice, while frankly it's a model also that if you look at the inflationary markets that we're seeing, it's only relevant to address this issue.
 One of the things I wanted to spend time to talking to you folks about this is, of course, looking at some of the data, right? So we utilize the comprehensive housing market analysis. That analysis tells us that we basically went from 8.7 in vacancies to 3.5 during the first quarter of 2016 to the first quarter of 2021.
 that tells us that we have a lot less available units for our low to moderate income population. That means that it's a lot more challenging to reside within city limits if you are with a very limited income. So we took this data, we digested this data, and we realized that of course, a reduction in bank injury rates means fewer affordable housing units, it means increased competition among tenants, right? More tenants, right?
 higher rental costs, and then ultimately limiting the access to affordable housing units from our limited income clients. So this deal is exactly addressing that. We know that HUD is estimating an additional, 2,300 additional rental units over that three year forecast period. So we need to start to get to work right now. We need to start to make sure that these deals are flowing to increase that production.
 We just wanted to share with you the seven projects to be funded and I think one of the things I would highlight is the difference in between the HUD funding as opposed to the total development cost. So if you look at the 19.2 million dollars those are the funding sources that we put out right CDBG, HOME and very excited very happy to see that these projects these developers are stepping up in a significant way to basically invest
 close to $50 million to our community. And I mean, that ratio speaks for itself. We're very excited about that. One of the things that we are looking at is adopting this model for future deals, ensuring that we're releasing these funds in a way that folks don't just rely on city funds, bathroom funds, that is, from the feds, to build affordable housing in our community. With that, I will take any questions y'all may have.
 representative followed by representative thank you mr mayor first and foremost i want to thank you and miss ferney for your uh your um briefing it was very informative but i really want to congratulate you and your team and the whole group for thinking outside the box and and bringing more affordable housing to our community it's thinking like that that's going to make us
 really, really accessible and affordable for people in that market. So thank you, thank you for your support. Thank you, now we have Mayor Pro Tem then Representative Kanellis. Oh, the switch. I don't know. Thanks, Abraham, really excited about this. Are we working on a project like this with organizations like the Housing Finance Corporation?
 We're certainly in a position where we're increasing communication with those folks. One of the things that we're doing is obviously connecting more with their leadership and basically structuring recurring meetings so we know
 the avenue that they're coming from. We know the deals that they're pursuing, and most importantly, they're also a partner, and we are always welcoming more partnerships on future notice of fund availability. So just so you all know, this deal was put out, right? But we're already thinking about the next cycle, we're already thinking about the next set of funds, and that's something that we're always aligning with those individuals as well. So we're looking to increase that partnership communication for sure. Sure, and I know we've met with them, we've talked in length about how other cities, these programs are,
 much more successful because the city and the finance corporation are working together i would love to see that happening i think that we are just limiting ourselves when we're not working in partnership if we both have the same goal we should be combining those efforts and so i i know that we have all met with the housing finance corporation before i thank you for that and just encouraging you to continue building that relationship in the future thank you ma'am canales
 thank you mayor um yeah thank you for the update uh and for your work and miss farini's work and all of your team's work um on this very important investment in these uh affordable housing units for for the city um you know as i've said before on a couple of different items that have come before us in recent weeks this isn't just about providing shelter
 It's about strengthening the entire community, promoting equity, and making sure that we improve the quality of life for everybody, helping the most vulnerable El Pasoans lift everybody up. So as we heard in the presentation, it's about a $19.2 million investment of our home funds and our CDBG funds through the revolving loan program, revolving loan fund program.
 258 affordable units is huge. As you said, it's like a really unprecedented investment for us. Again I just want to emphasize affordable housing, it provides stability for families. It's not just a matter of compassion, although that's really important, but it's an economic driver too.
 People are not able to access the workforce if they don't have stable housing, you know, they're not able to Have employment if they don't have a place to stay it attracts businesses to the area around this investment because it creates stable customer base You know, it's difficult to patronize businesses in an area if you don't have a place to stay and so I think the
 any work that we do to benefit the community is rooted in this because of the stability that people need in order to essentially participate in society. And having access to housing is what gives people that stability. So thank you. It's really important work. I know we've been having conversations recently about housing.
 other ways that we can promote the construction either Directly by the city or by the private sector of more affordable units. This is an awesome first step and I hope that we can continue Because as much as we need to celebrate 258 units, you know HUD has as you showed in the presentation the need is much higher than
 In the next few years, we're going to need more than 2,000 units to meet the demand. And so we're already in a shortage situation, and we need to continue to develop affordable options for people in order to get ourselves out of that shortage. So thank you for the hard work, and I'm here for you for whatever I can do to help the work continue to advance. Thanks. Thank you. Representative Hernandez.
 Good morning, everyone, or afternoon already. Afternoon.
 I'm really excited about this opportunity I think it's going to make significant impact to El Pasoans all across the city just a couple of years ago the city of El Paso was recognized by as an all-American city because of our focus on helping affordable housing in our community and so we can't forget where we're at and the progress that we have today I am a product and I know other members of council are the product of affordable housing when
 children and families the same opportunity to every other family then there is a direct impact not only to the economy but our social responsibility to care for others and so this is going to be Really impactful but as representative canala said we got to move the needle I would challenge you all and I know you have really great ideas and
 to find really eloquent responses like you presented today on increasing that number because too many families unfortunately cannot afford their rent and big families are living in apartments. And so many thanks and congratulations to all of the folks who would get this benefit and we are counting on those developers to provide.
 really nice rehabilitation in communities for all of our families I do have a question related to compliance we have in the past we have looked at AMI levels or is there a benchmark or is there a requirement to serve the lowest income families with this or is it going to be the state standards which is I don't believe is enough
 Well, one of the things we do is when we start executing agreements, before execution I should say, we start negotiating agreements, we look at their scope of work, we look at the clientele that they want to serve.
 And one of the things we've always done and it's been heavily supported by this council is to push to serve the folks are in most need. Right. So the lowest am eyes the folks that are struggling to stay out of homelessness. Right. So we do try to work incentives out with our developers to say look if you're going to
 serve this very vulnerable population, can we connect you with other services? Can we connect you with folks that offer perhaps delivery of meals, perhaps job training, and so those things. So that's always looked at when the developers and the city worked out the scope of work. And in terms of compliance, I mean, that's one of the teams that I'm probably the most proud of that I oversee is compliance because these folks,
 do monitorings, audits I should say, on a very recurring basis. They go out there, they seek information, they ultimately wanna make sure that A,
 They're offering affordable rates, so they're not offering market rates. They're offering affordable rates, and then also that they're sticking to their services that they're providing in terms of job training, in terms of food security, in terms of all the other things. So we certainly have pushed for that, and we'll continue to do that to make sure that we serve the folks that are most need first, the folks that have no other options other than perhaps going to a shelter.
 Thank you for that and I just wanted to be clear on the on these agreements after this vote will it stipulate the percentages of the MI per okay and do we have the framework is there a category with 30% to 80% or is it vary between it varies one of the things we also look at is how many units right because if you look at the portfolio right this is why this deal is a president's huge this deal is huge
 is that you have players that are doing maybe less than 30 units. Then you have folks like the Housing Authority doing more. So it's basically going in as a standard. But we do have those standards, and we'll make sure we apply them for these developers. And I'm not suggesting that you put so many low-income families in one development. We see through empirical evidence that
 it's more beneficial to put families along with market-based rental units. And so I'm not saying that they should all be, but there should be a focus and a target to target those families. And so I haven't seen the agreements, which is like –
 for the developers today to keep that in mind, that there are a lot of struggling families and so the more that you can target in your development, the better, but having that diversified level of incomes between families I think is critical. But again, I know this is a lot of work over the years and so I'm really proud that we are now being presented this recommendation and good work to the team and Mrs. Ferini for your leadership.
 Thank you. Thank you, Representative Hernandez. Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks. Okay, now I have my actual questions, y'all. Similar to Representative Hernandez, I'm looking at, I think they're upwards of 2,000
 well I'll just say wanting to understand a little bit more about the contracts that are going out you know interested in how they are different the Opportunity Center for homeless versus the housing opportunity management so if we get briefings on that but I genuinely just wanted to say congratulations I know this has been years of conversation years in the making
 It's the beginning of, I think, something that is going to be really great for this community and kick off a lot more affordable units in areas that are much in need. And so I really just wanted to commend the work that you all have done on this. Thank you. Do we need a motion? This item is not posted for action. There's no motion on this. There's no action on this. Just presentation. I want to thank you all for, you know, I think Representative Farrow kind of.
 Summed it all up that thinking outside the box and you know as representative Anandas is talking about that We didn't continue to look and see how we can improve even though we're doing a great job How do we do a better job and how we continue to serve our community?
 And I you know miss preenie and Abraham you and your team y'all are doing a really really good job of you know Again, like there's a person thinking outside the box But also looking to see how we can continue to move the needle. So thank you all if I may add mayor one thing I
 My boss just asked me to mention. Oh, go ahead. So all of these deals come with affordability periods, meaning that they're locked in for a significant number of years, depending on the size of the deal, of course, ensuring that developers and whoever's managing that property, that they offer these affordability rates. So I just wanted to say that because I think that's very, very important. Thank you all. Thank you.
 can we go to call to the public please there's no call to the there's nobody signed up to speak on this item but we do have public you want to go to call to the public it's chapter 12. the el paso city council is the local government body charged with serving all the citizens of the city and meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge
 The city council meetings are public common public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting profane threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during the call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. Again this is for public comment only and there will not be any interaction from members of the City Council. Thank you.
 And we have 26 people who signed up to speak. The first three people are Ms. Elizabeth Crawford. Are you on the call? Star six to unmute yourself please. And her topic is CARIFAM, Tennessee Washington DC Rescuers. Ms. Crawford, you have three minutes
 Yes, can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Good afternoon I want to start with a quote from the Bible that the Lord Jesus spoke For what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul?
 I would like to speak about the Pink House that opened in 2022 in Las Cruces, New Mexico. It was an abortion mill in Jackson, Mississippi. It was the one on the Supreme Court case that overturned Roe versus Wade. They closed in Mississippi and opened in Las Cruces.
 El Paso, as we know, no longer legally performs surgical abortions. However, as we know, many of the people from Texas, many of the young ladies are going up to New Mexico. And I would assume that many, many referrals are being made to New Mexico from here and very probably to the Pink House.
 When I served in the Midwest, I got to serve in Jackson for a while. It was one of the most awesome places to serve on the sidewalk. There were beautiful families who used to bring their kids, their own kids, their adopted kids onto the sidewalk. There's a young lady, Anna Boy, that I met. She was 12 years old and at her age had saved over 10 babies. She would go on missions trips to Ukraine and...
 just a beautiful family. And they practiced what they preached. They provided help for those babies that were saved for those families. Some of those people that I met in the Midwest did a rescue, an old-fashioned type rescue in Tennessee where they nonviolently, again, I emphasize nonviolently, entered a medical facility and they were singing hymns and praying.
 and they were arrested knowing they were going to be arrested, they did it. Why would these people do something like this? They knew that life is a gift from God. Within this group, there's a lady, Eva Edel, who's an elderly lady, survivor of a Yugoslavian death camp. Coleman Boyd, emergency room surgeon, has 12 kids, nine of their own, three adopted. Chet Gallagher, former police officer in Las Vegas, who is a survivor of a Yugoslavian death camp.
 who ended up giving up his career when he decided that he could not arrest those who were protesting abortion, but stood with them, and he lost basically everything. Why would these people do that? They know that God is the author of life, the creator. They're facing a possibility of 11 years in prison.
 those within the group who know christ we understand that the lord jesus is worth it the apostle paul wrote that i may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings for those of us who know christ it's an honor um to to be to to carry his name and to stand for life um thank you so much hope you have a very good day thank you
 The next person is Patricia Osmond. Ms. Osmond, if you can please come up to the podium. You have three minutes, ma'am.
 Thank you, Mayor and City Council members, for your time. I come before you today because on July 6, 2019, I was assaulted. That included a sexual act, which was four days after I reported to El Paso PD, a local prostitute who advertised sex services locally online and through social media. I reported the assault to El Paso PD, and the case subsequently was sent to El Paso District Attorney's Office, which I will discuss the outcome of this.
 THOSE CHARGES AT A FUTURE COUNCIL MEETING. AT THIS TIME I WANT TO FOCUS ON THE LOCAL LACK OF CITY OF EL PASO REGULATION ON SEXUALLY ORIENTATED BUSINESSES THAT ARE CURRENTLY ONLY REGULATED THROUGH THE COUNTY. AS A FORM OF CHECKS AND BALANCES, I AM ASKING THAT OUR CITY COUNCIL AND GOVERNMENT DISCUSS AND ADD TO FUTURE AGENDA ENACTING CITY REGULATIONS ON SEXUALLY ORIENTATED BUSINESSES AND SEX WORKERS SO THEY MUST BE OBTAINED.
 SO THEY MUST OBTAIN LICENSING, BACKGROUND CHECKS AND PAY FEES THROUGH THE CITY IN ORDER TO OPERATE AND BE REGULATED BY OUR CITY, NOT MERELY THROUGH THE COUNTY. THE PARTICULAR PROSTITUTE I REPORTED WAS AND IS STILL AFFILIATED WITH A LOCAL BDSM GROUP WHICH SELLS THEIR SERVICES LOCALLY AND RECRUITS BOTH SEX WORKERS AND CLIENTS OUT OF LOCAL BARS WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS.
 Most would consider their activity sexual assault prostitution. The activity that is being allowed by this unregulated group has widespread effects on the safety of the citizens of El Paso in the form of sexual assaults, rapes, murders, drug crimes, and tax crimes to name a few. Our daughters, nieces, mothers, grandmothers, and others are all potential victims as I was due to the activity of this existing in our community.
 As we are aware, prostitutes have killed clients in recent years. There have been arrests of city employees using paid sex workers. This is a known fact in our community. This group and their activities being advertised in public as they advertise booking BDSM sessions at their dungeon and with their professional dominance. These sexual assault prostitutes work out of...
 UNREGISTERED AND UNREGULATED LOCATIONS. ANY SEXUAL SERVICE OFFERED FOR A PRICE IS PROSECUTION ACCORDING TO THE TEXAS PENAL CODE. I ASK THAT OUR CITY OF EL PASO REPRESENTATIVES RESEARCH THIS GROUP AND THEIR ACTIVITIES AND ENACT MUNICIPAL CODES ON A CITY LEVEL TO ENHANCE THE REGULATION OF THE SEXUAL-ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND ACTIVITY. GROUPS LIKE THIS WHO ARE PERFORMING IN LOCAL BARS NOT LICENSED AS SEXUAL-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
 So as to further detour this criminal activity, I can, as a matter of fact, state that there are sex workers and prostitutes selling sex services locally as they are advertised online currently. I make this request of our city council and mayor in order to help prevent more victims in our community. I believe every one of you care for the citizens of our city and want to ensure our safety by creating stiffer regulations...
 Thank you, Ms. Osman. Your three minutes are up. Next person is Jaime Barceló, and his topic is local war heroes. You have three minutes, sir. Go ahead, please. Mayor, Leisure City Council, I am Jaime Barceló. With me are members of Community Nación, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, and the Legacy of Valor. These organizations are known for many things, including building the Vietnam Veterans Memorial and helping to establish the monument to the men of Company E.
 Veterans Day is this Saturday, so it's a good time to initiate a project to remember our legacy of military service in a manner Consistent with a tribute to the men of company e we want to join City Council in developing a way to remember that legacy There are many heroes from El Paso but the four I'll introduce received the highest honor for valor in combat the Medal of Honor a short summary is being distributed with additional information about each of these and
 Silvestre Santana Herrera earned the Medal of Honor for gallantry in battle during World War II in France. His unit was pinned down by German machine guns. Herrera advanced toward the enemy and lost both legs and continued to engage the enemy until his unit could destroy the German guns. Herrera died in Glendale, Arizona at age 90. Victor Hugo Espinosa received the Medal of Honor for gallantry in battle during the Korean War.
 He was born in El Paso where he enlisted. While engaged in combat, his unit came under heavy enemy fire. Espinosa launched a one-man counterattack, armed only with his rifle and some hand grenades. He continued his attack, inflicting heavy losses on the enemy and securing his unit's fighting positions. He continued his military career, retired, returned to El Paso, and is buried at Fort Bliss National Cemetery.
 Ambrosio Guillen received the Medal of Honor posthumously for gallantry in battle during the Korean War. At 18 years of age, he joined the Marine Corps and was deployed to Korea, where his position was attacked by an empirically superior force. He directed his platoon's defensive action until he was wounded. He continued the battle, eventually repelling the larger force. He died on the battlefield and is buried at Fort Bliss National Cemetery.
 Jesus Santiago Duran received the Medal of Honor for actions in battle during the Vietnam War. Duran joined the Army in 1968 and deployed to Vietnam. During combat operations, his unit was under attack. He used a machine gun to launch a successful counter-assault to defend his unit. After leaving military service, he settled down in Riverside, California, where he died at age 28.
 We ask you to invite us to explore ways to honor and memorialize local war heroes as we did with the men of Company E. A possible location for a fitting tribute is near the Mexican American Cultural Center because of its historical, cultural, and local focus.
 Maybe we change the name of Cleveland Square to Plaza de Héroes. We think it's important to share our legacy of honorable military service with El Paso and the rest of the country, and we are eager to continue this conversation. My contact information is provided on the summary so that your designee may contact me. Thank you for your time. Are there any questions? Thank you, sir. The next 23 speakers, Mr. Mayor, they're all in support for Palestine. The next person is Luz Corral.
 Ms. Corral, if you can please come up to the podium. You have three minutes.
 Hello members of City Council. I am speaking today as a member of the local community Viva Palestina El Paso, Texas and as a member of the El Paso community to call upon our City Council members to issue a statement in support of a ceasefire and an end to the occupation of Palestine. Along with my testimony, I provide a letter to our Council members written by Viva Palestina and endorsed by over 300 community members of El Paso.
 This is a crisis. Israel has declared a genocidal war on Palestinians in Gaza. Israeli officials are openly planning to open the gates of hell on Gaza, referring to the over 2 million Palestinians trapped inside as human animals.
 Israel has shut down electricity to Gaza, hospitals cannot save lives, and doctors and healthcare workers are working tirelessly despite many of them confronting the corpses of their own family members. Their limited remaining access to internet is fully destroyed and people have no measures to communicate with the outside world. Israel has made its intentions clear. Its politicians have stated this is a war on the civilians of Palestine.
 Israel has openly stated an intention to commit mass atrocities and genocide. Prime Minister Netanyahu saying that the Israeli response will reverberate for generations. All of this is supported in funding and armament by the our U.S. government. It has never been more urgent that our city officials call upon President Biden and Congress to demand a permanent ceasefire and demand that humanitarian assistance be allowed into the Gaza Strip.
 Israel's apartheid system is a violation of public international law, international human rights, and a crime against humanity under international criminal law. Israel has repeatedly defied human rights laws for decades prior to the current genocidal attacks on Gaza, attacks which are now bleeding into the West Bank.
 There is only one way to end the violence, and that is to address the root cause of everything happening. Over 75 years of Israeli military occupation and apartheid, and an end to U.S. complicity and systematic oppression, we the people of El Paso, Texas, call upon you.
 Our city officials, to demand our Congress call for an immediate ceasefire and subsequent end to the occupation of Palestine. Our tax dollars directly support Israel's military as they conduct the ethnic cleansing of the Palestinian people before the world's very eyes. We call upon our city officials to demand Congress for an immediate ceasefire and immediate end to the occupation, demand Congress for immediate allowance of humanitarian aid,
 and demand our nation's leaders to haul all pressure on Gazans to flee to Egypt as this will only repeat the continuous displacement Palestinians have endured since their forced explosion in 1948. Thank you. Your three minutes are up. Next person. Next person is Samer Masood. If I may ask that you hold on your applause so that people can hear their names when we call them up to the podium, please. Ma'am, you have three minutes.
 I'm speaking today as a member of the local organization Viva Palestina, as a member of the El Paso community, and as a Palestinian, to call upon our city council members to issue a statement in support of a ceasefire and an end to the occupation of Palestine. I also ask that Mayor Oscar Leeser...
 formally end the sister city relationship that he signed onto with Hadera Israel. Mayor Leaser, you have made symbolic and tangible gestures of approval and endorsement of Israel's illegal apartheid system and occupation of Palestine. In 2015, as part of a push by the Borderplex Alliance, you signed a sister city agreement with the mayor of Hadera Israel.
 This sister city relationship is founded on the pursuit of economic partnership, a partnership whose success inherently relies on the apartheid system in which Israel operates. To hold a sister city relationship with Hadera Israel is to offer tacit acceptance and support of the unjust and unequal system of apartheid that discriminates and oppresses Palestinians.
 Israel's apartheid system has enacted violence upon Palestinians for decades, limiting their movement, their civil liberties, and every facet of daily life. The oppression includes violations of Palestinians' rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Over 10,000 Palestinians have been killed in the last month with the full support and assistance of the U.S. government. Weapons of mass destruction supplied by the United States are shipped en masse to Israel to continue this genocide.
 In our demand for the City of El Paso to sever their connection with the sister city of Hadera Israel, we want to highlight the significant potential for reinvesting the annual $8.5 million that El Paso allocates to Israel within our own local community. Reinvesting these funds can make substantial improvements within our city by having the opportunity to increase community resources and projects instead of channeling millions to Israel for weaponry. While economic partnerships have potential benefit,
 It is vital they align with the values that El Pasoans uphold, including not causing harm to indigenous populations. The current sister city relationship with Hedera Israel stands in opposition to these values by supporting apartheid practices conducted by Israel. It is our moral responsibility to abandon the sister city relationship between El Paso and Israel.
 We call upon our city officials to demand Congress call for an immediate ceasefire and an immediate end to the occupation of Palestine. Demand Congress call for the immediate allowance of humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip, both north and south.
 demand that our nation's leaders halt all pressure on Palestinians to flee to Egypt, as this will only continue their forced displacement. And we call for our local officials to end the sister city relationship with Hadar Israel. As I repeat, to hold this sister city relationship is to offer tacit acceptance and support of an apartheid system. Mayor Lisa, you have the power to end this relationship and send a symbolic message to Israel that El Paso does not support or endorse violent apartheid systems. Thank you.
 Next member is Sarai Soto. Ma'am, if you can please come up to the podium. You have three minutes. If I may remind everyone, this is public comment only. There will not be any interaction from members of the council. Ms. Soto, you have three minutes. Okay. My name is Sarai Soto Talavera. I use she, her pronouns, and I live in the 79902 zip code area.
 I'm here also to urge city council to not only call for an immediate ceasefire in Palestine, but to call for the end of the occupation of Palestine. I am not in agreement with my tax dollars being used to fund the genocide of the Palestinian people.
 So just to keep it short, again, I urge city council to demand for an immediate ceasefire, demand the immediate entry of humanitarian aid to Gaza. I'm asking the mayor to release a statement in support, a new statement, I'm sorry, in support of a ceasefire and to immediately dissolve our sister city relationship with Hadera Israel.
 I really urge you all to do the right thing. We're all complicit in this. All of our taxpayer dollars are being used to fund the U.S.-funded genocide, and I'm just not in agreement with it, and I hope that you all do the right thing. Thank you. Thank you. Next person is Bajat Masood. You have three minutes, sir. Thank you. My name is Bajat Masood. Thank you for allowing us to speak here. Thank you to the overwhelming police presence at this event.
 We all remember the terrifying violence that occurred on August 3, 2019. We all remember the horrors that occur as a result of people being dehumanized. That is something the Palestinian people have known all too well for over 75 years. We're calling on the city to break its sister city relationship with Israel. We're calling on the city to view what is happening in Gaza for what it is, a genocide. We are calling on all of you to step outside of the barriers of your political system and view what is happening with a lens of humanity. Demand a ceasefire. It really is a simple request.
 One you would instantly understand and agree with if you were the one whose family was being bombed to death, or your water supply was cut off. We have a tendency in this country, aided by the media, to view what is happening between Israel and Palestine as a conflict, but in reality, this is a genocide. Israel claims the reason they bombed Gaza indiscriminately is due to the fact that they hide Hamas in strategic locations. This isn't true, and Israel has rejected the UN's ability to search these hospitals because they know it's not true. However,
 Even if it were, in what universe is it acceptable collateral to bomb a hospital, let alone three? If you as city council members view what Israel is doing as acceptable, I sincerely question your ability to make sound decisions on behalf of your city. We are beyond the pale, and our nation is already responsible for bankrolling the mass murder of children. El Paso, as a city of immigrants, a city that sits on stolen land, has the ability to turn against the bloody oppression we see our federal government cause.
 We need to end our sister city relationship with Hedera Israel. This goes without question. We need a ceasefire. If you as city council members do not want to go home tonight knowing you're complicit in genocide, do what is right. Because the world will hold you all accountable for this one day. And you will wonder why your children and grandchildren scorn you for accepting genocide over humanity if you don't. Thank you. Next person is Yamir Rivera Velasquez.
 And I'm going to remind everyone, no personal attacks to any group or person, please. You have three minutes. My name is Yamir Rivera Velazquez. I'm echoing what the others have said before me. On May 20, 2015, you, Oscar Leaser, signed an agreement with Hadera's mayor, declaring Hadera Israel a sister city to El Paso. Why? What relationship, what connection is there between the two cities?
 Why do you establish connections with Israel instead of focusing on making crossing easier for those in our true sister city of Juarez? I'd remind you that according to the 2022 El Paso census, 82.9% of El Pasoans are Hispanic or Latino. We as a people all come from cultures and ethnic groups that are functionally extinct, but we can see...
 that we can pretend that history is ancient, that it's so old that it's irrelevant, but as we can see, it's clear as day that the terror of settler colonialism is alive, funded by our tax money, solicitated by our government, approved by this council, if this relationship with Hadara is allowed to continue. We cannot allow this implicit approval of the bombings from the IDF to continue. The sister relationship was established on the basis of investment.
 The agreement would enable Israeli investors to come to El Paso and vice versa. It has been eight years since then. If there is money being made, then the citizens of El Paso certainly don't see it or feel it. With this in mind, if this relationship is about money, why shouldn't you leverage it
 against the hostile campaign against Palestine. Why are we not saying no more investors until the bombing of hospitals, schools, and supposed safe spots declared by the IDF cease? We are obligated to do our part to stop this atrocity of these massacres of which 70% are women and children. A statement calling for the ceasefire is the very least you as the council can do. A severing of the connection between Hadera and El Paso is your moral obligation.
 On Saturday, there were 9,488 deaths, including 3,900 children, 2,509 women, in addition to 2,200 missing people, and 24,158 injured, in addition to the targeting of 105 health institutions and the withdrawal of 16 hospitals from service.
 Israel has committed nearly a thousand massacres against the people in the Gaza Strip. This cannot stand. This must cease. And all of you, every single one of you, have the power to help the movement to make it so by either making a statement declaring for a ceasefire or severing the connection between Hadera and El Paso. Thank you. Next person is Morgan Jodoin, followed by Stuart Shorts. Sorry if I massacred your last name.
 Hello I'm here in support of Viva Palestina as well I wanted to bring attention to the sister city relationship of El Paso with Hadera Israel. I wanted to remind our city representatives why we should care and that we should can affect change at a local level by severing this tie. I think it's very important and I think you can see with the outcome here today that there are many of your constituents who believe this and we do not want our taxpayers
 dollars being used to support genocide. As these crimes of humanity continue without open condemnation, we should remember that it is not our foreign policy which determines our right or wrong, but history which condemns those who stand aside in the face of such evil atrocities.
 Israel does not mince words when speaking its intentions with the Palestinian people, referring to them as beasts, inhuman, or fundamentally evil in their existence. Mind you, this is a population that of 2022 has compromised 45% of children under the age of 18. This dehumanization rhetoric is not unfamiliar in the face of genocide, as we've seen in World War II.
 In a situation where an occupancy faces an entire population, is militarized by law, and whose political leaders openly advocate for the eradication of a population subsumed beneath its control, there are no sides to be taken. It is because of that that I urge our city officials and representatives to stand on the side against genocide and to sever the sister city relationship with Hadera Israel, to call for a ceasefire, and to call for an end to the occupation. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next person is Stuart Shorts, followed by Raneem Karboji. Mr. Shorts, you have three minutes. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. On October 6th, a two-year-long ceasefire was in place between Hamas and Israel. That ceasefire was broken by Hamas the following day.
 when terrorists swept across the border from Gaza and massacred 1,400 Israeli civilians in an unprovoked attack that targeted innocent seniors, children, and infants, and took over 230 hostages, including a nine-month-old child.
 Since the massacre, Hamas supporters and other anti-Semitic actors have threatened and targeted Jewish and Israeli individuals and institutions worldwide. The ADL reports that anti-Semitic incidents have increased by 388% just in the last month. In November 2022, the City Council, this City Council...
 adopted the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, IHRA, working definition of anti-Semitism. This action followed similar action by the Texas legislature, as well as over 1,000 international organizations, governing bodies like yourself, NGOs, universities, athletic clubs, and corporations. We are better as a community for acknowledging that bigotry and hatred directed at any group of people
 have no place in El Paso. Healthy debate about the situation in the Middle East is certainly appropriate. However, the line should never be crossed where debate is replaced with expressions of hatred for a peoplehood, for who we are, our history, and how we worship. As President Biden noted in his October 20 Oval Office address to the nation, we must reject all forms of hate, whether against Muslim, Jews, or anyone else.
 The time is now for City Council to again reaffirm its stance against anti-Semitism and Islamophobia in any form and condemn in no uncertain terms all acts of otherism within our community. El Paso is better than that. Thank you. Next person is Raneem Karboji, followed by Celeste Marquez. You have three minutes, ma'am.
 Good afternoon City Council, Mayor and City Council. My name is Raneem. I'm a District 7 resident. I hope the District 7 representative is here as absent for a good reason. I'm here to echo the same sentiment that we need to sever our ties with Hedera Israel as
 As far as I've been listening, there have been no personal attacks, just calling out facts that people have signed them in the past. According to a news conference held by Health Ministry in Gaza, 10,022 Palestinians have been killed, including over 4,000 children. 25,000 total Palestinians have also been wounded since October 7th. In the West Bank, at least 152 Palestinians have been killed, 41 children, and one woman.
 According to the United Nations, nearly 1.5 million people are now internally displaced in Gaza out of a population of 2.3 million. 1.5 million out of 2.3 million. At least 11 Palestinian households comprising of 905 people, including 356 children, have been displaced in the occupied West Bank due to Israeli settler violence and access restrictions.
 According to Al Jazeera, the southern part of Gaza is turning into a large concentration camp with Israeli ordering people to move from the north to the south. It still remains difficult to those in the north of Gaza to evacuate. The Israeli Army carried out 450 airstrikes on Gaza since last night. According to the Palestinian Health Ministry, 200 Palestinians were killed in the overnight airstrikes with many buried under rubble.
 We again call on you in no hatred towards anyone or any personal group that we need to sever ties with Hedera Israel. This is unacceptable and does not align with our values in El Paso.
 We ask our city officials to demand Congress to call on an immediate ceasefire, an immediate end to the occupation in Palestine. Demand city to call on Congress for the immediate allowance of humanitarian aid to Gaza. 20 trucks are not enough, 100 trucks are not enough when they used to receive over 500 per day. We demand that our nation leaders halt all pressure on Gazans to flee to Egypt as this will only repeat the continuous displacement Palestinians have endured since their forced expulsion in 1948.
 We call on you, mayor and every city council member, including for the ones that are absent, for our city officials to end El Paso's sister city relationship with Hedera Israel, officiated in 2015 by Mayor Oscar Leiser. This is unacceptable. It cannot continue, and we call on you to end your participation in this ongoing genocide. Thank you. Next person is Celeste Marquez, followed by Nasreen Ruhi. Ms. Marquez, are you present? Yes.
 She will be followed by Nasreen Ruhi and Marla Cohen. Ma'am, you have three minutes. Bismillahirrahmanirrahim. Good morning, good afternoon, Mayor and Council, and Salaam. Thank you for taking the time to listen to us. My name is Jenna Celeste Marquez. I am a third-generation El Pasoan.
 I am here today to hold myself accountable to speaking up for my Palestinian brothers and sisters and speaking out against oppression. As a Muslim, I am commanded to call to enjoying in what is right and forbid what is wrong. I understand the small role I play in calling the people to consciousness.
 of the atrocities funded by our government, but it is my duty to share my knowledge and increase accessibility to it. Speaking out against oppression is an obligation upon every Muslim, to the extent of his or her ability. As the Prophet Muhammad said, whoever of you sees an evil, let him change it with his hands, and if he's not able, then let him change it with his tongue.
 And if he's not able, then let him change it with his heart. And that is the weakest of faith. Excuse me. Israel's soldiers invade Palestinian towns and villages, abduct men, women, and children, beat them and control their lives, and movement daily. Nearly every week, Israel forces demolish Palestinian homes, destroy their crops, confiscate Palestinian land, and they kill the Palestinians.
 While Israeli deaths are reported by U.S. media, Palestinian deaths, which occur far more often, are usually ignored. Much emphasis is placed on rocket attacks from Gaza, while reports rarely mention that these attacks are in response to Israeli violence. Learn more at ifamericansknew.org.
 Since October 7th, the Palestinian Health Ministry counts at least 10,022 people in Gaza have since been killed, including 4,104 of those are children. We are all witnesses to the atrocities committed by the Israeli occupation forces and funded by our tax dollars. No more. We demand a ceasefire, and we demand an end to this occupation and genocide now.
 Free Palestine. Next person. With the remainder of my 20 seconds, I'd like to take those and say a silent prayer in the name of Allah for our deceased brothers and sisters. I encourage you to watch the one that I quoted, If Americans Knew. If Americans Knew, to educate yourselves, please. Thank you so much. Next person. Next person is Nazreen Ruha. You have three minutes, ma'am.
 as a human being. I come here to implore you all to stand on the right side of history, to demand and ask you all to release a statement calling in support of a ceasefire. Growing up, I have seen the many ways in which blatant propaganda and racist lies are used to manufacture consent for decades long wars in the Middle East and which have led to historic levels of hate crimes. And similarly, this blatant propaganda and racist lies about Palestinians and Muslims in the media
 lies which the Israeli media failed to confirm, and yet which our very own president took it upon himself to fuel its spread, but was in fact disproven, all to manufacture consent for Israelis' decimation of the people of Gaza, half of whom are children and have been subject to ethnic cleansing since 1948, to random acts of illegal collective punishment, and who this very second have no water, fuel, medicine, and electricity."
 If we are to think about our life, what we find acceptable and or what we would be and or what we would compromise for our health and our health of our loved ones, what would that be?
 The answer is nothing. We would compromise nothing. We want, we seek, and we get the best. We are privileged to serve as well as to receive the care that we do. Even on our worst days, even during a global pandemic, what we had was infinitely better than the cruel and inhumane way that the people of Gaza are being exterminated. They have nothing. All sorts of life survival has been illegally cut and blocked by the apartheid and genocidal regime of Israel.
 There is white phosphorus currently raining down on Palestinian civilians, a chemical weapon prohibited by international humanitarian law, as it burns straight through the flesh and everything, and it only stops when it hits the bone. Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have unequivocally condemned this, and United Nations has designated it as illegal. Yet the world doesn't even pause to think about the basic humanity of Palestinians and what is happening to Gaza right now.
 With hospitals out of anesthesia supplies, water, power, and everything sterile, surgeries are being performed in the dark without anesthesia on the filthy floor of an already overflowing hospital filled to the brim with trauma victims, not in an operating room. According to Dr. Qassan, one of the many doctors who have been working tirelessly for weeks, receiving a large number of patients, including children, who Israel has seriously injured with indiscriminate bombs, over one-third of Gaza's hospitals are now completely non-operational.
 because they were directly attacked or have been completely have completely run out of fuel and equipment. We shouldn't be here to deliberate as to whether or not we should stop the bombardment. People are justifying and explaining why it is okay to bomb hospitals, ambulances, kill pregnant women, to cut off electricity, food, all sorts of life. These sorts of events, these kinds of behavior, rhetoric continue to lead to the murder of innocent civilians. These are all immeasurable degrees beyond a genocide and America and Israel are sole contributors.
 THIS IS A VIOLATION OF EVERY INTERNATIONAL LAW. THIS IS A COMPLETE VIOLATION OF THE GENEVIA CONVENTION. IT IS AN OBLIGATION UPON EVERY BODY OF GOVERNANCE TO SPEAK UP. THANK YOU, MA'AM. YOUR THREE MINUTES ARE UP. NEXT PERSON IS MARLA COHEN FOLLOWED BY DESIREE MILLER AND EMMA HAGENS. MS. COHEN, YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES. THANK YOU, MAYOR, AND THANK YOU, CITY COUNCIL.
 It is a privilege to be speaking to you today. As a child growing up in Denver, Colorado, I greatly benefited from the Sister Cities exchanges that we had throughout the world. These were cultural and educational exchanges that allowed us to learn about cultures, people, religions, food, music from around the world. When I moved to El Paso this past May, I was excited to learn that El Paso's Sister City is Jadera. I am proud, as my new role as director,
 Executive Director of the Jewish Federation of El Paso and Las Cruces, to be working with Hedera as our sister city. This is a large, the two cities celebrate one thing in common, which is the largest desalinization plants in their region. This is not an accident, but an intentional sharing of intellectual and scientific knowledge between the two countries.
 These desalinization plans allow for here in El Paso, between El Paso Water and Fort Bliss, to retrieve 27.5 million gallons of water previously unavailable to us. In the future, Jewish Federation of El Paso and Las Cruces will be launching a new initiative to address issues impacting our sister cities of El Paso, Las Cruces, in Mexico, and in Israel.
 We can all learn from each other as we address water, agriculture, immigration, border, democracy, and other important issues to all of us. Israel is fighting to defend its borders after a brutal attack by Hamas on October 7th. We have a Palestinian blaming Israel for this genocide is respectfully a bit misleading. Hamas is using Palestinians as human shields to protect Hamas.
 and we should all be demonstrating our outrage that Palestinians are being used to defend Hamas. Respectfully, we are grateful to you, Mayor Lesser, and the City Council for signing the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of anti-Semitism last year. Five times Palestinians have been offered a two-state solution with Israel, and five times Palestinian leadership has rejected it.
 Prior to this war with Israel, Hamas, prior to this war, Israel had been providing Gaza with electricity, food, water, and life-sustaining support. Hamas is to blame for this genocide. Hamas must be held accountable. Thank you. Next person is Desiree Miller.
 Ms. Miller, you have three minutes. Thank you. Hi, my name is Desiree Miller. I am a resident of District 2. And I'm here today to echo what has been said by previous speakers before me. And ask council members to question your place in history in acting in support and being complicit in the genocide of Palestinians. Thousands of people have died, many of which have been children, and there is no possible justification for this.
 To echo our demands very clearly, we are asking that the city write a statement of support for and do everything in your power to demand an immediate ceasefire and subsequent end to the occupation of Palestine. Call for allowing humanitarian assistance into Gaza and end the sister city relationship with Hedera Israel and de-incentivize any economic partnerships with Israel. Thank you. Next person is Emma Higgins. Ms. Higgins, you have three minutes, ma'am. Hello and good afternoon, City Council.
 My name is Emma Higgins and I was born and raised here in El Paso. Today I ask that everyone listening put aside any politics or partisanship and call on their humanity to listen with an open heart and ears. As I've navigated my way through life, I've become painfully aware of the dangers and horrors of the real world. And in turn, I've come to view El Paso as a sort of beacon of hope within the intense and oftentimes bleak political climate of this day and age.
 I've come to know El Paso as home and find comfort and community in its people, in my people. People who carry love and culture from all over the world. El Paso is a beautifully diverse melting pot, and for that, I have been proud to call it my home. Growing up here in El Paso has taught me just how integral the values of freedom, progress, and equality are to the success and strength of a community. Thank you.
 With that, imagine my utter shock and disappointment when I learned that the government of El Paso, Texas, my home, the same home that I share with so many Latino, black, indigenous people of color, people with strong values and character, willingly entered into a sister city agreement with Hedera Israel in 2015.
 Hedera, of course, actively participates in the longstanding, oppressive, hyper-militarized apartheid regime vital to the establishment and expansion of Israel, a settler colonial state. The same Israel that has been enacting a systematic and calculated campaign of textbook genocide and ethnic cleansing over the past 75 years. The escalation in military aggression against innocent Palestinians.
 Palestinian civilians has escalated beyond nightmarish levels recently and we need to stand in solidarity with our Palestinian brothers and sisters to show that El Paso and stand against this genocide and not alongside Israel we cannot in good faith continue to claim to be a community that values the tenants of freedom progress or equality while simultaneously standing in ally ship
 with a city like Hedera, whose values are so evidently and drastically misaligned with those of our own. In order to act in line with our strong principles, it is imperative that El Paso leverages this opportunity to condemn the actions of Israel by severing ties with Hedera and calling for an immediate ceasefire and a permanent ceasefire.
 We, not only as El Pasoans, but as members of the human race, are morally obligated to take a unified stance for a ceasefire and condemn Israel's inhumane actions. We as a community must unite now more than ever to reinforce our values by fighting for a free Palestine and calling for an immediate ceasefire and ending any and all diplomatic ties to Israel. And this is the first step in the right direction.
 Thank you. Next person is Salma Atiyah, star six to unmute your microphone. And you have three minutes. Can you hear me? Miss Atiyah? There you go. Can you hear me? Yes we can hear you now. Yeah. You have three minutes. Hello city council members. For the past 31 days Israel has committed to the ethnic cleansing of Palestinians in Gaza.
 and in the West Bank. Regardless of what happened on October 7th, it is now clear that Israel has zero concern for hostages and instead has focused on eliminating Palestinians from Gaza in order to expand their occupation. Let us be clear, Israel has also committed crimes against Jewish people, and Israel has also committed crimes against their own citizens who have been protesting against the massacre in Gaza. Israel has violated the so-called rules of war and has committed severe humanitarian crimes.
 such as using white phosphorus, the excuse that some civilian casualties is unavoidable in order to target Hamas. One second.
 in order to target Hamas, told to no wait, when more than 10,000 Palestinians have been brutally murdered, with 4,000 being children. This is clear as daylight. It is a genocide that our tax dollars are funding. I urge our city council to advocate for a ceasefire. I call upon you to use your influence to call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza. At this point, Palestinians no longer have any access to water, food, or electricity. This is in and of itself a crime committed by
 Israel. Let's remember that there is not a state nor a country. It is a 25-mile territory under Israeli control. It is their responsibility to allow Palestinians access to basic human necessities. The loss of life and suffering is devastating, and it is our moral duty to speak up and use our voices to pressure for a ceasefire. Reconsider the sister city relationship with Hadera. It's
 In light of the genocide occurring in Gaza, I strongly recommend that our city re-evaluate the sister city relationship with Hadera Israel. While fostering cultural exchanges is valuable, it is also essential that our partnerships align with our commitment to peace and humanitarian values. Israel is a criminal settler colonial militant state with blood on their hands. Let us recognize that Hadera Israel was created via the ethnic cleansing and removal of calcium and alpha products.
 We should not hold these types of relationships with apartheid states. Let's also recognize that the creation of Hadera Israel also contributes to climate change because it is indigenous people, Palestinians, who actually protect the land. So it is a wrong assumption to believe that the land of Israel is actually a good thing for climate change and for us.
 the world as a whole, we need to advocate for a free Palestine. As a concerned member of this community, I believe that we have a responsibility to stand for peace, justice, and human rights. You as city council can use your voice to stand up against this apartheid regime and potentially motivate other cities around Texas to stand their ground and therefore make the voices of constituents be heard. You as a city council members have a responsibility to our Palestinian community here in El Paso to show them that you stand with Palestine and against genocide.
 Thank you, Ms. Atilla. Your three minutes are up. Next person is Javier Miranda, followed by Jose Miguel Reyes. Mr. Miranda, you have three minutes. Afternoon, Mayor, Council. First of all, I commend the young folks that are here speaking as a recently retired educator.
 War crimes consisting of the disproportionate killing of innocent children and the indiscriminate bombing of schools, refugee camps, places of worship, hospitals, and residential dwellings have been committed by Israel's military. Zionists in the Knesset and Benjamin Netanyahu's administration have further exacerbated an apartheid system, which has been implemented since 1948. Thank you.
 It is important to condemn the atrocities and murders perpetrated by the terrorist organization of Hamas in October 7th, which resulted in the loss of 1,400 lives. However, the subsequent collective punishment incurred by 2 million Palestinians, half of whom are innocent children already deprived of basic human rights and have essentially been raised in a concentration camp, is a crime against humanity and needs to be stopped.
 The dropping of 20,000 tons of bombs on Gaza, more than one and a half times dropped on Hiroshima, has erased entire family bloodlines. We are obligated to join the global call for peace and end this genocide. Those of us who are critical of Israel and the IDF can erroneously be accused of anti-Semitism, but the annihilation of Gaza's children compels acts of conscience.
 El Pasoans are not ignorant of such injustices, for our own past reveals systemic oppression. Circumstances in Palestine mirror those of our cities in terms of the militarization of our border, displacement of generational communities, segregation of our people, the cold-blooded execution of innocent youth at our border, as well as the draconian separation of children from their families. We cannot in good conscience continue to remain silent.
 Unfortunately, our dysfunctional federal government refuses to collectively call for a ceasefire, choosing to quell votes for peace at the United Nations, while providing billions of dollars and weaponry to continue Israel's genocidal onslaught. It is up to us to join our global community to wield influence. Respect for humanity cannot be reined in by legislators who are bankrolled by corporations to profit from our misery.
 Therefore, I urge our municipal representatives to refuse to be indifferent to the genocide taking place in Gaza and to renounce the violence plaguing both our Jewish and Palestinian brothers and sisters. I ask of our elected representatives to issue a resolution demanding an immediate ceasefire and to commence peace negotiations which include the framework for an equitable two-state solution. Should the genocide continue, our municipal government must immediately undertake nonviolent,
 actions of boycotting, sanctioning, and divesting from Israeli commodities and financial transactions. It will be through the pulling of macroeconomic leverage. Your three minutes are up. Thank you. Next person is Jose Miguel Reyes, star six. To unmute yourself, Mr. Reyes. Can you hear us? Go ahead. Three minutes, sir. I show you're unmuted, but we can't hear you. Star six. There's technical difficulties. The next person is...
 Serena Duchette, please come up to the podium. You have three minutes, ma'am. I'm already crying right now, so here we go. Everybody said it all. People ask, what would you do during the Holocaust? What would you do during the genocide of Native Americans? What would you do during slavery? Y'all are doing it right now. Everybody here. If you're not going to even speak for the voices of what we see, we're here to let you know we are on social media today.
 And every time we go on our phones, we are witnessing the same pictures of what, unfortunately, the Jews are repeating in this situation. But I do want to say that this isn't a religious war that they want to make it. There are Jewish voices for peace that you can look up. They're all over the country. I saw them on the Statue of Liberty yesterday, like all over the place. People are doing so many things right now to stop this in any way that they can.
 I've never really spoken in a place like this, but I do believe that we're all here for a reason. I'm a massage therapist, a traditional Islamic practitioner. I help people who can neither afford services for their health, but most of my clients are people of jobs that are traumatic. So military, I see people in the police. I see people who work inside the children encampments. These people are traumatized. We are all traumatized knowing what's going on.
 I cannot be silent knowing that somebody who just left inside of the children encampments that are secretly silenced on Fort Bliss, she had to leave because of witnessing just too many pregnant nine and ten year olds in cages. It's unacceptable and I can't see the difference. I really can't. Palestine, Palestine,
 Juarez, any baby, any child, any young person, any woman, any family. Do you guys remember that we are all related to Adam? We are all people of the earth. We're all related and we're all one family. If you are distracted by the borders and the nations that have been created, this is evil and this is the work of Shaitan. This is the work of the devil. Wake up. We're all related. It doesn't matter what religion you are. It doesn't matter where you come from.
 At least at your dinner tables, please speak about what we see. We see piles of babies. We see bombs that go down on concentration camps filled of just children, and they line them up from the newborns to the teenagers. We see the mass graves, and we see history repeating itself.
 So I would like to take the rest of this time to say any prayer of any religion for all people who die all over the world. We are never going to stand for this, and we are all going to keep doing this, and we'll be back and back and back to see what you guys have been doing to work on this, okay? You already know our demands. Thank you. Thank you. Next person is Zaya Hari Ortiz, star six to unmute your phone, and you have three minutes.
 Ms. Ortiz, can you hear us? Star 621, mute your phone. You have three minutes, ma'am. Yes, we can hear you. All right. Thank you, counsel, for just giving me this opportunity to come before you. I'm sorry I couldn't be there in person. So I stand here before you to call for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and to end the occupation in Palestine.
 For Al Jazeera, the Hell Ministry of Gaza and the Palestinian Red Cross, as of today, there's 10,328 people who have been murdered, including 4,237 children. There have been at least 25,000 injured, which includes 8,067 children. More than 2,600 Palestinians are missing in the rubble, and among these are 1,300 children. 1.5 million people are now displaced internally out of the 2.3 million people.
 at least 89 UN staff have been killed, which the UN staff, the UN organization itself says that this has been the highest ever death toll of the organization. One of the hospitals will run out of fuel in less than 48 hours. And as a future decision, this means that life saving equipment, incubators, ICUs, all will shut down. So this just means that this is a death sentence to any patient there who needs this to survive.
 Israel has bombed multiple hospitals, including the only cancer hospital in Gaza and a pediatric cancer unit. The UN reports that there's only enough food for five days, which is 120 hours. So just keep that in mind. Bombing medical facilities, bombing hospitals, bombing staff.
 journalists. This is a war crime. And the Geneva Convention that was ratified in 1945 and the 196 countries who have ratified this have ensured that this is a war crime. And Israel itself has ratified this convention and Israel itself is committing these war crimes. So again, this is not
 a war that is a position this is not a war only targeting Hamas this is a war that is targeting Palestinians and its intent of their removal through ethnic cleansing so call it for what it is this is a genocide so humanitarian process is not enough we need to demand a ceasefire we need humanitarian aid to enter Gaza and I understand you might say that you might not have you know
 You do not represent the council, but as city officials, you can make a stance now to Congress. It is an obligation to stand against genocide, not only as elected officials, but as human beings. So I implore you and I beg you to demand ceasefire and stand against this genocide. And I just want to say that our privilege should weigh heavy on us today. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Dolores Clay, followed by Mario Olguin. Ms. Clay, you have three minutes, ma'am. Before I begin, I want to state how grateful I am to be standing here today. I want to acknowledge the privilege I have to be able to speak here. I know all of my family's whereabouts. Thank you.
 I have the privilege today to go home after this meeting and cook myself lunch and just simply exist for the rest of the day. That is a privilege that has not been afforded to Palestinian people, and that's a topic I'd like to discuss. I'm calling on the council to take a stance not only as individuals but as a collective to demand a ceasefire and an end of the occupation of Palestine. Today marks exactly one month since the world has begun to pay attention to the crimes that Israel is committing against the Palestinians within Gaza and now the West Bank.
 Over the course of this month, I have seen tragic and graphic images of deceased men, women, and especially children. I have seen people just search for hours to find a body part of a loved one just to have some sort of peace of mind. I cannot begin to describe the pain that exists in my heart and my body when I see children and parents crying over their loved ones while continuing to hold their strength for their community.
 I have seen people such as Besan, Plastia, and Motaz who are oppressed within Gaza documenting what they believe are going to be their last days alive. I wake up every morning just to check their accounts to make sure that they have survived the night. All that Palestinians have been asking us is for us to bear witness to this tragedy.
 And we are bearing witness. We are bearing witness to a genocide that is continuously wiping out generations of family, more specifically 45 generations of families. This is no longer a complex conflict, but rather a humanitarian crisis that involves all the people on deck. While I completely understand that this Council does not have congressional power, it does possess power and influence over its own community.
 By expressing our solidarity with the Palestinians, we are expressing that we do not condone this ongoing genocide and stand against any and all forms of oppression. I know that many people here and many people in El Paso might believe that we might not be able to make a huge difference by taking a stance as a city. But I have seen with my very own eyes over the past 21 years of my life that that is not true. I have seen this community come together in the face of tragedy and become what is known as El Paso Strong.
 our actions I have seen the city turn actions of hate into love and solidarity with one another and our actions did not go unseen by the public eye as we were broadcast as all over the United States we became known for El Paso strong because it's exactly who we are as a community we as a community can show that strength and love towards our Palestinian brothers and sisters as we continue to help them fight for their freedom thank you thank you
 Next speaker, Mario Olguin, followed by former city representative Peter Shorespine, Miguel Escoto, and Haley Palafox. Marlo. Marlo Olguin. Yeah, I was going to correct it, but I appreciate it. All right. You have three minutes. Thank you. My name is Marlo. I'm a District 6 constituent. In these dark times, I come here today to request two actions from our city council.
 One, to end the Twin City relationships with Hadera Israel, and second, to call upon an immediate ceasefire. In 2015, our city joined with the Borderplex Alliance, signed a Twin City agreement with Hadera in the apartheid state of Israel. It means to build bridges and communities across the world.
 Although I agree that as a border city, hyper-militarized as it may be, as a cultural hub in a community that convictions are aligned with humanitarian aid, we should build bridges internationally. I condone and we should all condone having relations with settler states that bomb borders, that bomb bridges, preventing humanitarian aid going to communities that they keep hostage.
 Israel has provided gas, food, water, and necessary resources to Gaza, much like a guard provides to its prisoners, barely keeping them alive with half the population starving and the rest barely surviving.
 We're a community that receives and welcomes migrants from all over the world. We hold a unique perspective to the reasons people leave their homes, searching for a better life and opportunity in our country. We understand and have heard of the journeys many asylum seekers and refugees carry over, devastating stories. Thank you.
 So we also understand that we should advocate for solutions that stop the displacement and the uprooting of people from their homelands. With this, it's important to call upon an immediate ceasefire. Hamas is a consequence of Israel because as history knows so well, respect existence or expect resistance. Respect existence.
 or expect resistance. We should not align ourselves morally, economically, nor politically with war criminals. I repeat, we demand our city council to end twin-city relationships with Hadera and apartheid Israel and to urge our Congress to call on an immediate ceasefire. Libertad, victoria, gloria y vida al pueblo de Palestina. Thank you. Next person, Peter Schwarzbank.
 Mr. Shorespine, three minutes. Thank you, Council Mayor, good afternoon to all the speakers and others here. Thank you for joining us as well. Again, I'm a first generation American. My parents chose El Paso to start their family, proudly born and raised on the border.
 My dad's side, we have dozens of cousins, probably like a lot of your families. A lot of families here in El Paso have cousins on top of cousins. My mother's side, I have about two cousins because her family, except for her oldest brother and sister, out of 10 brothers and sisters, everybody was killed in the Holocaust, murdered by the Nazi regime.
 I'm here to speak on behalf of Sister Cities International as the national chairman. Sister Cities is the oldest and largest citizen diplomacy nonprofit founded by President Eisenhower in 1956 in the middle of the Cold War. It had a very simple premise, that at a time where countries may not talk to each other, it was important for grassroots diplomacy, city to city, citizen to city, mayor to mayor, for exchanges relating to humanitarian concerns, art and culture, technology,
 for people to learn about each other through mutual respect and understanding one city and one community at a time. And by those bonds of understanding, you'd be able to create global peace and prosperity. Now, we don't necessarily tell local chapters what to do, what cities they should become sister cities with, but we do have a couple of sort of policy and guidance. And one of them is specifically relating to times of conflict and crisis.
 Just a year and a half ago, Sister Cities put out a press release encouraging U.S. Sister Cities not to suspend and not to terminate their sister city relationships with Russia's cities.
 We all know that there's a war going on in Ukraine and Russia right now. But at that time, it was important not to punish the citizens of Russia, whether in St. Petersburg or Moscow, who may not agree with their governments, who may not agree with their leaders, but still want to have that relationship because they understand that it's important that people talk to each other and communicate to each other. So I would encourage you, again, to not look at suspending this relationship
 Just a few weeks ago, there were similar spirited voices that declared that they wanted San Antonio to end their sister city agreement with Tel Aviv.
 We have a really beautiful opportunity with Heder Israel, the largest desalination plant there occurs. Their mayor, Nir Ben-Chaim, is actually a descendant of Moroccan Jews. His family fled after 1948, where all Jews in Middle Eastern countries were expelled after the creation of the State of Israel. The reality is that Israelis are being held hostage by Hamas.
 Palestinians are being held hostage by Hamas in the Gaza Strip. Thank you, your three minutes are up. And the peace process is being held by Hamas as well. Thank you. Next person. Next person is Miguel Escoto followed by Hailey Palafox. Sir, you have three minutes. My name is Miguel Escoto. I'm a lifelong El Pasoan and current resident of District Two. I'm here to speak out against the brutal violence that the United States and Israel is unleashing on Palestine.
 My main message, City Council, is that we as El Pasoans hold a deep responsibility to act in this moment when we are witnessing a genocide unfold before our own eyes.
 That includes, as Palestinian organizers here have demanded, the end of the sister city relationship with Hadar Israel. Why? Because these are not normal circumstances. There is an extreme amount of violence, and us ending that relationship sends a message. It sends our message that we are not supporting this.
 The story of this issue should not begin on October 7th of 2023. It should begin in 1947, in the historical event of the Nakba, the mass dispossession of Palestinians from their homeland. During this time, the Israeli Zionist military forces expelled at least 750,000 Palestinians from their homes, attacked major Palestinian cities, and destroyed around 530 villages.
 Around 15,000 Palestinians were killed in this series of mass atrocities in the 1940s. And this disposition of land, this occupation, the violence has not ended since that day. In the last month, Israel and the United States have killed around 10,000 Palestinians, 4,000 of them children. Much of this has been documented and witnessed by our own eyes.
 We have seen our tax dollars be used to bomb hospitals, ambulances, bakeries, and refugee camps. This is not a war. This is asymmetrical slaughter. I plead City Council that you take action. We demand a resolution for a ceasefire and increased humanitarian aid and collaborate with Palestinian organizations here today to coordinate your plan of action, which can include ending the sister city relationship with Hadar Israel,
 as a military city here in El Paso with deep connections to the military and to defense contractors like Lockheed Martin Corporation, who are currently giving jets and missiles to Israel to kill Palestinians. It is on our shoulders, because it is our own city institutions like UTEP
 and the El Paso Chamber of Commerce that have their hands dirty, that have blood on their hands, and are complicit in war crimes. You cannot remain silent. If we remain silent as a city, then we are complicit in war crimes as well. Please take action. Thank you. Thank you. The next person and the last speaker is Haley Palafox. Ms. Palafox, if you can please come up to the podium. You have three minutes.
 Thank you City Council. My name is Haley. I'm a resident of District 1. I'm an El Paso native and for what it's worth I voted for Brian Kennedy. All the other members of Viva Palestina have pretty much summed up like our main points which of course are demanding Congress
 Having the city demand from Congress an immediate ceasefire and an end to the occupation of Palestine, demanding Congress call for the immediate allowance of humanitarian aid into Gaza, demanding that the nation's leaders halt...
 The pressure put on Egypt to receive fleeing Gazans. Additionally, ending El Paso's sister city relationship with Hadar Israel, considering that it was built on the ruins of the Palestinian village of Arab al-Fuqara, which I hope I'm pronouncing correctly. This village was forcibly depopulated during the Nakba in the 1940s.
 And we, as El Pasoans, do not want to continue a relationship with a city that was founded right during a genocide. Furthermore, we want the city to reinvest the over $8 million in our tax money that we give to Israel every single year. We could be spending it on housing, school, schools.
 jobs, roads, anything here in El Paso, but instead it's being sent to Israel to further continue the crime and aid in the crime of genocide that is occurring over there. Furthermore, when I was a child, I would read stories about people who were able to do the right thing during difficult times.
 And even if they stood alone, even if they didn't have that many people supporting them, and in other parts of the country like Washington, D.C., New York, there have been people turning out in the thousands, in the tens of thousands, to call for an end to the genocide in Israel and American support for the genocide in Israel.
 We don't have that here in El Paso. We are smaller than New York, we're smaller than DC. We don't have tens of thousands of people coming out. We don't have 500 Jewish people, descendants of Holocaust survivors and rabbis getting themselves arrested in the congressional office buildings to say that this genocide will not happen in their name.
 The least we can do are these demands that the other speakers listed out. The least we can do is listen to the voices of the Palestinians who live here in El Paso,
 The least we can do is form a small group and come and talk to the city council. And the least we can do is listen when the speakers ask you all to abide by these demands that we have. And that's the end of my time. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Mr.
 San Miguel Reyes, it's star six to unmute yourself. And if I may remind everyone, please keep the quorum. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council. Mr. Reyes, are you on the line? Can you hear me? You have three minutes, sir. Yes, we can hear you.
 Awesome. Good afternoon. My name is Jose Miguel Reyes, a resident of District 7, and I'm calling today in solidarity with the people of Palestine whose lives have been encroached on by the settler colonial project that today we know of as Israel.
 I insist that our elected city representatives and mayor call a resolution to demand immediate ceasefire of Israel's continued indiscriminate bombardment of innocent civilians living in the Gaza Strip. As of today, the amount of total deaths as a consequence of Israel's bombardment has summed up to over 10,000. Half of Gaza's population of two million are children.
 Not speaking out against Israel's continued ground invasion and ethnic cleansing of northern Gaza is further enabling the cycle of violence. Call for an immediate entry of humanitarian aid into Gaza. Israel has blocked all access of essential resources. Currently, there are hospitals in Gaza that are running out of fuel and essential supplies where surgeries are now being performed without anesthesia. We have a duty as citizens of this earth to help those in need.
 And that's by the that starts with demanding a ceasefire and a call to aid in this humanitarian crisis. Lastly, sever ties with the city of Hedera, Israel. We have a moral responsibility as a city that values democracy to not associate with an apartheid state, one that
 that treats a population of different ethnic and religious background as second-class citizens, controlling where they can and can't go, and one that enables the genocide that's occurring right this moment as we speak.
 We as a moral people have an obligation to call it out for what it is. It isn't just my interpretation of the situation. It is one made by U.N. official Craig Muckiver, who has since stepped down over the U.N.'s lack of action to help Palestine and stop Israel. Thank you so much. Mr. Mayor, the next item is item 30, not sure what you want to do.
 I'd like to take item 30 and then break for lunch. Okay. Item 30 is discussion and action on a cash assistance program for low or moderate income families that have experienced a negative impact due to the pandemic. Good afternoon, members of council. Robert Cortinas. So this item is a follow-up to the October 10th city council action that asks us to identify a funding source.
 500,000 also create a process to select an organization to support families that are at or below The adjusted median income and you can read here what the actual action item was back on October the 10th And so this is again a follow-up to that action Item we had to we'd come back in 30 days and it's been about four weeks now So we did look at we did look at a couple of different sources of funding I'll go through those here in just a minute one of the items we did like at though and the co-principal She's gonna present a couple of slides as well
 I was looking at the eligibility of utilizing the ARPA funding that we did receive, particularly the state and local portion that we did receive. So this would be an eligible use. We identified just a quick scan about 26 different cities or counties that are using ARPA to do a cash assistance type program. However, as you can read here, what would be required if we were to use ARPA for a cash assistance program, which is how it's described within the final rule or the guidance on how we can utilize the ARPA funding.
 And so again, there would have to be some form of negative impact that would be identified as a result of the pandemic, whether it's lower moderate income, unemployment, food security, a couple of different things that could be identified. However, that would have to be a part of the process. Also it has to be reasonably proportional. And so with that, it's really vague within the final rule of the ARPA guidance that we
 But basically said you can utilize what the federal government provided as far as assistance as an amount And so the $500 that was discussed I don't think would be an issue if the council decided to go that route And then finally it's got to be proportional in relation to the impact that was Received by that individual. So again The guidance is pretty vague on that However, we feel that the $500 that was discussed would not be an issue as far as eligibility if the ARPA was to be dedicated or allocated towards this particular program and
 So again, we did look at a couple of different sources. We looked at the economic development funding that the city currently has although there is available funding currently the way that or what was discussed at the October 10th council meeting was that particular program would not fall within the impact fund or within the TED policy Which has been approved by City Council We looked at the CDBG funding
 Unfortunately, FY25 notice of funding availability won't go out until January of next year and this particular group that was mentioned at that October 10th meeting Would be eligible to apply to submit a proposal for That particular program and then finally as I mentioned looking at the American Rescue Plan Act in which there was twelve million dollars that was approved by City Council towards the community development and
 particularly related to the community recovery and so a couple of different items that were addressed and that presentation back in may which i sent to you all back on again that october 10th meeting so you've seen that presentation but particularly related to housing homelessness household stability and food stability so we feel that that would be probably the best use if there would be a reallocation of that funding that was approved back in may of last year and so with that i'm going to turn it over to mr kofarini who will get a little bit more detail about the recommendation
 thank you Robert Nicole Farini climate and sustainability officer for the record so as Robert was mentioning our ultimate recommendation is going to be to reallocate funds from the existing ARPA allocation for community recovery and also as he mentioned
 The reason community recovery is because the direction from the city council in that particular pot allocated to community and human development was targeted at addressing the most vulnerable in our community. And I think that we all recognize that there is a tremendous need across this entire city, this entire region, frankly.
 in a lot of different areas. I want to remind the council that we have been doing a community needs assessment for going on three years now. And so when we take a look at what community recovery means to us, what vulnerability means to us as an organization and as a community,
 a group of servant leaders in this community we are looking at the data that we've gathered over the last three years in the most recent community needs assessment we saw a very similar outcome in terms of the areas of need things like food security
 resident empowerment, mental health, and addressing homelessness. As you all heard my assistant director, Abraham Gutierrez talk about earlier, you know, we're investing in multi-family housing, we're investing in human services that address the needs of those at risk of homelessness, but actual homelessness is also an extraordinary priority in this community. So those are the things that you all directed us to look at when we created the community recovery pot of ARPA funds.
 Our recommendation at this point for this particular item for the cash assistance program would be to issue a notice of funding availability, which would address the process component of the council direction from the meeting two weeks ago, so that we would solicit a nonprofit organization that could provide any service in alignment with the results of the most recent community needs assessment, as I've just described it,
 with the metrics and standard as required by law and by ARPA regulation. That goes back a little bit to the slide and I'm happy to go back and talk a little more about ARPA regulation in terms of these types of programs, but we would want to make sure that that notice of funding availability was very, very clear
 With the applicants with the sub recipient applicants about what the rules would be What kind of documentation we would be requiring so that again not only are we issuing? assistance through our sub recipients to this community in need, but we are also Protecting the investments of the city of El Paso and ultimately of the taxpayers at the end of the day however, what I can tell you is that
 out of the community needs assessment for the last three years, and just the experience that we've had on the ground with all of our nonprofit service organizations, is that the priority in our community right now is folks that are at risk of eviction or at risk of homelessness.
 And so we recommend issuing that notice of funding availability with that specific component very very clearly stated. This is something that is very similar to what we've seen done in other communities where these types of programs have been done. In Austin for example, that caveat was embedded within that program. And so that is our ultimate recommendation is to reallocate funds from community recovery
 and ultimately push out a notice of funding availability, which I think I have a timeline here. Yep, we would...
 incorporate those ARPA requirements into our existing notice of funding availability process. Right? What does that mean? That is our entitlement that goes out, CDBG, in January. What we would do is use that same vehicle, that same well-understood, transparent mechanism that our nonprofits have used for some time, and we would simply add a section under the ARPA requirements
 We would release that in January of 2024, close applications, and commence our internal review process in February of 2024. The internal review process is extremely important in terms of the direction you all gave us two weeks ago or a month ago.
 because we have subject matter experts and a technical advisory panel that reviews that independently of city staff. And so there is a very, very clear process that takes a look at what the outcomes of those programs are and ultimately makes recommendations for award, which would happen in March and April of 2024. And ultimately, that is our recommendation, and I'm happy to take any questions that you all might have at this time. Mayor Pro Temp.
 Thank You Nicole this was the exact intent of my item two weeks ago I believe that ARPA funding and especially this source is the intention of this program we have set these dollars aside specifically to address these needs and so I wanted to thank you for this presentation and I will make a motion to approve second Representative Kennedy yeah I just have a
 A couple of questions. I noticed that the scope changed from the initial item, which was risk of eviction preventing homelessness and the new one today says negative impact due to the pandemic. How are you going to measure a negative impact due to the pandemic on this program? So a couple of things. That's a really great question. And there are two, the answer is that they are two separate things.
 Assessing a negative impact from the pandemic is part of the ARPA regulation, and it is something that not would be measured in terms of the award, but rather would be documented as a function of the federal regulation, the federal mandate. And so we've been doing that already since, you know, CARES, ARPA, all of those programs.
 And so there's very specific documentation that you can provide as a household that articulates that you were negatively impacted by the pandemic. However, if I can go back, I don't know if IT can bring the presentation back up. I'll show you here in the regulation. Here we go. Recipients may presume that low and moderate income households as defined in the final rule as well as households below.
 that experienced unemployment, food insecurity, or housing insecurity did in fact experience a negative economic impact due to the pandemic. And so there's just that federal regulatory structure. So it's a compliance piece, but when we do the notice of funding availability, we won't be measuring that piece of it. We'll be asking questions like, how many El Pasoans will you be serving? How will you be serving them? Will there be case management attached to that?
 What is the ultimate community benefit more broadly? And so those are the kinds of things that we measure in our existing NOFO process. And that's why we're suggesting to use the existing process because it's something that our subrecipients are already very familiar with. No doubt if you're pulling a half a million dollars out, there's going to be some program that you're going to have to peel back on, right? Yes, sir. I mean, you aren't printing money down there, are you?
 I am. No, I'm kidding. I shouldn't kid on the record. I think everyone just freaked out when I did that. I know. They're going, wow, that's how they balance the budget. No, we're not printing money, but what I can tell you is this, sir. Yes, we absolutely will have to reallocate. We had in community recovery $12 million that was allocated initially. We have committed...
 all but $3 million of that. And when I say committed, I mean contractually obligated. We can no longer peel it back without breach or terminating those agreements. The remaining dollars that are left have been allocated to Community Resilience Center, and that's what this will be coming out of. Do you know how many families that would be affected by reducing the half a million dollars from another program?
 I don't have those numbers. What I can tell you is that a half a million dollars on one of our traditional programs serves about 170 El Paso families. And how many families will be served with this new program? I have heard a couple of different numbers. The original proposal that I saw said 75 families. I think at the last council meeting, 80 was discussed. But I think we're talking somewhere between 70 and 80 families is my understanding. So about half of what we'll have to peel back from the other program. Correct, sir.
 I mean, I understand and I think poverty is a huge issue in this town, but I think that serving less families and looking at a pilot program is about like trying to put out a roaring fire with a shot glass of water. And I do think that you've done a good job working the programs that we currently have in place, and that's why I won't be supporting this item.
 representative firo thank you mr mayor um my question is so we're moving arpa funds in half a million dollars that's along with with representative kennedy's questions but we're moving them from somewhere else it might understand that these other organizations other groups have done have been working for a year maybe year and a half two years to bring a budget to bring an idea that's something
 gave them the idea that we were gonna support or fund and now we're saying we're gonna take some of that money away is that correct I think if we were talking about the nine million dollars that we've contractually obligated the answer to your question would be yes but we are not we are talking about funds that have been set aside and discussed and encumbered based on an idea and
 but they have not been contractually obligated. No agency has, as of this time, been working to create a budget for those funds. They have been pending the creation of the Community Resilience Center, and we've not done that. And so technically they are still available. So I just, again, to be very fair and transparent, no, we're not taking away from an agency at this time. But away from an idea, yes. Thank you, Ms. Mayor. Thank you, Representative Canales.
 Thank you just to add one more layer of clarity here. They are not eliminating the creation of the resilience center, correct? It's a reduction of funds From am I correct in saying 2 million to 1.5 million in the allocation for the community resilience center? so
 Think it's highly unlikely that the community resilience center can move forward. I think it was probably already underfunded and this would Make it so that we could not move forward that we'd have to pair that with another project and there's some possibilities there that we can talk through but I think that ultimately the reason we're recommending the nofo is because we know that these
 These are the areas of need in the community, and as long as we are addressing those needs, it is a valuable use of our community recovery funds. And so if that means that the Resilience Center does not come to fruition the way that we imagined it, then that'll be the direction of the council to give us.
 Okay, but purely from like likely not come to fruition But just purely from a kind of nuts and bolts perspective The the allocation for the community resilience center was two million dollars if I understand correctly It was actually three million dollars three million So this is represents a reduction from three million to 2.5 million Correct, which may or may not mean that the resilience center will have to change or correct. Okay, that's right I understood. Thank you. Thank you mayor. Thank you. Let me kind of show a
 Based on your presentation based on everything you've told us Would this be your recommendation to do or not? Okay. Thank you for your answer. I think sir Go ahead I was just trying to be thoughtful sir Hold on we'll get you next sir. I see your hand
 It is this die diverges from our initial recommendation sir. Yes Our initial recommendation was to invest in a community resilience center that could provide services That address all of the community needs that I mentioned earlier So our recommendation holds to continue to do that the recommendation to move forward with a notice of funding availability Gives me a level of comfort that those dollars will still address those vulnerabilities if you're asking me to
 Would I recommend a direct award for a singular program? The answer is no, I would not recommend that. That was my question. So the answer is no, sir. Thank you, ma'am. Representative Rivera? Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Farini, I have a question on that as well. Is this going to be city operations? Are you controlling the budget?
 Excuse me, are you controlling the funds that are being reallocated as a city? Controlling the funds that are being reallocated? In the sense that we are controlling the funds in the way that we always control the funds that are passed through the municipality as an organization. We are the grantee, which means we are the ones held accountable by the federal government. We are responsible.
 When we create a subrecipient agreement, we create a legal vehicle that allows us to hold accountable whomever we've awarded the funds to. But I always try to be very clear with the council and the public that ultimately, if the subrecipient violates the regulation in some way,
 The federal government does not hold the subrecipient accountable. The federal government holds the city of El Paso accountable. So in that way, sir, we continue to control the funds through our subrecipient agreements, but we do not directly distribute the funds or control the program. Does that answer your question? It does, but I still have to worry about the liability factor that you just mentioned. Correct. As we have experienced it before.
 How can we assure our constituents that everything is to be taken care of properly and legally to where the city's liability will be minimized? I think what I can tell you is that the vehicles that we have in place, that this community development team in collaboration and lockstep with the city attorney's office, the city
 We we understand how to place those controls into our legal agreements now how? Those controls are or those vehicles are utilized in the event of something going wrong really falls into the hands of the council, but as far as
 Assuring the public that this team understands how to put together an agreement that is solid and reflective of the federal regulation and can be implemented and enforced, the answer is yes. We can do that, and we are confident in our ability to do that. Okay, and again, how many people is it going to serve from the – I think I would just say 170 while you were operating it –
 Well, the city was an operation of it. And so how many families are going to be served by this? Sure. So let me make sure that I'm very, very clear. The question that I was answering was a similar type of program that we have operated through a subrecipient in the past is our rapid rehousing program. A rapid rehousing program places a family into an apartment unit before they become homeless and pays their rent for a certain period of time.
 It also offers case management so that as that family moves through month to month, they are given access to other resources and just assistance, you know, hand-holding a little bit because that's what some folks need, right?
 In a program like that, with $500,000, we would be able to serve 170 people or so. And I say or so because the way rapid rehousing works is that after a period of five or six months, if you are stabilized and through work with your case manager, you are able to move on from the program.
 we can move those funds on to someone else. And so that is where you can serve between 170 and 300 people, depending on how quickly folks move through the program, which is why in our notice of funding availabilities and a lot of our requests to subrecipients, we're asking for case management because that's extremely important. And it becomes a guardrail for that family.
 What I understand is that the cash assistance program with $500,000 would serve somewhere between 70 and 80 individuals. Okay, so why do we choose to go in this new direction instead of reallocating those funds to the programs that you already had working?
 Well, I think that that's why we're recommending a NOFO, frankly. And I think I was answering the mayor's question. If you all were asking me to directly allocate funds to a specific program that did one thing, I would be recommending against it. What we are recommending today is the issuance of a notice of funding availability that will allow all of our agencies to compete.
 And so a rapid rehousing program could come in and compete for these funds alongside the cash assistance program, alongside mental health care programs. Anything that is in alignment with our community needs assessment will be eligible to compete for these funds. When that award process occurs, we'll do what we always do, which is come back to this council. We will share with you the results. We will share with you the comparisons about whom can be served for how long.
 And you all will ultimately make the decision. We will make a recommendation, but you all will ultimately make that decision. And that's the recommendation we're making today is to put that in your hands once we have all of the information at hand. Okay, and then that recommendation, when it comes back to the council, can also be denied or rejected in any way?
 I believe, I mean, I would have to defer in terms of process, but I would say that what we typically do when we bring back a recommendation after a competitive process like this is that we ask you all to either approve our recommendation in its entirety. We might see one program. We might see a couple of programs recommended. We might not see a whole, you know, one program for half a million dollars. Right.
 Don't know what we're gonna see but we'll come back and make that recommendation and then you all can choose to adopt that Recommendation or not. I would be I'm sure there would be a vehicle for it But I would be surprised to see you all say never mind. Don't don't do it at all, but you could do that Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you mayor representative Celso Thank You mayor
 I know that the need is great, and thank you so much for your recommendations and what you presented. I want to make sure I'm being a steward of the dollar and make sure it's reaching the most that we can in our community. You mentioned that those funds were allocated for the community resilience. What is that?
 What does that entail? The Community Resilience Center was imagined as a physical facility that could bring together all of the service providers that really took our community through COVID-19. You all saw me here at the podium many times with the El Paso Helps Collaborative. Folks like the Opportunity Center for the Homeless, Amistad, the United Way.
 others that really provided a direct service to the community but there is no physical place currently where that can be provided in in one location so the imagining of the community resilience center or community resilience hub
 was a single place where El Pasoans could go in time of crisis to access services. That's how it was imagined. And that's what will likely not come to fruition with this decision.
 And then with that program, you would be serving 170? No, we don't know how many folks that we would serve with that. I mean, I would venture to say that in that physical facility, the potential to serve hundreds of El Pasoans is great because you bring together agencies that are funded from other sources and are providing those services. So each one of those agencies could serve
 hundreds of El Pasoans. I don't think it's a fair comparison, though, just to be, again, transparent and clear. There's not really a fair comparison between a cash assistance program and a community resilience center. They're just not the same thing. It's apples and oranges in terms of people served. And I think earlier you mentioned something about 80, and then another number was shared, that 170. 170, right. What was that in regards? Sure, so the 170 is about how many folks, how many households we could serve through a traditional rapid rehousing program.
 And we use the Rapid Rehousing Program as an example because it's a similar type of monthly investment. So when you all are asking me for a comparison, as Representative Kennedy did, that's a fair comparison. A cash assistance to a family of X amount or paying rent to a family for X amount on a monthly basis for a period of about a year, you could do 170 people in a Rapid Rehousing Program.
 And so with the community resilience and that allocated fund, it will serve that 170
 that you're talking about is that very different things very different things and and to address those 170 people will we be addressing them will we be helping them right now as it currently stands we are assisting many people through our rapid rehousing programs that are funded through cdbg uh esg and actually i think we have an arpa funded rapid rehousing program that is ending i think in march march or april it's going to run out of funds
 And so the timing of this release of funds could be very Auspicious for some of those programs that are running out of those funds But right now again, I just I let me see if I can be very very clear The funds were allocated to build out a community resilience hub. It was only an imagined project It was something that we wanted to come to fruition to bring access to those services together it had not been planned out yet, I don't know how many folks it would serve and
 Our service programs like Rapid Rehousing are funded, but they will run out of funding eventually, and they would in fact be eligible for this money if we release it. Okay. So you're saying that half a million could go possibly to keep addressing these needs? Correct. I think the reason that we're recommending the NOFO, and again, I'm trying really to unpack what gets to be a complicated issue with the federal regulation and the NOFOs and all of those things.
 But to be very, very clear, it's why we're recommending this competitive process. Because what it allows me to do is answer more directly the questions you're asking me. So if I put out a half a million dollars and ten agencies apply, I'm going to look at what all of those agencies are telling me, committing to me they can do for that half a million dollars, right?
 And so when I come back to the council, I'm gonna say with a half a million dollars I can do this this this or this and then we will make a recommendation and that's why we're recommending today to do that process Okay with that then I am I will Take away my second just on how you've answered and kind of listen in a little more. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you ma'am Senator can I list followed by mayor Pro Tempore? Representative Canales already spoke so it's my turn So have you no
 Yeah, but then it goes in the order of people who have spoke. No. No, you're next, sir. Go ahead. We have new rules today. Thank you. Sorry, I didn't decide. Thank you, Mayor. I think a few of my things will make you restate things you said, but I want them to be clear. Yes.
 This is so the action that you're recommending that we take today This is not approving direct funding of the program as proposed one month ago. This is incorporating the the five hundred thousand dollars into a notice of funding availability essentially saying To the public to nonprofits service providers this money is available. Yes
 to support any kind of program, including potentially a cash assistance program, but also any other kind of program that is in alignment with the findings of the community needs assessment, correct? Yes. Okay. So the action today would not directly fund a cash assistance program. No. It makes that one – it adds that to the menu of possible programs that could be –
 proposed by one of our future sub recipients correct okay and then you talked a little bit about compliance any program that emerged out of this notice of funding availability and the selection process that happens at a later date as part of the 2025 well sorry I guess it is that FY 2025 nofo
 Upcoming NOFO, yes. Yes, the upcoming NOFO. It will release in January of 2024. Right. And you're thinking FY25 because of the CDBG funds. Correct. Whatever project was ultimately selected with whatever subrecipient was eventually selected would have the same compliance structures that we have with any other subrecipient
 agreements, or the same level of protection through a compliance structure that we find in any other subrecipient agreement of federal funds.
 absolutely with one additional clarification is that that that award will be subject to the same requirements as all of our other ARPA agreements sure yes because they're a little different than for example CDBG right and that's partially why it's important that we do this as a separate NOFO and you may say well why not just allow them to apply for CDBG well we know that CDBG does not line up
 properly for this type of program. And so what we're doing is creating an entirely new opportunity, but we're opening it up and we're making sure it's subject to the same scrutiny as every nonprofit program that we oversee. Right. Okay. And again, so we have subrecipient agreements for programs like, uh,
 workforce development programs. We have, again, our rapid rehousing program that is funded with ARPA. And there would be similar compliance structures to all of those other ARPA-funded programs. Absolutely. Okay. And then I don't like to overly focus on the...
 I think it's a little bit of a red herring that we discussed like how many people are impacted by one thing versus another thing because they're totally different types of programs. But the $170, 170 person number in the Rapid Rehousing program, that's not necessarily the same 170 people throughout the term of an entire year is what you were trying to explain, right?
 somewhat of a revolving door of folks receiving funds for a portion of time and then maybe
 graduating out of that program and being replaced by new people? 170 is whom we could serve if no one graduated from the program. Understood. Okay. So that would be for the full term. So it could be between 170 and 200, 250 people, depending on how quickly those families stabilize. And oftentimes they don't. Oftentimes they take the whole time. And that's why we are conservative. But 170 would be?
 Okay. And that's why you gave the range 170 to perhaps 300 because of people graduating out of those programs. And the current subrecipient or a different subrecipient would be eligible to propose
 continuation of or a new rapid rehousing program as part of this notice of funding availability yes because It is in alignment with the with the needs Identified in the community needs assessment. Yes. Okay. I think that's all the clarification. I need. Thank you very much I appreciate you for that sir
 Thank you, sir. Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks, Nicole. So I want to talk first a little bit about this resiliency center that council doesn't have much detail about. So you're saying, first thing you said, that you already don't have enough money for it, that this is already underfunded, correct? That was your statement. Likely. I mean, we don't have an estimate on that. Again, it was a project that has not been fully, you know, flushed out to fruition in terms of, like, construction cost estimates. We understand that inflation is going up and up. We know that construction costs more. There's been a lot of discussion about,
 what a resilience hub should and shouldn't do answers right let's talk about what a resiliency hub can and cannot do right because you talked about housing you talked about mental health yeah but you can't provide these services because state law requirement for medication and for therapy have to be in isolated centers where people get their funding so this is essentially an information hub
 It's basically an access point. If you think about the presentations we've done with El Paso Helps, and you all are familiar with the internet portal where folks can access.
 think of it as the physical manifestation of El Paso helps. That was what it was intended for. And I know that you've talked with the county, so you know that at the Corbin-Sombrano Center that they're trying to build in District 2, what the residents have asked for is essentially this. So instead of saying, we don't have enough money for this, and this is going to take from it, even though we don't have a finalized budget, you could actually be partnering with the county and saving a lot of money and continuing to do this. It's possible. I would love to understand exactly what the county is doing. There's many problems
 meetings about it you're welcome to attend them and i'm sure uh joel is a great partner and so i'm sure that he would be open to have those conversations with you but i do think it's a little disingenuous to say that this is going to defund a program that you don't have a budget for and you already said is underfunded you also said really quickly you said that you wouldn't make this recommendation but you did make this recommendation you recommended during the budget that we would take double the amount of dollars from the general fund to do a cash assistance program
 So when we have asked to cut it in half as a pilot, because that's a lot of money, and use ARPA funds and specifically a set fund of money that does address these kind of issues, you're saying you don't recommend it. So let me be clear about what I do not recommend.
 When the mayor asked me I do not recommend a direct allocation of five hundred thousand dollars to a program that has not gone through A competitive process sure, but that wasn't his question when we well I was trying to be clear when I answered that that was I would not say no to do a notice of funding availability That's what we're recommending today. That's absolutely what we're recommending today What and I'm glad that you brought up the budget cycle because what we brought forward in the budget cycle is exactly what we're proposing to do with this money and
 But his question to you was you recommend a cash assistance program and you said no. No, that's not what I said. That is what you said, but this is your recommendation is the NOFA. So what I just want to be very clear that you have through your community needs assessment acknowledge that these programs are successful and could be helpful to our community.
 You acknowledge that when you put it in the budget and requested a million dollars for a program like this I requested a million dollars in the budget process to fund programs that would not be eligible for federal money like CDBG and The cash assistance program was one example of what that could be But what we were recommending in the budget cycle was a notice of funding availability with general fund so that it did not have the federal restrictions like a
 having to be on a reimbursement basis, having to comply with certain federal restrictions in terms of how much and what kind of case management. There was a number of things that made that possible.
 really difficult for a cash assistance program. Another example that we used during the budget process was the veteran homelessness program. The veteran homelessness program that we operated under the general fund in past cycles and we're not doing going forward is not appropriate for our other federal funding sources. So that was, we were very clear during the budget process. That was one example of what could be.
 which is exactly what we're recommending today, is a NOFO. Again, your answer was a little confusing. I didn't say no. It very much sounded like you did, and so I just wanted to clarify that this was your recommendation. Okay.
 or to go through the NOFA, that you have recognized through your assessment that this is a program that could be helpful? Because again, it was a very different answer. And I will say that the Resiliency Center, which is the first I'm hearing a lot about it, I do have a lot of concern about the amount of money to build something that I think partners in this community are already trying to build, but I think it is just in this conversation a potential to have a savings and still do that work.
 Because there are limits on the amount of services you can put into one area, especially if they're state funded for mental health services Correct. It is more about access to be clear. Okay. Thank you. Thank you No Nondis and then we have public comment. We do have five people up to that You want to hear public comment first, okay. Thank you. We have public comment then representative Nondis. I
 Yes, and the first person is Delia Santos, followed by Rosa Lujan, Reverend Pablo Mata, Eloisa de Avila, and Lisa Turner. Ms. Santos has an interpreter, so she will get them. You have six minutes.
 Buenas tardes a todos ustedes. Mi nombre es Delia Santos. Vivo en Montana Vista. Si quieres, espera un segundo. Viene para ayudarle. She actually brought someone who will interpret for her. No necesita. We have someone available. Entonces necesita pasar para este lado, por favor. Aquí está la... El otro micrófono, sí. Gracias. Hello. Sí.
 My name is Delia Santos. I live in Montana Vista. Six years ago, my husband suffered a stroke. His body was paralyzed and he lost the ability to speak.
 Last year he had another stroke and he could not move his left side, so now he's completely paralyzed. And he also got epilepsy. En diciembre del año pasado le dio una embolia otra vez y paralizó el lado izquierdo. También con, ¿cómo se llaman las convulsiones? Epilepsia. En ese tiempo yo estaba estudiando la carrera de enfermería.
 During that time, I was studying to become a nurse sponsored by Project Arriba. Patrocinada por Proyecto Arriba. Tuve que suspender mi escuela, pero las clases de enfermería me ayudaron para poder cuidar a mi esposo. I had to stop or suspend my classes so that I could take care of my husband. But because of the classes, I was able to take care of him.
 Económicamente, se me vino el mundo encima. Una amiga me dijo de Up Together y apliqué. Economically, my world fell apart. A friend told me about the Up Together program. Me bendijeron con 1,200 dólares y después 240 dólares al mes por cinco meses. I was blessed with...
 $1,200 and $240 for the next five months. I thanked the county for their help. I was able to pay for the leaks on my roof. And I also was able to pay off some debts that we had at that time.
 Unas amigas de la comunidad me ayudaron a cuidar a mi esposo para que yo pudiera trabajar dos días a la semana. Some friends from the community asked me to help me to take care of my husband so that I could work two days a week. Yo sé que muchas otras familias se beneficiaron de este programa de Up Together. I know that many families benefited from the Up Together program.
 Gracias por su atención en este día. Thank you for your attention today. Gracias. Next person is Rosa Lujan. That was Rosa. Oh, I'm sorry. Are we missing someone? Eloyso de Avila. Reverend Pablo Mata. He could not make it, ma'am. He left? He could not make it. Eloyso de Avila, is that you, sir? Yes. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Lee, sir.
 City representatives, my name is Eloyso de Avila. I'm a leader with EFISO and Border Interface. If we understand correctly, city staff has identified ARPA funds as the source for the direct cash assistance program.
 If this is so, we are very encouraged as ARPA funds were intended for the economic recovery and resilience of El Pasoans. We want to emphasize that you would be funding something that works and not just an idea. This funding is not robbing an existing organization.
 EPISO border interface leaders have been advocating all year with city council to move forward on this proposal, not because we subscribe to one ideology or another, but because we have seen it work firsthand with the county. This form of cash assistance is not guaranteed income. It has a timeline.
 but we have seen many families stay housed, stay fed, reduce debt, and even go back to school because of these funds. It gives people the dignity to determine their priorities as each family has its own struggles and economic pressures. If the city ultimately chooses to work with Up Together, they have a lot of experience to...
 safeguard the use of public funds and to comply with all regulations no matter the funding source. EPISO and Border Interfaith has also volunteered our time in the past to help identify those in need, working with communities and schools parent liaisons
 St. Vincent de Paul charities and others who can identify Participants and let them know about the initiative. We respect that the city will have its own process But we are happy to work with the city to the with the city staff to share our experiences of course, we understand the need is very great in El Paso border interface and
 and APISO has always advocated for a variety of ways for people to get out of poverty, including workforce development, rental and property tax relief, and utility relief. So consider this initiative one among many ways that the city can use in a targeted, effective way to get the people the help that they need to move ahead financially. Add this to your arsenal.
 You have nothing to lose, and you will help those in our community who need it the most. Thank you, sir. Next speaker is Ms. Lisa Turner, and that's our last speaker, sir. Thank you, ma'am. Afternoon, Mayor, Council. I'm just curious how we got from a direct cash program. Where did we turn off the road to basically doubling the bureaucracy with this so-called resilience center, which is what I see is just insane.
 Doing this we're just throwing money at something that already exists There is a serious problem in this town in its poverty to say that my City Council has Ignored it over the years. It's an understatement just never has been Important to you women in this city are undervalued and underpaid I'm just curious how many women that work for you would be eligible for such a program I wonder how many women that work for you are
 rely on such things as Medicaid or SNAP benefits. I'm just curious because I know you do not pay a fair wage. You do not pay a living wage. And the businesses in this city do not pay a fair wage. That's just as simple as it gets. Women are undervalued. When it comes to their issues, you turn a blind eye to them. You find reasons and excuses to ignore.
 It to me. It's really sickening. I'm just curious this extra money We have can we use that to raise the pay here for those at the bottom of the pay scale here? Which are most likely going to be your women because the stats I was looking at said 30% of the families in this town are led by a single mother 30% and
 The numbers from Workforce Solutions puts the poverty rate for females in this city at 22%. I don't know how to correlate those numbers. I haven't bothered to do it, but I'm quite sure they're very close. Every time we do something like this, understand, we're subsidizing other businesses' payroll costs. It's time for people to start paying their people a fair wage, especially the women, which they always undervalue. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Turner. Thank you.
 Representative Hernandez. I can just make one comment to that. So in the past year and a half the City Council has approved a budget that has increased our minimum wage by 26 percent, 26.5 percent if you want to get a little more accurate. So the city has done quite a bit to increase the wages for all of our city employees including women over the last several years. But particularly in the last year and a half, the City Council has been very aggressive about increasing the pay for our city employees. Thank you, sir. Representative Hernandez followed by Representative Kennedy.
 Thank you. I wanted to welcome the speakers and thank you for your public comment. I have a question related to the recommendation for NOFO. Yes ma'am. Would it prohibit the city's departments to apply as well? Because if we don't really have the... It would... city departments that provided a service in that space, and the only one that we worked with in that context before is maybe Public Health, but these are not bricks and mortar dollars.
 These would be the NOFA would be for services. Okay. Unless the council directed otherwise. I do want to take a quick opportunity here just to clarify something I said earlier if you don't mind. I want to be clear that we are recommending positively the issuing of a notice of funding availability alongside the entitlement in January.
 so that we can see what service providers in this community can offer to address the needs that have been so articulately conveyed today. What I am recommending against in the question that I was asked earlier is a direct award. I feel as though based on our experience and our subject matter expertise that a competitive process that is transparent and measurable
 Gives the greatest opportunity to do the greatest good. So I just thank you for allowing me to do I understood that but Going back to my question about city departments. You had mentioned similarly to the CDBG no foes, you know, see the Community Development Department and Parks Department have applied in the past And so I'm just wanted to make sure that the no-flow direction had that broad parameters since we're gonna align it with our other services
 Excuse me, the other processes with CDBG. Correct. So again, to be clear, would community development, the resilience center, nonprofits, different departments be eligible to apply for funds? Yes.
 Correct. As long as they fall under the auspices of the ARPA regulation, right? And we can prove that, but for COVID, well, it's not quite but for COVID, but that part of the regulation, as well as all of the other documentation requirements, yes. The answer is yes. Okay. So, because I want to talk about process about this NOFO. Yes.
 You're gonna have a panel, you're gonna have a committee in-house? Mm-hmm. Okay, have you identified who the panel would be?
 We've not yet identified the participants for, we call them TARPs, Technical Advisory Review Panel. So there's an initial screen that's done by city staff, by my team in Community and Human Development, just to make sure that all of the T's are crossed and the I's are dotted. Did you submit everything that you needed to submit? Are you submitting for the minimum amount of money that we're allowing? Those kinds of things. Once they pass through that part of the process, it goes to the technical advisory, which,
 are typically selected from nonprofit service providers in that space, in this sort of, whether it's mental health, homelessness, housing, in that space that are not also competing for those funds. We select from those groups, and they score the applications, and that's part of what we base our recommendation on to you all. So it's not in-house, it's external parties and stakeholders. It's a combination of both, but yes. Okay, and then, you know, today I had questions,
 The language has changed, and so initially, and I have met with Border Interfaith and the PISO on our efforts for uplift. I don't understand why that has translated to this,
 but given the concerns from City Council I think this might be the best way to move the needle forward to try to give a competitive process to allow for all members of the community to apply and so I know that in prior conversations there was a lot of you know like this is this is solid city staff are on board so I apologize about that miss communications or misconceptions
 and especially because you all have spent your time here today and traveled into our community but I do agree that this would be the the best way the best approach to ensure transparency and to allow for a competitive process but here's kind of the problem when you know members of council bring it forward it's not fully vetted and so you know to have staff on board to have the departments to have our purchasing department to have our CFOs and
 I'll have all the financials. I think this is going to be the best approach moving forward, of course, given the current environment and the concerns of council. So I'll support this today and just would hope that we have a streamlined process in the future. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Representative Kennedy, and that'll be the last speaker. We'll call the question after this. Man, I love city council meetings. When do we start our budget process?
 IT'S REALLY A YEAR ROUND PROCESS. IT'S MY QUESTION, NOT YOURS, IF YOU'D MIND IF I'D FINISH MY QUESTION BEFORE YOU JUMP IN. THANK YOU. IT'S REALLY A YEAR ROUND PROCESS. OUR OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET IS DOING ANALYSIS ALL YEAR LONG FORMALLY. MM-HMM. AROUND THE JANUARY TIME FRAME. OKAY. IT'S ALMOST JUST INFORMATION TO THE DEPARTMENTS. I JUST, THIS IS AN INTERESTING SWITCH OF ALLOCATIONS WHERE WE HAD TWO FICTITIOUS OR WHAT DID WE SAY, IMAGINED PROGRAMS THAT WERE COMPETING WITH EACH OTHER AND A DISCUSSION HOW 170 IS NOT NECESSARILY MORE THAN
 And I just, I mean, I think that we have a plan in place and if we wanna take a look at this, waiting until we start a budget process looking forward on this might not be a bad idea to sit down and do this because we're pulling from a program that we have in existence and had approved and we're pulling money from it. So I would be more comfortable waiting, but that's one of the multiple reasons I'm not gonna support this.
 Thank you. Can we take the item, please? So we do have a motion made by Representative Anello. I did not hear a second. There you go. Second by Representative Anello.
 And just to make sure this is the motion, and correct me if I'm wrong, it is to approve the staff's recommendation to reallocate funds from existing ARPA community recovery and issue a notice of a funding availability competitive process soliciting a nonprofit organization to assist those at risk of eviction and prevent homelessness. Yes, ma'am. The polling is open. Voting session is open. Representative Rivera?
 Mr. Mayor, we have a tie with Representative Kennedy, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, and Representative Rivera voting nay. And Mr. Mayor has voted nay. The motion fails. With that, I'd like to take a 30-minute recess until 3 o'clock. Can I get a motion to recess, please? Move to recess. Mr. Mayor?
 Robert is saying that there's people that need to fly out for item 55 and 56 would it be okay to I won't look very good Passed out from hunger, but what item? 5556 related can you do it yourself Robert? I'm kidding 65 and The water for the revenue bonds Okay, go ahead sir, okay, sir. Yeah, go ahead. I
 IT'S PRETTY EASY ITEMS. I WILL READ THEM INTO THE RECORD TOGETHER. ITEM 55 IS DISCUSSION IN ACTION REGARDING A PUBLIC HEARING RELATED TO THE ISSUANCE OF WATER SUPPLY REVENUE BONDS BY THE MISSION ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION IN ONE OR MORE SERIES AND IN ONE OR MORE DATES. AND NUMBER 56 READS DISCUSSION IN ACTION REGARDING A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE ISSUANCE OF WATER SUPPLY
 Revenue bonds in an aggregate maximum stated principal amount of 150 million provided that the aggregate maximum stated principal amount of Bonds to be issued on a tax exempt basis is a hundred thousand There's a motion in a second
 I believe we first need to close the public hearing. There is a public hearing first, so yeah. All right, let's close the public hearing. I don't have anyone signed up to speak for public hearing on item 55. Who made the motion? I did.
 I move to close the public oh no we do it's miss Lisa Turner I would have known that you would have known that yes ma'am by the way gentlemen El Paso is a great place to stay and spend the night just thought I'd let you know that no hurry to leave and she signed up for both items so we're taking them together so she can speak on them as one question I'm gonna ask the same question
 Who is this Mission Economic Development Corporation? Who are you? I can answer that now?
 Mayor and Councilmember Lee McCormick with Community Development Associates. I'm actually the municipal advisor for the Mission Economic Development Corporation. It is an economic development corporation located in Mission, Texas that has statutory powers to do tax exempt bond financing around the state so long as we go to every jurisdiction where that project is located and have a public hearing and have that city or county pass a resolution or ordinance
 approving the Mission Economic Development Corporation issuing the bonds in their jurisdiction. What's the impact on the city of El Paso taxpayers? There is no tax base. Once the project is built, obviously there will be the property taxes on that facility. With regards to cost of the financing, there is no economic burden on the city. It won't affect the city's bonding capacity or its credit rating. It is a conduit financing, so it is private dollars into private project.
 The only reason we are coming to the city today is because they want to qualify a portion of those bonds as tax-exempt And under federal and state statutes you have to have the public hearing and have to have the resolution approved And again when you say that it's for there will be a tax There'll be it'll be paying taxes the property will be paying taxes They'll correct tax exempt bonds to finance the property, but sure properties is operational. They will be paying taxes. Yes, sir. Thank you for that Yes, sir. Thank you. The next question is I
 Somebody has to pay. Are we talking rate payers? No. People who are using water? So right now, the company is basically taking brine water from the – well, we'll be taking brine water from the Cape Elling Hutchinson desalination plant, cleaning that water up, selling minerals from that water out to public, and then selling the water back to the desalination plant, is my understanding, and El Paso Water.
 So cleaning up the water. Yes, so the brine water, basically the waste water from the desalination plant is being cleaned up and basically recycled. I ask this question because I attended a PSB meeting last. Otherwise that would be waste. Otherwise they'd throw that and it'd be waste and it'd be, so cleans it up, gets it, and becomes water that can be used. Yes, I understand that. And the reason I'm working this way is because in the last PSB meeting,
 Mr. Duran got up in front of the PSP board and said that the To summarize what he says is our rates are not for basically the cost of running the business It is to enforce conservation In other words the high electric bills we have is not to pay for You know the operation of the water company and stuff like that. It's to force us to conserve water and those of us who do
 Conserved water are paying an inordinate amount of money when we shouldn't have to we're not paying for the you know The operation replacement and stuff we're paying extra on top of that which I find offensive for all water payers Thank You mr. Turner Diana, so we do have a motion made by Representative Hernandez seconded by mayor Pro Tem and a low and that is too close you didn't Who said?
 represent molinar now second rivera thank you i did yes sir thank you sir and that is to close the public hearing miss lisa turner was the only public speaker correct voting session is open mr rivette representative rivera hi thank you and the public hearing has been closed at 2 37 p.m now is there a motion to approve item 56 the resolution
 Yes, sir. I thought we were taking them together, but I'll make a motion. Mayor, didn't you call for them to be taken together? I think because of the paperwork, I need to have two separate motions, if that's okay. Okay, well, I'll make the motion to approve. We have a motion and a second. Yes, there is. Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve. Voting is open. Voting session is open. Okay. Representative Anello? Aye. Representative Rivera? Aye. Okay.
 The item has been approved unanimously with representative Fernandez not present for the vote. Is there a motion to recess? until 3 3 10 3 10 p.m. All those in favor all those opposed and the City Council has been on its own recess until 310 p.m. Do we have a motion to return? Do we have a second?
 Brian Do we have a second? Thank you. And there is a motion to Reconvene the City Council meeting for November the 7th at 321 p.m. All those in favor All those opposed and mr. Mayor we are on the introductions and that would be item 31 through 35 if you would like to take them together Yes, absolutely I
 The introductions of the first public hearings. May I have two approves? Do I get a second? Second. Second. And this is for items 31 to 35. Motion to approve by Mayor Prontem Anello, seconded by Representative Kennedy. You can't walk off the dais. We lose our quorum. We lose our quorum. And then voting session is open. Representative Rivera? Representative Rivera? He can't hear us.
 Representative Rivera okay well we'll go on. Representative Hernandez would you like to vote on the introductions 31 to 35? I vote yes. Senator Semonor? There you go thank you. Representative Rivera would you like to vote on the introductions? Yes yes ma'am. Is that an aye? Aye. Thank you sir and the item has been approved. This is first reading right? Yes sir.
 Thank you. Unanimously. Moving on to item 36. And item 36 is discussion and action to sign a contract 2024-0016 on call median maintenance with work request required.
 TIPH Industries Incorporated, a private nonprofit corporation, and the certifying party and border TM Industries Incorporated doing business as Exceed Resources, the performing party, and this is to provide specified cleaning and maintenance services for certain properties managed by Environmental Services Department. Motion approved. Second. There's a second. Thank you, and we have a motion to approve
 By Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera. Okay. Yes, sir. But you got to use one of these. Voting session is open. Yes, ma'am. Hi. I do have a question related to the scope of work of these services. It's gateways, corridors, intersections, and parkland. For this contract is just for median maintenance only?
 Medians only. Medians only. Okay. And then just something to consider in the future because I know the vote has passed here is every time I request a median there's some areas that have shared pathways that don't ever get done. So I get the median cleaned but I don't get the pathway done and it's a problem for constituents
 I gotta say I gotta wait to another crew to come back out even though we're all there in the same time So if there's an opportunity to do those shared pathways that are long medians, I would encourage it You're talking about the walking trails, correct? Yeah. Yeah share pathways walking trails. Okay, so specifically the one on bike help Okay sounds good and then so this is just a
 two-year contract is it all for all meetings city citywide so this contract for that we're currently having it Nicholas Ivano for the record environmental services is for the top 20 most traveled highways in the city so we're trying to do this on a four cycle every year so we're just sending them to the top 20 most traveled medians and ESD will be working on the the remaining medians as part of throughout the city okay
 I'm hoping that this works out and I've had a conversation with our procurement department with Mrs. Cody in the past about how can we put together a pilot program that
 that would allow small landscape contractors to do business with the city for the first time. There are several landscaping companies and not having the services available is the number one complaint that I receive. I get doors, people knocking on my doors saying, hey, what's going on with these mediums? So I appreciate that you have this here, but I do believe that we need to scale our frequency,
 given the vacancies, given the labor concerns. So I just really want to find a way to put together a pilot program that would work with first-time landscape companies by working with parent companies like XSEEDS, who has experience doing that, so that we can either subcontract all the work or have them as an umbrella so that we can get them that credit for doing business with the city for the first time. Because as you know, small businesses are not allowed to respond to RFPs
 because they don't have a track record of doing work, but if we were to have these small contracts district by district, we can really make an impact and then stop with all the complaints and 311 complaints. Thank you. Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor.
 So just to clarify here, this is, as you said, for the top 20 most traveled arterials. Yes, sir. The other arterials, collector streets, we've taken those in-house, correct? Yes, we'll be working with them through our ESD crews. Okay. And we –
 Am I correct in saying that in either late July, early August, we had a hiring fair specifically for this type of work? And is it 40 workers that we hired? We did have a hiring fair. We're bringing them in slowly. Yes, we are starting to get people in there. We're getting close to filling all the vacancies currently right now. Okay. Do you know the number of vacancies that that was? No.
 I believe there's 16 right now total for solid waste service workers. Those are the the laborers on the crew I believe we have two equipment operators and Once always service worker lead. Okay, that's currently vacant. Yes. I
 Okay. Since that hiring fair in July or August? It came down from 40 overall. Came down from 40 overall. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. Thank you very much. And the recruitments for those roles, Representative, are continuous, and they are working very closely with HR to make sure that we get those recruitments done. And then there is a certain level of...
 of attrition and so they're not waiting for that they're just continuously rolling with the with the the recruitments so that we don't get back into the situation hopefully we'll be able to get hired up and keep those levels where they need to be good thank you yeah it's good to know that we have crew available in-house now where we didn't before so we're currently just for your information we're currently running five crews on a ESD currently throughout the city
 I saw them recently in my district on Mesa Hills. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. I know we have a motion and a second. Representative Rivera has his hand up. Oh Representative Rivera. You're muted sir. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Sir how long how soon will this this service begin once it's approved.
 Good afternoon Paula Salas with purchasing and strategic sourcing. This contract will start as soon as we obtain the payment and performance bond from work quest. So it will it will be November 18. November 18. Oh that's great. Thank you. Thank you for that information but also how are you going to to do it equally across the city all districts.
 with 20 20 most travel well um it's not exactly equal throughout the entire city we're just doing the top 20 most travels um roadways uh on this contract like i mentioned we have our city crews that are currently maintaining the the remainder of the the sites and we equally distribute the work to our esd crews okay so this will this won't be across the board so it'll be
 Maybe the 20 roads. Will you will you provide those 20 roads for council? DIRECTOR HERSEY- I could name them. I could provide them right now and I can provide them through email also. DIRECTOR HERSEY- OK please. Thank you so much.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. Mr. Ibarra, if you would provide not only that list to all members of council, but if you could also provide them with the proposed work plan, and then that way council, if they see something there that they feel is a higher priority like you've done in the past, they can provide that feedback to you within their district, yeah? Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Strong. Thank you. Thank you. Diana? So we do have a motion, and the voting session is open, and that was made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera.
 representative canales representative rivera and the item has been approved unanimously moving on can we go to um item 46 please of course item 46 is an ordinance changing the zoning of lots well i'm going to give you the address of changing the zoning of 3410 3412 and 3418 gateway east boulevard from a3 apartment to c3 commercial canada is there a motion or move to approve
 Motion and a second we have a motion made by representative canales seconded by representative Salcido to approve Voting session is open representative Representative Rivera. All right, and the item has been approved unanimously and we had no public comment signed up. Thank you. Can we go back? Thank You. Mr. Sheen for being here all day. Thank you going back to item 37
 And item 37 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation number 2024-0102, sports officials and assigners rebid to three vendors. And that is vendor number one is Isabel Griego.
 Vendor number two is Marcelino Velasquez, doing business as El Paso Umpires Association. And vendor number three is Tommy E. Hawkins, doing business as Permian Basin US SSA. Move to approve. Is there a second? Second. And we have a motion to approve made by Mayor Pro Temanelo, seconded by Representative Molinar. Voting session is open. Representative Hernandez? Representative Rivera? Aye.
 The item has been approved unanimously Moving on to item 38 and we do have miss Lisa Turner signed up to speak on that item. I
 And that is discussion and action on the award of solicitation number 2023-0137, vending machines to El Paso Snacks Company for an initial three-year term for an estimated revenue to be generated during the initial term of $370 to $62. The award also includes a two-year option for an estimated of $144,700. Ms. Turner here.
 I haven't seen her. I don't see her. So we'll go on. Is there a motion? Is there a motion to approve? Move to approve. Second. We have a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve. Voting session is open. Representative Rivera? Aye. Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. Item 39. Aye.
 Is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2023-0397 horizontal construction improvements to Keystone GC LLC for an initial term of two years for a total estimated award of $2 million. Good afternoon Crystal Boss with purchasing and strategic sourcing. Item 39 is linked to strategical number seven, enhance and sustain El Paso's infrastructure
 The linkage to the strategic plan is subsection 7.2, improve competitiveness through infrastructure improvements impacting the quality of life. This is a competitive sealed proposal procurement for horizontal construction improvements. There were 21 views online. One proposal was received, being from a local supplier. No approaches were received for this requirement. We are recommending award as indicated to Keystone GC LLC, the highest ranked offer. Motion approved. Motion approved. Motion approved.
 There's a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Salcido. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy? Representative Rivera? Aye. Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. Item 40. Aye.
 Is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2023-0656, Arboleda Street Remediation to Karlsruhe, Inc., doing business as CSA constructors for a total estimated award of $1,343,159.70. And the purpose of the project?
 is to remediate the subsidence condition that is occurring within the city of El Paso right away at 8624 Arboleda Drive. 8627 Arboleda Drive and associated street surface drainage improvements within the project limits. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera to approve. Is there a second? Second. Seconded by Representative Canales. Voting session is open. Representative Anello? Representative Fierro?
 representative Rivera all right and the item has been approved unanimously item 41
 Is discussion in action to issue a purchase order to Dumpsters Devil LLC, the sole authorized dealer and supplier for sales of machines, parts, and service in El Paso, Texas, for the dumpster compactor roller for Environmental Services Department for a one-time purchase for an estimated amount of $165,000. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Salcido.
 Voting session is open. Representative Rivera? Aye. Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. Next item, Mr. Mayor, would you like to consider 42 and 43 together? They're the emergency ordinances. Please. Thank you.
 Item 42 is discussion in action on an emergency ordinance extending emergency ordinance 19 333 authorizing the city manager to assign personnel and resources to assist in addressing the humanitarian and public safety crisis resulting from a mass migration through El Paso item 43 is discussion in action on an emergency ordinance extending emergency ordinance 19485 due to a humanitarian security and economic crisis resulting from a mass migration through El Paso I
 Move to approve Mayor if I may real quickly this is Robert Cortez over here just real quickly We did receive there was the last little bit about 1.2 million dollars of outstanding reimbursement that we're pending to get back We did actually receive that within the last couple of weeks. So sure that was the money that What do we call it intangibles or no? But as money that we got reimbursed for like a
 Tommy's time and the chiefs time and I forgot what we called it. But anyway, yeah, that was something that was really good that We had actually weren't sure we're gonna get that so Yes, the city has now been reimbursed all of our costs really soft money that's what it was a soft cost I couldn't think of it Thank you for that And we did have miss Lisa Turner signed up to speak but she's I don't see her anywhere We can let Philip speak for if he wants. No, okay. I
 Voting session is open Thank you, just one quick update Robert mr. Martinez this might be for you What is the the remaining balance of the advance funds that we've received? Sorry to put you on the spot I believe it's about 23 or 24 million. I don't have the exact figure. It's about 24 million though. I
 Okay, so that's what we have left in our coffers Expires at the end of December and so I mean obviously we don't anticipate spending that amount And so there may be some funds that we do return However, we already get in another batch of advanced funding I think it's about seven million dollars that we're gonna be receiving Just to be able to have some money at fast money when we go into the new year, right? We have very low costs at the moment. Correct. Thank you done a really good job of making sure we don't waste the money and we I
 We're good stewards, really, of the money, and that's the reason why you see a lot of other organizations who are out of money, and we still have quite a bit of money because of how we've treated it, and it's very important, and it's a tribute to the team to make sure that we have money for the unknown and that we continue to stay prepared. So I thank you all for that. It's a good problem to have more money than you need. Yeah, like I said, there's been other organizations that have gotten a lot more money than we have, and they're out of money.
 so there is no further public comment voting session is open representative rivera aye mayor do you consent yes ma'am thank you and the item has been approved unanimously just for the record item 44 was deleted next item is 45
 Item 45 is an ordinance amending title 14 aircraft and airports chapter 14 point 20 airport vehicular traffic regulations section 14 point 20 point 240 C regulations and
 to expand veterans parking privileges to veterans with specialty plates issued by the state of New Mexico and to establish a maximum of five days of complimentary parking for veterans in the short-term parking lot and complimentary parking with no time limit in the long-term parking. Do we have to approve? Second. There is no, well, Ms. Turner signed up to speak, but she's not present. Motion made.
 Mayor Pro Tem Manalo, seconded by Representative Salcido. Voting session is open. Go ahead, Representative Molinar. Thank you. Gentlemen, do you know more or less how many people from the state of New Mexico use our short-term parking, if you have any ballpark figure? We don't, we know there's a few each day that will ask if we can extend the benefits, but we haven't been tracking it, no sir. Okay, all right, thank you. Voting session is open. Representative Rivera.
 Aye. And the item has been approved unanimously. Next item, 46, we took already. Mr. Mayor, 47 and 48 are for the same property. Would you like to consider them together? Yes, ma'am.
 This is for north of Cimarron Canyon Drive and east of Ressler Drive. 47 is an ordinance changing the zoning from C1 commercial to C3C commercial conditions and C4C commercial conditions to R3A residential and imposing a condition.
 48 is an ordinance amending a condition placed on parcel one by ordinance number 15672, which changed the zoning of a 4.32 acre portion of tract 1B2.
 Imposed a condition and releasing all conditions placed on parcel 2 by ordinance number 157 08 which changed the zoning of point 194 acre portion of track 4G and which imposed a condition and again this is for north of Zimmer and drive Canyon Drive and east of wrestler drive. So Kennedy motion made by representative Kennedy's.
 Seconded by Representative Molinar. Voting session is open. Representative Rivera? Aye. And the item has been approved unanimously. Thank you, Representative Kennedy. Items 49 and 50 are also for the same property, Mr. Mayor. Not sure if you would like to consider them together. Yes, ma'am. Item 49 is an ordinance changing the zoning of lot 39, block 13,
 Tres Sueños Unit 4, amending plat from C2C, commercial conditions to PR2C, planned residential two conditions and imposing conditions. And item 50 is an ordinance releasing all conditions placed on property by ordinance number 16385, which changed the zoning of lot 39, block 13. And this is for south of East Brook.
 Drive and east of the rich beam Boulevard and we have no public comment representative Thank you. Mayor. I just have a quick question. Was there any opposition since we talked? Based on the current proposal that there is no Opposition the applicant did have some meetings with the community which resulted in the new design which again has no no opposition Perfect. I just wanted to make sure motion to approve Thank you
 Motion made by Representative Salcido and seconded by Representative Fierro to approve. And again, that's items 49 and 50. Voting session is open. Representative Rivera? Aye. And the item has been approved unanimously. Same thing with items 51 and 52, sir. They're for the same property. Would you like to consider them together, Mr. Mayor? Aye.
 51 and 52 are also for the same property. Can I? Yeah, they're for District 1.
 Let me read them into the record. Item 41 is an ordinance changing the zoning from R3AC residential conditions to C1 commercial and imposing a condition. And 52 is an ordinance releasing all conditions placed on property by ordinance number 15672, which changed the zoning of Block 2, Block 6, and this is for 7451 Cimarron Park Drive. Okay.
 And Representative Kennedy made the motion, seconded by, I missed it, Fierro. Thank you, sir. Voting session is open. Representative Rivera? Aye. And there is no public comment. And the item has been approved unanimously. Item 53 is an ordinance vacating.
 a .026 acre portion of Virginia Street right away located within Alexander Addition. There is no public comment on this item. Move to approve. Second. We have a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Molinar. Voting session is open. Representative Rivera? Aye. Representative Anello? Thank you, ma'am. And the item has been approved unanimously.
 Items 55 and 56 have already been taken. Item 57, oh, I'm sorry, 54. And this is an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a lease and concession agreement with Holguin Productions LLC for the lease of the facility located at San Jacinto Plaza, also known as the San Jacinto Plaza Cafe, consisting of 177 square feet for a three year commencing on this date.
 And in three years from the rent commencement date at an annual rate of 5,400. Move to approve. Motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by Representative Fierro. Voting session is open. Representative Rivera? Aye. Thank you, sir. Representative Anello? Thank you. The item has been approved unanimously. Now 57. Item 57.
 Is discussion in action to authorize the city manager or his designee to establish the funding source and make any necessary budget transfer for the special election of 2023 and possible runoff election not to exceed 600,000? The estimates we received were 528,000 if there's a runoff.
 So what I advised To do is to provide some flexibility in case there's additional cost. So we just rounded it up to 600,000 So what is how much is the election roughly we figured between 150 and 190 it is 264 thousand fifty three dollars for the election. The first number I'd heard was between less than 200 Where'd we get that high? No, sir. We did get an estimate from the county and
 And it's because we're the only governmental entity. Yeah, but how many polls do you have? I mean, how many voting polls do you have? On election day, there's 16 polling locations. Yes, on election day. And then for early voting, there's four. That's what I'm saying. That sounds like a lot for 16 voting polls. Because we're not sharing the cost. We're going to send enough. We're not sharing the cost with anybody, and this will include also the publication of the notices.
 Okay, well it seems like a lot of money, but I guess we set it up. We don't have to use it obviously correct And since there's four candidates were providing flexibility again Just in case there's a runoff and there's any additional cost that may come about from the overall election costs, right? Yeah, but 16 polls part of it money. Anyway, go ahead. Huh? Yeah, but Second and we have a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem and a low second by representative canales mayor. I
 Can we can I ask one question? Can we can we get When we get on the other side of it, can we get a final number from them on what the cost actually was? Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Thank you. Oh Yes It's open again voting session is open representative Rivera Representative Anelo
 Thank you. And the item has been approved unanimously. Last item is item number 58, and this is discussion and action to approve the resolution to amend FY 2023 adopted budget resolution by correcting the dates in item 68. Move to approve. Second. Second. Motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Mayor Pro Temanillo. Thank you, sir. Voting session is open. Representative Kennedy.
 Aye. And Representative Rivera? Aye. And the item has been approved unanimously. Who voted for Kennedy? That didn't sound like a divorce. Right? Oh, I was going to say it didn't sound like him. He mentioned on his way out. I know. We have three items on executive session. Is there a second? I have a vote. I have a vote. I have a vote. I have a vote. I have a vote. I have a vote. I have a vote. I have a vote.
 The City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, chapter 551, subchapter D, to discuss any of the following. Item, executive session item number one, Holly Johnson versus City of El Paso, matters 16-1026-7551, and that is consultation with attorney 551.071,
 EXECUTIVE SESSION ITEM NUMBER TWO, DISCUSSION ON CONTRACT OF SALE FOR 323 CHIWAUA STREET, EL PASO, TEXAS, MATTER HQ NUMBER 23-859 UNDER SECTION 551.071, CONSULTATION WITH ATTORNEY.
 In item three, discussion on potential economic development opportunities in Northeast El Paso, matter number 22-1007-2864, HQ number 23-478.
 that is under sections 551 point zero 72 deliberation regarding real property and section 551 point zero seven zero eighty seven deliberation regarding economic development negotiations the City Council has retiring to executive session at 3 56 p.m. we have a motion to come out of executive session at 5 30 p.m. all those in favor all those opposed
 The first item is executive session item number one, Holly Johnson versus City of El Paso, Matters 16, 1026, 7551.
 Motion made second and carried that the city attorney's office in consultation with the interim city manager be authorized to participate in Mediation of Holly Chloe Johnson versus the city of El Paso and matter number 16 dash 10 26 7 5 5 1 cause number 2016 CV 2 0 9 7 and to take all steps necessary including the execution of any required documents in order to effectuate this authority Do we have a second?
 Motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar. Voting session is open. It closed. There. Representative Hernandez. Representatives. Okay. Fierro. Okay. And the item has been approved unanimously with Representative Fierro not present for the vote. Item. Also Representative Rivera is not present for the vote. Okay. Sure. Yes.
 Because he didn't participate in executive session. Yes, sir. Item number two is discussion and action on contract of sale for 323 Chihuahua Street, El Paso, Texas, matter HQ 23859. No action. Item number three, discussion on potential economic development opportunities in Northeast El Paso, matter number 22-1007-2864 HQ 23478.
 No action? No action. Is there a motion to adjourn? Representative Fierro gets to his seat. Motion to adjourn. Second. All those in favor? All those opposed? In the meeting for Tuesday, November the 7th, has been adjourned at 5.32 p.m.