It's 9 a.m. Good morning, everyone.
 Ms. Prine? Yes, sir. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, November 12, 2024. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding in council chambers along with Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, Representative Acevedo, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, and Representative Canales. It is 9 o'clock a.m. Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain Rabbi Levi Greenberg.
 I'd like to begin by doing an act of charity. Sovereign of the world, look favorably upon the mayor and the members of the city council of our great city of El Paso and all of us gathered here this morning and bestow upon them and all of us the joy of life, good health, and prosperity. Bless these people who have been chosen to make laws and decisions for the citizens of our city
 with wisdom and understanding in the noble pursuit of justice and equality. The Jewish world is currently studying the chapters of the Bible focused on the story of Abraham, an individual who had the courage to discover the truth and share his newfound awareness of God with everyone, with grace and generosity. Shunned and mocked at first by even his closest associates, he did not have it easy.
 called upon to sacrifice his life for his beliefs. He did not hesitate to affirm his devotion to God and ultimately gained the respect and admiration of all humanity. He introduced to the world such noble values as hospitality and sharing, and his legacy continues to this day. As God declared, I cherish Abraham because he instructs his children and his household after him to keep God's ways,
 by acting with righteousness and justice. Abraham's life of service and leadership paved the way for the emergence of a better and more ethical world. The timeless lessons of Abraham's fascinating life beckon to us all today. Stand up for what is right and be confident that a better tomorrow is on the horizon.
 Sovereign of the world, grant us all the wisdom and courage to apply the powerful lessons of Abraham so that we be able agents of goodness and peace to ourselves, our families, our communities, and the entire world. Give strength to our elected officials to be cognizant of your presence and conduct their deliberations accordingly. Grant them the ability to turn adversity into opportunity.
 and to transform the hard challenges we face today into the seeds from which will sprout the growth of tomorrow. May our borderland region serve as a beacon of light, strength, and moral courage as we do our part in preparing the world for an era of global peace and tranquility. May this occur speedily in our times, and let us say, Amen. Thank you, Rabbi. Would you like to lead us in the pledge, Rabbi? Ready?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. And I do want to wish all the veterans in our community we have about 30.
 I know over 55,000 veterans that call El Paso home. And in the United States, we have over 18 million veterans. And I do want to wish everyone a happy Veterans Day. I know we have two veterans that sit up
 here with us uh representative molinar i know you serve the u.s marines and uh representative mayor pro tem kennedy served the u.s army thank you for your service and um we did have a luncheon last week for all the veterans in the city and there was 875 veterans that currently are employed after they did their service with the city of el paso and so i do want to thank all the veterans for
 Given us the freedom and their service for us to be able to be here. So thank you and happy veterans I know it's belated. I know it was yesterday, but we were not here yesterday, but Again, I do want to thank you all for the freedom you've given us and for serve the service to our community and to our country Thank you. Miss Brian. Thank you mayor for the record representatives Piero and Rivera joined the meeting at 9 o 4 that brings us to the mayor's proclamations and
 The first proclamation is Veterans Recognition Day. Representative Molinaud. Good morning. Thank you very much. Yes, I am a proud United States Marine Corps veteran. It gives me honor and privilege to read this proclamation. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas.
 whereas November 11th has long held a cherished place in the heart of every American who recognizes the sacrifices made by our military from the inauguration of this treasured holiday in 1918, known originally as Armistice Day, a day of peace. After World War I, President Wilson declared November 11th to be a day of reflection, and whereas President Eisenhower on October 8, 1953, issued the first Veterans Day proclamation encompassing all military conflicts,
 and acknowledging every military member who has served, and officially recognizing November 11th as Veterans Day. He wrote, quote, Let us solemnly remember the sacrifices of all those who fought so valiantly in the seas, in the air, and the foreign shores to preserve our heritage and freedom, end quote. And whereas we recognize the sacrifice of the men and women of El Paso who have served in defense of this nation and the loved ones who stand beside them,
 memorializing the heroes who gave the ultimate sacrifice and all those who have not returned home. Whereas the El Paso Texas Flags Across America also known as Oh Glory Memorial is dedicated to enriching public respect and appreciation for the United States flag and instilling patriotism since June 14 2003 and concluded
 the 32nd Northeast Veterans Day Parade and whereas the Northeast Veterans Day Parade honored and celebrated America's veterans for their patriotism love of their country and willingness to serve and sacrifice for the common good raising awareness of those who have served and saluting members of our military currently serving and whereas the city of El Paso has among its citizens volunteers and employees individuals who have served the United States Armed Forces
 We are reminded of our obligation to them to serve our veterans as they have gallantly served us. And as we gather here today, let us not forget that freedom is never free, and our nation and community is ever more indebted for their courageous service. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the mayor and council of the City of El Paso, November 12, 2024, shall be known Veterans Recognition Day. Signed, the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser, City of El Paso. Thank you very much.
 Okay. Well, thank you. And one last thing I do want to say, and on Sunday I did have the honor of presenting the key to the city to Kayla Thornton, who represented the city of El Paso and won the WNBA championship. And so we gave her the key to the city on behalf of the council and the city and also proclaimed that Kayla Thornton Day was November 10th,
 2024 in her honor of the great representation of our city and how and then they retired her jersey after that for the great representation of UTEP so I did want to mention that since we did do it on on Sunday night thank you mayor for the record representative Hernandez joined the meeting at 9 0 6 a.m. that brings us to the next proclamation and this is Winterfest days yes Shirley gate come on up
 Whereas Winterfest, featuring the Shearlegate Lights Parade, is one of El Paso's most cherished festivals, bringing our community together in holiday celebration, and whereas San Jacinto Plaza and surrounding area will once again sparkle with more than one million lights,
 oversized decorations and a 55-foot holiday tree, and whereas this year's Winterfest, led by the park's Recreation Department, will expand to include Cleveland Square Park, offering even more festive lighting displays for visitors, and whereas the Winterfest season features a variety of family-friendly attractions downtown, including an outdoor ice rink, holiday displays, and the illuminated Paseo de las Luces.
 and whereas Winterfest has become a beloved tradition with the city of El Paso and its partners, working to enhance this experience for residents and visitors, and whereas the Sheer Legate Lights Parade attracts nearly 65,000 attendees on opening day, filling the air with holiday magic, and whereas last year more than 440,000 people enjoyed Winterfest in a free, festive, and safe environment,
 And whereas Winterfest enriches the lives of El Pasos, celebrating our cultural heritage with holiday events across the city, including the El Paso Streetcar, public libraries, city museums, El Paso Zoo, and parks and recreation, and whereas this celebration brings joyful memories from skating on the ice to sipping hot cocoa at San Jacinto Plaza,
 And whereas Winterfest unites over 20 city departments, Destination El Paso, more than 160 local businesses, including the Shear Legate law firm, to support the event's mission. Now therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that November 23rd through January 5th shall be known as Winterfest Days, signed by the Honorable Mayor, Oscar Leeser.
 thank you mayor pro tem and i i do want to thank uh sam leggett and jim share for sponsoring and always being part of the community making sure that uh continue to be able to bring programs like this so i do want to thank you all and uh congratulations on all the achievements you all have done over the many years that i've been in office you guys have been a good partner to our community and i thank you for that
 good morning mayor good morning city council members good morning city manager pablo caballero parks and recreation director
 Well, this time of the year, it's back again. So Winterfest, as Representative Kennedy mentioned, more than 440,000 visitors came last year. We're expecting higher numbers this year for our six weeks of programming with family gathering and multiple entertainment that we will have that afternoon.
 starting with our Cheerleague celebration of Lights Parade this upcoming November 23rd at 6 p.m. And we're hoping to see you all there. I would like to share this microphone with the people that make this happen. They're on my back. So let me start with Ms. Diana Cepeda, Winterfest lead coordinator. Thank you.
 Thank you, Pablo. So I would like to take this moment to thank our city manager, Dion Mack, leadership, mayor and council, and the Parks and Recreation Director, Pablo Caballero, for his continued support over the past years. We also want to thank all the park staff as well as all the city departments such as PD, museums, El Paso Zoo, streetcar, land management, street and maintenance, and of course, Destination El Paso for
 over 10 months of planning for us to be able to bring this signature event back to our community. We also would like to thank Channel 9 for being our media sponsor and broadcasting the parade, and of course, the parade sponsor, Shirley Gate, for their continuous partnership over the past six years and commitment to the El Paso community. Mr. Sam, Jim? Good morning, sir. Mayor, great to see you. Members of city council, friends.
 Sharelegate is, our law firm is a nationally recognized law firm with our home right here in El Paso. We've been here for almost 50 years and we are so proud of our community and we're so proud to be a part of Winterfest and the Parade of Lights. Thanksgiving is my favorite holiday. Many years ago, I'm gonna take you back to November 1977, I sat right there where you sit today and
 No, actually, it was on number five. It just became a new position. Next to Polly Harris on one side of me who pinched me. But my family put together a Thanksgiving celebration at the old city county building before it got demolished. And that was the impetus for a lot of events that culminate today. So we at Share the Gate have greatest pride
 to continue to sponsor Parade of Lights. Thank you for giving us that opportunity and thank you for what you do for the city of El Paso. Thank you. Mr. Chair, hey Jim, I think you still hold the record. You were the youngest elected official at the time. That's true, thank you. Thank you. Good memory 50 years later. Congratulations. And of course this event will be possible without the partnership of Destination El Paso, Jose Garcia here, president and CEO.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council, City Manager, City Staff. It is absolutely pride to serve alongside the City to bring this event to fruition. Diana Cepeda, her team, Pablo, his team, as they said, 10 months of work and then it's going to be an amazing six weeks.
 Please accept on behalf of Destination El Paso these humble gifts. It's probably your first Christmas gift, and Mayor, we have yours coming. Amigo Man was going to do the presentation, but he's a man of few words. So he'll present your Christmas gift, Mr. Mayor. So thanks again, and we're very proud to serve alongside the city to bring this great event to fruition. Happy holidays to everybody.
 Thank you. Thank you, Jose. And we want to invite everyone to the holiday, a sneak peek of the Holiday Food Village happening at San Jacinto Plaza today. We have our holiday food truck sponsors that are going to be during the six weeks at Winterfest. So we're going to have a voucher for HWU as well as the folder that you have in your desk. We have all the samples.
 bring tickets and all the information about the parade we have the map so we uh we hope to see you there on the opening day thank you are we having pickleball oh okay and to wrap it up uh i just got an excellent news by ricky's is so i'm going to share the microphone with him so he can let you know this great news
 So I just want to announce real quick that Winterfest was chosen as one of the top Winterfest markets for Winterfest activities across the country by USA Today. So I think that's a really big recognition for our community.
 There's actually a voting system too, so if you guys can go, we have our link on our Facebook page. It's at the very top of our Facebook page, the City of El Paso. If you guys can vote, I'd appreciate everyone to vote, and we can come out on top and show the rest of the nation what a wonderful community we have and what an awesome event Winterfest will be this year. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Representative Hernandez. Thank you, good morning, Mayor. Good morning to all of the DREAM Team here. I'm a little biased, Diana, but I wanted to give you a special shout out that I think since your involvement in the Winterfest, you've left really big shoes to fill. You should be very proud.
 I think you are now officially a chaos coordinator. That's other duties as assigned. But this is a really great achievement and I really wanted to stress the thanks to the Sherla Gates Law Firm.
 This has been so much of a memorial experience for my family, for my children. They look forward to it. And within a six-hour radius, people are coming to our city, and you are helping us get there. And so immense thank you for believing in our community and believing in this effort because it does create long-lasting memories for our families. And so many thanks to you and all of the city staff who have to go through –
 hours and hours of overtime to make these events possible. Now I'm also going to encourage Dionne to do something special for you all at the end because it is a labor, a love for you all and you deserve all the thanks for creating so many memories and I'm putting her on the spot. I'm just like hey maybe we should do something special. You matter.
 And thank you. And I just have a quick question, Diana. Are you all still accepting folks to the parade or everything's, you're ready to go? No, we're ready to go. We have 60 entries already and that's about 100. It can include cars as well as walking groups. Oh, okay. Yeah, that's a big number. So we closed the registration back in September. But we're still adding them into the waiting list. Okay, sounds good. Thank you and good job all.
 Thank you. You all want to come on up and we'll take a picture together? Please? Ms. Prine? And for those of you receiving proclamations this morning, your group will have up to six minutes collectively to speak at the podium. The next proclamation is National Diabetes Awareness Month. Representative Ferro, good morning, sir. Thank you, Mary. Good morning. It's an honor. Okay, thank you. Are you all going to make your way up?
 And let me start. Whereas diabetes is a silent epidemic affecting over 38 million Americans, and November is National Diabetes Awareness Month, a time to reflect on the serious impact of the disease. Whereas our community is prevalent of diabetes is alarmingly high, with 15% of the residents affected well above the national average, placing our community at greater risk for complications such as heart disease.
 vision loss, kidney loss, foot problems, and life-threatening conditions. Whereas while diabetes can be devastating, it is a largely preventable and manageable condition. Early detection, lifestyle changes, proactive health management such as regular screenings, healthy eating, physical activity, weight management, medication and stress management can drastically reduce the risk of the outcome.
 Whereas the City of El Paso, alongside with the Department of Health Diabetes Alliance Coalition and our dedicated community partners, is committed to tackling this health crisis, together we will raise awareness, provide education, affect essential resources, screenings, support to prevent, manage, and reduce the impact of diabetes on our community. Whereas we urge all our citizens to join in the fight
 against diabetes by embracing prevention, promoting healthy living, supporting efforts to eliminate the devastating effects of this disease. Let us act together. Together we can make a difference. Now, therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor, council, and the city of El Paso that the month of November should be known as National Diabetes Awareness Month. Thank you. Who signed it? No, no, I'm sorry. I need a moment, please. Signed by the very honorable and handsome Mayor Oscar Leeser. I'm sorry about that.
 I had to jump too soon. Got too excited. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you all so much for the opportunity, to the mayor, to the council. We have worked so hard in the community. I'm Leslie Gilley with the City of El Paso Department of Public Health, and we have worked so hard in our community to raise awareness, along with my colleagues, our leadership,
 our Diabetes Alliance, our community partners who have just been tirelessly working, El Paso, of course, our border region has suffered a lot. We see this every day in our day-to-day walk and lives of being out there in our community. As a health educator, we simply, we vow to encourage all of the individuals that are in a community to get screened, get tested,
 and to ensure that they are living a good lifestyle so that this epidemic in our community can be reduced and or prevented. And then I'll pass it over to our alliance partner. This is Audrey. Thank you.
 Good morning. Thank you all so much. We are so grateful for this recognition. I know many of you support this, and I'm with the Paso Del Norte Health Foundation, and within our diabetes initiative, the Diabetes Alliance brings many organizations like the City Health, like Project Amistad that's here.
 different groups El Paso Center for diabetes all doing different work for education information to help lower individuals a1c so we're excited for you all to hopefully visit our website diabetes now what org and take a free risk test because it starts with a simple risk test and knowing what what your numbers are thank you so much for having us thank you thank you Ellen and you know I think it's so important right now is a holiday season approaches we
 I think I started yesterday already, but it's really, we need to be aware of diabetes and our sugar levels and all this. Halloween just came and Thanksgiving, Christmas. I always tell people my problem is we got Halloween, then we have Thanksgiving, then we have Christmas, then we have New Year's, then we have Monday, then we have Tuesday. So we got to make sure we're aware.
 Thank you all for what you do. I think you're important. My mom and dad both suffered from diabetes, and at the end my mom really suffered a lot, so it's very important to be aware and take the proper medication, no doubt. Thank you. Do you all want to come up? Who has the next one? Ms. Pryor? And for the record, Representative Salcido joined the meeting at 927 a.m. The next proclamation is Cielo Vista Mall's 50th anniversary. Representative Nundes?
 Hi, good morning. I have the honor of reading the proclamation for the city of El Paso, and it reads, whereas on November 25, 1974, the largest mall in the El Paso metro area opened its doors featuring over 140 specialty stores and 17 eateries and a 1.2 million square foot property, and it was named Cella Vista Mall.
 And whereas Sella Vista Mall has attracted and retained hundreds of new retailers supporting local businesses in El Paso and making an economic impact on our community. And whereas over 2,700 job opportunities have been produced in the Sella Vista Mall every year as it fosters professionals, professional development and addresses challenges youth and seniors may encounter in the workforce.
 And whereas, Celo Vista Mall invests in our community by supporting local nonprofit organizations, school districts, and numerous charities by fundraising and collaborating with local partners. And whereas, the national nonprofit organization known as the Simon Youth Foundation is part of the Celo Vista Mall, and its main goal is to provide educational and career development opportunities for youth and acknowledge the local students by offering scholarships to support their academic endeavors of promising youth in the city of El Paso.
 And whereas it is an honor to recognize the commitment, the dedication, leadership of the management team of Cielo Vista Mall, who have taken the initiative to support the community of El Paso for the past 50 years. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that November 25th, 2024, shall be known as Cielo Vista Mall 50th anniversary signed by honorable mayor Oscar Leaser. Congratulations.
 Good morning. You know, and as Representative Hernandez was reading that, I was 16 years old when you all opened up, and I was like, wow, it's way out there. There's nothing out there. Now, 50 years later, we're probably in the middle of town now, and there's so much surrounding it now, you know, so congratulations, but I do remember that day when it opened, and it was out there.
 Thank you, thank you. Thank you all and good morning. My name is Jonathan Valenzuela. I'm the general manager for Cielo Vista Mall. The Cielo Vista Mall team and I are incredibly honored and appreciative of the opportunity to stand before you this morning and receive this proclamation.
 I'd like to take a moment to introduce our very talented and dedicated team in a particular order our Security director Adrian Rivas good morning operations director dirt Kunkel. Good morning our senior
 Specialty Leasing Representative Lizbeth Marks. Good morning. Our Office Administrator, Sonia Herrera. Good morning. Our Director of Marketing and Business Development, Cindy Fote. Good morning. And our Marketing Coordinator, Martha Bond. Good morning.
 These amazing, amazing people make the mall what it is. And we are members of the community. And as members of the El Paso community, we recognize the level of impact that Silla Vista Mall has had on the lives of the people that live here. It's incredibly important to us that we consistently deliver an environment of elevated aesthetic for all to engage in commerce,
 fashion, and timeless style and community. Beyond the countless memories of fun shopping experiences the people of El Paso have had with friends and family, Silla Vista Mall has also had a significant economic impact. Thousands of jobs have been created at our center. We've made and fostered significant capital investments, and annually we create one of the largest local sales tax revenues for El Paso.
 50 years brings such a storied history, and yet this has only been the beginning. We look forward to continuing the journey and impacting the people of our great community in an enjoyable and meaningful way. We'd like to thank you again for this recognition of our center, and we cannot wait to show the people of El Paso what the next chapter will be. Thank you. Thank you. Professor Molinar.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. To your team, thank you very much. I can tell you I remember Silla Vista Mall opening up. It was something very different. It was nice. I mean, still nice, still very nice. A couple of points I would like to make.
 I really think that you maintain the exterior, picking up the trash, the debris that's in the parking lot. I really, that sets a big thing for me. The inside, the interiors, you know, the floors are always polished. The stores are bright, colorful. They're, you know, encourage people to come into their stores.
 Then during the holidays, everything that you do to decorate everything is really good. But also the variety of the different stores that you have, the merchants there. And I've never really seen too many problems there. And so I know my family shops there a lot and will continue to shopping there. Thank you for everything you've done for our community. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 The only thing that wasn't referenced, Mr. Valenzuela, in the proclamation that I really do feel that we need to recognize is Simon Mall and Sylvester Mall's efforts during the August 3rd tragedy. It was very difficult to navigate through that experience, but you all let us use that space on your property for a longer period of time than necessary.
 It really meant a lot to the community that you all took the initiative to allow for our community to grieve collectively. And I know that in any other community that would have not been the case because we have so much unity and so much love for each other. I did want to formally thank you for that experience. I know I had been on the call with your predecessor.
 for some time and I hope that my successor in January will have that strong relationship with you. Silla Vista is district in District 3 and so it has been just a wonderful you all have been a wonderful partner to work with when there's any issue so thank you for your commitment to our community and thank you for continuing to employ El Pasoans and as a side note you all gave my grandfather his first job opportunity when he came to the United States and
 And so now he's employed at EPCC. He started at Celo Vista in janitorial. Now he's one of the head maintenance at EPCC. And it started at Celo Vista, so you all are making a difference in families. And so thank you for your commitment. Thank you.
 You know, to that, when I was 16 years old, I was a janitor at Sylvester Mall at one of the stores there, and that was the first job I had. So 50 years ago, you guys were great partners to our community, and you continue to do that. But as you were talking, it brought back memories of being a janitor there at one time. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor.
 Might as well say it. That's where I got my first job, at Kenny's Shoe Stores. I want to thank you. I had never seen so many feet in my life like I did that day. But Representative Hernandez touched on a spot that really warmed our heart, that we kept it clean. Our office, a lot of volunteers kept that area clean during that saddest day in El Paso.
 and it was you made it all possible for us to keep it there and that was a real honor to do so and both on on you know the city's behalf and on your behalf for stepping up and so you know thank you very much for everything shell vista is still there i still go there and it's great and i again you do maintain your grounds and you're building the best in el paso thank you
 And the next proclamation is Art Center and Signs Appreciation Day. Representative Edelman. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. So I have the honor of reading this proclamation. Whereas the Art Center and Signs business has been an integral part of El Paso's history, beginning in 1949 in a garage and expanding to a beautiful storefront in central El Paso.
 And whereas for 75 years this family-run business by Daniel and Dina Hamica strives to be a one-stop destination for El Paso's art needs and supplies, forming long-lasting relationships with customers and businesses. And whereas the El Paso destination offers customers premium quality and specialty supplies for all art needs, including great brand names for watercolors,
 oil and acrylic paints, as well as the best drawing pens, papers, brushes, colored pencils, pastels, spray cans, canvas, tables, and easels. And whereas among the many services the Arts Center and Science provides,
 Residents can always look to have their needs met for signs, framing, restoration work, airbrush, and artwork printing. And whereas the Art Center and Science has worked with a range of El Paso residents and institutions, including the City of El Paso, the County of El Paso, El Paso ISD, El Paso Community College, UTEP, Fort Bliss, the Rubin Center,
 the Plaza Hotel, Silla Vista Mall, and artists Hal Marcus, Patrick Gabaldon, and Noel Espinosa. And whereas the mission of the Art Center Signs is to provide the highest quality products and services to customers through innovation, creativity, and dedication,
 And whereas the owners and their staff are thankful for all the community support during the past seven decades and will continue to build strong ties with the El Paso community as they care and consider each customer as part of their extended family. And now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that November 12th, 2024 shall be known as Art Center and Signs Appreciation Day signed the honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser and happy 75th anniversary.
 good morning good morning everybody good morning mayor good morning everybody every member of the city council we want to tell everybody thank you for support our store we are part of this community we are the
 the third family that continue the business of El Paso. We are going to continue to support everybody to give the best service for our students because our students are a very important member of our business. Thank you for everybody to continue to support us and thank you for this honor that you give it to us. Thank you. Thank you, congratulations. Thank you. Congratulations. And the final proclamation is official tamales season in El Paso.
 I see a cooler. I like the look of that. Good morning. Proclamation, city of El Paso, Texas. Whereas, for centuries, tamales have marked important gatherings around celebrations and holidays throughout Latin culture, and whereas October and the onset of fall rekindles cravings for warm and delicious tamales, and they are the perfect food pairing for watching football or as a supplement to the traditional Thanksgiving feast.
 And, whereas, tamales are a hearty meal during the Feast of the Virgin of Guadalupe on December 12th for the Matachines dancers and the faithful to enjoy. And, whereas, the holidays are the peak season in the borderland when no matter the flavor, red pork, green chicken, green chili cheese, or sweet tamales, people rush to the stores to buy them and gather at home to make celebration.
 And whereas for New Year's Eve and New Year's Day, tamales have become a traditional and convenient party meal. And whereas tradition holds that the person who is lucky enough to find the baby toy in their slice of rosca cake on Three Kings Day on January 6th is responsible to host a party featuring tamales on February 2nd during Candlemas.
 And whereas in the early 1980s, Dominican nuns from Mexico started making tamales at Food City supermarkets as a fundraiser to build their chapel, and as a result, Food City was blessed with the iconic tamales for which it is now famous in the region. And whereas the Food City family has been proudly making tamales for decades by hand, and is committed to continue promoting the love and traditions of all tamale makers and purveyors throughout the borderland.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that October 31st of this year through February 2nd, 2025, shall be known as official tamales season in El Paso. Signed by our Honorable Mayor Oscar Liza. Good morning. Good morning, Council. I'm Carlos Lowry, a proud member of the third generation of the family ownership group that my grandfather, Joe Santos, founded.
 He grew up here. He was from Segundo Barrio. That's where he had his very first grocery store on South Stanton. And here we are, 60 years later, three generations in. And we wanted to come before you all today to make it official that now we are in tamale season and that you can find the best ones at our stores. So we are very, very proud of the over 150,000 individual tamales that we hand make here.
 year long and we wanted to bring some of our crew here to share in the celebration so we've got some store managers with us and we've got some veteran tamales with us and we just wanted to express our gratitude to you all and also give you all some of our tamales so thank you all so much for
 Thank you. And I do want to, when I first ran for office back in 2013, I had the honor of meeting the family and everyone. And so that's one of the things I really remember the day I got to meet y'all. But the biggest thing I remember about going over there when I went to meet y'all was the line around the building for Manoodle. That was the longest line I'd ever seen. And you guys would always run out. But thank you all for being part of our community and for
 give him back i know you all have given back a lot and like i said i had the honor of meeting you all and it's been almost 12 years ago so thank you thank you all oh representative thank you mayor you get tamales anyway i don't say anything nice
 Thank you. Thank you very much for everything you do for our community. I remember your grandpa being in the store daily. Now I know why Stanley's been going to the gym in the morning because he had to put that jacket on today. But it's the extended family. It's not only the Lowry's, the Santos, but it's also all your employees. Whenever you walk into one of your stores, they treat everybody with respect and they're so helpful. And I want to thank you. That's a reflection on you all. So thank you all very much.
 Thank you. Mayor, would you mind if they introduce their team? Do you mind if they introduce their team? Yes, please come on up. Rosa Tarango is our human resources manager, and she'll be able to introduce all of our team. Good morning. Good morning to all of you. Good morning. We have our team, our tamale team. We have our cook. It's Zenaida Bañuelos.
 and we have Ninfa Farfan. We have Rosa Flores, Norma Pacheco, and Maria Espinoza. Okay, they're the ones that every day, and a lot of you don't know that Food City, we have tamales every day, 364 days a year. A lot of people think that it's only for the tamale season, but no, we sell tamales every day that you can enjoy. And we also have our champurrado.
 that you can enjoy with your tamales okay we also have uh victor he's a store assistant store manager for food city 2 the one on hunter and bicon and we have letty garcia our store manager for our food city um alameda and estrella location okay thank you very much thank you i know it's a lowry family in the santos family so yes thank you all you want to come up for a picture yeah
 you can always tell who makes the best tamales they have the softer hands thank you congratulations
 to go away to college back then, I think. Oh my goodness. You were going to go to Notre Dame? I graduated in 2011, Notre Dame. Okay, I remember the Notre Dame. Okay, okay, okay. Thanks again. Thank you. Congratulations. Yes, thank you so much. You guys are amazing. You need, no, he's missing some other stuff. You're getting hungry while . We're getting hungry. You're making me hungry. You're like chili con pastel. You won't have to break for lunch today.
 It's beginning to look like Christmas. That brings us to the Mayor's Distinguished Award. Thank you. And this morning's recipient is Mauricio Ibarra Ponce de Leon, Consul General of Mexico in El Paso. And this is a great honor to be able to give you this. You've been an incredible partner recently.
 to the city and I remember the first day I met you when you first arrived and you've hit the ground running and you haven't slowed down you haven't stopped it's uh you know it's a great honor for us to have you representing El Paso and of course Ciudad Juarez Mexico but you um there is no boundaries there's no borders when it comes to you you've been an incredible partner incredible friend and um
 If there was more words in the English dictionary, it wouldn't be enough to describe the great work and the great friendship you've become to all of us. So I'd like to read this. Mayor's Distinguished Award, Mauricio Ibarra Ponce de Leon, Council General of Mexico in El Paso. For your dedicated leadership as Council General of Mexico in El Paso and your commitment to our borderland region, thank you on behalf of the city of El Paso and its citizens
 for always working closely with us to foster relations between our countries and our cities, and for your continued extraordinary friendship. Amigo, gracias por todo. Can I address you?
 Well, first of all, I'm honored. Thank you very much. I really appreciate this distinguished award. I believe this is a great recognition of the binationality of this community.
 More or less 68% of Pasoans have a family in Juarez and the other way around. And I think these highlights, these shared heritage, shared culture, shared values that we have. So I want to thank you all, Mayor, for everything that you have done for the city, from the pandemic to managing the migratory flows.
 All of you City Council members, there was hard work that you do on a daily basis to support the community. And just to say that everything that you do on this side benefits Ciudad Juarez. Strengthening the relationship between these two border cities, I think it's key.
 And it's so important that I know that in other cities at the border, they always talk about how you do things here in El Paso. I think the collaboration that you have established at the three levels of government, it has been great. And letting us...
 show the community all the good things that we share. We are in this border city, I think this is amazing. So thank you very much, I really appreciate it. It's an honor for me to receive this award, and I'm really looking forward to keep working for you to highlight the best of El Paso.
 everywhere, both in the U.S. and in Mexico. Is there someone here we'd like to introduce to us? Yes. And today I'm joined by Kathy Toll. She's my wife, and she does in supporting the city as well. She teaches at UTEP.
 And also here with me is the Deputy Consul General, Felix Herrera. And these are the people that allow me to be everywhere and to work hard. And Kathy, my wife, she has been going around the world with me all the time, and she's my misosten every day. So thank you very much for everything that you do. Thank you.
 Thank you. And you know that sooner or later you're going to get transferred somewhere else, and I can tell you that it will be a big loss to our community. You and Kathy have been incredible, incredible partners. And, again, I'm very blessed that the four years I was here, this last four years you were here, because prior years I've had others that have been good, but you've been more than good. You've been incredible. Thank you, and may God bless both of you. Thank you.
 Could we take a picture with you guys? Council, per the rules of order, no use of personal cellular devices nor personal communication should take place on the day as well the meeting is in session. Once you obtain the floor from the mayor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate and may speak twice per item. Please begin to the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the dais while the meeting is in session.
 And for those of you joining virtually, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Mayor Pro Tem. Page 12 item 32 postpone one week per Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy. Page 18 item 48 move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Rivera. Page 18 item 49 move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Rivera. Page 19 item 50 move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Rivera.
 Page 19, item 52, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Rivera. I thought, hold on one second, Ms. Mack, were those the ones that were coming off the agenda? I thought those were the ones you told us. Item 50, what are the ones coming off? No, hold on, let me, pardon me? Those aren't the ones? No, Mayor, Kristen Karam for the City Attorney's Office. That was a different item that will be postponed. Those are the ones? Yes.
 No, those are not the ones that are being postponed. Okay, I just wanted to make sure. Thank you. Page 19, item 52, did I do that one, Ms. Bryan? Yes, move to the forefront of the regular agenda. Item 51 is to revise per planning and inspection to add the words and imposing conditions and move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Rivera.
 Item 53, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Rivera. And page 20, item 54, delete per planning and inspections. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido, thank you. And the voting session, and that motion passes unanimously.
 We now turn to page 18 to the items that will move to the forefront. These are items 48 to 53. They are related. Would you like to take them together? Please, ma'am. Thank you. Item 48 is a public hearing of an ordinance amending the future land use map contained in the plan El Paso for the properties legally described as tracks 28, 28-2, 20-B, 21 and 22-A, block 2, East Letter Grant.
 City of El Paso from 03, agriculture, to G7, industrial. This is at 300 Nevadas and 546 Inglewood.
 item 49 is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning of tracks 28 28 2 20 b 21 22 a block 2 east letter grant at 300 nevadas and 546 inglewood from rf ranch and farm to c4 commercial and imposing conditions item 50 is a public hearing of an ordinance amending the future land use map contained in plan el paso for the properties legally described as track 16a block 2 east letter grant from a o3 agriculture to g7 industrial at 445 inglewood
 Item 51 is an ordinance changing the zoning of track 60A block 2. East Letter Grant at 445 Englewood from RF Ranch and Farm to C4 Commercial and imposing conditions. Item 52 is an ordinance amending condition 1 and releasing conditions 3 and 4 placed on the property by ordinance number 019219, which changed the zoning at 551 Englewood.
 Item 53 is a public hearing of an ordinance releasing all conditions placed on the property by ordinance number 019343, which changed the zoning of tracks 2, 2B, and 3D, block 2. He's led a grant at 1,000 Englewood. Go ahead, sir. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Councilor Raul Garcia, Planning and Inspections. I do need to read one additional condition into the record for item number 51.
 So for item number 51, we are adding an additional condition, condition number six, which shall read that all loading and unloading areas shall be located a minimum of 250 feet away from the western property line abutting residential zone properties. That is all, sir. Thank you, Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, guys. Council, I see your support on this. Do we have anybody that's gonna speak? Any of the business owners that are gonna speak? No?
 Okay. Asked for your support on this. This is a magnificent, magnificent, magnificent progress that was made by four different companies working together to build this area, expand it and make it, make traffic a lot better for the people that reside there at that area.
 and it is it's it's really a fantastic project that had been worked for many years prior to this and I seek your support on this I make motion to approve second yes sir there's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by mayor Pro Tem Kennedy and this is to approve items 48 to 53 on that motion call for the vote
 the voting session and that motion passes unanimously Thank You counsel thank you sir we now return to page number 12 to item 33 and this is discussion in action to accept a grant in the amount of $2,000 from Marathon Petroleum Company for two fall fist festivals in district 2 this item was placed by representative Acevedo a move to approve there's a motion made by representative Acevedo seconded by representative Salcido
 to approve item 33 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously item 34 is discussion in action on a resolution determining the city of el paso's voting allocation for candidates to the el paso central appraisal district board of directors this item was placed by mayor lisa thank you we've already approved the names now the the
 CAT has changed the way that has to go in, so you have to give them points and then rate them. So a couple weeks ago we went ahead and approved the two names that were moving forward. So do we have a motion? Second. There's a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 34. Go ahead, sir.
 I just had a quick question on that. So we're still keeping the two after the points? Yeah, the same names. Right. Everything's the same. But the way they're doing now is they're appointed based on points. Each entity, which is city, gets so many points, and EPISD gets so many points, and the county. And so these are the amount of points we receive. We can only appoint two people, so we're splitting the votes the same way.
 So because of how big we are, we ended up with the same amount of appointees and we didn't end up getting any other appointees or losing any? One will be a one-year and one will be a three-year. Okay. And that's Jackie and Tenny Burke? Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Thank you.
 Item 35 is discussion and action to ensure compliance by El Paso Electric with state disconnection policies and to explore enhanced municipal safeguards for El Paso customer protection and return to city council in 30 days with recommended safeguards. This item was placed by Representative Hernandez. Representative Hernandez.
 Hi, thank you, Mayor. Good morning, everyone. I discussed just briefly with El Paso Electric some of my concerns related to disconnections that are happening. So in essence, what I'm hearing from constituents, including every single one of my family members, we've had personal experience where if you're late, what happens with the new AMS system, which is an automized meter system,
 it'll automatically shut off your electricity. So now what El Paso Electric is doing, is they're asking our customers to pay a deposit. My concern is that I've been hearing several, several people complain about these deposits.
 that just in my sense, I feel like we have to do our due diligence to ensure that they're being compliant. Because there's a high number of constituents who are complaining that they can't afford to pay their deposits, coupled with their past due balances. So they're putting them in this perpetual state of not being able to pay their bills anymore.
 So in doing a couple of reviews, I've worked with my team in my office to look at, well, what are other cities doing to protect their rate payers? And so granted, there's not a clear comparative analysis because there's different factors. We're not an ERCOT organization.
 We also, some cities have their own legislative bracketed bills, including El Paso, and it just really depends. However, we do have a unique opportunity by way of our franchise agreement where we do, we are the original jurisdiction for El Paso Electric, and we can work with them by way of an MOU or through our franchise agreement so that we can, one, investigate what's happening, two, making sure that the AMS system is not really impacting us.
 and what their processes are for disconnections and reconnections, and what are they telling their customers. And then I'd like to know how many people are actually on a deposit plan right now in order to get their money back. They have to wait 12 months in order to get their money back if they did not have any other disconnections. So I'm not sure if you're hearing these concerns, but I'm hearing them at alarming rates, and I'm hearing them specifically from several members of my family as well.
 I found it unusual that every single one of my family members have experienced this. And so now I feel a strong duty to make sure that we are understanding all of what we can do within our laws, within our franchise agreement, within our parameters. But I'd like to share with you just a quick couple notes. I passed to you all members of city council. Our team passed you a presentation here.
 And so what we did is we looked at, well, what are other cities doing? And I'm happy to share this with the public. Granted, it was a little busy last week, so I'll share this to whoever would like to see it. The protection measures in Texas for MOUs, CPS Energy, who is by San Antonio, they have an affordability discount program. This program offers a monthly discount on electric and natural gas charges. And IT, if you can please bring up presentation 35. I'm sorry, I forgot to ask. First slide, next slide.
 Here, thank you. They have the affordability discount program. This program offers a monthly discount on electric and natural gas charges for qualifying low income customers.
 They also have a senior citizen billing program. So CPS Energy provides additional time for senior customers to pay their bills without late fees. That's important because if you miss your bill, you have to pay not only connection service but late fees and it just becomes incredibly difficult to pay. Critical care programs. So customers who rely on electricity.
 electrically operated medical equipment can register to receive additional notifications and protections against disconnections. So someone showing up to your door, leaving a door hanger, giving them advance notice, things of that nature is how families who have their loved ones and home health care who are depending on this medical equipment, that is I think a really great protection that the City of El Paso should also explore.
 Austin Energy, also municipally owned, they provide options for customers to spread out their payments over time, easing financial burdens. So they have deferred payment arrangements.
 Lubbock Power and Light, they have budget billing. They offer a budget billing program that averages the customer's bill over a 12-month period, providing predictable monthly payments. That's something that the El Paso Electric also provides. Denton Municipal Electric, also municipally owned, they maintain a registry of customers who require uninterrupted electric service due to medical conditions, offering them priority during outages. Again, when they are...
 Folks who have medical conditions, they have these protections in place. Would like to learn more about what El Paso Electric does for their customers. Garland Power and Light, senior citizen discount. The Garland Power and Light offers a discount on electric bills for senior citizens aged 65 and older.
 They have levelized billing, which is to avoid seasonal spikes in their bills and to average their payments throughout the year. They have an energy savers program. They provide rebates and incentives for customers to implement energy-efficient measures, reducing overall energy costs.
 And these are just a couple examples. And so we have a wonderful legislative team. They have a wonderful relationship with El Paso Electric. It is my intention to work closely with El Paso Electric. They are our partner here so that we can all brainstorm, utilizing our franchise agreement, utilizing other tools, government tools that other cities have used, like MOUs. They go into direct MOUs with their electric company so that they can put these programs forth, put them forward.
 If it requires legislative action, then this council needs to know that. If it requires any amendments to franchise agreements, then this council needs to know that. If the city is not allowed to do any other programs, well then be clear that the city council does not have any jurisdiction to allow any other discount programs or support to our rate payers so that we can notify them, we've exhausted all efforts, we've done our due diligence, we've done an analysis, this is what we can and cannot do, and here's what we're committed to doing.
 I think that right now, given the high rates and the rates that are continuing to increase, there's no light at the end of the tunnel here. It's a clear increase year over year that we have a duty to make sure that we've explored all options.
 The next slide, please. My requested action is to ask the city manager and city attorney to engage with El Paso Electric, making sure that we are all compliant with the disconnections. There is an ordinance. Excuse me. There is a...
 under the Texas Public Utility Commission, they have a document on disconnection fees. And in that document on disconnection fees and processes, there's some things that I've read in that that have given me concern, like the amount of the deposit required. It's very clear in these different writings from the PUCT document.
 that there are limits on how much you can charge and it's very clear in the backup that I provided that a municipal city has discretion to add more, to add another level of requirements, scrutiny,
 programs that are allowed by municipal governments. So in the findings that I've reviewed from P.U.C.T., it gives us that latitude. So now I'm trying to understand, well what is the process to actually put that forward? I also would like to conduct an assessment of potential enhanced municipal safeguards that could be implemented to protect El Paso's residents from disconnection due to financial hardship or health and safety reasons.
 concerns and prepare recommendations on any necessary local ordinances or agreements with El Paso Electric to strengthen customer protections and I felt it was just necessary to start the conversation and if there are concerns from management Love to hear what concerns you have I asked for 30 days Because what's my concern is is that disconnections could start happening on a Friday night? And let's say they happen on a Friday night you get home Saturday. You don't have electricity. Um
 And I am very concerned about families who have lost groceries because they came home from vacation and their electricity was off. There's losses that they experience, and there is a way that we can educate them on that, on how to request claims so that they can get their money back if they lost electricity and they weren't able to get it. But there's very clear safeguards that I'm questioning whether or not we have in place, and if we do, then El Paso Electric needs to do a better job at communicating that to the public.
 and so that is my pitch that it is my concern I wanted to share with you as a result of listening to my constituents and sharing those voices and I would make a request and a plea to counsel to allow for that exploration and I would move to approve
 great items that we need to look at but one of the good things about the new system is it's automated and if somebody does get their lights turned off they can call and make a payment but then get their lights turned back on through i mean immediately it's not happening yeah yeah sorry mayor i just want i want to be clear well no no i saw it happen yesterday so
 ANYWAY, BUT THAT'S HOW YOU DO IT IF SOMETHING HAPPENS, UNFORTUNATELY. BUT A LOT OF THE THINGS YOU PUT ON HERE I THINK ARE VERY, VERY, VERY IMPORTANT THAT WE LOOK AT. BUT, YOU KNOW, IF IT'S AFTER HOURS, THEY ARE AUTOMATED AND YOU CAN'T, YOU KNOW, GIVE A CREDIT CARD OVER THE PHONE AND THEN THEY'LL TURN YOUR LIGHT ON AS SOON AS THE PROCESS IS. REPRESENTATIVE PIERRO? THANK YOU, MAYOR. YOU KNOW, THIS ISSUE ON DEPOSITS, WHEN I HAD OUR APARTMENT IN AUSTIN, I WAS CHARGED WITH DEPOSIT.
 And to be honest with you, I'm not sure whether it was returned or not returned, but that's a pretty, I thought it was pretty standard. The second thing is...
 Prior to getting disconnected, my understanding is you can call the electric company and ask for extra time to catch up with your payments or extended time to ask for a payment plan so you don't get disconnected. My understanding is that there's a lack of communication with the company, and when there's the lack of communication, that's when the disconnection comes. But I understand the same way, Mayor, with these smart meters. You call up and it's –
 turned on immediately. And for Ms. Hamilton, some of these requests, aren't these PUC issues? I mean, don't they have guidelines on what we can ask from a municipality point and what we shouldn't be asking for? A lot of these are things that we have
 similar things in our franchise agreement that we can look to those. I think that this is the step one is a research project to determine what is in place, so what information is available to the public. The franchise agreement does have language in there governing when requiring them as the original jurisdiction here in El Paso for El Paso Electric, we do have the ability to look into some of those things.
 through the franchise agreement, we did require some low income assistance already, so we can look into that and see what they already are providing.
 And I've seen, Mayor, over the summer, I don't remember if it was this summer or last summer, there was an option to extend my payment for 12 months and try to make them even because of the high rate of the air conditioner. So I hope that we make sure that El Paso Electric is at the table and able to work forward on these items. The mayor is right. There's some here, and thank you, Representative Hernandez, there's some here that I think could be helpful.
 But then there I believe there's some that are already in place that that we're not taking advantage of as rate hold as rate payers Thank you, ma'am. Thank you Thank you mayor So I I think that there's some good stuff here in this item one one thing that I wanted to kind of touch on was this deposit and
 I know that this is what makes it really difficult. Somebody might owe $200 and they got disconnected because they owe those $200. So once they call to reconnect, they say, okay, pay us the $200 and then now you'll have to do the $150 deposit.
 So if somebody is struggling at that point to get to $200, now you're asking them to almost double what they need, and where are people going to turn to do that? So I think that's the reality.
 of the issue with the deposit. And I know that, I know several people that have been there. I've been there myself. And that has come as a real shock where it's kind of like, well, if you don't pay, this gets disconnected or it's disconnected. Or I think that there's also one thing with the push of a button to disconnect.
 There is also the issue of pushing that button to turn it back on has taken several hours, even though it's just a push of a button, right? And so I'm happy to talk to El Paso Electric about this. I've brought up some customer service issues that have happened recently.
 And I want to continue this conversation to kind of figure this out. And I think when we share what constituents are kind of saying to us, it's imperative on us to kind of have those stories go to the person or the institution that is in charge of whatever it is. Right. And I think this is no different. So I think that.
 We need to continue to have those conversations. I'm gonna meet with El Paso Electric in the coming weeks and happy to kind of share a lot of what's happening there and see how we could get to a better place to kind of address the issues that constituents have brought forth. And the last thing that I wanted to say is that I've received $750 from the El Paso Electric Employee Pack, just in case since El Paso Electric is mentioned here.
 Thank you. And I think, you know, things we have here, they may have a lot of them in place already. And but it's always good to kind of have a dialogue and review the things and kind of look and see how we can enhance and work together. So, you know, there may be repetitions, they may tell us what's on there, and how they're doing it, but it never hurts to open and have a dialogue to see how we can improve the experience.
 Thank you, Mayor. And customer service is a big issue, and both Rep Hernandez and Rep Acevedo touched on that. And I've had the calls. You said that they turn it on right away, sir. I don't believe that's happened to some of the calls that I get.
 And if it's taking place now, well, good for them. It's about time. But I think that we as council, or any council that is gonna follow us, has to stay on top of the customer service etiquette that the electric company will provide for this community because of that issue that somebody might have a home healthcare and depend on that electricity, and if it goes out, they're in trouble.
 But I think that we should make sure that the electric company is keeping their end of the bargain as far as it's concerned You know being able to turn on the electricity you flip the switch then let's make sure they're doing it and not just say Oh, they're doing it when you're getting calls in fact saying they're not doing it and and and god forbid if it's a Friday as was mentioned before do they have people during the weekend and
 I don't think so, sir. They haven't been able to justify that yet. Had a couple of calls on that one. They have to wait until their business day, the next business day, and the next business day. You know what I'm saying? And from Friday to Monday, that's a long time for the people to be out without electricity, loss of food, loss of, you know, everything that keeps the refrigerator going or, you know, their stock. Yeah.
 Fresh but I think that we it's the future council we and the future councils coming in Should stay on top of that because that's the main source that's the main complaint calls that I'm getting as well that they're not quick to respond and Then they don't have the they don't have the capabilities of to respond on a weekend if that's the case That's right. That's all I have. Thank you, man. Thank you, sir Molly not
 Thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Hernandez, for bringing this item onto the agenda. I know my experience, but first of all, is there anyone here from El Paso Electric Company? Anyone on the call for El Paso Electric Company?
 Okay. Well, I notice on my personal bill, I receive it, and then it's given a very short due date. I'm not saying that's the cause for other people being disconnected because I just don't know. But I can tell you, if you receive your bill through the mail or even electronically, and then all of a sudden it has a short due date turnaround, some people may forget. Some people may not realize, oh, my God, I forgot to pay that bill. Hence, you get disconnected.
 So I don't know if that's an issue or one of the problems that's involved in that. But Ms. Hamilton, is there, do we, I know we have the jurisdiction part for an electric company, but can we as a city government tell them how much to charge as far as, you know, your deposit or reconnection fees or anything like that? We would have to look into that, Representative Melinda. I believe that the...
 The franchise agreement doesn't go that far into regulating their specific fees and they're required, you know how much they're allowed to charge. It's a business. Um, you know, they have to continue to operate as a business. So there are limitations on our ability to
 to govern their detailed charges at that degree. All right, thank you. And I can tell you, I know I still get my bill through the mail, and I still pay my bill electronically, but I wanted to set up automatic payments that I have other utilities, and you really can't do it unless you download the app.
 Only on the app are you able to get that feature done. There's no other possible way to do it. I have talked to people from El Paso Electric that are on working right now and that are retired, and they say you just have to download the app in order to do that. But to me, that doesn't make a lot of sense because where is the customer service component of that? It just doesn't make any sense. Thank you. Thank you. And again, I think it's just really important to have this dialogue and know what,
 can we can and cannot do and how we can help and move forward so i think there's a lot of viable items on on this that we can look at and have a dialogue and maybe get clarification or changes representative nundus
 Yeah, thank you, thank you members of council for your feedback. I know that El Paso ratepayers are really going to be pleased if this item passes. Just a couple points. The one thing that I did not mention is that we also received several reports from ratepayers that there was some kind of billing issue.
 And as a result of the billing issues, now several residents are now going on to deposits for several months that they were not built and they were demanding that at the end, once they figured out what happened with the billing systems, I don't know if there was a transfer and software or whatnot.
 But once that happened, all of those residents, and one of them, including my sister, she had received three months, I believe, of payment due. And she was asked to pay immediately or go on to a payment plan. Okay.
 Why is that the ratepayers' fault? Like, if you can't submit an invoice and a payment, and then you don't pay, and then you make them pay them immediately, I just want to remind everybody there are disconnection prohibitions. You cannot disconnect for failure of payment as a result of underbilling.
 And so that's why I'm saying we have to do an analysis and ask El Paso Electric, well, how many are on a deposit? I do know that a quarter, almost nearly a quarter of El Paso rate payers are back due on their payments. So that's a quarter of El Paso rate payers in our city who cannot afford to pay their electric bills. And that came directly from El Paso Electric. Coupled with all of these deposits, coupled with
 $250 to $500 deposits, that's unsustainable as a community. And so I heard earlier from Representative Fierro, well, isn't there like a notice? Yeah, there's a notice and there's like processes, but here's what the notice says.
 The El Paso Electric utility shall provide written notice required by the subsection, not later than the 10th day before the date electric service is scheduled for disconnection. Additional notice may be provided by a third party commercial carrier delivery or certified mail. El Paso Electric, is there a reason why you don't provide additional notice? Is there a cost to that? What are those costs? What would be the outcome to the rate payers? Let's explore that. Also,
 This subsection of these disconnection notices does not prohibit a municipality or the commission, referencing the PUCT, from adopting customer safeguards that exceed the safeguards that are provided in the chapter by the state. So it's clear from the PUCT that municipalities can adopt additional safeguards
 What are our safeguards and how are we communicating that to the public? And El Paso Electric, we need you to do more. This is a desperate plea for help. And in the time of a holiday, I would ask that you review your safeguards today and implement them without any action from council because the city deserves it, especially when you have a quarter, excuse me, yeah, 25%, a quarter of your ratepayers not being able to pay your electric bills.
 I would ask for that mutual relationship sit down at the table with City Council and let's do more and better for El Paso Repairs, that's all I have there. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. We have a motion in a second Yes, sir. The motion was made by representative at Nanda seconded by representative Rivera to approve item 35 on that motion call for I understand I know but the
 if the motion is just to approve the item as it's written on the agenda i think the motion would need to be the specific action items we can't just approve the item without the specific action in the motion um would you like me to to read the last slide on the presentation on your if that's what you intend for the motion to be sure and i'm just already ready
 So right now with the motion says discussion and action to ensure compliance by El Paso Electric and state disconnection policies and explore enhanced municipal safeguards for El Paso customer protection return to city council in 30 days with recommended safeguards.
 Would that be comfortable for you? Because I think that sums up the actions requested. Sure, I just wanna make sure that the motion captures. Oh yeah, so I move to direct the city attorney and city manager to ensure compliance and et cetera. Do you accept that modification to my motion, Representative Rivetta? Do you not do customer service besides customer protections?
 Okay, I see what you're saying I would like to accept that friendly amendment So so mrs. Prine if we can vote on a friendly amendment to include After El Paso customer protection to ink also include El Paso customer El Paso electrics customer service processes comma and return to City Council in 30 days and
 And that would include customer service specifically when those disconnections are happening and then how quickly we are actually, they say immediately but I can assure you it's not immediately, how quickly they're able to reconnect. Do you accept that? Okay. Ms. Prine. Okay, so the council will vote on the amendment first. And the amendment was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera. And this is to amend the item to include the words
 El Paso Electric customer services processes after the word protection. So it reads, to direct the city manager and city attorney to ensure compliance by El Paso Electric with state disconnection policies and to explore enhanced municipal safeguards for El Paso customer protection and El Paso Electric's customer services process and return to council in 30 days with recommended safeguards. On the amendment, call for the vote. In the voting session,
 And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Fierro not present. And now to vote on the item as amended. The motion was made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera. And this is to approve as revised. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Representative Fierro not present.
 That brings us to item 36 on the agenda, and this is an overview of state and local law for substandard buildings.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Council Representatives. Tony De La Cruz with the Planning Inspections Department, as mentioned by Ms. Prine. This next presentation is going to provide Council with an overview of state and local law for substandard buildings. This is, of course, in line with a strategic plan for goal number three to promote the visual image of El Paso and by improving the visual impression of the community.
 Next slide, please. Or am I controlling? I'm not sure. Were you able to brief everybody prior to today? For the presentation? Yes, sir. This was taken before SBR previously, but not all council members were briefed on the specific presentations. Thank you. Yes, sir. Next slide, please. Overview of the presentation. We're going to cover the authorities, enforcement authorities granted information.
 Under Texas local government code and of course the local municipal code We're gonna go over the violations and enforcement processes that the department's typically utilized the penalties that are authorized under Texas local government Code to be imposed by municipal court And other court tests may be applicable and what the city is currently doing to make sure that these substandard buildings are properly maintained or boarded and secured
 Next slide, please. Next slide will show you the authorities that are granted to municipalities under the Texas Local Government Code. The Building and Standards Commission is a quasi-judicial board that is established under Texas Local Government Code 54.033. It is empowered to hear cases concerning alleged violations of city ordinances as it relates to substandard buildings.
 The BSC has the authority under those sections of state law to mandate the vacation, relocation of tenants, the securing, repairing, removal, or demolitions of buildings that are dilapidated, substandard, or unfit for human health and a hazard to the public, as well as vacant and abandoned structures to the public.
 that are open to the extent that it would allow unwanted entry from property or people that are not authorized to be within that location. Additionally, if a building is secured but improperly boarded and secured per the International Property Maintenance Code, the city does have the authority to order that the property be properly boarded and secured.
 The Texas Local Government Code does mandate that under these provisions we establish a local ordinance. The local ordinance must provide for minimum standards for continued use of the structure while it's going through a hearing. It obviously has to provide proper notices of the violation and of the meetings to the property owners and afford them the opportunity for a public hearing before the Building and Standards Commission.
 as part of the requirements prior to a meeting staff is required to one notify the property owner of the corrections that need to be made to the property inform the property owner that they need to submit a scope of work to comply with the provisions of the order or of the notice of correction and we are required to provide notices to the property owner of the meeting that's going to be held 10 days prior to the meeting and it has to be published within a newspaper of general
 after the Building and Standards Commission meeting,
 very similar requirements the building that standards Commission may order the again the vacation relocation of tenants securing repair removal or demolitions of buildings within a reasonable time once that order is rendered that's a signed copy of the order has to be mailed to the property owner and all interested parties within 10 business days of the building standards Commission meeting and also has to again be publicized within the newspaper
 If once the order is signed and filed with the county, if the owner fails to appeal the BSE order before the district court within 30 days, then at that point the order is final and becomes unappealable as a matter of law. So what is the reasonable time that's granted under state law? So realistically the commission has the right to order the property owner to come into compliance within 30 days, but no longer than 90 days once the order is rendered.
 unless the owner can demonstrate that it's not feasible to actually comply within 90 days. And this may be applicable to larger structures, of course, that have many more floors that need rehabilitation, restoration, or abandonment of equipment. At that point, the owner is required to present to the commission a scope of work of,
 how the work is going to be carried out and a schedule for the completion this is followed up on by the property owner requesting the applicable permits and follow-up inspections by our department
 So, additionally, what some of the authorities are granted under Texas local government code for municipalities is that the municipality may take on the work itself, whether it's securing the property, demolishing, or relocating the tenants at the municipality's expense. If that is done, we also have the authority to place a lien on the property for the cost that was incurred by the city, as well as imposing civil penalties on the property itself.
 So now we're going to look at what is authorized under our currently adopted building codes. So on the left-hand side, you're going to see the building officials' authorities under the International Property Maintenance Code and the fire officials' authorities under the International Fire Code.
 As you can see, there's a lot of similarities in the authorities that both the building official and the fire official have. Of course, right of entry, if we have to access a property, we can't just go in there and take the doors down. We actually have to request authority from the property owner. If we fail to obtain that authorization, we can always obtain a right of entry from a municipal judge.
 Both entities are authorized to issue stop work notices, and these are really related for building code construction violations. If we're seeing that something's not meeting the minimum requirements, we can issue that stop work order.
 The determination of un-structured structures is authorized to both the building and fire official, as well as imminent danger. The boarding and securing is coordinated internally between fire and building. One cause could be that we have complaints of an open and abandoned structure, or the other cause might be when the fire official responds to a fire incident. If the structure is so dilapidated that at that point it creates a nuisance,
 we coordinate as a group and order that boarding and securing of the structure through a city authorized contract so what is an imminent danger well an imminent danger structure is a condition that would cause serious or life threatening injury or death at any time due to potential failure or collapse next slide please
 the structure or the presence of explosive fumes or vapors or toxic fumes gases or hazardous materials at post a life safety issue to the occupants of that building next slide please the next slide you'll see a typical enforcement process for one of our city code violations the majority of the times our enforcement processes are initiated via a code complaint
 At that time, an inspection is conducted typically within 24 to 72 hours. That's depending, of course, on the nature of the violation. More severe violations will be responded within hours, where potentially, let's say, a replacement of windows, which is a code violation, would take probably the 72 hours.
 Once the inspection is conducted and if no violation is found, we move and close the case. But if a violation is found, we issue a notice of correction to the property owners and all interested parties.
 these notices of violations we do grant 30 days typically to correct the issues and if the violation is abated then we close the case if it's not abated then we have one of two options and they're not singular we can move with them at the same time one of them would be to submit the case to Municipal Court for legal proceedings and the other one would be to submit the case to the building and standards Commission
 This slide shows you the different types of sections of the code that our different departments enforce upon, one being Title V, Title XVIII, and Title XX for planning and inspections, and of course Title IX Chapter 9.52 for the fire department.
 As mentioned previously, the violations are typically granted between one to 30 days, depending on the nature of violation. And the violation penalties that can be imposed are between $500 and $2,000 per day that the violation continues to occur. Of course, the final penalty in these instances is set by the municipal court.
 So what are we doing? Currently we have some ongoing processes that we've had in the system for a number of years. We are reviewing and getting reports in coordination with the IT department for expiring permits, licenses, conditional certificates of occupancy or temporary certificates of occupancy.
 But basically we have something that's coming up for expiration, it alerts staff as well as the property owner or the contractor on file that something may be coming up for expiration and that we need to take follow-up action on. We're also getting notifications now for follow-up inspections after a notice of correction or violation has been issued. That way it's not something that gets dropped off and all of a sudden disappears from our memory with so many cases at times our inspectors are dealing with.
 And finally, of course, we're following up on all the conditional certificates of occupancy and temporary certificates of occupancy that are issued for construction projects within the city. Some of the next steps that we are going to be looking at and recommending is that we strengthen our current prosecution and penalties of noncompliant cases.
 Ramping up enforcement mechanisms where the longer something is out of compliance, the more serious the penalty becomes.
 cases are reset in court you know for maybe 30 60 days what we would recommend is if the property owner doesn't come into compliance then of course we have ramping up penalties due to the non-compliance of those this will take coordination with our legal department and municipal courts to ensure that they are aware of the different options that are available under texas law to really impose these harsher penalties on these property owners
 The other item that we're exploring is, of course, making potential code amendments and strengthening our current code. These amendments that we're going to be looking at would give us authority to revoke CFOs under specific reasons when we're not getting compliance.
 And finally, one of the items that we recommend is really that the city explore the receivership alternatives that are granted to municipalities under section 214.03.
 for those of you that are not aware of that section basically the state does authorize municipalities to take a property after we've gone through a number of processes be before district court to appoint a receiver and the receiver would have the ability to rehabilitate a property under the direction of the code of the court the court can authorize that the receiver sell the property to recuperate expenses
 But at that point now we have a different mechanism of how we can address dilapidated buildings that concludes my presentation And I'll take any questions Thank you mayor, thank you for putting this together. There's so much here that I feel I
 this is happening throughout my district. And I thank you for kind of putting that into this nice presentation of, okay, this is what we can do, what we wanna do. And I think the big thing here is,
 I feel that we need to look at what else we can do at the state level. I think the receivership that you mentioned is great to kind of combine our municipal code, our state laws, and really go after some of these properties, right? And I think in District 2, I can think of various properties that we're looking at. And I think that there are also people that are taking advantage of the system. They know exactly what to do, right?
 I'm thinking about one property owner that's in central that doesn't live here lives in California and is getting a lot of notices to pay whether it's tickets or whatever it is, but he doesn't care because he's in California and What is happening is that my constituents are dealing with his issues of non-compliance? with what is with his property and
 And so I'm thinking, how can we start going after the people that are like, okay, we know the system. I don't even live in El Paso. So just give me all the tickets in the world and don't do anything about it. And I think that that's where I've been hitting my head against the wall to kind of figure that out and give my constituents a better answer. And then I think the other thing is that
 there is the quote unquote reasonable time, right? Some of it could be 30 to 90 days, depending on what it is. But that reasonable time to my constituents is really something that makes us look like we're doing nothing about it, especially for the buildings that have been there for years, right? You have the property on Dyer that took 10 years to get to a better place, right, with that property. It's still half constructed, and hopefully that's gonna be demolished at some point and we're gonna get,
 to a better place with that, but at the same time, there's many different properties that are there. I could think of a house that burned on Van Buren that my constituents have told me about, and it's just kind of there burned down, and it's causing issues for the neighborhood, whether it's some of the ashes that are just kind of flying around, or it's just making the neighborhood look really bad. And so I guess my one question that I do have is,
 Is there something else that we could do to kind of put, I don't know, a big banner, a big sign that says this property has been notified and has 30 days to do this? So the whole neighborhood knows what's going on with the property. Yes, sir. And we typically, once the Building Standards Commission does take action, we do post the property. What we've ran into is that sometimes property owners remove those postings. Okay. Okay.
 but Regardless of that if they fail to comply with that unless the property changes ownership and we have a BSC order We can move forward with the demolition Okay, because I just think that I am talking to constituents and they're saying this has been here for years. I
 And so I don't know what else it's on at this point. Right. And and almost like if they're removing the sign and and doing something like that, I want to see what other innovative things we could do to kind of give them that scarlet letter and say you're not being a good neighbor and the neighbors are really upset about this. So.
 That would be kind of helpful if we could brainstorm on that. And then the other thing that we're seeing around District 2 is that I feel like there's a lot of squatting going on at houses, where there are people that are going in and out. Some of my constituents are saying, they're likely selling drugs,
 and we report them and it's just kind of hard to kind of, you have to catch them in the act of doing something, right? But I think if we use some state laws on squatting and why people are there, that could also help with some of these properties because,
 There are constituents that I have that are really scared to go outside their door because of some of the properties that they live by. And for some of these properties, Representative Acevedo, if you'd like, we can coordinate a future meeting that way, or you can simply inform us of which properties we need to take more action on.
 Some of them may not be on our radar, you know, but they definitely need to be. And some are, but then this is where I go back to, it's not necessarily anything that you're not doing. It's that these people know how to circumvent the laws and take advantage of the system, and that's what's really important.
 Really frustrating right and so I think that you're doing what you can on your end, but I'm kind of like, okay That's not helping if we are just gonna threat threaten them with a code with a misdemeanor because that's all we can do with municipal Court so let's bring in the county Let's bring in the state and start really going after them like I could think about the property on Elm that has just been awful For many years right there in Frankfurt and Elm with that person that I mentioned in another episode
 meeting a few weeks ago where they found drugs in that house and that house has been wreaking havoc for the whole neighborhood. They finally got the guy out but he still keeps coming back. And so I think those are the little issues where they are really causing a nuisance and sometimes that nuisance isn't clearly written in policy or in an ordinance but
 But if you talk to my constituents, it is a nuisance. And they are also scared about the activity that is happening there, right? And so I think that that's where we can't just be constrained to these things that just because it's not written down, or maybe it is written down and we're not enforcing it or whatever it is, I think we really need to meet people in the middle and start saying, you know what, we acknowledge that this is an issue and we're trying to do this, this and that, but then we're still not finding a solution.
 So I think that's kind of where I'm coming in. I think my frustration is just the frustration that I'm hearing from constituents. It's not necessarily against you. I know you're trying to do your best, but it's also the situations that we're getting into with a lot of this.
 And I think like we mentioned before, there may be provisions under state law that we are not fully taking advantage of, that we really need to assess with our legal department to make sure that we enforcement properly under state law requirements. Well, thank you for trying. Yes, sir. And we'll keep trying and, I mean, I'll keep sending you stuff. Yes, sir, of course. Thank you so much. Thank you. And I think based on a lot of things we discussed today, I think we'll see that,
 based on your presentation, we won't see another gateway without us being aware.
 and we not that we weren't aware but that now we have the tools to implement to be able to make sure that doesn't happen again yes sir no on items like that will ensure to keep all city representatives of course management up to speed on any items that may be problematic right and i think the shift of the reporting and everything that'll make a big difference now everybody will know what's going on at the same time and that's something that we needed to have yes sir thank you represent molinar
 Thank you, Mayor. Mr. De La Cruz, first of all, happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, sir. Anyways, thank you for all this information. Great presentation. I'm going to talk to you about certain things that are happening in District 4. Okay, so there was a fire in the house on Ajax. Okay. Okay.
 And so this happened back in July. Here we are four months later, and the residents in that area are still complaining loud and clear that when is it gonna get done? When is it gonna happen? When is, what action are we gonna take? Even though they have yellow tape, they have put some,
 boarded up windows and stuff, but people are still trespassing there. People are still spending the night there. People are still smoking there. Still people urinating, defecating inside that house. There's flies. There's issues. The people are fed up, okay? And so I don't know what that delay is on the specific time. I know we have asked for an update on that.
 I just checked my email the last time we did ask for an update it's been two weeks and I understand certain things have happened and Certain things have to happen before we do get that information on the update, but it's really disconcerting that it takes a long time So one of my questions to you so on you don't have to go to it but slide eight where it says you submitted to municipal court and I
 the word submitted are you talking about that you actually file in municipal court like your case and then it gets set up in an agenda or a docket yes sir okay and how long does that usually take before it's heard that can vary i've seen cases sometimes take
 Four, six months, sir. How many? Four to six months. Four to six months. Wow, that's unacceptable. They do have a large workload that they have been trying to catch up on, but cases can take some time. That's why many times, depending on the severity of the violations, the Building Standards Commission may be a quicker alternative, sir. If I'm not mistaken, that case was before the Building Standards Commission. Let me follow up on that for you, sir.
 um i'm blown away by that answer and no disrespect to you sir but just the figure that i know being a former police officer that we we could go to municipal court see the magistrate whoever's on call whoever's there and whether it was a search warrant whether it was an arrest warrant they would make that time even in an open court to get a search warrant or a arrest warrant for us and then we can go get the
 Warrant number and the bond and file that in municipal court, so I was thinking maybe that's the process But then again, I don't know because I'm not sure what exactly your job entails But I can tell you six months is a long time and that's this is for a notice of correction and
 Many times if we're looking at obtaining a writ of entry those happen a lot faster Those are days and what is a lot faster the writ of entry for us to assess the property if need be Depending on like I mentioned if it's a fire incident we can coordinate with fire department Depending on the severity to do an emergency board and secure of that property Okay, and are you? Working with the fire marshals on that. Oh, yes, office fun. Yes, sir. We coordinate heavily. I
 Okay, and so I can tell you I know at one time there's a
 House on Elkton the 5700 block of Elkton. There was a fire that thing lasted a long time Finally someone has got the house. I guess painted the house restored the house to livable conditions Same thing as on I want to say was either an iris or Lindsay another house fire But in that specific area in district boards, I believe there was a serial arsonist that was going around till he finally got arrested So well, anyways, thank you very much for this presentation. Yes, I
 Yes. And Mayor Pro Tem, well if I may, Chris, Yes, ma'am. from the city attorney's office. On the municipal court process, the department PNI or the code enforcement will file the notice of violation with the municipal court. It's assigned to a judge right away. In that court, the municipal court clerk goes through the process to establish the hearing dates, notify the defendant of the hearing dates. Often the judges,
 will give the defendant time as well. So that's why you know from the initiation of the case to the final adjudication it does sometimes take four to six months but that's because there's like a lot of different touch points with the court throughout that time frame throughout that six months. DIRECTOR DEWOLF And that would be regular municipal court policy to wait that long. DIRECTOR HARRIS The municipal court isn't waiting that long sir it is the municipal court judges often do give the defendants
 timeframe to come into compliance. So they may say you'll have 60 days to comply. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Canales. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for the presentation. Obviously,
 this is something that happens quite often you know we see these kinds of properties in in district 8 much like in district 2 and I'm sure some of the other more central areas of the city they're the older parts of the city and you tend to see this this type of abandoned or substandard property pop up more in our areas so I thank you for the diligence and working through all the cases and especially
 as the discussion has focused on for the last few minutes, taking these cases through BSE and through municipal court, it can take a long time. I give this explanation to people very often when they complain about these properties because we all know it does take a long time. Again, we live in the state of Texas, and in Texas,
 OUR STATE LAWS VERY MUCH FOCUS ON GUARANTEEING PEOPLE'S PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE. THERE ARE SOME BENEFITS TO THAT BUT ALSO IN CASES LIKE THIS, IT MAKES IT VERY DIFFICULT FOR A CITY TO TELL A PROPERTY OWNER THAT THEY HAVE TO DEMOLISH THEIR PROPERTY OR BOARD UP THE HOME THAT IS ON THEIR PROPERTY.
 You know, this is not really a question. It's more for the public. You know, people need to understand that the city makes a big effort and has to jump through a lot of hoops to get to that point where we're able to order something like that. It takes, you know, very often an order from the court that can take a long time.
 I always ask people for patience and I know that's difficult when they're living next to a property that people are squatting in and they're concerned about fire risk and things like that. But these things take time and I think in our state they take a little bit extra time
 And, you know, I don't like hearing criticisms of staff who I know is working hard to make sure that these cases get adjudicated in municipal court and that we can have resolutions to the complaints that we receive. So thank you for all the work. I know it's not easy to deal with these types of cases and properties. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Ms. Pryor? Thank you, Mayor. There's no action on this item. We now move to the introduction of ordinances. Yes.
 These are items 37 to 44. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 37 to 44. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously.
 the next item is number 45 and this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2024-0115 border highway west shared use path to martinez brothers contractors llc for an estimated amount of 989 526 dollars 81 cents this project consists of construction of a shared use path
 From Racetrack to Executive Center Boulevard, the shared use path will run parallel to Border Highway East and serve as a continuation of the existing path. Mayor. Go ahead, sir. Representative Canales. Yeah, I just want to point out for the public, again, it's a great project funded 94% by the federal government. It's a really small match amount from the city, and I think a great benefit to extend the trail that exists there already. So I move to approve. Second. Mr. Perrin.
 there's a motion made by representative pierrot seconded by representative pierrot to approve item 45 on that motion call for the vote go ahead representative uh thank you just had a quick question um is the martinez brothers contractors they're in good standing with the city i just for some reason the the name is kind of like they had a project that was not good i just wanted to clarify that
 Crystal bus with purchasing and strategic sourcing yes as far as I know they're They're in good sense with the city. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you Yes, sir, the voting session is open in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously and
 Item number 46 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services to perform architecture and engineering services on a task-by-task basis between the City of El Paso and six consultants, Execo Architecture LLC, In-situ Architecture PLLC, Decker LLC, Daniel, Carl Daniel Architects Inc., Hewitt Zollers Inc., Nine Degrees Architecture and Design Inc.
 There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 46. On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Item 47 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign an agreement for professional services between the city of El Paso and Gannett Fleming Inc., successor in interest to DEC El Paso LLC.
 for a project known as Engineering and Design Services for the Airway Boulevard Extension Project. I wanted to find out from the city attorney, are these companies allowed when they have a bid or they're bidding on something to come in and solicit the elected officials? I know that they were in my office. I believe it's a matter of timing.
 So that's why I asked because I want to make sure that I know that we're going around office to office and I want to make sure that What was done was in compliance with city law or state law because I'm a little concerned about that. Okay I
 If Ms. Cody would like to provide you with the process and then if we need to discuss afterwards specifically what may have occurred so we can look into it. I'd like to know if this thing moves forward I'd like to know because I'm concerned and would consider vetoing the item if it does pass due to I'm a little concerned of violations.
 So this is regarding item 47, correct? Mm-hmm. Okay. I'm going to actually let, or Joaquin, do you want me to go through the state law, or do you want to?
 Okay, so under the state law, so this is actually an item under Capital Improvement Department. So this is not handled by the purchasing department, but the law is not different So under a state law, it's an anti-lobbying law that prohibits vendors of course coming to City Council during the cone of silence to Solicit your vote it strictly prohibited and with that we actually can restrict and we've done it once in
 that I remember in the distant past that prohibits them being able to do business with the city for three years. And so that's where you hear that. And so it is completely restrictive, yes sir. And so I'm not sure which vendor or if we need to go into executive session to discuss this. But again, it is a capital improvement department item. And for the benefit of the public, Ms. Cody, can you explain when the cone of silence is lifted?
 So is after award is really the best time is to say it's after award. No, I know that. That's what I'm saying, but we haven't awarded anything. Exactly. That's my concern. So they should not, no vendor should be...
 scheduling appointments to discuss any items with you. It should not happen, sir. And we've been really, I know council and other items for purchasing have let me know immediately if they've even been approached and we remind the vendors of the rules and the state law requirements during the Kona silence. And it is included as part of the solicitation. It's actually very explicit. We wanna make sure everybody understands
 how critical it is that they do not come to council to be able to plead their case or their proposal or whatever that may be. There is a process. Thank you, ma'am. Yes, sir. Representative Canales followed by Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, I'll say for transparency but I think also for clarification, the company also met with me.
 Right away at the very beginning of the meeting I said, I hope you're not here to talk to me about anything that you are currently bidding on or anything within the cone of silence. They said, nope, absolutely not. They asked specific questions about the future of the street resurfacing program, looking years into the future. At no point did they mention airway extension or this project at all. So I can't speak for everybody else, but that was what my meeting with
 with Gannett Fleming consisted of when there was a lot about the Dashboard and being able to be able to do stuff like this that we're talking about So they did talk about the dashboard They wanted to they talked about the possibility of developing a dashboard to track progress of future street resurfacing projects Unrelated Yeah, no, absolutely and again
 Anytime, you know it's happened in the past where a Company within the cone of silence has you know tried to schedule a meeting and I've shared that with this You know, we've shared that with the city attorney's office and with purchasing I didn't in this case because they didn't they didn't talk to me at least about anything that was currently pending I
 I did have an opportunity to meet with them right after the meeting with the mayor. He had concerns, so I just wanted to have a clear understanding of what they were bringing forward. Did clarify that if we were actually going out for bid in the future for the same type of service, that they would be limiting their ability to apply for that. So we did have a very frank conversation
 about future products and going to meet with city council members regarding items that we may purchase for the city. So it was not about this specific item, but I did have an opportunity to speak with them because we had several reassignments on other contracts. So I think we may have had four or five items that were for the specific company happening in rapid fire over the last couple of agendas. Again, I'm just being cautious and making sure.
 Thank you for all the updates Representative Molineux marijuana one final comment. Oh, yeah, just to clarify to that the reassignments is just because they were acquired, right? They were they were previously under a different name. The company was acquired and correct the friend used to be Dan and mom now It's again it funny. Correct same folks working on the project just Acquisition of the company. Okay. Thanks Molineux
 Thank you, Mayor. Just a quick clarification. I know the meeting agenda says District 1, but this should really be District 3. I know the backup does say District 3. I don't know if that changes anything for the actual motion, but just for clarification purposes only. Thank you for that. Representative Firo? Mayor, yes, I do have something. I think we've come to a conclusion that we're talking about two separate items, so that's not it, but Ms. Mack made a comment about
 If we're talking about something in the future it could affect them. How is that? I don't understand if it's something we're not even talking about yet How could affect their what our general policy is even if our staff members go to trade shows and they're having a discussion with a vendor we usually go through purchasing and allow for them to arrange for any type of demonstration and
 to ensure that if we're talking about a product that we will have a go back out for some type of competitive process, that we're having a very specific conversation and not eliminating anybody from a special preference type of situation with those products. And so I'm referring to that process in terms of how we always include purchasing in any type of demonstrations. And so my question to them was if there's
 PRODUCT THAT IS REALLY GOING TO BE SOMETHING THAT IS MANAGED THROUGH CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT, THEN THEY WOULD REALLY BE THE CLIENT WHO WOULD BE DOING THE EVALUATION TO MAKE A DETERMINATION WHETHER THAT IS BEST SUITED FOR THE CITY RATHER THAN THE ELECTED OFFICIALS WHO WOULD BE VOTING ON FINALLY ANY TYPE OF PRODUCT THAT WE PUT FORWARD. THANK YOU. I'LL JUST ASK MS. HAMILTON IF SHE WOULDN'T MIND SENDING THE COUNSEL THAT POLICY. THANK YOU. MR. PROCHAIN.
 IS ABOUT CONE OF SILENCE. OKAY. WE KNOW IT FINISHES AFTER AWARD. WHEN DOES IT START? IT'S WHEN THE. MY UNDERSTANDING IT STARTS ONCE THE RFQ OR THE SOLICITATION IS ADVERTISED. OKAY. BEFORE THAT, THERE'S NO REQUIREMENTS OR RESPONSES REQUIRED. I MEAN, IF IT HASN'T GONE OUT FOR BID. THERE ARE OTHER REGULATIONS SURROUNDING
 future respondents to an RFQ not being involved in the development of that RFQ? Correct, and the specs of the RFQ. But the cone of silence provision specifically starts once the solicitation is advertised. Right. I guess my question was if somebody has a concept for a widget and brings it to the city and says you guys really ought to think about doing widgets, that doesn't necessarily disqualify them if there was a bid then put out for it afterwards, right? I think we're talking two different things. Yeah, I mean, I will say that
 There's a city policy and then there's code of silence. So there's two different things we're talking about today. And that's what Ms. Mack was trying to explain to us. I mean, I understand that, but the city policy is not necessarily what the legal requirements are. It was just a city policy, correct? I'd like to see a copy of the city policy also. Of course. We'll send it. Make sure we send it to everybody. That way everybody's aware of what's going on. That way we don't get caught in a trap somewhere. Thank you for that. And with that, Ms. Crine?
 Yes, there was a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve Item 47. On that motion, call for the vote. Yes, ma'am. Formally known as DEC because the ethics rules were changed without any understanding of the processes. The prior one, for my first election, I received a campaign contribution, but because there's no clear parameters, I just wanted to say that in abundance of caution. Thanks. Thank you for that, ma'am.
 Go ahead voting session is open council and the voting session and that motion passes unanimously That brings us to item number 54 item 54 is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning at 1110 East Rio Grande Avenue from a to apartment to SD special development Imposing a condition and improving a detailed site development plan to allow for a business office as permitted in the SD special development zone district
 This this was deleted by planning right? I'm sorry. Yes, sir. You're correct. That is deleted Yes, you're right that brings us to item 55 Item 55 is a public hearing of an ordinance authorizing the city manager to execute a quick claim deed conveying all right title and interest to Hector Perez the second of the following and described parcel track 1 J a freedom bloom survey 130 abstract 2732 in addition to the city of El Paso El Paso County, Texas a
 thank you mayor um yeah i i had done a briefing with staff i had a few questions about this property um i don't know if we've been able to get answers back yet it's a strange smaller parcel it's sandwiched between two large parcels uh one to the west owned privately uh by an llc and and one to the east owned by the psb
 And this is a relatively small parcel right in the middle do we have an understanding of Intended use or anything like that of this parcel. Good morning mayor and council. This is Joe Romero with the tax office I do not see anything. I just see it looks like an empty parcel Do you do have some adjacent properties if you would like to know that so far? I do not have that information with me. I
 Okay, yeah, again, it's just a strange one because, you know, it's hard to imagine, like, what an intended use would be there. Correct. It's on the slope of the mountain, and again, the adjacent property owners, it's the PSB on one side. It's an LLC connected to Mr. Billy Abraham on the other side. I was curious to know if the sale of the parcel was related to either of the adjacent property owners. Yes.
 If I may, Representative Canales, Jose Padilla with the law firm of Delgado Acosta, we're the ones that do your tax foreclosure sales. And so we have some information from the letter from the interested purchaser where he states that he was intending to buy the property. And he quotes a few others that are not desirable and put them back on the market. So I'm thinking that he does this on the regular because he says that he does this in other counties around the state.
 And just for your information, of course when they got struck off that property is now tax exempt So you are not generating taxes of those from that property? And so it is usually desirable to sell them and put them back into your tax rolls into your your tax revenue generating Yeah, of course and it's again just a strange one. It's a property with no it has no access has no utilities or
 I had the same question representative, but obviously it's the purchasers intent to buy this get it back on your tax roll and start generating taxes for you. Okay Yeah, no other questions. Thank you mayor. Yes, there was a motion made by representative Fierro seconded by alternate mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 55. There's no public comment on that motion call for the vote representative Hernandez, thank you in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously
 That brings us to item 56 and this is discussion in action that the city manager or designee be authorized to effectuate the listed budget transfer attached to the resolution as exhibit A for the Capital Improvement Department in support of allocating investment interest proceeds to complete quality of life projects for Proposition 1 from the 2012 quality of life bond proceeds for capital expenditures associated with the Chaleo Acosta Recreational Center HVAC systems.
 There is a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linar, and this is to approve item 56. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. The last item is item 57, and this is discussion and action at the City of El Paso City Council authorizes the submission of an application to the U.S. Economic Development Administration fiscal year 2025, Economic Adjustment Assistance Grant Program,
 requesting funds in the amount of $400,000 from the grant program with a $270,000 match required from the city for a total of $670,000 for the Isleta Port of Entry Short-Term Improvements Feasibility Study. Two motions and two seconds, that's for the mayor. There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 57 on that motion. Call for the vote.
 So in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously Council would you like to recess until noon for call to the public? There's a motion in a second to recess a City Council meeting until noon for call to the public all in favor Anyone opposed and the City Council meeting is in recess at 1125 a.m. And we'll reconvene at noon Yes, sir. There's a motion in a second to reconvene the City Council meeting all in favor anyone opposed? All
 And the meeting is back in session at 12.02 p.m. That brings us to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body serving all of the citizens, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council.
 All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have four members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Elizabeth Crawford and her topic is a veteran's legacy. Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford. Star six please to unmute your telephone and you have three minutes. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 As we've been remembering our veterans, this month of November I'd like to speak briefly about a Vietnam Navy veteran that I just missed meeting, John Barrows. I recently had the privilege of serving in Florida working against a radical abortion amendment and I finally got to serve on the sidewalk of Orlando Women's Center and meet the beautiful team of pro-lifers there. I've been hearing about this ministry for years. I was shown a spot where John Barrows' crutches had left a mark in the sidewalk.
 His legacy, two decades of serving on that sidewalk, having the privilege of saving many babies, of sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ with many countless women, of sharing the Lord even with abortion workers, and if I understand correctly, seeing some of them exit the industry. We are told in the words of the Lord Jesus Christ, John chapter 15, greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
 We know that ultimately Jesus was speaking of himself who laid down his life on Calvary to redeem all who would believe. When we, who were his enemies in mercy, turn into friends, all who by his grace would repent and believe. That is the ultimate sacrifice. I extend an application every believer is called on to be willing to lay down their lives and sacrifice for others.
 John Barrows, the veteran of Florida, was subjected to all sorts of cruel remarks, to all kinds of wet weather, hot weather, described as a kind-hearted man who was passionate for the ministry outside that abortion center.
 The Lord took John Barros in February this year after years of battling illness. What an awesome legacy he left behind. I was told he had a faith etched with pain, not merely because of physical pain he was battling, but the pain of standing outside a murder house day after day, year after year, the emotional pain.
 As we live in a culture that increasingly defines the hero as one dedicated to self-love, self-affirmation, popularity, we cannot forget the words of Christ and his call to discipleship. Luke chapter 14, And whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. So therefore, whoever of you does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple.
 Great crowds are following Jesus for the physical benefit, healing, the food. Jesus sought to disperse most of that crowd with his truth. In the words of Christ, be merciful even if your father is merciful. Greater love has no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. That is truly heroic, and that is what the life of this veteran exemplifies. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como. His topic is animal services and constitutional rights under federal section 1983 good afternoon Good afternoon again. Good afternoon still. I think where we should start is I sent you all an email It's a series of text messages from Colonel Weston and
 Colonel Weston was given some information about the state of Texas and its laws on managed intake Managed intake is illegal in the state of Texas and he was given the information and it was also approved not approved but confirmed by our city attorneys and he sent out four messages I believe is what I sent to you guys telling me that he told the director that he needed to be open intake That was ignored
 Sir, you told him on a meeting on the 15th three times. You need to intake, intake, intake. He ignored that. What do you have to do to get terminated from work in the city of El Paso? I mean, here's a gentleman that's doing absolutely nothing about a problem. He's creating more of a problem. He's not paying attention to his supervisors. And nobody seems to care. So let's discuss something. We had a meeting in here one day and there was 20 plus people in here.
 We had one of the people from running the shelter that it completely ignored the 20 plus people that were here. And we had the director who almost fell on his face walking through that door laughing after all these people talked about death and destruction. Last time I spoke here, we discussed death and destruction again. And the gentleman walked by me out there laughing, telling me to have a good day. So let's start this again. We are having dogs attack other dogs again.
 Had lunch with the man on show-and-go across the street from him was four dogs They get out and killed the Chihuahua in the guy's front yard animal services gave him tickets well that did a lot of good because he moved out and left the dogs and
 Animal service has been called out there four times for abandonment and have done nothing These dogs are running in the cul-de-sac and they've already killed somebody's pet I just got a message while I was sitting there from another rescue that her boss's dog just got killed two of their dogs Got away. What does it take to get animal services to do their job? Oh, I know we need somebody qualified to run it No, I'm not your keep your comments to members of council. I
 I'm speaking to you and I get it you love him that's great you're leaving all right we'll give you 15 seconds more if you'd like I just I'm I'm terrified we're going to get somebody killed and we're going to get him killed because he doesn't want to do his job and if telling the truth isn't right too bad thank you sir the next speaker is Barbara Valencia and Ms. Valencia's topic is animal services legacy good afternoon you have three minutes
 Good afternoon, I'm Barbara Valencia with Huckleberry Hound Dog Rescue. For the last four years, Animal Services has left dogs running at large on the streets. As our stray population continues to explode, the excuses from the shelter director continue as well. Like this one. There is nowhere for all these strays to go. When you purposely leave unaltered dogs on the streets, they will indiscriminately breed and add to the stray population. You don't have anywhere for these dogs to go, yet you purposely produce more dogs. And that's asinine.
 How about this excuse? The 2016 No-Kill Plan says I'm prohibited from euthanizing, so I can't open intake. Actually, I have the original 2016 No-Kill Plan and nowhere in this plan does it say euthanizing is prohibited, and he's not even been using this plan. And then there is the outright denial that Animal Services and 311 has ever told someone to put a dog back where they found it. This is from a couple of weeks ago, and this person was told to do just that. Sure, and we get in trouble for that.
 It is against the law for anyone to abandon a dog, and it is also against the law for anyone to solicit, encourage, direct, aid, or attempt to aid another person to commit such an offense. Wow. Blatantly breaking the law.
 Animal services is a taxpayer funded shelter and as such the taxpayers pay over 12 million dollars a year and in exchange we are to be provided with services that includes providing for the protection and regulation of companion animals in the city to provide and enforce regulations by which the transmission of rabies to human beings and domestic animals can be prevented and controlled in the city.
 to reduce the number of unwanted stray and loose dogs to protect the citizens public health safety and welfare taking our money but failing provide the services we are paying for is also a crime the director of animal services continues to use manage intake deny intake and leave the dogs on the streets this needs to end there is no magical island in El Paso where all the dogs on the streets can go live out their lives our city cannot handle anymore
 Street dogs. All of you sitting up there have allowed for this to happen. Now you need to fix it, and that will include having to euthanize a large number of the dogs you have allowed animal services to abandon on the streets. I present this video of an older frail dog left on the streets to fend for himself and is being viciously attacked by two other dogs that have been continuously running at large. I hope that haunts you like it has many of us.
 You have allowed the Director of Animal Services to make all of you look like fools. Now your legacy is about being made a fool of. Shame on you. Thank you. Thank you. The final speaker is Jesus Moreno, and Mr. Moreno's topic is congratulating Representative Hernandez on NLC's Centennial Under 40 Impact Award.
 Hello, hello Marin Council. My name is Jesus Moreno. Nice to be up here. I work with you all but I'm here to congratulate Rep. Hernandez, my supervisor on an NLC award. I know El Paso is the part of the National League of Cities and this award was for those who are elected officials who are young and under 40. She was nominated and congratulated on this because of the I-153 troopers program.
 i think it's really important program i love that it kind of gets our constituents important get them concerned and activated in the neighborhood if you all know about it you have to get like five or four members involved in order for your trees to be planted really important i think it's very proactive it's also efficient it's something that instead of us talking about it you can actually have your neighborhood members go out there and actually install these trees it's a really big award i think it's critical that it's it's signified and acknowledged
 besides that I think it's also really important to be proactive especially somebody my age I think it's critical we get involved like that and that's about it I think thank you guys for listening to me talking it's a really big award mm-hmm thank you guys thank you miss prime here that concludes call to the public motion to recess I mean adjourn yeah sorry about that
 There's a motion and a second to adjourn the city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? And the city council meeting for Tuesday, November 12, 2024, is adjourned at 12.15 p.m. Council, there is a special meeting tomorrow at 4 p.m. to canvass the results and order the runoff election. Yes, sir. Tomorrow at 4. Thank you.