Good morning, Mayor. We just need one more member of the Council on the dais. Representative Acevedo. For McCormick. He's right here. Thank you. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, November 19, 2024. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding in Council Chambers along with Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, Representative Acevedo, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, and Representative Rivera. It is 9.01 a.m.
 Will everyone please silence their electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain and Sun Valley Baptist Pastor Dennis Kaufman, who's joining us virtually. Pastor Kaufman, you're on mute, sir. How about now? Yes, sir. Okay. Thank you for this opportunity to come before you and deliver this invocation.
 Father, we thank you for allowing these people, these men and women to come together to discuss the business of El Paso. And I pray that you give them wisdom and guidance and understanding as they do this, as they have this meeting. Let it be for your honor and your glory. We pray for our city, our state, and our country. Father, as we go through this time of transition.
 And I just pray that you would give understanding, give strength and courage to do what is right according to your will and your purpose. We thank you for all that you do for us. And again, Father, we just pray for this group that you give them a special understanding. Help them to be able to work together to resolve their issues and to help this city to go on further and to progress. And Father, we thank you for your love and your grace.
 and your forgiveness, and we ask for your blessings on this time in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, sir. Our new director of aviation, congratulations, sir. Will you please lead us in the pledge to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Ms. Pryne. Thank you.
 Yes, sir. For the record, Representative Canales joined the meeting at 9.03 a.m. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. For those of you receiving a proclamation this morning, your group will have up to six minutes collectively to speak at the podium. We begin with a proclamation for World AIDS Day.
 Good morning. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health, HIV prevention provides free HIV, syphilis, and hepatitis C testing. And whereas the City of El Paso Department of Public Health,
 Collaborates with local physicians, clinics, community health centers, Fort Bliss, Do単a Ana County, New Mexico, Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, and other organizations to promote a healthier, safer community through community education on HIV prevention. And whereas getting tested and knowing your HIV status reduces the spread of HIV,
 Whereas testing is critical to HIV prevention and whereas the Department of Public Health joins the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention along with the World Health Organization and recognizing the importance of HIV testing and controlling the spread of HIV now Therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that December 1st 2024 shall be known as World AIDS Day signed the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser city of El Paso. I
 Thank you, Mayor and City Council. My name is Saraig Gutierrez. I am the intervention supervisor for the HIV prevention program for the City of El Paso Department of Public Health. World AIDS Day is a day observed every December 1st since 1988, where organizations and individuals across the world bring attention to the HIV epidemic.
 to increase awareness and speak out against HIV stigma and call for an increased response to move towards ending the HIV epidemic. As we observe World AIDS Day 2024, we do take this moment not just to remember those we have lost, but also reflect on the progress we've made, the challenges still ahead, and the unique context of our community here in El Paso, right along the U.S.-Mexico border.
 This year marks the 37th World AIDS Day and the theme this year is Collective Action, Sustain and Accelerate HIV Progress. HIV.gov described this theme as encapsulating the U.S. government's dedication to harnessing the significant progress that has been made through global and domestic HIV programs over the last four plus decades, working to ensure that no community is left behind.
 At the same time, we continue to innovate and adapt initiatives based on new scientific advancement, implementation on research and lessons learned from programs in the field. It is especially important in helping to reduce transmission in our communities because 2455 individuals in El Paso County are currently living with HIV. And this is according to the 2022 Texas HIV surveillance report.
 Furthermore, 109 individuals were newly diagnosed in 2021 within the El Paso community. This health issue does not begin and end in El Paso. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there are 39.9 million people worldwide living with HIV in 2023, 1.4 million who were children.
 And unfortunately, 630,000 people died from AIDS-related illness worldwide in 2023. In addition, the World Health Organization reports that in 2023, 1.3 million people were newly infected with HIV in the United States. And we saw 31,800 new cases.
 So we invite the El Paso community to unite in commemorating World AIDS Day by getting tested and knowing and or updating their status, which is the first empowering step to end the HIV epidemic.
 The community can get tested for free Monday through Friday, 8 to 1130 and 1 to 430 at 701 Montana Avenue. This Wednesday, we will be open until 8 p.m. for free services. We honor the many lives that we have lost to AIDS-related illness, and we continue our collaborative efforts within our community to reduce HIV cases and also connect individuals to care.
 I thank you all for your attention, and I thank everyone who is representative here. Thank you. Thank you very much. And if you'd like to, we'd love to have you come on up here so we can get a picture with everybody. And for the record, Representative Hernandez joined the meeting at 9.05, and Representative Fierro joined at 9.07. Oh, that's not true. And Representative Salcido has requested to be excused. Thank you, Representative. This way. Ready? One, two, three.
 One, two, three. And the next proclamation is Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week. Whereas National Hunger and Homeless Awareness Week 2024 is November 17th through November 23rd, 2024, and aims to educate about the problems of hunger and homeless. And whereas addressing hunger and homelessness is critical for the economic prosperity of El Paso families,
 And whereas the Community and Human Development Department has made tremendous contributions to supporting and protecting the most vulnerable Alpacians by deploying federal and state funding for support in housing affordability, homelessness, utility cost burden, access to food, and supporting individual financial stability. And whereas there are many community organizations committed to sheltering and providing supportive services as well as meals and food supplies to people experiencing hunger and homelessness,
 and whereas it is the responsibility of the Department of Community and Human Development to serve as the catalyst for the community partnerships, collaboration, and change, ensuring equity, resilience, and sustainability for the most vulnerable El Pasoans by giving voice to the underrepresented, supporting a strong system of human services and investing in El Paso homes, family, and neighborhoods, and whereas the City of El Paso has shown incredible leadership
 by integrating the needs of the individuals experiencing homelessness as a strategic city objective in the City of El Paso Strategic Plan, and whereas El Paso Helps, El Paso Ayuda serves as a collaboration of organizations providing support to families in crisis, driving community stability and resilience,
 as well as ensuring that individuals in crisis experiencing basic need insecurities are connected to the services immediately now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that the week of November 17th through November 23rd 2024 shall be known as hunger and homelessness awareness week and it's signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser okay there we go good morning mayor and council I guess it's been a minute since I stood here
 Nicole Farini, Director of Community and Human Development. This is going to be my eighth Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week, and I think that one of the things that makes me most proud is that when I stand here, I am never standing here alone. I came up by myself and then realized that there is quite a group of individuals behind me. It is these folks that really make the support we provide for the most vulnerable in our community possible.
 And so it's for these people that I really stand here today. I want to recognize a couple of agencies. There are dozens that actually make this work and that are on the street helping people every single day. But there's a handful that I just would like to call out by name this morning. The El Paso Center for Children, El Paso Human Services, La Posada, my beautiful friends at Amistad,
 and my beautiful friends at the Opportunity Center for the Homeless. It's because of these people that vulnerability in our community has a place to go. I would like to share just a little bit of data with you. I think that we've made a lot of progress in terms of addressing issues like homelessness. We work very hard to prevent homelessness from happening in the first place.
 But really, homelessness is one part of a larger continuum of challenges and vulnerabilities that exist in our community. Food security, emergency hunger relief, housing, affordability, utilities, all of the things that you often see us working on every single day in the Department of Community and Human Development with our partners.
 In August of this year, males made up majority of clients served by street outreach and emergency shelter. All of you know about El Paso Helps and the work that Amistad has done to create the city's first 24-7 street outreach program. Last week I had the privilege of joining Representative Canales on a ride along where we went out and we saw what these teams are doing every single day and the need that is out there. And what I learned in that day is that homelessness and vulnerability is not a homogenous problem.
 Every single human being that you see experiencing these challenges has a unique story, and they deserve to be treated uniquely. And so very proud of the work that Street Outreach is doing. Females represented the largest group of clients in homeless prevention, transitional housing, and rapid rehousing programs. What we're learning is that it's very important for women to stay off the street.
 Women are incredibly vulnerable to predatory individuals and to be victims of crime when they are homeless. 29% of individuals served by the city's programs in August self-identified as having a disability. I think it's also time that we start recognizing that folks of all abilities
 require support in different ways. When we talk about disabilities, we're not just talking about physical disabilities. We know that there are many on the street that are dealing with mental health challenges. So this is a complex issue and requires complex solutions. But the future is bright. We are spending a lot of effort, a lot of energy from these human beings on helping these folks.
 And so at the end of the day, I just want to thank you for what you are doing by recognizing Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week this week. And I want to invite you all to join us. We are hosting an event this Saturday at the Center for Civic Empowerment on the 17th floor of the Blue Flame. Yes, the same day as the celebration of lights so we can celebrate together.
 but that event is an open house from 10 a.m to 4 p.m we will be exhibiting artwork from the elementary school students at mesita elementary who have interpreted homelessness hunger and vulnerability through their artwork we'll be displaying that on saturday and then at 2 30 we will be hosting a panel discussion to create broader awareness with the general public about what they can do to help address this issue thank you guys so much
 Thank you, Nicole. Appreciate it. Appreciate everybody that's here and all the work that you guys do. It's critical to the city of El Paso, so we want to thank you. And we'd love to have you guys come on up and take a picture with us. And the next proclamation is Transgender Day of Remembrance in the city of El Paso. Good morning. I have the honor of reading this proclamation. I know you have a big group, so I'll start reading.
 Well, you get information. Whereas Transgender Day of Remembrance is observed annually on November 20th to honor the memory of transgender individuals whose lives were lost, and whereas the transgender community in El Paso, across Texas, and around the world continues to face systemic discrimination, violence, and marginalization simply for living authentically.
 And whereas transgender people, particularly transgender women of color, are disproportionately impacted by hate crimes, violence and discrimination in employment, housing, healthcare and education. And whereas it is essential to raise public awareness and support for the transgender community to affirm the dignity and humanity of all transgender individuals and to commit to fostering an environment of safety, acceptance and inclusion.
 And whereas the city of El Paso recognizes the invaluable contributions of transgender individuals to our community, enriching the cultural, social, and economic fabric of our city. And whereas the city of El Paso is dedicated to advancing the rights of transgender individuals and combating all forms of discrimination and violence against them.
 And whereas Transgender Day of Remembrance serves as a day to reflect on the lives lost, to support those who continue to face adversity, and to renew our commitment to ensuring that all people, regardless of gender identity, are treated with dignity, respect, and equality under the law.
 Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that November 20th, 2024 shall be known as Transgender Day of Remembrance in the city of El Paso. Signed, the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning, Mayor, City Council Members. My name is Jesus Rinaga, and I'm the advocacy field organizer for the El Paso Texas Rising region. I stand before you as a member of not only my social advocacy group, but also as a member of the El Paso community.
 deeply committed to advocating for the dignity, safety, and the rights of all transgender individuals. It is an honor to testify on the importance of this, making this day officially recognized as Transgender Day of Remembrance in our city. In El Paso, we have the unique opportunity to lead by example, a city that is diverse, welcoming, and rooted in compassion.
 By making November 20th Transgender Day of Remembrance, we send a powerful message that El Paso is a place where everyone, regardless of gender identity, is valued and respected. This day is not only a tribute to those that we've lost, but also a call to action to work together as a community and to ensure that future generations of these individuals can live their lives openly, freely, and especially safely.
 I urge you, Mayor and City Council, to adopt this proclamation with compassion and urgency. Let us be a beacon of hope, justice, and acceptance for all people. And let us honor the lives of our neighbors in a meaningful and lasting way. Thank you. Good morning, Council. My name is Amber Perez. I am the Executive Director of the Borderland Rainbow Center. And I am lucky enough to be standing here with a group of phenomenal individuals, a group of amazing people.
 El Paso citizens. Thank you so much for this proclamation today. This is incredibly important. Our transgender community needs all of the support that it can get. And while we will stand here always with them and fight for them, it is incredibly important that our elected officials and our community continue to show support for them. I am not going to take up a whole bunch of time because there are so many more important people behind me that need to speak and I would love for each of them to at least get a few seconds in. Good morning City Council.
 First off, thank you for bringing forward such an amazing and incredibly important proclamation. When I, as a transgender woman, when I first learned about what it was to be transgender, Transgender Day of Remembrance was one of the first things I learned about and one of the first things that terrified me because it taught me that the...
 that the world isn't quite as safe for transgender people like me. Whether it be by our own hand or by others who simply don't respect our existence or who wish us not to exist.
 It terrified me, but it also lit a spark in me to not only fight for my existence, but to fight for the existence of everybody in this community, because we all deserve to be able to exist, and we all deserve to be able to shine the brightest that we can. And this day just stands as a reminder that not everyone was able to make it to this day. So thank you again, and have a great day.
 Hi, thank you for this opportunity. I stand before you as a parent of a transgender daughter. It's been very difficult these past few weeks. My daughter has a lot of anxiety right now about being out in public. She came out when she was 13 years old and I always felt safe in the El Paso community, no matter our differences.
 And I've always told other people that El Paso is one of the safest communities in Texas. And as other people in Texas are wanting to flee their towns and move to a safer place, I encourage them to come to El Paso because of the diversity that we offer and the safety that we offer.
 Right now, my daughter doesn't want to leave the house, and that's okay. I just keep encouraging her that El Paso is one of the safest place, and this is a good place for someone who is transgender to be right now because of the representatives and of the people in this community that will protect her. She does have a right to exist,
 we all do as humans we all have a right to exist on this planet nobody asked us to be here so we should all just work together and even with differences understand that everybody deserves equality and everybody deserves the right to walk outside their home and not feel safe they deserve the right to feel safe so I thank you for this opportunity and for protecting my daughter's right to be here thank you
 I promise this won't be long. I think I just want to honor and give a lot of space to the stories that were just shared with you, but also for the stories that are standing behind me right now. And they may not want to come to the microphone, but their stories are equally important. So when we talk in this organization about equity, and we talk about the voice of the underrepresented, and we talk about being the safest city,
 we need to be talking about it for everyone. And so I'm happy to be a part of that. I'm happy, Amber, to call you friend. Thank you, Ms. Browning. And I'm happy to support this work. Thank you very much. And what we'd like to do is have everybody come forward if you can so we can get a picture. And the next proclamation is Alejandro Mu単oz and Andy Vargas Day, celebrating borderless innovation and opportunity. Good morning, the proclamation reads for the city of El Paso.
 Whereas Alejandro Mu単oz and Andy Vargas, celebrated entrepreneurs and venture capitalists from West Texas have demonstrated a lifelong commitment to breaking barriers and creating opportunities, especially in regions often overlooked by traditional investment. Their careers have epitomized the spirit of visionary good troublemakers striving for transformative progress. And whereas Alejandro and Andy have co-founded No Border Ventures, a pioneering 30 million venture
 fund designed to support innovative startups and build the next wave of unicorns across the Southwest and mountain region, including Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Arizona, California, Colorado, Utah, and Nevada. Their mission centers on fostering economic empowerment in the border and mountain regions, channeling resources and guidance to diverse high potential founders.
 And whereas no border ventures has positioned itself as a critical supporter of early stage tech startups. With plans to invest in 20 to 25 companies over the next five years through its first fund. Leveraging their unique regional networks and mentorship roles, Alejandro and Andy aim to access prime deal flow and provide portfolio companies with unparalleled strategic support, greatly enhancing their chances of success.
 Whereas Alejandro and Andy's expertise is fortified by their backgrounds in finance and technology and an educational foundation with prestigious institutions like Harvard and Wharton, which combined with the wisdom of their advisory board, including Unicorn Investors, exited founders and former CEOs, positions No Border Ventures as an invaluable partner to founders.
 TO FOUNDERS. AND WHEREAS THEIR DEDICATION HAS GARNERED THE RECOGNITION OF PROMINENT LEADERS INCLUDING CONGRESSIONAL COMMENDATION FROM CONGRESSWOMAN VERONICA ESCOBAR FOR THEIR TRANSFORMATIVE EFFORTS IN VENTURE CAPITAL WITHIN THE BORDER REGION AND BACKING FROM HENRY CINCINNETO, FORMER MAYOR OF SAN ANTONIO AND THE TENTH U.S. SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT.
 And whereas Alejandro and Andy's investments philosophy aligns with regional growth industries, such as semiconductors, AI, clean tech, advanced manufacturing, and fine tech.
 further supported by their extensive mentorship experience with institutions like UT System, Techstars, Tech Frontier, MCA, and the Capital Factory. Their active roles and fund accelerators like VC include Recast Capital, Bridge Funding Global, Cool Water, and VC Lab. Not mentioned here, both local Opassoans. Andy went to Bel Air High School and
 Alejandro, he went to high school in Ciudad Juarez, and two wonderful El Pasoans. Now therefore be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that November 19, 2024 shall be known as Alejandro Mu単oz and Andy Vargas Day celebrating borderless innovation and opportunity. Signed by Honorable Mayor Oscar Leeser. Congratulations. Thank you, Cassandra and members of city council.
 Alejandro and I were, as aforementioned, we're from El Paso, proud to be El Pasoans, and we're launching a board of ventures to support good troublemakers that will build the next wave of unicorns in the southwest and the mountain region. We hail from El Paso and have built careers in technology from Bloomberg to Amazon to finance investment banking, JP Morgan, UBS, and Marathon Petroleum.
 Supply Chain Management, Grupo Mexico, and as startup operators and investors for Bay Area venture capital firms and East Coast venture capital firms. Now in terms of involvement and the benefit to El Paso, as part of building No Border Ventures, we have moved back to the borderplex after being away for over a decade and we bring a wealth of knowledge and rich global network to support the region's economic development and
 and seize opportunities in supply chain, logistics tech, data centers, energy management, advanced manufacturing, aerospace, fintech, future work, and more. Alejandro is currently a professor of entrepreneurship at the University of Texas at El Paso, a member of the Borderplex Alliance Task Force for Strategic Economic Development, an investor in residence for the Medical Center of the Americas, and a mentor at NMSU's Arrowhead Center. I'm a mentor for Techstars,
 board member of Tech Frontier, and a member of the Regional Renewable Energy Advisory Council. Meanwhile, both partners provide support to multiple early-stage startups from Texas and New Mexico. Thank you so much for the time today. We are both products of this city.
 and the support that we've received through our education, through the professional opportunities, have made us who we are today. And part of why we're back in the region is to support others like us, to help create and empower that economic development, invest in innovation, support innovators from our region, which we have many, and to create economic impact, bring more better paying jobs and improve
 HIGH TECH INDUSTRIES ALONG THE BORDER PLEX. WITH THAT, I WANT TO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO COLLABORATING WITH THE CITY AND THE COUNTY. THANK YOU. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. IF YOU WANT TO COME ON FORWARD, WE'D LIKE TO GET A PICTURE TAKEN WITH YOU. AND THE FINAL PROCLAMATION IS COACH DANNY MCKILLOP DAY. PROCLAMATION CITY OF EL PASO, TEXAS. WHEREAS THE CITY OF EL PASO MOURNS THE PASSING OF DANNY MCKILLOP.
 A cherished coach and mentor who dedicated over 41 years to nurturing the talents and spirits of countless young athletes. And whereas, Danny McKillop, born on September 22, 1947 in South Carolina, made his way to El Paso in 1967, following a stellar athletic career that included being a key contributor to UTEP's victory in the 1969 NCAA Cross Country Championship. And whereas...
 Coach McKillop's remarkable tenure at El Paso High School as a cross country and track and field coach was marked by exceptional success, including leading the cross country team to five state titles and earning a well-deserved inclusion into the El Paso Athletic Hall of Fame. And whereas known for his unyielding commitment to excellence, Coach McKillop inspired not only his athletes but also his colleagues and students through his boundless energy, kindness, and passion for education.
 And whereas his legacy extends far beyond athletic achievements, he was a beloved figure who made a lasting impact on the lives of many, encouraging them to strive for greatness both on and off the field. And whereas the profound influence of Coach McKillop will continue to resonate within the El Paso community, inspiring future generations of athletes and coaches to uphold the values of dedication, integrity, and perseverance.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that November 19, 2024 shall be known as Coach Danny McKillop Day, signed by our Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning. Good morning, Council. My name is Gloria Mejia Nicholson, and I had the privilege of being part of the 1978 and 1979 State Championship Cross Country Teams.
 In 1979, I made Allstate and I owe much of my success to one person, Coach Danny McKillop. Coach McKillop dedicated 41 years to coaching cross country and track. Throughout his career, he led his team to five state cross country championships. But beyond his accomplishments, Coach McKillop was so much more.
 He was a father figure to most of us, always there to guide us, motivate and push us to be our best, both on and off the track. He meant the world to all of us, especially me. I loved him dearly, and his impact on my life is something I carry with me forever. He inspired so many, and with no surprise, many of his athletes,
 went on to become coaches themselves, following in his footsteps. Coach McKillop deserves all the recognition in the world, and we are truly grateful that the track field at El Paso High School has been dedicated in his name. It's a fitting tribute to a man who gave so much to all of us. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Carmen Jaquez de Gonzalez.
 Coach McKillop was one of the most influential persons in my life, as he was for so many other students. He coached me as an athlete all through high school, and more than that, he taught me about life by example. He modeled how to be a great caring human being. I'm trying my best to imitate his great characteristics. He is forever in my heart. I truly thank God for allowing me to have known him. It was a great privilege and blessing.
 This recognition is so deserved. Thank you for acknowledging our dear coach, Danny McKillop. Thank you. Hello, good morning. My name is Eduardo Jaquez. I'm the brother. I want to also say a few words. I don't have anything written, but I can tell you he was my American father, the one person that really taught me how to, one of the people besides the men in my family taught me how to be
 Man and how to get ahead and not cheating life There's so many stories that I could tell you but the only thing and the main thing I want to let you know that he was a great man a beautiful human being and he thought us all and there's hundreds of us that Learned a lot from him as a human being as a coach and as a teacher. Thank you Thank you very much representative here
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. I just need to share with you, and you'll understand the story. I walk into the Starbucks in University.
 not one time, many, many times, and I would see Coach there. And he would come sit down and have a conversation with me like we were old friends. And I would leave there feeling so special. Then one day I noticed that he did that to everybody in the Starbucks. I was not special, he did it to everybody. I had to share that story with you. Thank you for bringing us to our attention. We think you're special, Representative Fierro. Come on forward, we'll get a picture taken.
 Council, per the rules of order for this meeting, no use of personal cellular devices nor personal communication should take place on the dais.
 While the meeting is in session, once you obtain the floor from the presiding chair, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate and may speak twice per item. Please speak into the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the dais while the meeting is in session. For those of you joining virtually, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members.
 Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for a separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem. Page 3, item 2, request to excuse absent city council members. And that's to excuse Representative Isabel Salcido. Page 11, item 29, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Fierro.
 Item 20 already was the front of the agenda, as Ms. Prine reminded me. Ms. Prine? Is there a second? There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by Representative Fierro, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. We now turn to page 11, to item 29 that was moved to the forefront of the agenda.
 Item 29 is a public hearing of an ordinance amending Title II, administration and personnel, Chapter 2.64, city employees pension fund to amend several sections to create a subsection regarding advocating for candidates and trustee elections to delete obsolete language to add language clarifying and defining proceeding retirement and create a subsection to define pensionable gross contributions to clarify years that apply for pension credit.
 to define and clarify a pension for employees who become disabled, and to add a new section regarding proof of incapacitation. Second. Representative Mullinar. The recommended revisions clarify various sections of the non-uniform pension ordinance passage will facilitate the administration the retirement trust and remove ambiguities in the current language. There are no actual costs to implement the recommended revisions.
 Yes, sir. There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by alternate Mayor Potem, Molinaj, to adopt the ordinance on item 29. There is no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. We will now go back to page number 7. The next item on the agenda is item number 20 and item 20.
 is discussion in action regarding the September 12, 2024 and October 11, 2024 El Paso Firemen and Policemen Fund Second Tier Plan Cost of Living Adjustment Correspondence submitted to the City Manager. This item was originally placed by Mayor Potem Kennedy. We could all speak for a long time on this. This has been going on for multiple years when there had to be some accommodations made to continue to fund this program and the pension
 We could get into long discussions about forward drops and things that have been done to make this work. I will say that there is some additional work yet to be done, which is why city staff and pension are working together on language to go to the state to make some changes that will be required to move this forward in the long run. But I'm gonna say this. First of all, there is no cost to this item today.
 Everybody began to say, well, there will be in the future. And I'm going to say I would make the same motion if there was a cost to this today. Because when you think about this, we've done good work with the new contract, getting more police officers into the academy. But the one part that was being unsaid is that lateral move that we were suffering when people look and realize there's not a cost of living increase,
 for a large amount of those that are coming online. I think that if we want to plug the gaps and stop the leakage, we have to make sure from beginning to end we take care of the first responders. And though there is no cost today, I will be plain that if there was, I would do the exact same thing because public safety is our number one task at the city of El Paso.
 and with that, I will make the motion to approve this. Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Good morning, everyone. I echo everything that you've said before. In full disclosure, I do receive a pension from the El Paso Fire and Policeman Fund, but I'm not tier two, I'm tier one, and have been for quite some time. But we talk about public safety for our community, making things well, doing things right,
 it's not just the police it's not the fires municipal court all our responders that first responders that go out when you when a citizen calls that 9-1-1 number and they need help whether it be an accident a burglary a theft whatever they need to make sure they need to know that what we're doing is correct for the city of el paso and all its citizens okay and it's just the right thing to do i'm very proud to cast my vote in favor of this
 I know we have some public comment, Ms. Prine. Yes, sir. There are several members of the audience that signed up to speak. The first person is Tyler Grossman, followed by Sean Shelton, Patrick Natividad, and Paul Thompson. Good morning, sir. You have three minutes. Thank you, ma'am. My name is Tyler Grossman, the Executive Director of the El Paso Firemen and Policemen's Pension Fund.
 I would just like to thank you all for going through this process with us. Obviously it's been long overdue, but I think it's necessary for not only for
 but for retention to keep these fire and police personnel in El Paso once they get on the job. I can't say how important this cost of living is to them. So we appreciate you and hope that you will be in support of this agenda item, which is the 1.5% cost of living increase for our fire and police personnel after five years of being retired or in the forward drop. So thank you.
 Next speaker is Sean Shelton followed by Patrick Natividad and Paul Thompson. Good morning. You have three minutes. Thank you Good morning council appreciate coming back and I want to first off Thank you all for your continued support on this item and for allowing us the opportunity to speak on it today That's one of the top performing pension funds in the state our continued success and top-tier returns is what allows us the ability to propose this benefit enhancement
 We understand the change must be supported by the existing funding status and are not here seeking an additional contribution. As it currently stands, the only employees within the City of El Paso's workforce that do not have a cost of living adjustment in retirement are firefighters and police officers hired after 2007. This benefit is extremely important to our members and one that particularly hits home with me. I am part of the Tier 2 retirement plan and like many others will be forced to retire as soon as I reach the age and the time.
 This benefit will not be retiring by choice, but out of necessity. Tier 2 firefighters and police officers would be forced into early retirements looking for second jobs to help combat inflation and to make ends meet. This benefit gives firefighters and police officers something to look forward to at the end of a long and strenuous career. It can be looked at like the light at the end of a tunnel, something that we hope firefighters and police officers will seek out.
 Both departments have made changes in hopes of increasing recruiting in recent years. Now it's time to start figuring out ways to retain these employees. Both departments are frustrated of spending countless hours and amounts of money in training these employees only to watch them walk out the door and join other agencies in search of better benefits. There is no reason why we cannot make this decision today. Everyone, or almost everyone in this room, understands the importance of such a change and has voiced your support for this item.
 I would appreciate your continued support in calling this item to a vote today and approving this benefit. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Patrick Natividad. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, Mayor Pro Tem and City Council. My name is Patrick G. Natividad. I am the current president for the El Paso Municipal Police Officers Association. First and foremost, I want to thank each and every one of you for continuing this journey. It's been a long path to get here.
 These men and women that we all stand next to each other back here when they sign up to be police officers or firefighters Unlike the private sector and some members of public sector They don't get to negotiate a package as far as what their contract is going to give them they don't get lucrative packages that include all sorts of incentives and
 They get what myself and my partner Jay over here and the rest of our boards fight for a collective bargaining Which again you guys came through this last year with our collective bargaining agreement The unfortunate thing is that after 20 25 30 35 and sometimes 40 years of service these men and women leave And the tier two guys they leave with physical scars they leave with emotional scars and
 And unlike veterans of the US military, a lot of these injuries, they just take with them. They don't get benefits. They don't get disability benefits for the injuries that they carry with them into retirement. So when they do leave here, they leave with whatever their pension is at that time. So it would be unfair to see them go off and have to go work additionally just to make ends meet.
 So with that being said, I want to thank you guys again for the continued support. Look at the faces of all these men and women that are here behind you. They are our future. And again, this package here will ensure that we continue to recruit and retain. Everybody is fighting for police officers, and we have to bring them the best benefits possible, not only while they're here, but when they leave. Thank you. Thank you. The final speaker is Paul Thompson. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. I will keep this short. I stand here before you to ask for your support on this item, which has no cost to the city, and the pension fund can afford to pay for it, as stated by the actuary. There's been some what-ifs about the future. Let me be clear. The actuarial study is a projection on the future based on an assumed rate of return of 7.5%. Since 1991, the El Paso Fire and Police Pension Fund has returned over 8.6%.
 Once again, we are not asking for any funds from the city at this time. We are only asking you to approve this benefit, which the fund can pay for. Thank you for your time. Mayor Pro Tem, that concludes public comment on this item. Representative Hernandez. I was just going to ask if there was a presentation you're going to provide. If you are, I'll wait for my comments. We did include it in a backup and share it all with you, but we'll only present it if you'd like to see it. But it has been posted. Okay. No, I'm not requesting it. Thank you.
 Sure, yeah, I'm eager to call for the vote too. I just want to Try to communicate to my constituents believe it or not. They're watching. Hi guys So the tier two was a change as a result of concerns the finances from the city back in the day and as an unfortunate consequence you have all of these new and
 first responders coming on to the city of El Paso and they did not get that cost of living adjustment. The same cost of living adjustment that we are providing to city employees. We are seeing those cost of living adjustments by 50 cents or by 1%. Every year since I've been on council it's been some kind of adjustment.
 So it is only fair and prudent that we have these consistent processes of Cola's across the board and Because police officers and firefighters have their own contracts with the city of El Paso and they have their own pension fund It is still the liability of the city of El Paso But because of the change in the tears now they have been left behind so it is I
 my privilege to support this because of them being left behind and so it makes me uncomfortable but now comes a conversation about in the future you know what we need to do and work in tandem and so I just want to make sure that
 My position you all know that I'm committed to having those conversations having those tough conversations And we want to see a fruitful relationship because it is in the best interest for the city and our taxpayers And thank you for your commitment to our community and keeping us safe I was just gonna say that that one thing everybody in the room agrees with is First responders and public safety is critical to the city of El Paso. I don't want to think that
 all of the first responders for taking care of every citizen in El Paso and we need to make sure that we take care of you and with that miss prime yes sir there was a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy seconded by alternate mayor Pro Tem Molinar and representative Rivera and this is to support the 1.5% cost of living adjustment for the El Paso firefighter and police officer taking second tier plan on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 And that motion passes unanimously. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 21 to 25. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linar to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 21 to 25 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number 26.
 item 26 is discussion in action on the request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue purchase orders to increase contract 2022-0618 vehicle off-site fueling rebate to elon brands this change order will add capacity to the current contract to increase fuel costs through the duration of the contract and while a replacement contract is awarded there is a motion made by representative fierro seconded by representative rivera
 to approve item 26 on that motion. Call for the vote. Mr. Mayor Patent, alternate Mayor Patent. Go ahead, Representative Canales. I don't have the thing on the screen, so you're gonna have to voice your concerns to me. Sounds good. I just wanted to ask a question about the procurement process for the replacement. Is that already underway?
 Yes, we're working on it. Claudia Garcia with purchasing and strategic sourcing department. Yes, so we're working on the association to be advertised. And this amount, the extra capacity, how long will that carry us through? I think we're anticipating until the contract expires, which is early next summer. Early next summer. And we should have the procurement done for the replacement in time for that? Okay. Thank you. Council, the voting session is open. In the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 27 is a public hearing of an ordinance authorizing the city of El Paso to sell to the state of Texas acting by and through the Texas Department of Transportation approximately .0208 acres of land located in the Nally D Monday, serving number 241 in the city of El Paso, El Paso County, Texas. Move to approve. There's a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Hernandez to adopt the ordinance on item 27.
 There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. And the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Item 28 is a public hearing of an ordinance authorizing the city of El Paso to sell to the state of Texas acting by and through the Texas Department of Transportation approximately point five zero six nine acres of land located in the Nally D Monday serving number two four one city of El Paso El Paso County Texas.
 There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to adopt the ordinance on item 28. There is no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Item number 30 is a public hearing of an ordinance amending Title 12, vehicles and traffic,
 Chapter 12 point eight eight schedules and this is to add item 119 from North El Paso Street from Franklin Avenue to West Main Drive West side move to approve There's a motion made by Representative canales seconded by representative Piero or Rivera. I'm sorry. It was representative Rivera to Adopt the ordinance on item 30. There's no public comment on that motion call for the vote in the voting session. I
 And that motion passes unanimously. Item 31 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to execute a Chapter 380 Economic Development Program Agreement between the City of El Paso and Popular Building El Paso LLC in support of a downtown multifamily housing redevelopment project located at 301 East San Antonio Avenue. Representative Canales? Can we please see the presentation first? Of course. Thank you.
 Certainly. Good morning. Karina Brasgala, Economic and International Development. I'm excited about this one, although it's just the first step in, I think, tackling a much bigger problem that faces downtown and the city in general. So this is presentation on a Chapter 380 agreement with Popular Building LLC, of course it's a subsidiary, handling a project for a downtown multifamily mixed-use building at the Popular Building, home to Valles Paredes.
 So a little bit of background just to remind everybody about what we're trying to tackle here. So the downtown and uptown and surrounding neighborhoods plan, but this goes further back to the 2019 regional housing plan. Discussions even beyond that in the 2012 comprehensive plan, Plan El Paso, but most recently we've identified a demand for up to 10,000 new housing units by 2040. That is a goal that we have set as a city for the downtown and uptown area.
 And of that, we're looking at 3,400 affordable units across different affordability types. So that's usually based on area median income or AMI.
 Housing development was identified as an essential element to attracting investment to downtown. We have this conversation everywhere. Retail follows rooftops. If you have residents, that allows you to make the pitch and attract additional support of retail in the area and businesses. Specifically, when we've been talking about downtown, we've really been interested in the idea of bringing grocery stores to the area, you know, new restaurants, convenience stores, but also kind of driving that day-to-night activity that we're always looking after.
 So the other thing that's been identified in multiple housing reports and also in the downtown uptown surrounding neighborhoods market study, it was attached as an appendix identifies the development feasibility gap for new housing projects. This is credited to a few items. So one rising cost of construction. We hear this across the board. Materials are more expensive. Labor is more expensive.
 But then when you're talking about the inner part of the city and downtown specifically, infrastructure upgrades, downtown was built much earlier than other areas of the city. And so it has a cost associated with upgrading things like underground vaulting, adding transformers, stormwater infrastructure, roads, that sort of thing. And then the buildings themselves upgrading electrical mechanical within them. And then oftentimes adding things like elevators or additional access points that we now require under fire code.
 Financing, interest rates have not been great. They are getting a little bit better, but that is still always the ability to get financing in place, build a capital stack that can really support something, and specifically looking at upfront. There's often a huge upfront cost in redeveloping these buildings.
 and then regulatory barriers which has been an ongoing conversation largely led by planning and inspections but some conversations and i know there are items kind of in the queue regarding upgrades to our building codes our fire codes and zoning codes both downtown and across the city to help kind of address the way that we look at converting buildings and adaptive reuse all of this leads to one conclusion which is that incentives are absolutely critical to address the gap and spur a housing market downtown
 The incentive approach, and this has been discussed with council before, but a few years ago we earmarked about $8 million for downtown housing projects assistance. The idea would be that that would specifically be for upfront grant financing in addition to the way that we usually structure our incentives. And that is out of the impact fund, which is meant to be in downtown investment fund.
 And the way that we've approached these deals is, again, it's another, a little bit of a pilot approach. This is not gonna be a one and done, we're not expecting $8 million to fix the whole problem, but we are taking a approach here with a few of these deals. We have other ones that I'm hoping to bring forward early next year.
 but looking at a level of participation similar to other priority initiatives, specifically downtown, when we started targeting hotels to build out the convention center planning. The convention center hotel program leveraged state incentives. We are looking at a combination of tax credits from the federal and state government on these projects for housing assistance. West Star Tower, bringing a new Class A office space to downtown, the first since the 70s. And then some of our earlier housing developments, the Martin Building, Art Space Lofts,
 and then even the blue flame which is a lower income development but bringing those online and so the incentive package we have today does include those grant grant assistance identified by council and matches the participation when we've gone after other priorities in the area
 Here is the project site, although I believe most people are familiar with it. So it's the popular Dry Goods Company building, 301 East San Antonio, built in 1914. It is, of course, a historic Trost building on the National Historic Register. It is historic tax credit eligible, and the developer will be pursuing tax credits for this project. It is most recently home to Fallas Paredes and is currently under contract to sell to the developer.
 Here's the proposed development. So it's a historic rehabilitation and adaptive reuse. It'll be mixed use, so ground floor, retail space, and then 99 multifamily residential units. Of that, 15% of the units will be moderately affordable. That is our 80% area median income. And while we are looking to target lower levels of
 well, lower levels of income, so higher levels of affordability across the board. It is done very much on a case-by-case basis, what makes sense for the development. And when we are looking at our housing inventory more broadly, it's very important to incorporate levels of affordability. So again, looking at something like the Blue Flame or some of the projects that
 home does those are gonna be in your like extremely low and low income areas so looking at things in these 60 and 80 percent ami is really going to help us get to that affordability target I would love to see more affordable and our goal is whenever we bring these projects forward to always if possible have an affordability component
 It is a mix of unit types, so they go from studios all the way to three bedrooms. The affordability component will be mixed among those unit types. There are spaces here available just for your urban live-work situation, but also for more family targeted units.
 And then there is a 65 space parking garage. I believe there's a question about parking So we did confirm that that parking garage will be upgraded and will be for the use of residents I know that's 99 units and you'll have more than a hundred people living in there when we are talking about parking access downtown You will one see some just absorption people who live and work downtown who may not want cars or have cars and
 And then we have another number of other mechanisms. It's it's one of our highest serve transit areas And then we have the parking the downtown parking permit district So those are area limited if you're a resident downtown, you can receive a parking permit I live downtown for about four years use that scheme And so the only issue I ran into there was having to get parking tickets dismissed Which is more of a credit to me than to the program
 And here's our development partners. It's Popular Building LLC. Again, it's a subsidiary, but the development firm was founded by El Paso native Robert Palacios. He's done a number of smaller projects increasing over time, both utilizing incentives with our infill and TOD programs, but also independently and has had very good history performance both with the city and outside of city programs.
 The goal of this program is to bring renewed vibrancy to the urban core, redevelop the historic buildings, and create a more sustainable community, which I think is absolutely in line with the city's vision. And they'll have backing support from McCaffrey Interest, which is a national redevelopment firm, again specializing in historic preservation and adaptive reuse.
 Here is the proposed incentive package. So first, TERS 5 board recommended unanimously that we approve this program, the incentives, so they're comfortable with the property tax rebate. So it's a 10-year rebate. Our goal is to get these properties renovated, built, and on our tax rolls as quickly as possible. So that'll be a tax rebate out of TERS 5, our standard 1% sales tax rebate on construction materials, and our development fee waivers.
 The bulk of this is a $4 million development note, so it is a 0% interest note for 10 years. And we will be filing that separately along with a deed of trust against the property so that in addition to being able to fully recover that under our standard recapture, we have some additional legal protections because we do recognize that this is kind of a unique proposal and we want to make sure that the city is protected on those.
 that is about 16% participation from the city for the project. Total incentives capped at 6.72 million. Proposed incentive, here are some key deal points. There are more within the agreement that everybody's had a chance to review, but I think critically for folks watching this at home and interested in this program or interested in working with us, so one, I'll point out something.
 It's kind of a long time horizon as it always is with our projects. We're looking for a certificate of occupancy within 36 months of historic tax credit approval. Because this will be a tax credit project, they cannot complete their full permitting package until the historic committee has had a chance to review and approve the proposal, which makes sense. We want them to be in compliance with all federal and state standards. So we've timed the construction based on when they can reasonably have design sets approved.
 They will also be required to maintain Class A specifications and 80% occupancy. We want this building to be renovated well. We want it to be maintained and we would like it to be occupied. That is the goal. There is also, I'm calling them a kind of situation of good neighbor clauses relating to code enforcement actions. So we want to make sure that there are not noise complaints, there are not issues with the tenants, both residential and specifically commercial.
 and make sure that this is any retail that goes in on the bottom floor any commercial actions but anything that happens in the building that they are being a good neighbor to those around them while still respecting the fact that we do want people to call in code enforcement and pd when necessary
 Tenants rights protections so protections around will be asking for a sample of their lease We'll be reviewing that consistently and making sure that they cannot evict people without proper cause And that there's you know mechanisms in place for when units need to be renovated replacing, you know rehoming people in that way and then housing choice voucher participation and
 So this is not just for the affordable units. This is across the building They need to affirmatively opt into the housing choice voucher program There are requirements there about marketing within it accepting partial payments with vouchers And a number of other items that are just best practices across the state and the country
 and then again full standard recapture so in the event of default or failure to perform recapture of all incentives paid to date plus that additional deed of trust which would allow us in the case of repay if non-repayment to place a lien against the property
 Here's the anticipated community tax benefit. So you can see about equivalent to the city's participation for that 10 years, we receive an equivalent benefit to our partner tax entities. EPISD receives one of the largest benefits and I think there's kind of a non tangible benefit here, which is that if families move in that could assist with, I think, adding attendance to the district.
 So the requested action today is approval of a 380 agreement. Again, the TURS 5 board did recommend approval of the agreement. And then I'll very briefly, so just remind everyone, this is kind of a limited term program. We're hoping to spur some interest in the area, really start moving that housing market a little bit, but I want to advise folks to not start calling me in February or March and asking when they can move in. We're still very early stages.
 So the developer will still need to apply for Phase 2 historic approvals, and then at that point can submit plan sets for permitting construction. I would anticipate completion in 2027-28, just to give a sense. But if we do not act now, then there are no units online in 2027-28, and the housing gap only grows.
 i will also for this group flag some next steps that have nothing to do really with the project in front of you but just reminding you all we've talked to you both myself my partners in community development in planning and inspections about a number of targeted interdepartmental efforts to address housing needs it is one of uh
 City Manager Mac's priorities for housing is something that we have heard from the community. We know that there was a gap in 2019 We do not anticipate that that has gotten any smaller so there's a few things ongoing so first the Housing and Urban Development Department is undertaking their housing market analysis update. They do that about every two years and
 Combined with the envision El Paso comprehensive planning effort which will have a housing assessment as an appendix there That should give us a sense of our inventory our need how that has shifted over the past five years And then I have spoken several times about the need for a public facility corporation This is a tool that is used by most other major cities and minor cities across the state that allows us to really make a dent in the the
 tax liability and the financing, bring some tools online that we can leverage in partnership with the housing finance corporation that already exists. And so you'll see some of that coming forward in the coming months. I was also advised by Abraham, there will be a NOFO, so a notice of funding opportunities released between community development and home early next year. And so that's another kind of infusion of cash open to eligible projects.
 Again, and that's more targeted at kind of the lower range of affordability, but really the goal here is this tier two, the inner part of the city infill areas, downtown, uptown specifically, to really get that going. So you will continue to see us trying to make a push on a lot of these items, and it cannot just be a push on a lot of these items, and it cannot just be
 IT CAN'T BE DONE BY INCENTIVES ALONE. IT CANNOT BE DONE BY A SINGLE DEPARTMENT OR A SINGLE DEAL. BUT WE WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT EVERYBODY WAS CLEAR THAT THIS IS A CONCERTED EFFORT AND WE WILL BE TRYING TO ATTACK THIS FROM MANY DIFFERENT ANGLES IN THE COMING MONTHS. AND THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION. I'M HAPPY TO TAKE ANY QUESTIONS. REPRESENTATIVE CANALAS. THANK YOU, MAYOR PROTEIN. I'M VERY EXCITED ABOUT THIS DEVELOPMENT.
 you know huge kudos to uh mr palacios and team i see some folks hiding in the back of the gallery um you know this is a innovative project in downtown uh and really a transformation of a building that's been completely vacant for the last several years but even though the the ground floor was occupied before that um
 the majority of the building has been vacant for several decades. And it's a beautiful, historic trust building that will be completely transformed and restored through this, through this development. And so I think it's something very exciting for downtown. You know, it's,
 we have not had this kind of investment in residential in downtown in quite a long time. And so that makes this a really special proposal. I wanna point out again, well, I'll ask you just so that it's absolutely clear how much of this incentive is coming from the general fund. It's again gonna be the same answers, I think several of the deals I've brought forward this year. So there is a,
 I think Robert Cortez would get mad at me if I don't point out that every time we do a development fee waiver, that's kind of a sort of loss of revenue proposition. Yep. And then construction materials sales tax. So if I take those together, the value cost to the general fund is about $220,000. $220,000. And the total incentive is $6.72 million. Correct. Representing 16% of the total anticipated project costs. That's a $42 million investment.
 in downtown at a revenue diversion from the general fund of less than $250,000. I think that value proposition is incredible for the city and just in the impact to the city alone, economic impact more than pays for itself, not to mention the huge benefit to the other taxing entities, the school district, the county.
 UMC, EPCC, they will all benefit greatly from this. And again, you mentioned specifically EPISD I think stands to benefit doubly in the fact that they will also very likely see an enrollment increase based on 99 units coming online.
 So I think that is a huge plus of this development. I'm very happy that we are including the tenants rights protections, the housing choice voucher participation. I know you and I spoke about that fairly early in the process and the good neighbor clauses as well. We wanna make sure that this is a development that's serving the people who are demanding this kind of housing and also that they're good neighbors to downtown and the businesses around them.
 hopefully the future residents around them too in other buildings. I'll ask you one more time. You mentioned it multiple times, but just for everybody's awareness, the development node is, again, fully recoverable.
 through the recapture clause, is that correct? Correct, so it's designed to be forgivable at the end of the 10 year period, assuming performance standards are met. In the event that there is a default on the agreement, the development is not completed, it is 100% recoverable up until, it's either forgiven or it's collected,
 And then in the event of defaults recovered and then we have our city attorney's office very helpfully came up with a number of mechanisms To kind of stack to make sure that in addition to just the recapture clause in the agreement. We'll have other things filed Again, we believe this project has the ability to perform but we always want to be very sensitive when we're dealing with Municipal funds that were protecting the city's interest in that way. Yeah, I appreciate it. These are safeguards that are
 We're not on all of the city's old incentive agreements, and you've taken great steps to make sure that we have a lot more guardrails in place for these projects that we choose to incentivize to make sure that they do perform. And again, I have complete confidence that this one will. I'll say thank you one more time to the investor, the developer, Mr. Palacios and the team.
 you know you're a next generation of investors in downtown and that's very important to me i think this like you said will hopefully just be a first uh a first step and many more dominoes will fall down the road uh as as these buildings get redeveloped so thank you uh karina too and your team for all the hard work you put into this i know it's been quite a run-up uh so thank you and thank you miss mac too for the dedication to seeing a project like this through
 Representative Hernandez? No, I heard something about a concern about parking and I laughed. I'm like, we literally have tens of thousands of people come downtown. And in Winterfest, I think Diana said, it's like 400,000 people that comes to downtown every year. This is exactly the type of projects that we should be celebrating. And so I wanted to personally say,
 Mr. Palacios, thank you. Thank you to you and your investment team for believing in the city's mission, the city's downtown management district's efforts to create more livable spaces in downtown. There are more and more young people we have met with who are just begging for more spaces, especially affordable spaces.
 And then on a side note, I recently met an individual, literally last week,
 who his father worked for the popular for 40 years, and he has so many wonderful stories to share. So I would love to put you in connection with him so he can give you some historic information about his time working there for 40 years. I was just stunned. He had better fashion than I did, for sure. But thank you again. Thank you, Karina, for bringing this forward. Would love to see more of this, be more aggressive with it, and I'm happy to support. Thank you. Dr. Acevedo.
 Thank you. I just wanted to thank you for this project. I think it's been great and I really appreciate it. Your detailed presentation covering all bases really. And I really am just shamelessly going to plug, since Mr. Palacios is in the room, that I would love to see a grocery store on the retail space. The pan to the audience.
 Okay, that's good to hear just because I think that would be a huge game changer for downtown. I think we're seeing a few convenience stores pop up, but access to better foods is vital. And I think as we look at more housing coming into downtown, that is going to be a really big deal. So thank you for this project. And then we're just historic preservation and making things that look really cool is awesome. So thank you. Representative Molinar.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Good morning. To me, it's not the popular slap will be loud. At least that's the way my mother and my parents, my grandmother described it to us and told us, you know, you're going to get change your clothes. You're going to get the bus and go downtown.
 And we went shopping there and we did all kinds of stuff. And of course there was different stores. There was this one at Bassett, there was even the one at Northgate Mall for quite some time. But more importantly, what did the Popular stand for as a part of El Paso, El Paso's history? Provided economic benefits, a way of life, employment for so many people, generational. I can tell you, I got my very first credit card from the Popular.
 and it was very exciting, and once I got it, I went shopping. It was cool. It was fun. It was exciting. And so I don't know. I cannot tell you what to do with the owners or the proposed people that's coming, but if at all possible, if at all possible, put some type of, I don't want to call it a shrine, but some type of...
 visible display that know that it is a Paso history it stands for something economic growth but a way of life and I would appreciate that very much thank you representative Rivera Thank You mayor Pro Tem I just wanted to everybody else has said what have they wanted to say but thank you very much for your team for you getting and thank you your team it's miss cut miss Mac
 great vision but the best vision of all it belongs to mr. Palacios back there can you want to you want to come up and say something to it sure come on over
 I know we have a few people signed up for a public comment. I'm calling him over, so I'm jumping over the line. Mayor Pro Tem, I'll make a motion to suspend the rules. Yeah, we have a motion to suspend the rules. We have a second. I'll second that. Motion and a second to suspend the rules. I thank you. First of all, you're making a pass. Hold on, we've got to take a vote on it. There's a motion and a second to suspend the rules of order. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? Motion carries. Thank you.
 thank you mr palacios thank you for your vision thank you for taking that building on the biggest iconic building that we have out there everybody knows it everybody wants it to be restored it was dilapidating to a sorry state and you have that vision to improve it and you're willing to work with the city you did and i hope i and i i
 Hope and I wish that you have much success on this and thank you for stepping up to the plate and You know, I everything's been said your native El Paso which even makes it better and so
 You want to say something? Sure. Well, I'd just like to start by expressing my gratitude to Karina and her team first. And for everyone at the City of El Paso, this project would not be possible in any way were it not for the support of everyone at the city, the staff, the representatives. And so I'd like to express my sincerest gratitude to everyone for considering this item.
 I believe as has been said by everyone who's spoken, that this will be a truly transformational project for downtown El Paso, bringing more housing, more affordable housing, more retail to the historic center of our city, bringing renewed vibrancy to the streetscape.
 and I believe being a catalyst for future redevelopment, both that I hope to undertake as I continue in my career and that I believe others will also be inspired to undertake. So yes, again, I would like to say thank you again for considering this request.
 OF COURSE, I WOULD ENCOURAGE EVERYONE WHO FEELS SO INCLINED TO VOTE IN FAVOR OF THE 380 AGREEMENT, AND I VERY MUCH LOOK FORWARD TO CONTINUING TO WORK WITH EVERYONE HERE AS THIS PROJECT CONTINUES AND IS EVENTUALLY BROUGHT TO FRUITION IN THE NEXT FEW YEARS. THANK YOU, SIR. THANK YOU. THANK YOU, MAYOR POTEMO. REPRESENTATIVE CANALAS. MOVE TO APPROVE.
 yes sir we do have five members of the public that signed up to speak the first person is william helm mr helm is joining us virtually sir star six please to unmute your telephone william helm good morning you have three minutes good morning honorable mayor and council council i'm william helm aia principal architect within t2 architecture my business partner edgar lopez aia is in the room with you today as well
 And on behalf of our entire team at in T2 we're offering our support to you today for the chapter 380 agreement with popular building El Paso LLC. The popular building is an important landmark retail building designed by Henry Trost that is situated at the center of the heart and history of El Paso as we've already heard today.
 Our El Paso based architecture firm has been quietly working for several years now with the current owner, Mr. Fias, who is under contract to sell the building to Robert Palacios Development Company. During that time, we performed a comprehensive assessment of the historic popular department store building and created the preliminary design for the mixed-use street development. This is necessary pre-development work we've completed has paved the way for this project to become a reality.
 The project will utilize both state and federal historic tax credits to bring millions of investment dollars from outside the city to our region in the form of these tax credits. We've already had a preliminary meeting with Texas Historic Commission, who has expressed their support of this project based on our modeling of this mixed-use redevelopment.
 This will be a crucial project to create additional market rate and affordable multi-family housing options for downtown workers and will be a significant step forward in transforming central El Paso both night and day.
 We've personally known the developer, Robert Palacios, for several years now and have faith in his ability and commitment to the completion of this project. As a native El Pasoan, he is committed to making his hometown a better place by moving it forward. Mr. Palacios has an established track record of redevelopment projects, both complete and in progress in Central El Paso already. The popular building will build on this successful track record and will increase the stock of available rooftops to Central El Paso.
 Most importantly, these incentives are an investment in jobs for El Pasoans. With this vote, we are asking for your continued support of projects which support local salaries and businesses. Mr. Palacios is committed to keeping both the design and construction work local with the popular building projects.
 President Titu's incentives will help pay for the full architectural design of this project and will in turn support the local salaries of architects in our office who specialize in historic rehabilitation and multifamily design right here in El Paso. Secondly, Mr. Palacios is in discussions with several local construction companies being considered to build the project, keeping these construction dollars local as well as a reinvestment in our local economy and tax base.
 We enthusiastically ask for your support of this crucial project for the future of El Paso. Thanks in advance for your careful consideration of this 380 agreement. Thank you. The next speaker is Victor Hurtado, followed by Peter Schwarzwein, Joe Goodenrath, and Nadia Bang. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, Council Mayor. Good morning. My name is Victor Hurtado, West Texas Program Officer for Preservation Texas, nonprofit organization for statewide historic preservation.
 And I was a former commissioner at the Historic Landmark Commission under former District 2 Representative, Alexandro Aneto. I just want to highlight and really echo the importance of this structure, the Popular, built in circa 1914 by Troost. It is one of the last few extant examples of the Chicago-style architecture, rounded corner, large windows, massive corners, etc., etc.
 We see some of these examples over in the Anson Mills building, as well as the Kalischer's building adjacent to the Bassett Tower. And so a really important structure architecturally, aesthetically, and culturally definitely could reap the benefits of historic tax credits through the ETHC. Beyond its architectural, cultural benefits.
 and aesthetic qualities though, it really exhibits a great economic development potential for the city. So your contribution in the form of tax incentives will definitely help support the adaptive reuse of the structure for a purpose that was not originally intended, formerly retail, now residences. And it would definitely encourage the rehabilitations of other buildings in the vicinity.
 So definitely also contributing to the quality of life in the mobility downtown, which in turn really injects dollars to the local economy for the community's benefit. It attracts and retains businesses, which can create additional jobs and encourages local spending. And finally, I just want to say that
 It will help keep the historic preservation momentum going. We've seen a renewed interest in investing in our historical assets. We see, for example, the Crest Building, which is currently being renovated. And so your contribution is really going to impact and keep the historic preservation momentum going here in El Paso. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is former Mayor Pro Tem Peter Schwarzwein. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Council. How are all y'all doing today?
 Thank you. Thank you. I'll just keep it brief. This is an amazing project for not just the future of El Paso, but honoring the past as well. This is a beautiful example of taking probably one of the last and most important trough structures that we have and bringing
 Property is something that is not a one-off. This is something that we've seen this council and previous council support the crest building the Paso Norte hotel the Plaza hotel The streetcars even the Plaza theater. This project is one more brick in terms of building that that bridge to the future And I want to thank you For your encouragement for supporting this project as it will be something that will connect us again to our past
 One thing that I think is really remarkable as well is that this is also a great project towards the sort of next phase and evolution of downtown, of downtown 3.0. We've seen the cultural amenities, whether it's La Nube or the ballpark be invested. We've seen the hotels and other structures being invested, but all that is helping to set the table for multifamily and robust density north of Paisano in our traditional historic downtown core.
 It's very exciting. I wish I could vote on this obviously I'm no longer in council But I would encourage each and every one of you to do this and just as a separate aside from a sort of personal space as the former district one rep I had an opportunity to represent a number of the Schwartz family That were there in district one. I
 And the excitement that's here is there is palpable This is something that is connecting El Paso to a beloved Retail and cultural icon. I think Representative alternate mayor pro tem Molinar is pretty elegant when he talks about the crest and he talks about these memories that he had when He was a kid but some of those memories that families have for the popular are really really deep and
 Generations of families not have only shopped there, but were able to get their first credit card, be able to get their job and grow with the community, grow with the company as well. In addition to that, the Schwartz family was also very generous in terms of how they treated folks coming into El Paso. It's not very well known, but the popular helped to resettle and hire Holocaust refugees and Holocaust survivors after World War II and did something similar with Russian immigrants after the fall of the Soviet Union as well.
 So this is a project that not only is transformative for our future, but also a celebratory of our past This is a slam dunk and I would encourage each and every one of you to to to support this Happy Thanksgiving and happy holidays as well. Take care Thank you for mayor Pro Tem and I know if you were able to vote We know which way you'd be voting. So well, we'll assume that today and thank you for being here. I
 The next speaker is Joe Goodenrath. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning council mayor. Good morning, sir staff Happy to be here today for this We've we've already established how important this building is to downtown and our history and now talking about our future But really downtown's are nothing without people and that's the probably the most exciting aspect that I see about this project and
 Building our residential base within downtown has probably been one of the most challenging Aspects of our downtown redevelopment as we've seen other segments of our population grow Residential we've even lost ground in some parts of our downtown Unfortunately, so this this project will help hopefully turn that tide in bringing more and more residential downtown
 But the gaps that Karina mentioned in her presentation, I want to touch on those are real. Those are the factors why we have not seen growth in residential in downtown are also symbolic of infill challenges across the core of our city. So supporting incentives like the like the package in front of you today are necessary to support the additional residential. But it doesn't it isn't just an incentive to support the developer.
 Building the residential, businesses follow residential. I think Mr. Helm alluded to it. This is gonna create jobs in terms of construction, the architecture, the design. It's gonna increase the property value, which brings a benefit to our school districts and other taxing entities.
 And then hopefully maybe the grocery store follows, but it'll definitely, businesses will follow residential, creating opportunity for entrepreneurs as well as opportunities for the people that those businesses would employ. So I want to thank you for your support of this infill development. I want to thank the developers, Mr. Palacios and his team. And I really want to thank Karina and her team. When this project first came to mind, they really did come with open ears, open eyes,
 and an interest of working with a developer to come up with something that's in the best interest of the taxpayer, the city, the community, as well as the developer to help get this project across the finish line. So thank you for your consideration today. Thank you, sir. And the final speaker is Nadia Bing. Coming up behind you. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good morning, Council. Good morning, Mayor. How are you? As a symbol of progress and change in our community, this acquisition is not just a business transaction. It's a milestone in the history of our city. It represents the convergence of past and future, of tradition and innovation. As an El Pasoan with roots that stretch across continents, I understand the importance of embracing change while honoring our heritage. This...
 Is a reflection of that philosophy a blending of old and new of tradition and progress I have no doubt that the building will continue to serve as a beacon to our community and collaboration And let us remember that in every change. There is an opportunity for growth and transformation It will be a living testament to the spirit of el paso. Thank you for your consideration Thank you. And I know um that you have a video to show but before we do that I do um
 i want to thank you for i know i had you know a concern for parking because it's important public safety for multi-family use which is going to be and also for you know whether elderly or whoever may be there it's really important that uh as a priority of public safety and thank you for clarifying that that there'll be 40 parking spaces below 65 see overnight we multiplied so that's perfect
 No, and that's really important because as public officials, our number one priority is public safety. So I do want to thank Mr. Palacios for this project and your investors. It is a great project for our community. We're talking it's downtown, but it's really for our community and expansion of our city. And I do want to congratulate you for having the vision, but also the city.
 for the vision that you all have because if we didn't feel it was a good project wouldn't we we wouldn't be offering 6.7 million dollars in incentives but we feel that uh
 It's the right thing for the growth and the prosperity of our community. So, again, your team, and thank you again for clarifying that because that is so important. I know when we did baseball, parking was one of the biggest issues. We did a parking study, and we were able to clarify a lot of the needs for our community, including the convention center. So I do want to, again
 My mom used to work there. 1967, we moved up here, my mother made a dollar an hour working at the Popular back in 1967, and stayed there for about 25 years. And the Popular, and my dad worked at the American Furniture, which is another staple building here, and were able to support our family, nine of us. So the Popular is a special building in our community, and it means a lot to a lot of people. But I knew it as La Populat.
 And that was really what it was growing up. But, again, Mr. Palacios, you and your team. And I heard someone say that, you know, this is the next generation in the vision for our community, and it is. So I do want to thank you for your vision and look forward to seeing more things from you all. Thank you, ma'am.
 Thank you, sir One of the most rewarding parts of working on this project has been hearing everybody's stories And so we did get a special video message from Edie Schwartz Brannon who was the last president of the popular Department stores and so she just sent in it's a brief clip if you'll allow me to play it I'm Edie Schwartz Brannon the last president of the popular
 I'm here today to talk a little bit about converting the building for living so that people can have space in the downtown area to actually live. I'm excited that we have the opportunity to have our city council support the idea and
 the conversion of the popular into a nice, beautiful living space for citizens. Thank you. Is that it on the video? I wish it stuck. Sounds like she's done. Thank you. And I know that I remember my mom would always talk about the Schwartz. There would always be Mr. Schwartz, Mr. Edward, Mr. Albert, and that's what they went by. So I do, again, look forward to seeing this project in the very near future.
 to your team mr palacios and everyone out there congratulations and thank you for the vision and with that ms prime yes sir there's a motion made by representative canales seconded by representative rivera to approve item 31 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously
 That brings us to item 32 and this is discussion in action that the city manager or designee be authorized to effectuate the listed budget transfer attached to the resolution as exhibit A for the capital improvement department in support of allocating investment interest proceeds to set up budget for art museum expenditures associated with the HVAC system and the closure of project PCP20PRK011 McAllen Canyon Party Hall.
 There's a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Alternative Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 32. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Council, we've reached the end of the agenda. Is there a motion to recess until noon for call to the public? So moved. There's a motion and a second to recess the City Council meeting until noon for call to the public. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 The meeting is in recess at 1051 AM. We do have three people. Yes, sir. We do, ma'am. Yes, we do. Yes, sir. Is there a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 And the meeting is back in session at 12.01 p.m. That brings us to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving the citizens, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement.
 requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning.
 Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose any topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have three members of the public signed up to speak. We begin with Elizabeth Crawford. Miss Crawford's topic is Psalm of Thanksgiving for Life. Good afternoon, Miss Crawford. Star six please to unmute your telephone and you'll have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am. Good afternoon, thank you.
 In Psalm 107, the Psalm of David, we're told, O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy, his steadfast love, his loving kindness endures forever. Psalm 139, the Psalmist David, for you created my inmost being, you knit me together in my mother's womb. I will praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knows right well. We see in the Psalms,
 The psalmist praising God for his creation of him, for God knitting him together in the womb. God is the creator of life. Speaking of Jesus, John chapter 1.
 the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world he was in the world and the world was made by him and the world knew him not he came unto his own and his own received him not but as many as received him to them gave the power to become the sons of god even to them that believe on his name which are born not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor
 nor the will of man but of god and the word is made flesh and dwelt among us and we beheld his glory the glory as of the only begotten of the father full of grace and truth john bear witness of him and cried saying this was he of whom i speak he that cometh after me is preferred for me for he was before me and of his fullness have we all received and grace for grace for the law was given by moses grace and truth came by jesus christ
 No man has seen God at any time. The only begotten son who is in the bosom of the father. He has declared him.
 john chapter 3 and no man has ascended up to heaven but he that came down from heaven even the son of man and as moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness even so must the son of man be lifted up that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have eternal life for god so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life
 For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved Thank you so much. And I hope each one of you has a very good thanksgiving. Thank you so much. Thank you, ma'am The next speaker is ron. Thank you. Mr. Como's topic is exercising constitutional rights 1983 animal services Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon
 Getting a school and doing some additions so we could take care of all the strays that were created from the shelter not picking up the 35,000 strays in 2021-22 compared to 17, 18, and 19 according to your shelter reports. What did you tell me, sir, that you did not want to house a bunch of strays? You weren't interested in getting a facility large enough or the problem that was created by the shelter? No.
 So what is your solution now? You're just going to leave more strays in the streets, create more strays? I'm confused, sir. I don't see an end to this thing upon multiplying, upon multiplying, fixing the issue. What are you going to do? You're the one leaving the strays in the streets right now. ASAC meeting June of 23. I've got another question for you. You're down 42%. Transfer to rescues is down 53%. What are you going to do to get the community and the rescues back on your side?
 You're leaving 9,400 strays in the street. They're unhousing. And you know I had this conversation. I just want to remind you, these are meetings for ASAC in June of 23. This is a gentleman that's doing so much great work for us. And just so you know, the very first rescue meeting we had with Terry, there was standing room only in the waiting area in the front of the shelter. Now when we go to rescue meetings, I think there's 10, and the rest are fosters, rescue runners, and so on.
 and volunteers. If you look at 20 years on your city shelter reports, make 9,400 less strays and killed 707. So we keep being told by limited intake, we won't kill as many. According to shelter reports, that wasn't true either. Your shelter reports actually make 9,400 plus less strays than you did in 20. Thank you, sir. Happy Thanksgiving to you and your family. You too. Thank you all.
 The final speaker is Barbara Valencia. Valencia's topic is animal services, a cautionary tale of shelter mismanagement. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, ma'am. Thank you. I'm Barbara Valencia with Huckleberry Hound Dog Rescue.
 El Paso Animal Services and its director have become the subject of national ridicule, as well as being used as a cautionary tale of shelter mismanagement. A recent national article highlighted the dismal statistics of El Paso Animal Services, in particular the ineffective community sheltering program.
 The article states, in 2023, 3,860 found animals were registered with El Paso Animal Services, but only 793 registered animals made it back home. The status of the remaining 3,067 animals is unknown. Whether they survived is unknown since there is no follow-up done by the shelter. Now, those numbers in the article have been fact-checked, and the comments that follow the article are scathing, to say the least. Like this one.
 I WONDER, AS A FIREFIGHTER, IF THERE WERE 3,860 HOUSE FIRES UNDER HIS TENURE AND HE ONLY RESPONDED TO 793 OF THEM, THUS IGNORING AND ALLOWING THE REMAINING 3,067 HOUSES TO JUST BURN TO THE GROUND, WOULD HE STILL BE EMPLOYED WITH THE FIRE DEPARTMENT? I THINK NOT. DURING HIS TIME AS DIRECTOR, EL PASO ANIMAL SERVICES HAS TAKEN IN, AND PIGGYBACKING OFF
 has taken in 55% fewer animals, adopted out 42% less animals, 53% less animals transferred to rescues, and in spite of taking in 55% fewer animals, he has euthanized 128% more animals. Let's not forget his justification for severely limiting the intake will result in lower euthanasia rates. How is that working out? Oh, wait, it isn't. He takes in less but euthanizes more.
 Our tax dollars pay $150,000 a year for the position of Director of Animal Services. And as such, we have the right and expectation to have an experienced, qualified, and competent person to fill that role. Unfortunately, this director is not that person. Excuse me, ma'am. I will ask you not to make personal attacks, or I will ask you not to come back.
 we've talked about this with you numerous times and i'm going to ask you one final time even though i may only have two meetings left i'm going to ask you not to attack somebody personally i have never attacked anybody okay ma'am you said he was not confident enough to have his this job that is a personal attack i didn't say he wasn't competent enough okay i'm going to ask you not to do that please okay i apologize i never done now in fact
 You guys banned me from speaking because you said I attacked Colonel Weston and I never said anything about Colonel Weston That was not me. Okay, you were not you were never banned prior to this and I told that to Ron Anyway, go ahead ma'am. This department's failure, which is animal services department reflects on this governing body's oversight As well as those of its okay this government body's oversight response forget it. Thank you very much. Thank you I mean
 Happy Thanksgiving to you and your family, ma'am. You're accusing me of things that I didn't do, banning me from speaking, which I was banned from. That concludes call to the public this afternoon. Do we have a motion to move? Motion to adjourn. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, November 19, 2024, is adjourned at 12.12 p.m. Thank you, council.