Does anyone have any comments, questions? We'll need Representative Nunn. Here's Representative Kennedy. So we do have a quorum. Nope, we lost Representative Molinar. There he is. We now have a quorum. It's 9 a.m. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, November 21, 2023. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding in council chambers along with Representative Kennedy, Mayor Pro Temanelo, Alternate Mayor Pro Temanel, and Representative Rivera.
 It is 9.01 a.m., and I will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain Joe Morata. I ask that we bow our heads together this morning.
 Lord, today we come before you and ask that you look upon today's proceedings with your wisdom and guidance. We ask that you guide our elected and appointed officials in the fulfillment of their respective offices. Guide our city staff and employees, all of whom work together to make El Paso a safe and better community to reside in. Guide their decisions to allow for the best possible use of limited resources in reaching the greatest number of people.
 We recognize that many among us, perhaps it may be ourselves, have had a very difficult year. We ask that you help us to find appreciation and gratitude during this time of Thanksgiving and what some would count as blessings and others as good things in life.
 Let your peace be upon each and every one and every home. We are thankful for the many people, both in the public and private sector, who will be working on call and available to assist their community as needed during the holiday season. We respectfully ask that you keep and protect all our first responders and their families. Keep the many travelers safe.
 We ask that you bless our nation, our state, the cities of El Paso and Juarez, and the surrounding region and communities in your name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. For the record, Representative Hernandez is present in council chambers, and Representative Salcido is joining virtually. This morning, to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, we have students from Harmony School of Excellence. We have Aubrey Vega. We have Eileen Situ, Alyssa Situ, and Miranda Varela. Thank you.
 For the record, Representative Fierro has just arrived. Thank you for that. Everyone please be seated. That brings us to the Mayor's proclamation. Before we start, I'd like to have a moment of silence for First Lady Rosalyn Carter, who passed away at the age of 96 and was a huge humanitarian and a huge representative of our country. And I'd like to have a moment of silence, please.
 Thank you, and may God bless her, El Paso, and the United States. And with that, I just want to wish everybody a very happy Thanksgiving. It's time for family, and hope that we'll see you all either at the parade, and if not, happy Thanksgiving to everyone, and may God bless you all. Ms. Parnes. Thank you, Mayor. The first proclamation is public health. Thank you, Dee. Let me pass them out. Thank you, Laura.
 So whereas public health workers in El Paso have gone above and beyond as leaders in the fight against communicable diseases, updating public health guidance, providing accurate data, and addressing health disparities impacting socially disadvantaged populations so that all El Pasoans can stay safe and healthy.
 And whereas public health workers are dedicated to reducing infant mortality, ensuring that families are immunized against vaccine preventable diseases, tracking infectious diseases, promoting mental health awareness, advocating for injury prevention, helping communities prepare for natural disasters, advancing equity efforts to reduce health disparities, inspecting and regulating food establishments, providing laboratory services, and much more.
 And whereas, despite these times of crisis and uncertainty, El Paso's public health workers have remained committed to protecting health care and long-term care systems, and have even helped to secure additional support, resources, and guidance for these systems.
 And whereas advancing public health requires collective action and no one can do it alone. And public health workers are leaders in creating partnerships with the business community, local, state, and federal partners, community organizations, and local schools to improve the conditions that lead to better health for all. And whereas on this occasion, the city of El Paso joins all El Pasoans in expressing our deepest gratitude to El Paso's public health heroes for their unwavering dedication and continued support for building a healthier and more resilient El Paso for all.
 Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and the City Council of the City of El Paso that November 20th, 2023 shall be known as Public Health Thank You Day. Thank you all so much. Congratulations. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Council. It is indeed an honor to stand before you today. I am Antonio Martinez, the Public Health Workforce Officer for the El Paso Department of Public Health. As Earl W. Stafford once expressed, I wanted to dedicate my life to doing good for others.
 Today, I'm accompanied by a section of the public health workforce, individuals who embody that noble commitment to serving others. On behalf of the entire public health workforce, we extend our heartfelt gratitude to you, Mayor and Council.
 for this proclamation. Public Health Thank You Day allows us to pause and recognize the tireless efforts of public health professionals who diligently safeguard the wellbeing of all people and communities. Public health work spans government, business, healthcare, and nonprofit sectors.
 Thank you to business owners, community health care workers, community planners, nurses, doctors, occupational health, safety professionals and first responders among others who contribute to public health work in our community. Thank you to the nearly 300 individuals who serve in our local public health. Special thanks to 211 Call Center, Rawlings Dental Clinic, education and promotion team, epidemiology team.
 Food Inspection Team, HIV Prevention Team, Lab Team, Medicaid Waiver Team, Sexual Health Clinic and TB Control, Immunizations Team, Emergency Preparedness Team, Finance Team, WIC Team, Administrative Team, and the FIG Team.
 These mentioned and other unnamed public health professionals have made great strides in data and surveillance, evidence-based interventions, creating new partnerships, and engaging our community. As Martin Luther King articulated, of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health is the most shocking and inhumane. Addressing this injustice is our department's priority, particularly for those who need it most.
 Serving in this capacity is a profound honor because every facet of our community can be seen through the lens of public health. Public health, in essence, connects us all. We may often be confused with healthcare, and healthcare professionals treat people who are sick, where public health aims to prevent people from getting sick.
 Our dedicated professionals strive to prevent problems and promote well-being through education, policies, and various public health services. Thank you for your support, and let us continue working together to build a healthier, more equitable future for all residents of El Paso. Thank you.
 Thank you all for, it's really important to have a strong public health department for a community in a city like El Paso. I do want to recognize Dr. Okoronsa who seems to always want to be in the background but really does a lot for the public health and for the city and keeps us all informed so
 Thank you all. Thank you, Dr. Okoronso, for everything you all do. And there's nothing more important in our community than a strong public health department to continue to keep our community safe and healthy and understanding because a lot of time is preventive that really makes a big difference. So thank you all, and happy Thanksgiving to every one of you all. Thank you.
 And if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers, Council will have an opportunity to take photos with you once all the ceremonial items have been completed. Representative Canales has just joined the meeting. The following proclamation is El Paso Figure Skating Club Day.
 Good morning. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas El Paso Figure Skating Club, El Paso FSC, originally known as the Sun City Figure Skating Club, was founded in 1996 by former Ice Capade skater Lori Briggs.
 Whereas the organization competes annually with both the United States Figure Skating Association and the Ice Skating Institution. And whereas recreational and competitive figure skating is offered for any and all with a current membership of approximately 80 members ranging from 2 years old to 76 years old of age.
 Whereas on August 6, 2023, the El Paso Figure Skating Club won first place at the ISI 2023 World Recreational Championships in Boston, Massachusetts. All this possible with 56 members in attendance. And whereas the competition consisted of 3,685 individual and group performances,
 in which Fernanda Carrasco, 12 years old, and Madeline Kennedy, 11 years old, represent El Paso FSC by each performing 19 times, winning with a collective 1,345 points, an outstanding record.
 It is the first time this has been accomplished in the history of figure skating in El Paso, Texas. Whereas this remarkable achievement was the product of the team's countless hours of dedication and perseverance. And whereas the El Paso Figure Skating Club is not only a sports organization, but institution of great young athletes within the city of El Paso, Texas.
 now therefore be a proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of el paso that november 21st 2023 shall be known as el paso figure skating club day signed the honorable oscar leisure mayor for city of el paso good morning good morning my name is sarah sanka and i'm one of the coaches representing our figure skating club of el paso and on behalf of our club we want to thank you guys for recognizing us for such an amazing achievement that was
 nationally, internationally recognized, and ice skating is not common, especially in Texas, especially in a desert. We have thrived with our club. We are growing every year, and the spirit of El Paso lives in our club, and we have just prevailed amongst just
 uncommon odds. So our rank that we skate at is at is from the El Paso County Coliseum. And there's still a lot of people in El Paso that don't know that there is an ice skating team here. And we have so many skaters that have amazing stories, amazing families, and they've all been able to come together and travel and they work hard, they practice and
 to make this amazing achievement happen. So thank you all so much for recognizing us and recognizing the hard work that these girls have put in, the parents, the coaches, thank you. Thank you all for, and you're right, ice skating is a tough sport and you have to have a lot of coordination.
 One thing I can guarantee, you'll never see me on a pair of ice skates. I think a couple people just got a visual. That's why you heard that. But I'd love for all the kids that incredible accomplishment that they did in recognition to our community. And I've always said that the future of our city and our country is the youth and no different here. And I want to congratulate you all. So if they all could introduce themselves to everybody, it would be an honor. Hi, my name is Chloe Corral, and I'm 11 years old.
 Hi, my name is Vivian Lopez and I am 11 years old. My name is Aslan Terazas and I'm 15 years old. My name is Erin Esslinger, I'm 17 years old. I'm Karen Ramos and I'm- Ms. Pryne, can we turn the side microphone on for some of them please? Thank you, ma'am. Yes, sir, it's off. My name is Camila Martinez and I'm 15 years old. My name is Saraiva Rosal and I'm 12. My name is Sophie Terazas and I'm 12 years old. My name is Zoe Garcia and I'm 11 years old.
 My name is Meredith Olea and I'm 15 years old. My name is Aurora Valdez and I'm 11 years old. My name is Selah Park and I'm 11 years old. My name is Mariana Duarte and I'm 12 years old. My name is Gianna Castaneda and I'm 6 years old. My name is Regina Lopez and I'm 7 years old. I'm Keelan. How old are you? How old are you? Thank you and congratulations again. Representative Molinar?
 Ladies before you take away go out. So just remember we do have Winterfest in progress and guess what? We have a skating rink like to see all of you out there. Thank you I was gonna say that I remember back in the Sun City blades days Which was one of the first skating teams when Laurie Briggs and Corey Herman and I were walking around the equestrian center at that point with the dirt floor
 and saying, you know, I think we could fit an ice rink in here. And that was a long time ago. Most of you guys weren't born yet. And I just, to see the fruition of that come forward to where you guys are national champions is pretty amazing. And I don't think people realize that figure skaters practice at very unusual times, sometimes late at night, very early in the morning, and weekends and holidays don't count.
 So I just want to say congratulations, and it does my heart good to know that there's a thriving program going on. Congratulations. Thank you. Representative Mullen, I mean, Carol. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. One of the coaches, can you raise your hand? Oh, thank you. Is there a height requirement? Because Representative Canales is a heck of a skater. We saw him at Break the Ice. There is no height requirement. There we go. We can't do quite that job. Thank you, Mayor. I'll join up. Thank you. Exactly. Ice skating is for everyone.
 The next proclamation is El Paso County Medical Society's 125th Anniversary. Representative Ferrell. Thank you, Ms. Samir. It's an honor to read this proclamation. Welcome. Proclamation City of El Paso. Whereas the El Paso County Medical Society was founded in 1898 and is celebrating its 125th year with a mission of unifying physicians,
 in El Paso region for quality care. Whereas the El Paso County Medical Society provides ongoing education and engagement of regional physicians and the community through various mediums to include the El Paso Physicians, which is a locally produced television program, first airing 26 years ago, and is one of a kind in Texas and only a handful in the nation.
 The society continues to quarterly publish the El Paso Physicians Magazine peer review journal to foster current medical practices and research. Whereas during COVID-19 pandemic, the El Paso County Medical Society was instrumental in physician education, distributing 1.5 million pieces of protective equipment over 56 weeks to allow continuation of care in the physician's office.
 Whereas the El Paso County Medical Society partners with Texas Medical Association for continuing medical education information on issues in Texas that affect our region, working with the Border Health Commission and other state and federal agencies along the border. Whereas we recognize the efforts of the El Paso County Medical Society and their ongoing mission and support El Paso's healthy community. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council
 November 21st, 2023 shall be known as El Paso County Medical Society 125th anniversary. Congratulations. Good morning, Doctor. Thank you, Mayor Leaser. Thank you, Representatives. We certainly appreciate your support.
 125 years. El Paso was quite different at that point and in October of 125 years ago, a small group of physicians came together and formed the El Paso County Medical Society.
 And it's been in existence since and it's been helpful for our community, helping guide the health care as we move forward, whether it was through the 1918 Spanish flu up through our recent COVID experience. And as everyone.
 pass health care as a part of their lives. Certainly the El Paso County Medical Society is there to help guide that experience, to help lead our health care teams, and help us be a healthier environment and a better community. We've grown quite a bit as a community and as our physicians going forward.
 We want to thank you for your support and understand that we're going to be here probably, hopefully another 125 years, and we'll be much different at that point. It's always exciting to see the growth, to see the young individuals here who are doing their skating or the public health. 125 years ago, I'm not that old, so I can't tell you my age at this point.
 But we do appreciate that. We do have a token, a book that was produced by the El Paso County Medical Society on the history of medical care here in El Paso. It is an exciting read, and I hope you get the opportunity to take a look at it. It's very informative and shows the history of how El Paso grew as a city and as a health care.
 Our goal is to help El Pasoans stay in El Paso and get the greatest quality care. And with that, we hope to be a part of that decision-making and also the education of our physicians going forward for our community. Thank you.
 I'd like to recognize also individuals within our El Paso County Medical Society that help keep it running every year. Certainly we have Patsy Slaughter and Elsa Chavarro. They are very good at making sure that we keep on track going forward.
 So we want to thank you very much and appreciate your support. And also Dr. Okoranza, who's been very helpful and supportive of the El Paso health care. Thank you. Thank you. Do you want to just bring this up? Thank you. Thank you again for everything you do. And I do look forward to, as you said, we may not be here 125 years from now, but we know that we'll continue to make sure we have proper health care for our community. So thank you, Doctor.
 and with that mr prime next is the mayor's distinguished award presented to mary e gonzalez state representative of district 75. i'm sam gonzalez can you come up please ma'am you know it's um it's really an honor to be able to honor you for not only the work you've done for many years and you've been an incredible representative for for our city and you may represent the
 the lower valley area but you represent the city of el paso and you've done an incredible job and you you know i consider you a personal friend besides uh and i didn't meet you till i took public office so it's uh it's always nice to be able to look and see so many accomplishments you've done but it's huge to see that you had the vision
 for cancer center and as a cancer survivor I can tell you that it's important and I've had to go out of town I've been out of town many times and as a matter of fact I'll be going again so it's important that
 you had that vision to bring it to El Paso. 90,000 square foot cancer center, the Steve and Nancy Fox Cancer Center, but you brought $65 million to the city of El Paso to be able to provide the healthcare that's needed so people don't have to go out of town. People can have the healthcare needed. And a lot of people
 don't have the ability to be able to go out of town and don't have the ability to have that proper health care center. We'll have it now, a 90,000-square-foot facility that, you know, and I was reading about it and, you know, the...
 the care whether it's breast cancer, colon cancer, prostate, any type of cancer, we will have the state-of-the-art facility in the city of El Paso because of you, because of your hard work and you know, you talk about 125 years since you're here today.
 And I want to thank you. And I want to give you the Mayor's Distinguished Award in appreciation and your unwavering efforts, commitment to our community, and your leadership to secure state funding for a cancer treatment center in El Paso. Thank you on behalf of the state of El Paso, its citizens, and every patient that will now have access to quality treatment. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor.
 Good morning everybody. It's a pleasure to be here. The rules are a lot different in the legislature So I'm not sure what they are here. But first and foremost, I do want to thank the mayor and all the council for this recognition It means the world to me, but I do have to say that this wasn't an independent project
 The people who started to lay the groundwork for this is our UMC El Paso District Hospital. They were the ones who started the research and came to me with the conversation. And then they tried, they tried to get it on their own. And when that failed, we thought the project had died. And luckily, through 12 years of service in the state legislature and now being vice chair of appropriations, we found a way to make sure that our community
 doesn't have to leave or honestly doesn't have to die because they have cancer. The truth of the matter is as we started to research this issue more, people in our community have died because there wasn't access. That should never be our reality. So I'm really grateful for, of course, you all, all the allies, everyone from UMC to Texas Tech to the delegation, the county. It was a giant project.
 So one of the, we've gotten not, one of the largest appropriations in the history of the state in the last two years, and while we can talk about definitely the cancer center, that'll be transformative, but so will the new psychiatric hospital, which we also got $50 million for. You know, the additional funding for our parks and so many other things, but this I think
 will literally save people's lives and I'm just honored to be in the position to help El Paso support our community and work with amazing community leaders who who are tireless in our advocacy. Mayor, more than anything I just want to say you are a sounding leader and I'm just grateful to have your partnership in so many ways so to all of Council thank you so much and I'm very grateful. Thank you Vice Chair Gonzales before you leave
 Mayor, I want to personally thank Vice Chair Gonzales for her leadership, for her running appropriations in the way where she's brought money to our community from one end to the other, from Waco Tanks to the Trans Mountain, the Tramway.
 UMC, the Psych Center. Her leadership and appropriations has touched our entire community. Thank you for acknowledging her and giving her that award. Thank you, Vice Chair. Thank you again. Thank you. May God bless you. Thank you. Ms. Pryor? Mayor, would you like to go to the consent agenda? Please. Thank you.
 All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Temp. I made some. Representative Canales, did you turn your button on or did I miss you? I'm sorry.
 no it's after the meeting mayor i make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions page 3 mayor's proclamation delete per mayor leaser page 7 item 15 postpone two weeks per representative rivera page 7 item 16 take after the mayor's proclamations per representative anello page 7 item 18 take after the mayor's proclamations per representative anello
 Page 10, item 22, revise per streets and maintenance. And that revision is to correct the item number to strike out one and replace with four. Page 12, item 31, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Anello. Page 12, item 28, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Representative Anello. Thank you, Representative Canales. I'd also like to add moving page 8, item 19 to the forefront. Okay, thank you, sir.
 To follow item 28. Correct. Thank you. Do we have a second? Second. Mayor, we do have public comment from Ms. Turner on item number 14. No head. Ms. Turner. Good morning, Ms. Turner, and thank you for always being here. I don't know. Yesterday you said I looked like I was moving around real well. You were. About 30 seconds later I had pains down my leg. Thanks for jinxing me for the whole day.
 We do have Dr. Okedonso back there if you need anything. Yeah. Well, everything from C1 to S1 is messed up. This is the item that you all postponed. This is a company that was fined just over $11 million. The DOJ found them guilty for basically selling drugs to people who were not authorized to have them.
 So my question then and my question now is how can you do business with a company like that? And since the contract calls for an excess of 200%, if you do something as crazy as to continue doing business with them, I don't think we should be paying an extra 200%. It's not our responsibility to pay off this company's $11 million-plus fine.
 So I would like to know the justification for doing business with these people. It would seem to me that my city would not want to deal with people who basically sell drugs to people who are not authorized to have them and had been sanctioned by the DOJ for such actions with fines in excess of $11 million. I just need an explanation. Mayor, I would like to revise my motion.
 to page 7 item 14 move to the regular agenda okay we'll do that that's part of the revisions yes thank you okay with that there's a motion to approve the consent agenda as revised by Mayor Pro Temanillo seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares on that motion call for the vote representative Salcido aye thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 That brings us to the first item that was moved to the forefront, and this is item number 16. Item 16 is discussion and action to approve a resolution for the city to recognize El Paso County Veteran of the Year, Donna Juarez-Sample, for her unwavering dedication to the military community and commend her for tireless advocacy of service members, veterans, and their families. And this item was placed by Representative Hernandez. Representative Hernandez. Yes.
 Thank you, Mary. Good morning. Good morning. I have the resolution I'd like to read into the record. Whereas continuing the military family legacy, Donna Juarez Sample began her career in 1986 with the U.S. Army. She was stationed at various Army installations where she received recognition, including an Army Service Ribbon, Army Good Conduct Medal, Army Defense Medal, and two Army Achievement Medals, as well as qualified as an M16 Sharpshooter
 And whereas Donna transitioned from active duty to the reserves in 1989, and later in carrying prioritization of her growing family and service as a military spouse, was honorably discharged in 1993. And whereas in 1994, Donna and her family PCS to the Fort Bliss Air Artillery Defense Brigade, and in 1998, they decided to choose the great city of El Paso, Texas to retire.
 Donna has since dedicated the last 30 years to serving the El Paso community. And whereas beginning in 2002, Donna spent eight years at Region 19 Education Service Center, serving as a school health safe and drug-free program manager, addressing issues affecting youth and military families, and later worked with Jennifer Ann's dating violence prevention group to advocate for bullying prevention.
 And Razdana is currently the Director of Military Veterans Affairs for the STAR Military Veteran Program at Rio Vista Behavioral Health, specializing in treatment for service members and veterans for over 100 organizations, over 30 military installations and VAs nationwide. And Razdana's
 volunteers weekly with the 346th Veterans Treatment Court as a mentor to veterans in the justice system, and was promoted to Veterans Treatment Court Mentor Coordinator, and additionally works with veterans involved in DWI Academy Drug Court. And whereas in addition to her charity work, Donna is a member of several boards such as the American Legion 122,
 flags across America, the City of El Paso's Veterans Advisory Affairs as the District 3 appointee. And whereas in 2022, in 2022, Donna was recognized by Senator Blanco and the Daughters of the Revolutionary War for her ample service in attending and supporting over 300 community activities and events through the years.
 And Razdana joined the Elks Veterans Outreach Program to aid veterans and their families going from homeless to homes.
 For her selfless work, she received the 2020-2023 Elk of the Year Award. And whereas on November 1st, 2023, the El Paso County selected Donna Juarez-Sample as their 2023 Veteran of the Year, making her the first female veteran to be honored with this award. And whereas while Donna's accolades are abundant, her most treasured accomplishments is raising four children who are all now college graduates, along with her loving husband, James Sample.
 They also have seven grandchildren with one on the way. Now therefore, be a proclaimed by the city council of the city of El Paso recognizes the decorated Donna Juarez sample for her unwavering dedication to the military community and commend her for tireless advocacy of service members, veterans and their families. Her patriotism, commitment to the cause and continued service is a true contribution to El Paso, the veterans capital of the United States. Congratulations Donna.
 I'm proud to serve the city council. I'm proud to serve you, Mayor. One thing that I wanna say is that when you work in a mental health field, you see a lot of tragedies, but you also see a lot of successes. And as the Veteran Advisory Affairs City Rep on the Mental Health Chair, my goal is there's something in town called,
 you know, a stand down. And that's usually when you're going out and you're finding veterans, and they're in the lowest part of their lives, or in the Veterans Treatment Court when they are down. You know, and when you work for organizations that when you need to try to lift up, you're looking for a city to support you. So one of the things and one of the visions I have for this upcoming year, and I'm gonna shout it loud and clear, is that when they're down,
 you know, whether whatever organization that we're contributing our efforts to or that I am, I'd like to see them step up. And then, you know, you pull them up, and then you step them up, and then you stand them up, and then you get them walking, and then you hopefully get them running, and you get them strong. And I think we have some great systems in place
 there's always an involvement needed, evolving process needed, and I hope to be a contributing part of that as far as the mental health arena, as far as the homelessness arena, and as far as mentors, because they all contribute to life skills. They all contribute to education.
 social engagement which shows healthier communities I do believe the city is doing a great job with education and homelessness and other services that help lift you up help to give you a hand up but I say that we can dig a little deeper and we could probably find little spots where we can help them stand up and we can help them get stronger and we can help them walk
 and i look forward to being a part of that process this year and many years to come i'm very proud to be an el paso citizen and i'm proud to serve this country and i'm proud to be representing the city council thank you for your service donna um i make a motion to approve now don and i have known each other all 30 years she's been here we we actually um used to work out every morning what four o'clock four o'clock in the morning
 If you can imagine that and to be here across from each other honoring you 30 years later is a great honor. So congratulations Mayor we do have public comment from Miss Turner on this item. There's Turner Donna I just wanted to say thank you as the associate director of the El Paso Texas women's veterans I want to say thank you to Again, thank you
 And now we have a motion and a second. Yes, there's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the resolution. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. The next item moved to the forefront is number 18, and this is discussion in action to approve a resolution recognizing November as Epilepsy Awareness Month. And this item was submitted by Representative Piero.
 Commissioner Fierro. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. It's an honor to read this. Whereas epilepsy, the fourth common neurological disorder that causes seizures and can affect anyone no matter what their race, gender, age, education, socioeconomic status. And whereas currently 292,900 Texans, 47,200 of whom are under the age of 17.
 who have been diagnosed with epilepsy. Whereas the CDC reports one third of people receiving treatment can still experience seizures, highlighting the need to increase research, medical attention, whereas acknowledging epilepsy
 is a device condition characterized by various types. Manifest of seizures is currently for developing informed and compassionate communities. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the City of El Paso recognizes November as Epilepsy Awareness Month to emphasize the importance of support toward the individual affected and remove the stigma. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, sir. Ms. Pryor? Is there a motion to approve? Motion. Seconded.
 There's a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Hernandez to approve the resolution. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido, thank you. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor, would you like to recess or... Excuse me one second, please.
 Good morning, sir. Good morning. I apologize we didn't see you. Sorry, I'm hard to miss. With the skating, I'm like a giraffe on skates, so I'm with you on that. My name is James Hahn. I'm 54 years old. I've been a resident of El Paso since I was nine. Growing up here, we don't always have the best medical care, so it's ironic that we have so many medical folks here today. I had meningitis at six months old.
 I have been misdiagnosed with epilepsy my entire life. I've had seizures in front of doctors, in fact, deans of facilities, and they still haven't recognized it. So I brought this to Representative Fierro's attention because there is definitely a need. National stats, so if we're looking at El Paso alone, there's anywhere between 8,000 to 10,000 residents that have epilepsy, whether they're aware of it or not. I have a unique form. I'm photosensitive.
 I can see lights flicker. I have to be careful of shows. There are certain things. Driving behind city water trucks with their flashing lights, I have to be cognizant of things like this. In El Paso, there's approximately 400 to 500 people who are photosensitive. We're a little bit unique. I have found a way to maneuver throughout life
 without realizing it after not receiving the proper medical attention. I, too, am a two-time stage four cancer survivor, and I'm a statistical anomaly. I have celiac arterial compression syndrome, and most of this is probably due to the meningitis. I'm 54. I've outlived my expiration date. I am still here. I see an opportunity. I went to the Epilepsy Awareness Walk. There's nothing in El Paso, and that's why I reached out to Representative Fierro. The Epilepsy Walk, they brought a representative from Lubbock,
 because there's nobody in El Paso, and this is what they gave us. It wasn't the best organized thing that I have seen, but nothing on here has anything about El Paso. And I see that we have an opportunity with some medical folks here, some state funding here, to look at perhaps doing some more education here, and even perhaps looking at readdressing the compassionate use cannabis issues.
 It's one of the few things. I take three different medications, and my rescue medication is $350 a shot, and it will do the same thing as medicinal marijuana. So I appreciate you guys taking the time for this. Out of everybody here, we said there's maybe like about 200 folks. There's at least one other person in here who has epilepsy, whether you realize it or not. There may be another one then. So let's bring awareness, and thank you for this. Mr. Hahn, thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Mr. Pryor? Is there a motion to recess? Yes. Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the council meeting in order to take photos. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 9.49 a.m. Council and public, just to give you all a run through, we're going to go ahead and start with the mayor's. Do we have a motion to return? Motion to reconvene. There's a motion and a second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 The meeting is back in session at 10.08 a.m. The next item that was moved was item 31, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title V business license and permit regulations to create chapter 5.19 relating to signage for single user restrooms and creating a penalty. Mayor, can we go to public comment? Yes, ma'am. We do have four people that signed up to speak on this item. The first person is Andy Rose Descarreño.
 Followed by Lorena Edwards, Amber Perez, and Lisa Turner. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning again. Good morning, y'all. So with this item, it's very important to have...
 gender neutral and gender, um, non-gender specific, uh, single use signage for single use restrooms because, uh, often those are often the, the safe places for LGBT individuals, for, uh, transgender individuals, for gender non-conforming individuals because it's the only place that they can go where they, you know, if they don't conform to either, either,
 gender that's marked on certain restrooms, then it's the place where they can go to just relieve themselves. The question comes up like why is this important? Why is this necessary? It's necessary for their safety and for their identities because often in our society, we
 in our cisgender and heteronormative society, we don't cater to people who don't fit within what, um, what most consider normal, which, who can really say what is normal. And, um, from what I've heard from other individuals who, um, have spoken to this issue is that
 is that the people who are watching are the people out on the on the outside the people who are watching someone like me go to the someone like me who identifies as a transgender woman going to the women's restroom and thinking that someone who is trans that someone who was born male they should not be going into the women's restroom and
 It's no one's business. It's no one's business because all we're doing is going to the restroom. The most that happens in a women's restroom is that you nod awkwardly at each other or someone asks you for a tampon or a pad and that's it.
 So I urge each and every one of you to please take this into consideration, that this is for the safety of not just transgender and gender nonconforming individuals, but everybody. It's the very least that we can do in offering that kind of safety and offering that kind of sanctuary. So I urge you to help pass this item and urge you to help us continue to stay safe. Thank you.
 The next speaker is Lorena Edwards, followed by Amber Perez. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning again. I bring you an interesting perspective of my two kiddos. I actually have a transgender daughter and a non-binary kiddo.
 And to be honest, the bathroom issues have not been an issue with my oldest trans daughter at all. And that because she presents female, she looks female, she goes into a female restroom, there's no issue, genuinely. But my youngest child, my youngest child who looks just androgynous enough that you wouldn't quite be sure what their gender is, becomes an issue when we're out in public.
 it becomes an issue of their identity every single time they just want to use the restroom. So the reason I bring that up is because it's never really been the safety of other people I've been worried about. It's been the safety of my own child. And that's because when they go into the bathroom and they choose that bathroom, the audience that is around just watching for them and which bathroom they go into, that becomes the safety concern.
 My youngest child has been verbally accosted before in public for going into the bathroom of their assigned gender at birth. And I can't explain to you what that does to a 14-year-old child to have a grown adult question them when they're going into a single-stall bathroom, a single-use bathroom that is the gender that they thought they were supposed to go to the bathroom using. We're not even using the bathroom that, you know...
 somebody else says we shouldn't use. This is theoretically the bathroom they should and shouldn't use. To ask a 14 year old to have to constantly defend their right to use the bathroom that they're being asked to use anyway is difficult and scary. And if I hadn't been there, I think that they probably would have clammed up and it would have been a serious situation, more serious than it actually had been.
 If we were to do these signs, this would just remove that issue. There's nobody in the bathroom with you at the time. This is a single-stall bathroom, a single-use bathroom. There's no reason that we wouldn't want to make this a gender-neutral bathroom. If you have the power in your hands to make something a situation where you can prevent situations from happening, why not do that? I don't really see an issue as to why.
 If somebody's saying there's an issue with putting a sign on a bathroom that says, anybody can use this bathroom when there's only one person in it, then I'd probably question what their true motive is behind not having a gender neutral bathroom. So I'm just offering that little perspective for you. For anybody in general who just happens to not look exactly what other people think they should look like using the bathroom, this could be a completely cisgendered individual just using a bathroom and maybe they don't look female enough or male enough.
 So just think about all, everybody, everybody in general. I think everybody benefits from this. So I urge you to vote in favor. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Amber Perez, followed by Lisa Turner. Good morning. You have three minutes.
 Good morning, Council. Good morning. My name is Amber that is and I urge you to vote in favor of this. When we really think about it, we're talking about single use stalls. Right? So that means that there's nobody else that's going to be in there with you. It makes absolute sense to sit there and say, Hey,
 either gender or any gender can use this single use bathroom. What happens if a place of business has only two single use bathrooms and one is unavailable? Everybody begins to use that other one and there's no issue with that, correct? So if that's the case and that's what we would do naturally, it makes absolute sense to move that way when it comes to actual policy. I know many times we've seen like
 A single-use bathroom, especially for us women, can have a line, right? And a lot of times the male restroom won't have one. And so it doesn't make any sense if there are two instances of something, right, to not make use of both of them. And to turn this into this idea that it...
 it doesn't make sense, doesn't actually make sense, right? And I think the two speakers before me have really spoken very well on this issue, right? This idea of when you don't necessarily fit within the gender confines, right, of what people think,
 and you have the ability to go into a space that is only yours, it's incredibly safe for you and it makes you feel as if this is someplace where I can go, I don't have to worry about somebody looking at me, I don't have to worry about comments or any type of aggravation. And like I said, to me, this makes absolutely perfect sense because they are single-use stalls, nobody else is there,
 It's like, and we should be moving towards this where we can use either, whichever bathroom it is there, that it should have the ability to be used by either gender. Thank you. And the final speaker is Lisa Turner. Morning, Ms. Turner. Good morning, good morning, Mary. Good morning, Ms. Turner. Again, I rise in support of this. It's common sense. Amber triggered an early transition event
 with the long lines to get into the women's restroom. And the women just took over the men's room at this table. And the guys had to stand outside and wait until all the women had taken care of their business. I will say this, single stall is not an issue. I don't see an issue with a regular restroom either. I'm a trans woman. I go in the bathroom, I sit down, I do my business, I get up, I wash my hands, I check my makeup, check my hair, and then go out. That's all I care about.
 Nobody thinks about anything. If you're thinking about something, you're already the problem, because you're looking for a fight or something. And there are a lot of people, we have a problem. A woman is supposed to look like the woman you see on the cover of Vogue. And every one of us women know, that ain't happening, those are airbrushed to you know what, that woman doesn't exist. Even the one who's in that picture, they don't exist.
 I've seen women who look like men. I've seen men who look like women, but they were just regular old straight individuals. You don't know. We're not carbon copies of each other. We're tall, we're short, we're big, we're skinny. I was fat for a while, 325, but we're all different. You know, there is no, quote, cookie cutter of somebody, of an individual. But like I say, I support this. Everybody needs to be able to go to the bathroom
 And if we can't use the bathroom, then we should be able to do it in public because that's where you're going to force it. And the problem is, you know, I can't even drive home now because as an adult there are states where it's illegal for me to use the bathroom. And I cannot hold it from Texas to Kentucky, and I have no intentions of wearing a diaper. So, I mean, people have just gotten really stupid. But, again, I support this. Thank you.
 Mayor, that concludes public comment on this item. Can we have staff presentation, please? Good morning, Mr. Mayor and council members. Tony De La Cruz, planning inspections. All right. As has been discussed, next item on the agenda, item 31, is an ordinance amending Title V business license and permit regulations to create Chapter 5.19 signage for single-user restrooms and the subsections thereunder. Next slide, please.
 Chapter 5.1 9 single-user restrooms again the proposed ordinance amends title 5 of the city code per City Council directive It creates chapter 5.1 19 signage for single-user restrooms and requires single-user restrooms to have general new gender neutral signage for commercial facilities that are not private or for private use and
 Specific, it specifies the applicable penalties for violation of the requirements as a Class C misdemeanor, and if approved by City Council, it would go into effect January 21st, 2024. And that concludes the presentation. Any questions for Representatives or Mr. Mayor? Mayor?
 Go ahead. Thank you. Thank you so much for the presentation. I wanna thank staff for working on this. They turned it around really quickly, so I appreciate that. I also wanna thank all of the organizers who came out a few months ago to advocate for this. I know everyone couldn't be here today, but happy to see representation from the BRC.
 This item came out of a lot of the legislative attacks on the LGBTQIA plus community. This is a way for us to be more inclusive. I think we heard a lot of the speakers talk about this may not seem like a big deal if they're single stall restrooms, but really for individuals who just leaving the house and going out in public to have the anxiety of going to a restroom of what could happen to live with that every day.
 Knowing that there are places that are safe places for them and that they don't have to be in fear is extremely important. And just showing that in solidarity makes this community more inclusive. And so I'm grateful to staff and to council for approving this. I spoke when this item first came up.
 about how I had reached out to the Restaurant Association and with the BRC and happy to still work with those organizations and starting an awareness campaign and how we can do outreach and provide some signage to make this transition for business owners a little bit easier because we don't want to be, you know, making this hard for restaurant owners. We don't want to be implementing something that they can't live up to. And if it's just about changing a sign, we want to help them do that. So thank you again, Tony, and thank you to council. And I will make a motion to approve.
 representative nandas good morning i have a question related to the effect date so if it passes it goes into effect is it retroactive or in new permits occupancy permits it would be retroactive now so every existing facility that has single user restroom would need to change your signage correct okay
 Is there, what is the educational campaign or how are you going to notify businesses? That is something that we're gonna coordinate with the PIO's office, again reaching out to the Restaurant Association, and as well as just overall enforcement. So as council members may be aware, there are yearly inspections by fire department. PD has the convenience store ordinance.
 we will notify the property owners at those times that if they have single user restrooms that the signs need to be changed and work accordingly with them to provide them adequate time. For chapter 5.19 are there any establishments that are excluded?
 Only those establishments that have a private use bathroom. So every now and then you may go into a dentist office. The dentist may have a restroom that's specific for his use, not part of the public facilities. Those items would be excluded. So like for employees or? Correct. But the public bathrooms would need to meet the requirements.
 Okay, I understand. So my ask would just be if that notification could be robust, if the PIO's office can help share that information with members of council so we can share a unified message. So thank you for the work on that and thank you for the update.
 I did want to send a message to all of the advocates to thank you for your continued advocacy your voice really makes a difference in these positive changes and to mrs. Edwards mama bear always fighting for your babies thank you for being here and and continuing that fight we recognize that we're really proud of you congratulations yes mayor there was a motion made by mayor pro tem Manila seconded by representative Hernandez to approve the ordinance and
 Item 31 on that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session, and that motion passes unanimously. The next item is item 28 on page 12. This is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from RF Ranch and Farm and RFH Ranch and Farm Historic to C4 Commercial and C4H Commercial Historic and imposing conditions at 9614 Socorro Road. Come on up. Go ahead.
 Go ahead sir. Yes sir. Do you have a presentation? Yes sir. Good morning Mayor and Council. I'm Raul Garcia planning inspections. So this item, item 28 is a proposal for rezoning property at 9614 Socorro Road from Ranch Farm Historic. There is a portion that is historic to C4 Historic, C4 and C4 Historic. This is the current zoning map as you can see it is currently zoned, majority is RF
 Small strip along Socorro Road about a hundred feet wide that it does have a historic overlay The property is surrounded by existing commercial as well as light industrial some manufacturing industrial on the other side of Carl Long you mirror as well as Residential development. So what's important to note regarding this item is the the changes that have happened over the recent years in this area that has led to to these types of proposal coming in for this area as I
 This area is in close proximity to the Zaragoza Port of Entry, which ties into the current cross-border trade that happens there. The city did invest quite a bit of money on extending Wind Road to address that traffic related to the international crossing, providing a direct connection from the Port of Entry to the existing Pan American Industrial Center.
 TxDOT obviously has made quite a bit of improvements along the loop, again, to address the traffic situation in this area. One big driver that came in a few years ago is that Amazon facility, which is currently in the county. The county is currently benefiting from that facility in the county. And again, that is part of what is driving the changes you're seeing in this area.
 The city of Socorro, that first light on top, that yellow and green area, did also recently go through a major rezoning of their properties within their municipality to this same type of proposed use, light industrial distribution type centers. The Ivy Road rezonings as well as the Englewood rezonings that council did approve a couple of years ago along Englewood Drive and along Americas Drive, again, same type of development.
 in line with the changes that are happening. Also, the inclusion of this specific property, this 9614 Socorro Road, inclusion in the foreign trade zone, which was supported by city council, by this council in August, as well as the county in July, fully supported by the county.
 July as far as adding this specific property into the the federal trade zone or the foreign trade zone area which provides incentives for businesses servicing the cross-border international traffic our future land use map our plan El Paso which guides us staff and our recommendations for rezoning does designate this property as industrial g7 industrial
 that designation has been in place since Plano Paso was adopted, which was in 2012. It's likely it was the same designation prior to that. So again, these things have kind of laid the groundwork. This is not the first time this area has come up. These actions, the forward train zone, our future land use map, has laid the groundwork for what you see today, the proposal you see today.
 to go ahead and allow the use that has been encouraged through those actions on this property. And then one thing that cannot be ignored is the current viability of farming for these relatively smaller properties.
 uh for reasons in terms of water scarcity um water rights and then also again the size of these properties is is it really viable for for these owners to continue farming these properties a lot of these owners have decided upon themselves to go ahead and and market their property uh for for for future buyers so again these are important points to to know in terms of why you see this proposal uh before you and why you see the recommendation from from staff
 This is the detailed site plan which is binding, which shows the layout of the proposed building. As you can see, the proposed warehouse is sited with the trucking operations and maneuverability located away from the residential. It also includes that historical designated strip along Socorro Road, which will be solely comprised of landscaping and drainage policy.
 along with a combination rock wall, wrought iron, the property line, with heavy landscaping, not only within the right-of-way, but as well as within the private property. This design has been reviewed and approved by the Historic Landmark Commission. That that is the portion that is historic, the rest of the property does not contain this historical overlay. And as you can see it,
 In terms of the site facing the residential, what you have there is employee parking along with ponding, landscaping, dual purpose ponding, landscaping, as well as purely ponding facilities there. The building will act as a buffer to the heavy trucks moving and maneuvering from the other side. The other thing, important thing to note is the crossing along Carl Longumer
 That is going to require the construction of a crossing there over that PSB-owned lateral, which will serve as the sole access for semi-trucks. So semi-trucks will not be accessing Socorro Road. Their only egress and interest to this property would be off of Carl Long-Umer, which is already within the existing industrial zone properties.
 this is just a picture of that ditch it is it is pretty wide um anywhere between 100 150 feet wide that bridge is not going to be any any small task as it is going to take quite a bit of investment in design but just to provide some context in terms of what that crossing is this item did include quite a bit of outreach quite a bit of public input as you can see going back to last year
 There were multiple community meetings with the neighborhood associations. Going back to September of 2022, July and August of this year, approximately 10 to 20 people were in attendance. In addition to that, in August, the property owner did take it upon himself to schedule an open house on one of his existing businesses to provide the community a glimpse into what is being proposed.
 Again, the owner did conduct that also in August of this year. What we heard from the neighborhood as part of those meetings were some very important points. Most of them do have to do with Socorro Road. Again, those, as mentioned previously, the trailers not accessing Socorro Road, the traffic not accessing Socorro Road are as a direct result to mitigate these points that were shared by the community.
 The siting of the building will help with noise, obviously buffering any noise and other things from the residential area. These were the main points that we heard from the community from these meetings, and that's why you see the current proposal before you, including the conditions that do go towards mitigating the impact of this development on the surrounding properties as well as addressing the neighborhood's main concerns.
 design did go through several iterations. This, the one before you was not the first one. And again, those changes were as a direct result of the community input. This development would not look the way it looks today if it was not for that input that the neighborhood provided at these meetings.
 from staff our hats off to the neighborhood for for their input they have directly impacted this this development as well as our hats off to the to the property owner which has agreed to work with them and has agreed to implement these mitigation measures as part of his development so in terms of the recommendation you see before you uh city plan commission as mentioned before uh there was a motion to to deny which did fail
 due to a tie vote. There was no other motion made, therefore there is no recommendation from City Plan Commission. This request was not denied, was not approved, so it moves forward as is before City Council. Recommendation, again, based on compliance with our guiding document, our Plan El Paso, with several conditions.
 Again, the semi-trucks will be restricted to Carl Longimer through that bridge crossing over the lateral, taking that traffic away off of Socorro Road. Delivery and emergency vehicles will be allowed access from Socorro Road. Also, there will be a right-in, right-out driveway design along Socorro Road. That's mitigating any potential cross-traffic conflicts for anybody coming out of the property trying to turn left.
 that driveway design will go towards mitigating that potential conflict point. Extra-wide setbacks for the building, taller screening and privacy walls. Typically they're six foot. The condition is requiring an eight foot wall along the residential side, as well as a ten foot landscape buffer, again, to mitigate the existing residential.
 It is C4 and consistent with what we've done on other rezonings. We are implementing a separation requirement for any type of bar uses in case this property ever does change use, that mitigation measure will be in place to avoid the issues in terms of noise right up against residential that we've encountered in other parts of the city. And again, consistent with what we've done in other rezonings.
 There are going to be a couple prohibited uses, any auto-related uses. Neighborhood did have an issue with apartments, so residential and or apartment uses will be prohibited on this property. C4 would provide for a pretty high density in terms of apartments and residential. The neighborhood did have a concern with that, so that use is one of the uses being prohibited. Then again, the detailed site plan condition,
 which is binding to this project and does a run with the land and will serve to present to everyone the final design, which which has been is currently on the current proposed site plan before you and to ensure that all these conditions and mitigation measures are captured in this development. And again, everything coming from the information we received from those neighborhood meetings and concerns and input that the neighborhood had.
 And that concludes my presentation. Thank you. So we see that we've had how many community meetings? So we with staff had three, and the applicant took it upon himself to have one additional one between himself and the neighborhood. So we've had four. And there's been opposition since the beginning? Yes, sir. And the applicant has addressed...
 Most of not all of the concerns or what's what's the biggest concern you think that we're having that has not been addressed so the biggest concern again was the capacity of Socorro Road, which is being addressed through the prohibition of trucks Accessing through there that that was that was the main concern that we had from the neighborhood obviously noise was another one
 so we're built they're building a bridge correct uh and that'll mitigate support road
 Yes, sir. Yes, that is going to be a requirement. It is part of the condition that it's going to run with the land. So in order for this development to happen, in order for this development to obtain a building permit, that bridge will need to be constructed, which is something that the applicant will have to work with the city as well as the PSB on that design. What do you estimate the cost of that bridge?
 Just rough estimates from what we've heard from some loose discussions, close to a million. Okay. Thank you for that information. Yes, sir. Representative Rivera? Sir, at this point, can we take public comment? Okay. Do you want to go before public comment? No. Go ahead. Go ahead, ma'am. Raul, thank you so much. You know I have a lot of respect for you, but I want to kind of talk about some of the points you discussed.
 I first want to talk about the foreign trade zone issue. I had this conversation with Mr. Etui last night. I want to first start by saying I take full responsibility for my vote and I'm not putting this on anyone else. But when the foreign trade zone conversation came up, Representative Rivera had issues.
 and he talked about how the city of Socorro and the commissioners had some issues with it. And it felt like a very rushed vote. I was a little concerned. I voted for it, and I take responsibility for not being prepared. But I do wish that there had been a conversation as if there was a...
 since there was a controversial rezoning going on, I wish that had been presented to council prior to that vote in the foreign trade zone. Again, I take full responsibility for it, but I don't appreciate it now coming up as a talking point for this project, considering back then it was somewhat of an issue and it was not presented to us at the time. I also wanna talk about the historic commission. I understand that our historic commission has limited ability, but you specifically talked about the future land map and your exact words where you,
 It was likely identified as industrial before 2012. That's not true. The city of El Paso had a Socorro Missions historic plan that I guess was scrapped in 2012 when that came up. And I'm a little confused as to why that is. We have Visit El Paso. We have the county of El Paso. We have the city of Socorro, the city of San Elizadio. They are all working on a historic missions plan. They were recognized by the state recently. And we're the only gap.
 in that area who's now pushing for industrial when every other entity is pushing for and recognizing one of our most significant historic artifacts in this community. And so I understand that our historic commission has little control, right? They can modify some things, but the truth of the matter is we as a city should be working with our partners to be enhancing the mission trail, not pushing for industrial in an area that is so historically significant.
 so i have spoken with cid and some members there when we talk about the new comp plan moving forward i won't be here for that but i do think it'll be really important for the city of el paso to be a part of that plan moving forward we've talked a lot about historic preservation on this council and historic tourism and it's going to be really important if we're the one missing gap in that in the entire county plan it doesn't make a lot of sense um you also you talked about farming and the liability i
 I that concerns me. We had conversations I think two years ago about some rezoning. Um it also was concerning to me that our planning department is is pushing for industrial over farming in areas like this. That's why we have urban farming. That's why there's agricultural protections. I don't think that that should be a reason for us to push an industrial.
 And I mean, I just I wanted to just answer kind of some of those things that you pointed out before we hear public comment. And for me, I'm not going to be supporting this. And I do want to hear the public comment first. And I will make another comment after that. But I do really want to point out you can have as many community meetings and you can try your hardest as a property owner.
 and you can come to the table and make amendments but if it doesn't work for the community it doesn't work for the community and you cannot just turn around and say we have to approve this because we tried right I think this is when you talk about applause
 that this area of the city is so special and so important you have farming you have historic and I just I think with 375 I think with the traffic I think there are areas for this and I just don't think that this is the correct area I think the community has spoken I know that they have not gotten their signatures for a 211 I know mr. Etchewy stayed on the phone with me late last night explaining to me
 just what I couldn't comprehend and I get that they did not reach that but I do think that we see is over a hundred Signatures and I know there's a conversation of property owners or residents doesn't matter They're community owners and I'm going to acknowledge them and I'm going to respect their wishes today But I did just want to kind of acknowledge some of those things that you mentioned about the fair trade zone About the farming and about historic because I just I don't think it's fair to the conversation But I appreciate you very much and thank you mister Rivera for allowing me to and mayor for allowing me to talk before public comment
 Thank you, and I do want to Let council know that on any item we do have the opportunity for you all to speak twice on each item So make sure we remember that and with that we'll go to public comment There are 23 members of the public that signed up to speak on this item. The first person is Gilda Mary bottle Followed by Christian Ortiz l lawyer Arturo de la Mora Marcela Carrillo Gilda my photo Christian Ortiz and
 Al Loya. Okay, so we don't have Gilda Maraboto, followed by Christian Ortiz, and I'm calling folks in the order in which they signed up. Al Loya, Arturo de la Mora, Marcela Carrillo. When folks sign up, I call them in the order in which they sign up. This group wishes to go last. Thank you.
 I think we need to go as they signed up, please. Okay. Thank you, ma'am. Ms. Gilda Maraboto? And if someone shows up before we're done, they can come. We'll give them a last reading to try to get them up here. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Good morning. You have three minutes. Hi. Good morning, everyone.
 I have been part of this project since the beginning, so I have attended all of the meetings with the community and also the open house. Since it was brought up by Ms. Anello right now, a main focus on those signatures, I'm going to touch base on that. The signatures were given to us on September 19, which was before CPC, on September 21st.
 I know you have all of those signatures, so I'm gonna ask you, we obviously went back to see where they are around the community. So from the signatures that were received, which is 197, when you take out people that signed two, three, four times those sheets, you only have 135. Within a 300 foot radius, which is what the code dictates, there's only 12 signatures. And within 200 feet, there's only three.
 The pending 120 are within 4.3 miles away from our project. So I'm hoping that you do not vote against just focusing on these signatures because the majority are not around that specific area. They're not the community around.
 And when I went back also, the signatures were given by Mr. Paz on August 21st, and only two of those letters are dated August 12th. The rest of those documents are September 12th, September 14th, August 24th, August 23rd. So I think either the wrong sheets were submitted. I don't have a way of knowing if these...
 signatures are for our project because they don't have any information on top they do say socorro outcry somebody scratched out the outcry on it it's blacked out it doesn't say handwritten it only says petition against so I don't have a really way to validate these signatures in that sense and I hope that's not the reason that we focus on that
 We have gone through every meeting, we heard everything on the first meeting. We had a majority public, it kept going down and down on each one because we kept addressing every concern that they had.
 The property cannot be used, well, it could be used for other type of commercial apartments, but that would create a higher impact on traffic, which is what was their main concern. Right now, I know they don't want semis on Socorro, which we took care of that. It's over a million dollars the cost of this bridge. No semi trucks are going to go through there. And we also need to think about everything that we own, everything in our house, everything that we eat.
 it's transported at a point in life through a same I tried trailer so we're now we allow this property to be part of something that's good for a city that's going to break economic development is every jobs and now we're saying no you know what no we don't keep it keep it as farm which this land has been vacant for a long time thank you thank you the next speaker is Christian Ortiz followed by Al Loya, Arturo de la Mora, Marcela Carrillo,
 Nadia Antawan. Good morning. You have three minutes. Hi, good afternoon. My name is Christian Ortiz and I want to talk about the evolution of the project and the concerns that it's adapted to. So one of the major concerns was Socorro, as you've heard already. And our client is willing to absorb the cost of the bridge to completely eliminate any trailer traffic that would be created by the property for Socorro.
 The warehouse use also helps in mitigating the amount of traffic on the property. As the uphouse community code, warehouses have one of the smallest parking requirements that there is for any type of use. So, which kind of starts to tie into another concern, which was the environmental effects on the neighborhood. So while we can minimize the traffic generated by keeping the parking to a minimum, the business is still going to rely on trailer traffic just like every other business.
 to receive products and so on that end we kind of have to rely on the manufacturers of the trucks who are required by 2024 to start creating zero emission trucks and while that might be coming along eco logistics is already using electric forklifts to move products around the current facility and continue to plan to keep that trend going
 In order to be efficient and productive in the delivery, the delivery trucks arrive by appointment to Mr. Saavedra's operation. He doesn't have trucks idling. They come in by their appointment, they get unloaded, and they leave. So there's not really a lot of ireling for them to sit there and create more effect on the environment.
 It feels a little disingenuous to say that while the property is not in historic, just that one portion is, our client is willing to turn it all into landscape to coincide with the design mission trail guidelines, which states that Socorro is...
 So Coro's plan to be an extensive landscape road. When we had our meetings with the Historic Landmark Commission, they said that it really should have been zoned as more of a scenic transportation corridor. So I feel like designating that entire zone kinda coincides with that idea. So again, with the extensive landscape, we'll be able to address another concern from the neighborhood, which was the noise. With the building being flipped and the docks on the north side, the new building will be further away from the existing neighborhood
 than the existing industrial park will be. So not only will we be buffering the property with extensive landscape and the building, we'll also be further than the already existing. And in regards to the property value being ruined, we can look at back then when they accepted into the Foreign Trade Zone Commission, EPCC and YISD submitted a letter talking about the economic, sorry,
 The economic benefits allowing, from allowing this property into Foreign Trade Zone 68. Thank you, the next speaker is Al Loya, followed by Arturo de la Mora, Marcela Carrillo, Nadia Antawan, and Commissioner Leona Olguin. Good morning, you'll have three minutes. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Al Loya, the architect with Loya Wilkie Architects. You know, you've already heard it all, right? And it's gonna be very difficult
 to please everybody. But I think what, as an architect, when we go and design facilities, we listen and we try to respect the environment. There are things that are very different to the site. You know, we talk about historic, but that's further down near Socorro, Favens, Clint, Mission Trails. This site, if you look at the proximity to 375, it's about 5.
 500 feet from 375. Right next to this site, there's already a trailer yard. Across the street, there's warehouses. We're not trying to do something that's in violation of what's going on and what's going to be developed there. It was voted on by city council, by the county, as a foreign trade zone. And there's a reason for that.
 Because a development like this is needed and there's really no other use for this site It's not profitable to use it as a farmland because you talk to every farmer you can't produce enough To pay for anything profitable. I don't care how much subsidies you get now the neighborhood doesn't want apartments doesn't want residential doesn't so
 What else can we do? Like previously mentioned, this is the lowest density type of use.
 The way it's designed, this building's going to be 36 foot tall. It's going to buffer everything. It's basically a big wall, and it'll be nice facing the neighborhood. You'll have an eight-foot rock wall with a row of trees to buffer that, and the parking, it'll be a nice area. Same thing facing Socorro Road. We can't do much with Socorro Road. That's a tech stock deal, and I don't think you guys can do much with it anyway.
 But keep that in mind, and I think that you'll see that what we can do with this property is going to be a lot more favorable, and it'll help the facility there. This neighborhood already is in existence, and it is right next to the property that the city of El Paso owns, PSB, which is the Riverside Industrial Park that we also master planned for them. So I know it's there. And right next to it, there's the Pan American Industrial Park.
 All that is already there. You know, these houses were built after the industrial park was there. So I don't know how to better put it, but, you know, we understand, but what we've done and what Mr. Saavedra has allowed us to do, I think is the best solution there.
 Thank you very much for your time. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Arturo de la Mora, followed by Marcela Carrillo, Nadia Antawan, Commissioner Olguin, and Rudy Cruz, Jr. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, Mayor and representatives. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time and consideration for this matter in front of us. My name is Arturo de la Mora. I'm an industrial engineer.
 real estate broker with CBRE with a focus in industrial real estate in El Paso, Texas and Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. I currently represent AP Logistics in several real estate transactions in the border region as they extend their offering proposition to be competitive in the marketplace of the logistics industry.
 Before I continue, I want to highlight that the founder of EP Logistics, Octavio Saavedra, has proven to be an exemplary businessman for our community who employs about 70 people at EP Logistics. He's a man of character and integrity who has built this company from the bottom up, contributes to our economy every day that EP Logistics is open for business. Thank you.
 He continues to invest in El Paso and El Pasoans as he invests millions of dollars in local vendors, employees, property, and equipment in order to remain competitive in the marketplace, creating an economic ripple effect which ultimately has a positive impact in our community. That said, I ask that the City Council considers the following reasons why this rezoning should be approved. There is an upward demand for industrial product, it increases the tax base, and it optimizes the use of the subject property.
 In El Paso, we're actively tracking about 70 million square feet of product of industrial inventory, and there's about 420 users of industrial real estate. The amount of growth that these users are having is unprecedented. As a result, many institutions abroad are coming to El Paso to develop industrial facilities. Well, EP Logistics is investing in these facilities to accommodate his growth for his clients
 to compete with conglomerate logistics companies that are in the region secondly this development will increase the tax base this the highest value and best use of this 13 acres it's not farming and I think has been established being able to convert this to an industrial facility will increase the tax base which ultimately help the community again lastly
 We feel the development should be approved because it optimizes and addresses several concerns. Mr. Saavedra has taken unprecedented steps to accommodate all the concerns of the community by modifying the design several times from the building orientation to the size of the facility, amongst other modifications to redirect traffic. In my experience, this is unheard of. To conclude, we often seek to attract business to our city,
 and I know that our city is business-friendly and supportive of the entrepreneur spirit. I want to appeal to reason by highlighting that this is an exemplary case study. Thank you, sir. You've reached the three minutes. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Marcela Carrillo, followed by Nadia Antawan.
 Commissioner Olguin, Rudy Cruz, Jr., Sylvia Carrio. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Good morning. My name is Marcela Carrio, and I'm the Vice President of the Mission Valley Civic Association. I also attended the PCP meeting, and I was an objection to that meeting.
 I was reading and looking at the map and I saw there's 172 parking spaces that are going to be on the side of the residence. I personally have experienced this because I live next to a commercial area off of Texas 20 and unfortunately when the owner goes home we're left with the noise. We're left with the employees cars banging their music all hours of the night.
 what's going on with my property. I was here. And granted, I know that the area is booming and we need commerce, but we have to remember who our residents are and what they're gonna suffer when the owner goes home. Unfortunately, I'm against this. I don't think this would improve the Mission Valley. We really need to bolster our commerce here in the Mission Valley and by promoting the Mission Valley. And it starts on Zaragoza, where the sledding mission starts.
 So it's not just one little area. It's a long corridor. So I'd appreciate you to vote no on this action. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Nadia Antawan. Good morning, you have three minutes.
 Good morning, Council Members and Mayor Leaser. Our association, I'm Nadia Antoine, I'm with the Franklin Hills Association and a representative for the Northwest for the Neighborhood Coalition. And our stance is just to support the neighborhood and what they feel is best for their area.
 As the council member spoke earlier, that's really what it comes down to. People, us residents, really pay the bulk of our taxes, pay the bulk of the taxes for the city, and we have a right to say what we want in our neighborhood as well. Yes, industry is great and commercial is great, but we are the residents, and we should be able to say what we think is best for our area. And the people who have spoken, they don't want this in their area, and we support the residents and the people in the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you.
 thank you the next speaker is commissioner eliana holguin followed by rudy cruz jr sylvia carrion shelby mccue eduardo talamantes good morning good morning commissioner good morning mayor and council i am here today regarding the rezoning application related to the two parcels of land located at 96 14 soporo road
 These two parcels, as you heard, are currently zoned as farm and ranch, but an application has been filed to rezone both as C4 commercial for the primary use of warehousing, which would include the loading and unloading of 18-wheeler commercial vehicles. As you know, I serve as the county commissioner for Precinct 3, which includes the Mission Valley and the Historic Mission Trail, which connects the Isleta Mission, the Socorro Mission, and the San Elisario Presidio Chapel via Socorro Road.
 I represent the residents of the Valle de las Misiones Neighborhood Association, which abuts the land for which rezoning is sought. The residents of this neighborhood are very concerned regarding the health impacts that would result from the activities to be conducted on these parcels if the zoning request is granted. Specifically, the residents are worried about an increase in pollution in their neighborhood as a result of the 18 wheelers that will be using the facilities that will be built on these parcels, as well as with the increase in noise resulting from these vehicles.
 Additionally, although I understand that the 18-wheelers might be able to enter and exit from an entrance not located on Socorro Road, the 80-plus employees of these new facilities will be using the main entrance on Socorro Road to exit and enter, further contributing to an increase in traffic on an already very congested roadway.
 In addition to the concerns of the residents, I would ask this council to also consider the negative impact of this zoning request will have on the tremendous amount of work improving the Mission Trail that has been done by both city and county of El Paso staff, as well as by so many other community partners, such as the Paso del Norte Foundation, the Mission Trail Alliance, and the Mission Trail Association.
 One very notable example is the advancement of the Paso del Norte Trail, which at its conclusion will be a 68-mile trail that connects all of El Paso County from county line to county line. In the Mission Valley, much of the Paso del Norte Trail alignment is along the historic Mission Trail, which follows the alignment of Socorro Road. Recently the City of El Paso and the City of Socorro were both awarded funds from TxDOT for construction of the trail from Isleta to the Socorro City Limits and then from the Socorro City Limits to San Elisario.
 These two grants alone total over $24 million, and the county is in the process of submitting another $2 million grant application for the design of the trail that would lead to the San Elisario Chapel and out into the Fabens area, where the portion of the trail connecting Fabens to Tornillo has already been funded.
 In total, the Paso del Norte Foundation estimates that approved funding for trail development from Azcárate to Tornillo totals approximately $45 million, which represents a tremendous opportunity to spur economic development, provide recreational opportunities, improve community health, and enhance transportation options for the entire area.
 Because of the health, noise, and traffic concerns of the residents of this area, as well as the negative economic impacts on the Mission Trail, it is my sincere hope that the City Council will today carefully consider the concerns of the residents and myself and deny the proposed rezoning application. Thank you very much for your consideration. Thank you, ma'am. Our next speaker is Rudy Cruz, Jr., followed by Sylvia Carrion, Shelby McHugh. Good morning. You have three minutes.
 Good morning, Mayor, Council. My name is Rudy Cruz, Jr. I'm the chair of the Mission Trail Alliance. I'm also a city representative for the city of Socorro. I'm also a fourth generation resident of Socorro. I'm also a member of one of three federally recognized Indian tribes here in El Paso, Texas.
 and the state of Texas, I'm sorry. I'm a former tribal councilman for my tribe there in Isleta. So the mission trail, as you all know, begins in Isleta and it goes all the way to San Luisario. I also recognize several of y'all because we all sit on the MPO together. I may not be invited to your Thanksgiving dinner after the comments I make today, but that's okay. We can still shake hands after the meeting.
 Some of the main concerns that I have here as the chair for the Mission Trail Alliance is that we've come together and we're trying to build this beautiful trail here. And as you all know, it wasn't but a month ago that we received in the amount of $16 million some funding from the state of Texas to help align with that design and construction of walking paths and shared use paths for bicyclists and whatnot. But you're also going to have the EP Marathon here pretty soon. And it's got the name of El Paso written all over it.
 So I stand here before you all today and I ask that you support the neighborhood because the neighborhood supported you all when election time came around.
 I also wanted to share the facts and not just my opinion but the facts. If you visit El Paso Texas dot gov you'll see that there's a tab there that has a historic area and it outlines all the maps and one of the areas that you all have outlined in the map was the historical mission trail. The historical mission shows very very important show. Should this council decide to move forward with this development I hope that the buffer and the trees that you all plant there on Socorro Road
 are in excess of 36 feet tall to hide the big industrial building you are planning to build there. To include in my comments here, I just want to let you guys know that we didn't receive this funding because of one individual or two individuals. We received this funding together with the help of the El Paso Chamber that's been acting as a fiduciary arm for the Mission Trail Alliance. We've been able to come together because what was happening in the past is we were all fighting for the same funding opportunity.
 to help the mission trail. You had San Elisario, the city of Socorro, the El Paso County and the city of El Paso all fighting for the same amount of money and we were all going after the same grants. So what we did was we teamed together, we partnered up and we've been able to secure millions of dollars together as a team.
 I feel that the efforts of your staff, your city staff, that also sit as members of the Mission Trail Alliance, the MPO, and other organizations here that help build the Mission Trail, I feel that their efforts and their work will go down the drain should we decide to build and move forward with this construction and the rezoning of this property. Thank you, Council, Mayor. I appreciate for you affording me the ability to speak here to you all today. Thank you all. Thank you, sir. And Representative Cruz, if I was cooking, you'd be invited, but I'm not cooking.
 The next speaker is Sylvia Carreon followed by Shelby McHugh, Eduardo Talamantes, Jose Najera. Good morning, you have three minutes. Good morning, Ms. Carreon. Ms. Park, did you pass off the documents? Okay. You all have some documents in front of you that I was highly enough to print for you. Sylvia Carreon, president of the Mission Valley Civic Association.
 and want to express our support for the residents of the Valle de las Misiones Neighborhood Association with the City of El Paso. I am providing you a map of all the neighborhood associations in the city, which some are in every city representative's area. All of you have city neighborhoods. The second map is the one for the Mission Valley area, and the little purple one on the lower
 is a neighborhood association which is deeply affected by this E4. This is the Misiones, Viaje de las Misiones. I had a meeting of many of the neighborhood associations and explained to them the effects that would cause a residence in the area, and none of them want this project to be located anywhere near the neighborhoods. You can see that it is the last neighborhood association within the city limits before going into Socorro and the county.
 We have struggled with some of the city planning personnel as to allowing us the dignity to express in ourselves the right to vote in favor of a neighborhood association who find themselves stuck between a rock and a hard place when it comes to reaching out the so-called 211 status for qualification to deny the rezone. Many of our neighborhood associations have been in meetings provided by the city planning
 and are very much aware of the consequences this project will bring to the families in the area and the historic of the community i feel sure that this project if this project would be proposed in your residence uh you also would deny set to deny it if you look at the map that i provided for you on the on the the actually psb and it's just the red the red section there um
 Okay, we met everything. I had to go to central appraisal office to get some of these addresses because they're not the owners. One of them has a vacant lot. So I had to go through there and then find the owner and go to the owner.
 And if it's circled, the 204 over here and the 9631, we just lack those two little ones to really fill the percentages required. But that's all of them. The PAM Freight is a trucking company next door to it. They were built in 1990.
 That's before anything was going on. So this 1990, and Mr. Julio Contreras, it has been hard to reach him, but he has talked to us. He says, well, let me think about it. But of course, they're out-of-town people. It's hard to get a hold of them. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Cargill. The next speaker is Shelby McHugh. Ms. McHugh, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning, everyone. Good morning.
 uh... my name is shelby mchugh i'm the president of the el paso mission trail association i wish that i could be there in person with you this morning but i'm here at the el paso mission trail visitor center i'm waiting on tourists to come in for their thanksgiving holiday so i can get them down to a sleda to see uh kateri tiga wepa in the mission and then we're going to get him down to sakoro and we're going to talk about st michael
 And then from there, we're going to go down to the Presidio in San Elizabeth. And we're going to see the Spanish Presidio. And then we're going to throw them in jail in the 1850 jailhouse down there. It's going to be a wonderful day. So I couldn't be with you this morning, but I do thank you for this opportunity to speak to the project in front of you. The decision that you're going to make this morning speaks to more
 than just your approval or disapproval of this commercial enterprise. The question is what policy or precedent does the City of El Paso want to establish as far as the commercial development of our Mission Valley? El Paso, Texas is the hidden gem of the world. It is anchored by El Paso, Texas, Las Cruces, New Mexico and Ciudad Juarez and it is
 incumbent and important for us to recognize this gem of the world and protect it in accordance with the policies and the procedures that we set. So the Mission Valley, the lower valleys where I grew up, I grew up in the shadows of the Sletta High School. And the Mission Valley is presently in a renaissance of activity and development of ongoing, in ongoing programs of cultural heritage tourism,
 We have many, many resurgent activities. I am hopeful that in years to come we will have UNESCO recognition of the Camino Real Tierra del Adentro, which is a nationally recognized historic trail recognized by the National Park Service.
 We are down here in the Mission Valley. We are developing cultural heritage tourism. We are trying to build community, building of educational programs, building of cultural programs, building of cultural awareness programs,
 building a community safety. We're trying to bridge a true awareness of what the Mission Valley is. And most importantly for you there this morning, we're trying to find a way and awareness of what the Mission Valley will become. So this morning I would ask you to consider
 the historic value of what you had before you. I don't think, I do not see the value of this commercial activity outweighing
 the value, what we're trying to create and build, not just for the community, but for the state of Texas and for our county as well. And so I cannot support what we're trying to do with this commercial development. I would suggest that we disapprove it and that we go forward with what we're trying to do in building this renaissance of the Mission Valley. And thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak.
 Thank you, sir. Next speaker is Eduardo Talamantes, followed by Jose Najera, Eva Vilma, Lisa Turner. Good morning. You have three minutes. Good morning. Mayor and representatives, good morning. Good morning, sir. My name's Eduardo Talamantes. I live in the Mission Valley. I've been a resident for 44 years there. And I thought we were all El Pasoans in the city here. When they said we could only have a voice if you live within 200 feet of this project,
 you know we all i have a right to say anything about this country this city that i think is going to hurt it and in this area it's in situation i think it's going to hurt the area when mr rivera supported us when we had that waste disposal facility was going to be built he didn't he wouldn't admit in our district at the time but he came and helped us and he did a lot to help us in that facility being uh removed and thrown out of the project
 That area there, I was there with Ms. Velma, and she showed me the area, that long MIR street. It's a nut house. Those trucks are backed up all along the canal sometimes. There's holes in that thing. You can drive a truck through some of the holes. We went and measured that canal. I had a 100-foot tape measure. It was 52 feet from the end, the canal to the end. From the canal to the street to the nearest fence was 42 feet. So...
 That's a very narrow street. And when you tell me that you're gonna use Socorro, they can't use Socorro Road, you're gonna build a bridge, I can tell you one thing, they're gonna use that road eventually. Somebody's gonna give them the right to build on that Socorro Road. They don't care about history. I do, we all do. That's why we wanna preserve it. And the people of Lither have a right too. I mean, they're gonna have their homes right next to trucks
 They have kids, maybe somebody has asthma, some kind of respiratory problem. That's not gonna help. And they deserve our right too. They're very humble people. And would you like, Mr. Mayor, would you like those trucks behind your house? Anybody here? Would you be okay with that? I wouldn't. I mean, I would fight it tooth and nail. And I think they have a right to. So I say we don't wanna support this. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next speaker is Jose Nacara.
 Followed by Eva Vilma, Lisa Turner, Olivia Carrillo, Ivan Lopez. Good morning, you have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning, sir. My name is Jose Najera, representing Penrose Neighborhood Association. I'm supporting what they mentioned is the last neighborhood in the city. No, we either consider the last neighborhood because Socorro, they have a neighbor's association too. We have neighbor's association inside the county. That's the reason why I'm here because I believe
 the project is going to include a bridge. The bridge is going to be, I'm going to only be adding more facts to the already had been stopped. They're going to bridge a brick on Frankentrain.
 That franken drain, what I believe is going to be a shortcut for Pan American, Plaza Circle, and Clouse Laundromat. They say it's not going to be. Yes, it's going to be because I believe customers here, they're going to use that bridge to move from that part of the industrial park to the Socorro Road.
 they say i don't know how they're going to control that because i i know they're going to use that part of uh... of uh... of uh... area to eat add more traffic to the support we support also that support uh... great and another thing they asked us we have been modified a lot of project to be more comfortable with you guys why do you want the answer why we want we want to park
 we want a green area why we want a green area the city have been working to add more trees to the city the city is getting warmer and the you that project is part of the city well we need to also a green area in that entire area because we have an oscar at the park and then we have chamber park from lascar department to chevy parts is 7.3 miles from chevy part to capistan is the next part is 3.5 miles from capistan to
 Caribbean Park. Caribbean Park is a small park. It's 3.2 miles. What we need there is a park big enough to hold baseball fields, basketball courts. We don't have it.
 That's because it's the end of the city. We are not going to invest in the future. A park that really is going to hold that. It's not only that. It's going to open the trail, the soccer trail, to the rest of the communities. So that's why I'm adding this. I'm supporting the community. I'm supporting the Neighbors Association because we are families. We are neighbors. We are also El Paso. Thank you very much. The next speaker is Eva Vilma.
 Followed by Lisa Turner, Olivia Carrillo, Ivan Lopez, Carmen Montoya. Good morning. You have three minutes. Buenos dias, señor alcalde. A todos buenos dias. Mi nombre es Eva Vielma. Soy la presidenta de Valle de las Misiones de Bajo Association por 18 años. Me acompañan aquí toda la comunidad. Ustedes están sentados. Por favor, sentense.
 No pueden venir las 200 familias, las 182 firmas que presentamos en oposición. Lo que la señorita arquitecta dijo, que para las firmas del 2-11 nos pedían 20%. Completamos 18.49, 18.49%. Nosotros nos oponemos...
 por varias razones nosotros tenemos 40 y más años viviendo en esa comunidad una comunidad tranquila que no tenemos problema alguno que peleamos mucho nuestra socorro histórica y no queremos que habiendo tanto terreno alrededor el señor Saavedra con todo respeto yo se lo he dicho a él en persona él tiene bastante conocimiento
 modo económico, de haber comprado otro terreno no pegado a nuestras casas. Van a quedar como si esta es mi casa y los de ustedes. Van a quedar los trailers. ¿Dónde está nuestra salud, señor alcalde? La polución, estar oliendo el ruido de los trailers.
 Es mucho problema para nosotros. Nuestro vecindario es tranquilo, nosotros no queremos que se hagan estos proyectos enseguida de nosotros, habiendo espacios para que el señor los pueda comprar en otro lado. Tenemos también evidencia de múltiples accidentes en la Socorro Rol, porque baja el tráfico de San Eli, de Socorro, para intervenir,
 conectar al 375 para venir al downtown, a UTEP. Ellos no van a subir de San Eli, de Socorro, hacia el freeway para venir a conectar al 375. Entonces nosotros estamos aturados en nuestra calle, demasiado. Tenemos evidencias, así traigo el file de los accidentes que hemos tenido que nos dio el Departamento de Policía.
 de los accidentes de Panamerica a nuestra comunidad, que es hasta la morenita.
 Y no es justo, no es justo. Únicamente les pido, por favor, que nos ayuden porque nos hemos sentido discriminados. Por los últimos 18 meses, la primera carta que nos mandaron fue en febrero del 22, y ellos nos hicieron presentes hasta 18 meses después, que fue el año pasado. Muchas gracias y espero su cooperación. Gracias. Tenga buen día.
 es lisa turner seguido por olivia carrillo ivan lópez carmen montoya silvia tapia fabiola campos lópez mario mendoza buenos días señor consejero de la asamblea de la comisión estoy en contra de esto por qué, por cierto, todos ustedes están haciendo el rezoneado, tienen la autoridad, pero ustedes están usando las reglas de alguien más del estado que son 200 pies para 211 versus sus 300 pies la pregunta es por qué
 El Estado no rezone, lo haces. Hay preocupaciones ambientales. Hablamos de aire, agua, tanto superficie como subsurface, flotación, ninguno de estos temas está siendo abordado, ruido, seguridad, sí, el tráfico se encontrará en Socorro. Ahora, esto no hubiera llegado a cabo si los derechos para poner ese puente no habían sido ya asegurados. Ahora, ¿quién tiene los derechos? El derecho a ponerlo en.
 Does the city own that? And if the city owns that, why wasn't that presented in the presentation when we started talking about the bridge? You're going to have to have the right-of-ways. You're going to have to spend money. Putting this there is just doesn't make sense. Now, if this does go forward, I would suggest that you put a requirement on the person who's wanting the rezoning to perform an archaeology survey on the entire property.
 and it can't go forward until such time as that report is given to you for consideration. Since there is a historical area attached, we need to be sure that we're not destroying anything or covering it up with asphalt. I don't know, this is just silly. The 404 tie, it should have been left, it shouldn't have come to you. I think your processes need to be rethought, should be resubmitted, but a tie was unacceptable.
 Because it doesn't give the people who live in this area a right to have this, you know, to get a decision one way or the other. A tie is not a decision. It's, oh, we don't know what to do, so we're going to go forward anyway. And that's no way to make a decision on anything. Thank you. The next speaker is Olivia Carrillo. Olivia Carrillo. Ivan Lopez, followed by Carmen Montoya, Sylvia Tapia, Fabiola Campos-Lopez.
 Good morning you have three minutes. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. I'm a mayor and council. David Mills states in 1990 he described zoning as means of assigning development rights to the community. The right to develop land is a collective right of the community that a potential developer must purchase or be given. A landowner must have the agreement of the community before developing the land. It is in the developer's best interest to approach the community prior to the land purchase.
 A solution such as building a bridge to help mitigate truck traffic should not merit the development of this type of facility. Having an industrial park to the south and a highway to the west of this property should not merit the development of this type of facility. At the same time, it is very difficult to obtain certain amount of signatures if you have only one property owner to two of these sides of the property.
 This land was purchased with ranch farm designation and therefore should be developed within the allowable uses of a ranch farm designation. Once the decision is made to change zoning designation, the community becomes a major contributor in granting that liberty. The proposed zoning change should not be considered acceptable as it sits outside the consistent boundary delineated by the Pan American Industrial District along the Franklin Drain Canal.
 The proposed zoning change is encroaching on less dense residential areas and will hinder the potential development of our city's historical corridors. Let us not build upon that precedent. I just wanna add that we were in a re-zoning case not too long ago, and the same comments were made about Plano Paso having a certain designation on our property as G7 post-war, if I remember. So I do wanna add on the comments made earlier
 that you know the fact that Plano Paso has a g7 designation on this property should not marry the development of this property in that manner is my understanding I know Paso is being updated currently so we should not follow you know older plans that are probably at this point not valid
 And as a former chair of the Historic Landmark Commission, and I do want to say thank you to my representative, Mr. Henry Rivera, for allowing me to serve in that board. The fact that they allowed a pond with landscaping along the corridor is a requirement to a certain point. So this was not proposed initially. A lot of these solutions are reactions to what's been heard through the process at the beginning,
 the community was against this and that is what should be thank you mr lopez you've reached the three minutes thank you thank you the next speaker is carmen montoya followed by sylvia tapia fabiola campos lopez mario mendoza maria guardado buenos dias
 este yo yo vengo a exponer lo que yo siento de que debemos de proteger nuestra historia las autoridades correspondientes hagan lo suyo eso les es una petición que les hacemos porque los pueblos antes están desapareciendo poco a poco con la mancha marcha urbana con la modernidad y yo no estoy ni estamos en contra de la modernidad estamos en contra de que nos
 that our spaces of our history are covered, that all those stories are buried. What are we going to leave to the next generations? There we have many conflicts in terms of traffic, as has already been said here, it has been exposed. There we have the Zaragoza Bridge very close, and there we also have another line of transport.
 There are many spaces here in El Paso where all those new companies can be deployed. We don't want to… we have a lot of health problems because we are not young anymore. We are already declining day by day. We also have allergies, because of the smog, because of the noise, because of what you like and want.
 Pero les rogamos y les suplicamos que por favor tomen en cuenta la historia de nuestros pueblos, que no desaparezcan. Muchas gracias. Muy amable. Gracias. The next speaker is Sylvia Tapia. And we weren't able to get an interpreter this morning. We weren't alerted within 72 hours, so we don't have an interpreter today. Sylvia Tapia, Fabiola Campos-Lopez. No.
 Yes, IT, will you please turn on the Elmo? IT, we need the Elmo, please. Well, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mayor, City Council representatives and staff. I'm Fabiola Campos-Lopez, El Paso Neighborhood Coalition President and Coordinator for the Corridor 20 Civic Association in the Mission Valley.
 The Corridor Civic Association, 20 Civic Association, opposes this rezoning case and supports the Valle de las Misiones Neighborhood Association in opposing the Seaford case next to residential and across residential. Thank you.
 I had a lot of ideas I wanted to answer everything all the questions are I wish we would have the time to talk to you mayor and from the community not only from staff but the point of the community I'm gonna say because of the three minutes and there's the most important trust is the key to any relationship partnership and the community's trust in the city government is not exception
 Several times during the HLC and CPC meetings, the applicant's architect repeatedly reassured everyone that the bridge on the back of the property had already been approved. In a typical case, the bridge will require the rezoning to be approved first, starting applications with the entities that own and use the canals. In this case, the Franklin Drain Canal will typically occur once the conditions of this council are accepted.
 The process may start with conditional approval from the El Paso County Water District, sometimes El Paso Water Service and the City, pending engineer revisions of structure plans submitted and reviews. It is an ongoing process that may take months, sometimes a couple of years, just in planning stage without any construction. Well, we started the pertinent research and guess what we found?
 THE CITY INITIATED THE PURCHASE OF THIS SECTION OF THE FRANKLIN DRAIN CANAL IN APRIL OF LAST YEAR. AND IT CAME TO FRUITITION ON JUNE 8, 2022, FOUR MONTHS AFTER THE RESONING APPLICATION WAS SUBMITTED IN FEBRUARY OF 2022. THE PURCHASE SECTION GOES FROM THE CITY LIMITS WITH SOCORRO TEXAS TO BEHIND THE TIWA RESERVATION BY SAN LORENZO ROAD. WE LEAVE IT TO YOUR JUDGMENT IF IT'S CONSIDERATION.
 convenient or it was planned. The fact that the city paid a million dollars, 600,000 for it on behalf of El Paso Water Service is a fact. But it's also surprising coincidence with a purchase timing, right?
 and we are not taking about no man's land. This section was cared for and owned by the El Paso Water Improvement District for the same use and purpose. It is an empty canal used for stormwater preservation when it's necessary. The planning department knew about this.
 We have received evidence of the purchase and will continue to pursue more details on who made the decision and how it was planned internally. Thank you, Ms. Lopez. You've reached the three minutes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. The next speaker is Mario Mendoza. Mario Mendoza, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good morning, you have three minutes. Good morning, mayor, staff, and neighborhood associations.
 I am unable to be at this meeting personally due to medical conditions. My name is Mario Mendoza. I am the vice president of the Holmes League Trail Association in the Lower Valley, and
 I guess I want to start by saying that in one of the meetings that I personally attended a few months ago, the closing statement from one of your staff members, Mr. Mayor, was that he stated that everyone, please read your minutes before you come to this meeting so that we can make a good decision
 Just in reference to that, sometimes the members who make the decisions don't read the minutes until minutes or seconds before it's their turn to talk. And many times they make a decision at the spur of the moment based on who said yay or who say nay. So I wanna make that a statement of record. Secondly, there's a lot of pros and cons
 about the engineering, the city of El Paso planning, et cetera. And, of course, they're going to state the beauty of this project and how much money it's bringing in and impact this revenue. But ultimately, we have seen time and time again these huge projects come in with a lot of promises that are not kept.
 First thing on my list is the environmental impact. I've heard it many times in this meeting about how it's going to affect people with asthma, people that have allergies, the idling trucks with the diesels running. All this affects people. All these are airborne particulates that are in the air that people take in.
 the asphalt, the concrete, the drainage issues, what environmental impact is going to have on our water table, the oil runoff, the antifreeze runoff, the changing of tire runoff will ultimately impact or go down the drain, dead on our water table, or go down to the wastewater treatment. That's a fact. Two. Thank you, Mr. Mendelsohn. You've reached the three minutes.
 Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Maria Guardado, followed by Octavio Saavedra. Maria Guardado, Octavio Saavedra, followed by Representative Mary Gonzalez and Debbie Torres. Good morning, you have three minutes. Good morning, good morning. Good morning, sir. City Council. I'm the property owner. I guess I feel like a villain today. In reality, we've had three, four meetings with the community.
 I'm a local entrepreneur trying to make a living and in addition to that our company has grown quite a bit I'm a big supporter of the community a big supporter of El Paso My family lives here and I appreciate all the comments from the community and that's what we made all these changes to the plans From the beginning we listened to them. I
 They didn't want trucks in Socorro Road. So that's the proposal. We changed the plans added the bridge We're moving the trucks away from Socorro. We the last thing we we made to the plans. We've changed them four times Approximately maybe even more And this has been all by suggestions from the community The last big change we made was that we flipped the building so that the parking the employee parking is
 facing the neighborhood, but it's not immediately facing the neighborhood. We're building an eight-foot rock wall, giving them plenty of privacy all around the perimeter. We're adding trees, as Aloia mentioned, and there's about 350 feet from the closest neighborhood to the facility. The majority of the surrounding area is surrounded by industrial development.
 which are the warehouses and so on. One of the things that I did is I invited the community to our facility so they can see the type of business we run. Our facility is not, you know, your typical warehouse. We are an advanced type of facility. We handle large companies like, you know, in the electronic industry and...
 that are making service right across the electronic components and goods right across the border, and we help them move all of their freight. I think that I ask for you to vote in favor of changing the zone for several reasons. We addressed all the concerns from the community. We changed the plans. It increased my cost.
 But we reduced the trailer traffic. We moved away from Socorro Road. I realize a portion of that is historic. And we're adding landscaping. But this is good for the economy, good for the neighborhood. We're gonna increase jobs. And your grandkids may be working in our facility. Thank you, Mr. Salvelda. We welcome that. Thank you for your time. The next speaker is Representative Mary Gonzalez, followed by Debbie Torres. Good morning.
 I've been elected for 13 years and guess what? I have never testified in front of city council. And now I realize what it's like to testify, I can sit in hours and hours of testimony and I've never been on this side of it. This is an interesting dynamic. But why am I here? I'm here because this topic is very, very important. Why after 13 years on so many issues that y'all have that are critical, am I talking today?
 When I travel and when I talk to students, one of the things I hear all the time is their distrust with government. And I think about where that comes from. And it comes from the fact that sometimes they see people organized and they're not heard.
 Sometimes I don't see how government helps them, but here's a chance that we can do two things. Hear people and show how government can work. The state has been doing lots of investment in building a historic corridor. The county has been doing lots of investments. The cities of San Elia and Socorro, which I proudly represent, are doing this major investment. We are inviting you to be partners with us. We're inviting you to say like, to recognize that El Paso is special.
 You know, you heard testimony that talked about, well, the historic parts are only in Saneli or Socorro, and that's just not factually true. Isleta is an important mission that is not getting as much recognition as it deserves because it's being left out of some of these planning processes. Let's bring it in.
 You know, I found it really interesting as someone who wakes up at 6 in the morning to feed livestock, as some of you all have heard when you call me on the phone, that there was comments said that you cannot do agriculture here. That is also factually not true. There is a whole urban farming movement. I invite you to my district. I invite you to see what the farming market looks like in Loya Farms, which is just a small acreage, and they are doing transformative things.
 Here's what I will say. Once you rezone this, you can't undo it. All I'm asking you to consider is finding some balance. I am so proud that El Paso is an economy that does have industrial, that does have trade, that we can brag about these things. But we can also be a community that preserves our history, preserves our culture, and preserves agriculture.
 I'm asking you to think about if a $1 million can be spent building a bridge, well then why can't we spend $1 million picking another piece of land? Wouldn't you rather have the people in that community have an urban farm, preserve a culture and history, be part of a multi-government effort, or ignore all that could be a possibility? We have zoning for a reason.
 This area was zoned agricultural for a reason. I urge you to maintain it that way. Thank you. And the final speaker is Debbie Torres. Good morning, Ms. Torres. You have three minutes. Before the clock starts, I'd like to ask IT to run a video about the condition of Carl Longmire Road. Ms. Torres, the video was not submitted to my office. I'm not aware of the video.
 Mayor, is that a... No, ma'am. It wasn't submitted to my office? Go ahead, ma'am.
 Good morning, Mayor and City Council. My name is Debbie Torres. I'm an officer and member of the Pueblo Viejo Neighborhood Association in the Mission Valley in District 7. And I come here with the community as our association also supports the wishes of the community in not changing the zoning. This is a collaborative effort. And what do I mean by collaboration?
 It's a process of two or more people or organizations working together to complete a task or achieve a goal.
 There are many examples of collaboration, but I'd like to focus on three. First off, in 2007, the community came together to stand against a proposed extension of the Lee Trevino Boulevard. That is in the Mission Valley, as you all know. This would have erased many homes and affected the quality of life in our area.
 Again, in 2019, there was a proposed medical waste facility that a company that wanted to come and open up its doors and create a situation of toxic issues, health concerns, and quality of life for the folks in the Mission Valley.
 It would have been located right off of Saragossa Boulevard, close to churches, very close to schools.
 Another example of a collaborative effort that we as neighborhood associations and community residents were part of was a proposed rezoning of 10 acres of land on James Street, also off of Yarbrough in the Mission Valley. This would have adversely affected the community.
 health and safety Quality of life of the community it would create would have created tremendous traffic hazard That it was very it would have been very close to pre-k down there So there would have been many adverse implications so in each of these I
 In each of these collaborative efforts, the desire of the community was honored by you, the city council. The will of the community prevailed.
 Today we're here again to ask you to vote against its rezoning to honor the wishes of the community and to preserve the quality of life and the unique Cultural history in the Mission Valley. Thank you very much. Thank you Thank you mayor first off one thank everybody who came by to speak and
 and to counsel on their behalf and their thoughts or feelings. I appreciate you being out here and taking your time. I also want to start by thanking city staff in particular planning and zoning department for working with the applicant and the community to address all their concerns.
 I was able to attend all three community meetings that were held. And again, I want to, at that point, thank staff for going above and beyond to provide customer service to the applicant and to listen to all community concerns that were voiced during that meeting when they were held. For the record, I'd like to bring up, could we have Mr. Garcia come back up here?
 For the record and for the public's interest, I want to ask staff to give us a little bit more information on what is required from a detailed site plan in case, you know, to further elaborate on that and what it entails. Yes, sir. So a detailed site development plan is binding on the property. It needs to show the final design, the location of buildings, parking, landscaping.
 walls, sidewalks, everything is finalized and captured on that detailed site plan, which is above and additional to the building permit. Subsequent to the detailed site plan, you still have to come in with a building permit, which does have to 100% match what is on the detailed site plan. And any deviation will create what? So any major significant deviation will require that site plan to obtain another approval.
 There are minor, the code does allow for some minor changes. Again, very minor in nature, nothing that changes the design. Obviously nothing that affects the conditions on the property. Any significant change would require a re-approval. Okay, and moving on from the detailed site plan, were there any, what was presented to the Historical Landmark Commission? Was there any recommendations or concerns from the commission themselves to you all? Sure, and I think it was mentioned there was some
 previous iterations are presented to the historical commission. It wasn't always just parking. There was some there was previous designs included parking within that area, which the commission did have issues with. Therefore, you see the current proposal that only includes ponding, dual purpose ponding and landscaping along with the lush the lush trees and wrought iron rock wall. Again, it's it's just a portion of this property.
 Although historic does not mean it cannot be developed, it can be developed as long as it's in character and in line with historical design guidelines, which has been vetted thoroughly with the Historical Landmark Commission, which is why the recommendation was to approve.
 that trail that they're talking about would begin right at the intersection with the Loop 375 and Joe Battle, I mean, Loop 375 in Socorro.
 We don't have too much, again, that's something between the state and the county. However, there's nothing that would prohibit a subsequent adjustment on the design along that corridor to include any proposed trail or any historical improvement proposed at that time. There would be nothing that would prohibit the incorporation of that design within that strip.
 And by that, you mean the existing trucking company that's just west of that property that Mr. Sveta owns? And then the Circle K that's just west of that? Correct. Neighbors. Yes. Right. It would take the coordination with those property owners as well to incorporate the trail, provide that complete connectivity from Isleta.
 all the way into the valley saneli there's nothing that would prohibit those adjustments uh specifically on this property okay so with the concerns of the of the constituents here being the historical road and everything um would you say that the rezoning application is consistent and compatible with the neighborhood character yes sir definitely
 What about the foreign trade zone inclusion that the council passed a few months ago? Yes, sir. So as you see our recommendation, as I presented previously as part of my presentation, for all those reasons cited in that presentation, that's why you see the recommendation from staff. Thank you. And for the record, I'd like to say in regards to Ms. Representative Nelos-Colin,
 comment for the record my concerns were regarding the foreign trade zone issue that pertain to Communication with other government entities in this case it would be the city of Socorro and overlapping boundaries I don't want my concerns to be misrepresented here And I won't be No for it to be known that that's what I meant when I voted against that That's for my concern so
 Were the prohibited uses recommended by the community themselves to... I'll go back in there, thanks. Were those prohibited uses recommended by the community members themselves during those meetings that we were present? Those uses did come up or part of the conversation that was held at those public meetings, yes sir. And it's not the first time we've heard that.
 And again, I want to address, again, the main points of concern from the neighborhood and the neighborhood association's recommendations or solutions brought forth for each that are listed on the presentation. One is a secure road, a historical road, correct? We all know that to be a state road that Alpaca can't go in and fix, which is what I asked one time when I was in the MPO.
 And I spoke to Mr. Camino and he said, I asked him if there was any future for the historical road to be upgraded or resurfaced, widened, whatever they could do. And I think I gave you the answer that he said was no. That was it. You haven't heard anything as of now, correct? No.
 Nothing specific to that from which would fall under the purview of textile. Now this, with this new facility here, is trailer traffic going onto Socorro Road, plain and simple? From this development, no. Where would that traffic be going to? So based on the existing traffic patterns, the trucks would come off of Americas, exit the loop onto the frontage, and turn onto Carl Longimir.
 for Egress, same turn right on Carl Longmire to go up towards Americas and Loop 375 and Dorae 10. And I think that was necessary to say because Carl Longmire is south of the proposed development, correct? Correct. Into the industrial area, which is what...
 That is correct. All that new development is being done for us to get traffic off of Socorro Road itself? Correct, Carl Longhimer along with Wynn Road do serve to provide the access for the existing industrial properties there. And your belief and knowledge of Socorro Road, is it in current condition to handle any more semi-trucks?
 um you know i'm not a traffic engineer so uh that would probably require some some studies from just the comments we've heard from the community people that live there that would be an issue and that was the point that i was trying to make is the fact that mr savela had intentionally initially intended to go through school road and it was it was us being myself and staff who prevented that
 And from that point, he started changing his plans and cooperating with city staff as well as the community. That is correct. Again, as I mentioned before, the way this development is designed is a direct result. The community really heavily impacted the final design of this development.
 And was the noise pollution also addressed? Yes, yes, sir. With the siting of the building, buffering the trucks as well as the higher walls, the trees, the landscaping. A previous design had the building facing the other way, which would have increased his docking stations. However, due to the neighborhood's concerns, the decision was made to flip it. So in all those three meetings,
 Did he ever bring new designs to show the public or the community that their concerns were being heard? Each meeting did include a design of the proposed design at that time, yes, sir. Mr. Salveira or staff, how much did those designs cost you every time you'd make one of those? Well, he figures that out, Mr. Garcia. Initially, there was...
 parking space enough for his staff Stop 70 which I understand correct. Yes, sir. That's parking will serve his employees as well as customers And so where did the other hundred spaces come from? Are they for just a fill-in or for when you have? business contacts coming up there Okay, so the building itself as far as employees you'll you'll have he's anticipating about a hundred employees and
 More or less and so the parking space is 120 parking spaces The additional 20 was just to have additional parking spots for visitors and so forth. I
 Okay, can you can you can you repeat the distance between the building housing the employees? Yes, the face of the building that faces the property line to the property line not to the houses But to the property line the closest ones a little over 300 feet You don't have one for the and that would only be about three houses there on that side in that first street You don't have
 the distance from the building itself where the offices are located to the residential area that's in concern yes that's what it is 300 feet yeah 300 feet and and and again that's to the first few houses the way that i don't know if you can see the map but if you can see the map the immediately abutting the property the the wall there's really only three houses that are about there after that yes there's the neighborhood and
 And quite frankly, the way the traffic would flow, as Mr. Saavedra had kind of said, he works on appointment, and they work on a fixed time schedule from 8 o'clock to 6 o'clock. Everybody leaves, properties are secured, property is locked. Because of the way the CT PAT regulations for this type of logistics operation, it has to be fenced in and it has to be secured. So there's nobody that can—
 be hanging around or causing any problem it's highly secure so in fact he'll have security on the property all right sir thank you i believe my time ends up but maybe before that you can come back you got yeah i'd like to make a motion to approve all conditions stated to ensure that community concerns were met thank you i would make that motion right now we have representative canales oh no there's no second at this point pardon me yes ma'am we can second but then continue the conversation
 Go ahead. So there's a motion and a second, but we'll continue the dialogue. Thank you, sir. Representative Cannondale is followed by Representative Molineux. Thank you, Mayor. I want to start with just addressing one comment that came all the way back from the beginning of public comment about the signatures and where they came from. The impact of industrial or heavy commercial use doesn't only impact 200 or 300 or 400
 That's what's in our municipal code and in state law for certain things like the consideration of a 211 case or the notification boundaries. But that's not the limit of where the impact happens. So there were 197 signatures received plus other communication in opposition. Am I correct in that there was no communication from the public in support of the project?
 I believe the applicant did obtain some support from some property owners. Okay. I didn't see that included in the CPC packet. Maybe that happened since the CPC. Even if we ignored the signatures that were received and the phone calls, I think you can see really clearly today there's a whole gallery full of people
 who may have been signatories to the petitions or may not have been but they're here today to tell us that they oppose this project and we have representation from the quarter 20 Civic Association neighborhood Association this is a lot of people and we also had representation in the speakers from
 other elected representatives who represent folks in the area from state representative Mary Gonzalez who we just recognized this morning for her work from Commissioner Olguin from the county from Socorro City representative Rudy Cruz Jr. so we have the state government the county government abutting municipality they're all here expressing the same thing in solidarity with the neighbors
 Mr. Saevera came up and you made a joke that you felt like a villain. You're not a villain. I think when somebody purchases a property that's not zoned for the intended use, they run a risk and that's a business risk.
 We've seen it happen here before where that risk has paid off and rezonings have been approved. And we've seen cases happen where it's not approved. And I understand that's very devastating for the property owner. But there is a certain amount of business risk that happens when you purchase a property that's not zoned for what you intend to use it for.
 I feel for any property owner who's in that situation because there's been a significant investment in the plans for that property, I understand, and in just the cost of the property itself. But purchasing the property doesn't guarantee someone that they are entitled to the use that they want to use it for if that's not what the zoning is on paper at the time of purchase.
 Again, I don't doubt the high quality of product that they want to put out for this facility. Even the best project can have opposition. We see it all the time. There's always somebody who doesn't like something. It can be the best project ever, and there's always a reason why at least one person doesn't like it. Very often that's small opposition, but I don't think this today is small opposition anymore.
 again it's all of the relevant neighborhood associations the different the representatives of the other levels of government all of the people here today in the gallery and aside from the property owner and the hired representatives of the property owner there were no members of the public here signed up to speak in favor you know when during my election last year one of the
 organizations that put out a voter guide, they asked about the importance of, well, whether I intended to be a delegate or a trustee, right? So a delegate is a representative who speaks for the will of the people, right? And a trustee is someone who is on their own and makes the decision that they think works best. And I answered that I think a balance between the two is very important. A little bit of a cop-out answer maybe, but...
 I think today when you see this quantity of people, not just any people but the people who would be most directly impacted by the decision that we make here today, all on the same side in opposition, it's very hard to say I want to be a trustee today and make a decision that's contrary to what so many people are telling us is the right decision for their community and their neighborhood. I don't take this lightly because I think
 We have a history here at the city, and I think it's a good one, of broadly supporting the representative of the particular area in which a project is located because they've had so much of the engagement with the community that the rest of us don't have. In this case, I'm not intending to do that today. And again, I don't take that lightly, and I don't mean it as any disrespect to my colleague, the representative from the area, or to the hard work of staff.
 in getting this, you know, this is an application that's been active for nearly two years now. So getting it through the process and through the CPC and to where we are today. But I think it's important that, you know, we as the city council listen to the people in the area. And so for that reason, I intend not to support this. Thank you. If I may, Mayor, just really quick respond. And I thank you for those comments, Mr. Canales. And yes, this is a difficult one.
 But that's what the public process is for, right? These are 100% public processes, which is what happened here. And for the reasons stated in the presentation, as far as staff's concerned, that's why you see that recommendation from staff. However, the challenges to reach that sweet spot, right? To reach that compromise and try to come up with something that'll work for everyone, that is the,
 The difficult part, however, this did go through the public process and comments were heard. Questions and comments were addressed as part of that public process. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Representative Canales. Representative Molinar.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. I'd like to begin with a few comments to say we thank State Representative Mary Gonzalez. She was here earlier to get a Mayor's Distinguished Award. You heard her say that this is the first time in 13 years in public service for her as a State Representative that she came to one of our city council meetings. So Mayor, you probably should have given her award next week. That way she could have come back again. But seriously, I mean, who does she represent?
 She represents us in the Statehouse. She represents the County, County of El Paso, whether it be San Elisario, Clint, Socorro, she represents those people, residents, voices to be heard. We heard from Eliana, the Commissioner, the Honorable Commissioner Eliana Olguin. Once again, another dedicated public servant
 Using her talents her skills her expertise her education to be the voice of the county and mr. Garcia You can leave I mean, it's not I'm no disrespect to you sir, but You know commissary will gain once again being the voice of the people so I would give credit to Sylvia, Cariola Campos Lopez You know
 If you know me, and I'm going to address you, and Ivan as well, Mr. Lopez, I was a president of a Casanova Heights Neighborhood Association, and there was times when we came together, we shared food, broke bread together, we tackled issues, you supported me and I supported you. And so neighborhood associations bounding together is not bad. It's not illegal. It's not unethical. We're still Americans. We still have a right to voice our opinions under the First Amendment Act.
 So that's what they're doing. It doesn't matter if you live within 200 feet, 300 feet or not. There are still voices to be heard. Todos tenemos que escuchar las voces de la gente. So let's talk about Socorro Road. Socorro Road being a tech stop road. It's not necessarily the best condition road. It's a two-lane road going running east and west. It's been there for a long time. It's been neglected. Okay.
 So yes, what we're trying to do is get a historical designation there, but it doesn't begin, like somebody said, just a few feet from Loop 375. And I can't remember who mentioned something, Barisleta, Barisleta. It's there. San Elisario, Clint, Socorro. I mean, I used to go from the northeast all the way to 9949 Socorro Road just to eat, just to shop, just to mingle with my friends on a Saturday afternoon. Why? Because it was a great thing to do.
 But we need help on that road, and we'll get it. We talk about people coming in and out right turn only. Well, I can tell you, so we have 100 employees. But what's going to happen to the different people, whether it be the delivery trucks, United States Postal Service, FedEx, UPS, when they turn right, where are they going to go? They're going to go east. Where are they, and if their route doesn't include east and they have to come back to the west side, where are they going to go to turn?
 That's when they're going to start going into the neighborhoods. You're going to go into Salamanca Street, Ahumada, Vallarta, Penhamo, Caribe. You're going to be impacting those people and their neighborhoods in a negative way. It's not going to be a good way.
 it's not going to be in a positive way it's going to be in a negative way and so yes i've been out there at least three different times on three different days of the week three different times of the week just to see the traffic that's happening and not happening what's happening in those neighborhoods you also have a new development coming up i don't did not get the exact street but it's an apartment complex multi-level apartment complex how many units is that going to be how many more traffic is that going to be you can't stop that we can't stop that
 And so it's just one of those things. And I think my colleague, District 8, mentioned, Mr. Canales mentioned something about, yeah, it's you on the property, but there's a process. And your goals are different, but it should include those people that are going to be highly impacted because they're going to have to live with it. They're the ones that are going to see it every day. They're going to hear it every day.
 THEY'RE GOING TO BE LIVING IT EVERY DAY AND IT'S I DON'T THINK THE NOISE POLLUTION IS GOING TO BE BETTER I DON'T THINK THE TRAFFIC STILL IS GOING TO SOLUTIONS ARE GOING TO BE BETTER IT'S JUST GOING TO BE A DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOOD WE ARE NOT GOING TO MAKE PROGRESS IT'S GOING TO BE A DIFFERENT NEGATIVE APPROACH HERE AND SO TO THE PROPERTY OWNER SIR THANK YOU VERY MUCH YOU'RE AN OPPORTUNITY YOU MENTIONED THAT WE SALUTE YOU YOU'RE AN AMERICAN CITIZEN YOU WE THAT'S WHAT AMERICA IS ALL ABOUT
 But at the same time, these people have rights. These people have, and I'm looking to my right to the gallery here, and these people, and once again, Representative Canales mentioned, there's nobody here in support of it besides the property owners and the people that he's paying. But where are the people that said, yes, let's do this? Do we have 100 prospective employees? I'll be there, right? Do you want to be in there? I don't know. But they're not here today.
 So I say we need to band together and set the right tone. Therefore, I will not be supporting this issue. Thank you. Mayor Prokofiev. I have one last question, Raul, before we vote, which I think we're ready to do. I spent a lot of time talking to you all about the 211. Something I never asked, and it's been brought up a few times today, and I think that it should be commented on publicly. Why is it 200 feet and not 300? Right.
 That's I mean that's just what the state has established, but we do sometimes do 300 feet right so we force CPC if we go above and beyond The requirement is 200 feet for CPC privacy PC as well However through our local ordinance We will go above and beyond that to inform more make sure more of the residents are informed We go above and beyond this time
 Because that's for for 211 purposes, which is a separate issue. It's 200 feet in line with For 211 you have extended it to 300 or just for CPC, okay, and
 I wanted to clarify that. I also just want to say, you know, we keep hearing that there were so many meetings, so many conditions were met, everything's good. I just don't think we would be here today if everything was okay. And I, again, not just for this issue, but for other issues, I do really want to focus on the fact that if the community is saying that there are issues and we're saying that we're mitigating that, that there should be consensus on both sides. You know, I don't think it's fair to say we've,
 We've met with the community. We've heard their concerns and then they're still concerned. So I appreciate everything you've done I appreciate you and your entire team taking a lot of my phone calls after hours about this Just a couple questions not for you, mr. Garcia, thank you for all that all the updates I had a question for the the architect and the owners mr. Lawyer
 Thank you. Thank you all for being here today. There was some, just wanted to ask for some clarifying questions about your operations. What are the proposed hours of operation at the site? The hours of operation are from 8 to 6 p.m. 6 p.m. Is there any scenario where there would be like a night situation where delivery or early mornings?
 No. Outside of your hour of operations? No. Okay. And then related to the concerns about sound in your employees, do you intend to put any noise signs or signage that employees cannot blast their music during the hours that they're there? Well, during the hours of operations, the employees are working inside.
 they're not allowed to congregate outside and play loud music. Okay. That's not the type of business we run. Okay. No, I'm hearing concerns from the public, so I wanted to address that. Yeah, no, I'm glad you asked that question because it was brought up here that, you know,
 the parking lot would create problem for loud music and so on, but no, 826, we close it up. We're a CityPath certified company, so we have security guards to allow the trailers in, to allow employees in and out, so it's highly secure, so those type of situations should not happen. Okay, thank you. And Mr. Loya, some specifications about the proposed height of the facility?
 What is the is it two stories one story? It's a single-story warehouse and the top parapet was probably about 42 feet so from the ground up 42 feet. Yes And I know I heard concerns about the trees not blocking the view on this 44 foot high facility, but on sight lines we did the study and
 car a tree being 10 10 12 feet a person being 6 feet walking the sight line looking up it blocks the view of the 44 foot which is the the building is approximately a hundred feet away from the from the from Socorro Road it's I understand what talking about being visible but we were very
 of that and trying to make sure that the sight lines were blocked, the trees were there.
 I mean like I said before I think it's a it's a very viable business I mean it's a lot better than farms if somebody goes out and puts a bunch of cows out there you know the smell itself would probably kill everybody around there but you know it's just I think the I think this is a very quiet as quiet of a type of operation as you will find that's why mr. Salvejo had invited everybody over there to his facility can see the operation
 My concern was the distance from the home. You mentioned 300 feet. That's about the distance that we require any time there's an alcohol permit for like a daycare facility or church. But for property, yeah. Yeah, so it's the property line to the residence. There's that requirement of 300 feet. So I'm trying to get a sense of what the state requires and then what's required here. For example, the property goes like this.
 obviously the houses about about here from that property line coming down to where the building starts it's that's the word we're going the closest portion is 300 feet obviously at this point where the property is here we
 we didn't measure it because it exceeded 500 600 feet so so I'm trying to determine the distance between the homes and idling trucks oh no that's no that's way back there the facility is 260 or 80 feet deep plus the 300 feet so we're talking the buildings would probably be would probably be the trucks I I
 the trucks that come into the facility would probably be about 600 feet from the property line okay not to the closest house but to the property line and and uh and i know there's a lot of mention about idling trucks
 There is, he doesn't have idling trucks at that situation that stand there for long periods of time. They come in, they get checked. Once they get checked, they go to a dock door, they load, unload, and they leave the facility. They're on appointment only. There's no, somebody that comes in and sits out there and caps, and plus with the addition of the bridge,
 The bridge will be a very wide bridge because it has to be and because of the way TxDOT, we'll have to follow those TxDOT regulations. The trucks will probably sustain about 200,000 pounds for the bridge. And so it's only one truck can go in at a time. One coming in, one going out. So it's not going to be, trucks cannot stand on the bridge in other words. They won't be able to stand there. We won't allow it.
 And so it's it's it's it's very it's hard to explain But if you go there now on Carl Long you Meyer that big facility that's a million square feet That has a lot of traffic right now. And that's really where all the traffic comes from there is I
 There is really no other way to put it that there's, this is not going to be a negative impact. I know everybody thinks so, but if you stop and think, there is no other use that favors the neighborhood. They stated before they don't want high density apartments.
 residents are not going to use Carl Long-Umeyer because they're not going to build the bridge. They're going to come into Socorro Road. A retail center is not going to use Carl Long-Umeyer. They're going to use Socorro Road. A housing development like theirs, it's just going to increase multiples, even more than an apartment complex in that area. His employees come in
 They stay there all day, and they leave at 6 o'clock in the evening. That's about as simple as we can put it. I don't think it's not a high-traffic area, you know, as far as the way his operation works. The traffic that all occurs, occurs daily.
 over here on Carl Longiermeier. And everybody's right. I mean, Socorro Road is not a very good road. Carl Longiermeier is not a very good road. I think the only road that was improved in Pan American Industrial Park was Pan American Drive itself, and that's because it connects into Riverside Industrial Park, the future Riverside Industrial Park that is owned by the PSB.
 related to the PSB I heard mr. Garcia mentioned that it was a canal operated by El Paso water yes the water district yeah we found that out because we actually went to the lower valley water district and filled up the forms to request for bridge we got pretty far and then they finally told us hey we don't own that bridge we don't own that portion of the canal anymore and then that's when Gilda actually went back and
 figured it out that it was and we did get a preliminary approval from them that's what I was gonna ask did you did you get the they said that not until we're ready to go again mr. Salvatore is gonna have to hire the engineers and everybody to do it PSB will review it they will approve it and they will have their own engineers also review or be on site during the construction doing the inspections so
 he pays for the design, pays for the construction, pays for everything, and pays them to inspect it as well. I think those were all my questions for you. Thank you for the additional information. Thank you for your time. And some of my comments were related around to the placement of the facility. I have seen some of these rezoning applications where they take no account from the public, and I really appreciate the members of the public who are here to advocate because I think it forced.
 you all to reconsider the design. And so I'm appreciative of your cooperation. I do believe that there is a balance that's created. Historically, all of the rezonings for this area, I have not approved. I have been the only member of council voting against just rezoning changes
 because of the encroachment into ranch and farm land. I have, I live in a farming area, and so when you say things like cow manure or ag, like people in the valley, we enjoy that, so we love that. It's really just a reflection of our community. And so I think that was my concern about all of that industrial park area transforming from ranch farm to industrial use.
 The county has already envisioned an expansion of industrial park. The city, through its continuous and multiple rezonings, it's created an industrial park as a result of the Amazon Distribution Center. And for the longest, for years, I was saying you can't do that because then you change the –
 overall environment and land use of the neighborhoods and so slowly it went away. But this is the first time that I've seen an application who really listened to the concerns of the public.
 I mean specifically about the placement of the facility, you're gonna have over 600 feet from the residence to the big 18 wheelers. I mean that is just the placement in the facility and your design. I think it's a big win. It may not feel that way, but it is a big win. I also am a believer in economic development. So I really do believe that
 part of your work does require your engagement and support and collaboration with the public you mentioned your villain I don't believe that's the case I didn't appreciate the commenters first statement about hey don't take into account the advocates and the signatories we want to listen to everybody but I think you did a pretty good balance I think that as part of industrial development it's going to come with opposition but that is the vision
 the all of the governments have for this development area. And so because everything's already been aligned that way, because the vision and the economic development opportunities have been developed for that area, you know, I don't think a property owner should be penalized anymore, for doing exactly what the governments are asking, which is economic development, more jobs, more distribution as part of the growth of that area.
 To me, this is a very difficult vote because, like I said, I have never voted for a rezoning change, but given the scope of what everyone wants in that area, and because of the future development of that area, I think it's prudent to support that vision at this time. Thank you, Representative. So I really appreciate you being here, and thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. And if I could just say one more thing. Thank you, sir. Okay, thank you. Representative Gervetta?
 Thank you, Mayor. Real quick, Mr. Saavedra and Mr. Roya. Let me get, I'm sorry, Representative Salcido has not spoken and I'll come back to you. Representative Salcido? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone, City Council, Mayor. I want to thank the public, the local officials that came to speak today and share with us their comments.
 But I do have a few questions, a few questions for the city staff and then some for the landowner, if I may. Yes, ma'am. So for city staff, I am curious, for the 211 requirement, what was the percentage that was collected in regards to signatures? After everything was tallied, they reached about 18.45%, short of the 20% required. Okay.
 And I know that on slide seven, you have the, I guess, what wouldn't be allowed in regards to future zoning if this zoning doesn't happen. Can you kind of tell me, if farming does not happen in this area, what are the alternatives that can be built?
 Yeah, that comment is related to the C4 proposed zoning, which would allow bars and entertainment type uses, which we've seen has posed some noise issues when located right next to residential areas. So that's why that condition is placed there, which is consistent with conditions that have been placed in similar proposals within the city.
 And I know that with the C4, they can still build a commercial building there, like for the businesses. That's correct. Yes, ma'am. There's nothing that would prohibit a commercial retail center. Commercial retail. And usually commercial retail, how much –
 parking spots to require and how much traffic would that Add to that area. Yes, ma'am Without having the wrong numbers off the top of my head That's something we could look into. However, it's it's it's gonna trigger a lot more traffic a lot more traffic than certainly this development as well as a lot more parking and
 For a shopping center, commercial retail shopping center, that's pretty clear based on previous proposals and information that we've dealt with engineers, traffic engineers, previous rezoning. Yeah, I'm quite familiar. I was going to say those are uses that are very high traffic demand type uses. Okay.
 Yes, I'm kind of very familiar with that area. I did property management for a house very close to this area, and yet traffic on Socorro, of course, is an issue. And we've heard that from the neighborhoods, and I think I can definitely see on the plan that you all are proposing are trying to mitigate that. But I'm also looking at if something like this isn't passed, you know, what are the potential
 challenges we'll have if anybody else wants to come in what traffic would that incur and so those way I was asking those questions well thank you those are the only questions I have for for city staff and if the owner is it can approach I do have some questions for him as well he's up there now ma'am thank you so much good morning
 Good morning. You mentioned, did you get any input in regards to that historic commission on that trail and the way that they're going to design it and what they're wanting to see? Well, as far as I understand, our commitment for the application was to submit an application with the historic district.
 And we went back and forth in terms of the landscaping that was required in that area. And I think we went over and beyond and we actually gave a lot more land in that area. So that if there's any future historic development or trails that need to be built, I'm not using that land in front of that building, which is the 100th, I believe it's about 100 feet.
 that's welcome for them to do whatever they need to do there in that area. So. David, will you be leaving it like a blank canvas? How would that kind of look, what you're mentioning that you're gonna leave it up for them to be able to build? Oh no, what I'm leaving, there's landscaping there, so if they wanna build some sort of running trail through there or any additional historic type of landscaping that they need, I'd be willing to work with them.
 Okay, I see what you mean. Okay, and I know that in this area also, the fact that I did property management because I was really close to this land, security was a big issue, right? They would have people that would come into the backyard because this is a vacant land and they would just... So I just wanted to kind of hear, I know that you went over the design a little bit. There's a wall that will be built. Do you have cameras that would also give more security to the neighborhoods? I just wanted to hear more about...
 the security measures that you have? Yes, absolutely. I'm not sure if everyone is familiar with the CT-PAD. It's a certification that is obtained by Homeland Security. As being a freight forwarder custom broker, we have that certification and we have to secure the perimeter of the facility. So along the neighborhood where the three, four homes are in the back, there will be an eight foot
 wall, rock wall, and we would have all along the perimeter of the facility, we would have cameras that monitor the in and out of, into our building, like all the activity that goes in, employee parking and also the trailers. So we always know what comes in and what goes on within our compound. So that adds a level of security to the neighborhood because right now it's kind of open, it's
 It's wide open, and then anybody right now can jump the chain link fence that is probably four feet high.
 Okay, yeah, so those were my only questions for you. So I thank you for Answering them and and I know that and I think also the public for sharing other concerns Definitely a we need to find a the middle ground here in regards to to what's gonna be best for the community And and I'll pass as a whole so I thank you for answering all the questions. Thank you Thank you Okay, let's call for the vote please
 Yes, Mayor. There was a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Hernandez, to approve and adopt the ordinance on Item 28. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes 5-3, Representatives Kennedy, Hernandez, Salcido, Fierro, Rivera voting aye, and Representative Zanello, Molinar, Canales voting nay. The motion does pass.
 Thank you everybody for being here, the representatives of the property and the representatives of the community. Thank you all. Ms. Prine, can we take call to the public please? Yes, sir. We now go to call to the public. The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving all of the citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act.
 May I ask the public to please maintain decorum and take your conversations outside of council chambers so the meeting may continue. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity Which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning? Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda However, council may propose that a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda this afternoon We have seven members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Elizabeth Crawford and
 Her topic is Thanksgiving Psalm. Ms. Crawford, star six, please. You'll have three minutes. Good afternoon. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. In light of Thanksgiving, in light of the situation in Israel and Gaza, in light of the Advent season, I would like to share some scriptures. Psalm 89, God's covenant with David. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever. With my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations.
 For I have said, Mercy shall be built up forever. Thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens. I have made a covenant with my chosen. I have sworn unto David my servant, Thy seed will I establish forever, and build up thy throne to all generations. And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O Lord, thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints.
 And then in Luke, the words of Mary. And Mary said, My soul does magnify the Lord, and my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. For he has regarded the lowest state of his handmaiden. For behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. For he that is mighty hath done to me great things, and holy is his name. And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation. Amen.
 He has showed strength with his arm. He has gathered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. He has put down the mighty from their feet and exalted them of low degree. He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his feet forever. Psalm 72.
 the reign of the righteous king. Give the king thy judgment, O God, and thy righteousness to the king's son. He shall judge thy people with righteousness and the poor with judgment. He shall have dominion also from sea to sea and from the river unto the ends of the earth. Thank you so much. I hope you all have a truly blessed Thanksgiving. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is April Martinez. The topic is park restrooms in District 7. Good morning or good afternoon. You have three minutes.
 hello everyone good morning good afternoon good afternoon hi so i am part of district 7. i live off of that neighborhood i'm sorry i'm so sad to hear that because i live on staubach drive which is literally right next to where you guys just approved but my objective today is to convey the need for the parks in my community in my district that they need an update and a little tender loving care
 Beautification and preservation of our parks and the functions they serve in the community is of importance to me and I'm sure to others as well if they knew this change could happen. So the properties that I'm talking about are Blackie Cheshire Park, Capistrano, Pueblo Viejo, Caribe, Islera and Shalva. I love nature I go running in these parks I'm very sad that District 7 is not here but
 go on these parks and you know in the morning I go running in the afternoon I'm part of the softball league for coed and it's so sad to hear like oh I need to use the restroom but I gotta wait like three hours because of the condition that the restrooms are in it feels like a prison like I've googled prison restrooms and you could see them right here I printed them out sorry I did not bring it on time
 There's like literally pee on the floor. There's poop feces on the wall. There's They're rusted these parks are rusted. I
 It makes me concerned because I have a child as well, and I take her to these parks. So it makes me wonder, like, where's the money going for this side? I go to the west side. I love El Paso. I go everywhere. I see the discrepancies within the districts and the way that the money is spent on how these parks are being revitalized. And I just wanted to bring it up to you because I am going to bring it up to the Parks and Recreation. I did go ahead and call them, and I let them know.
 And I just wanted to come up here and voice my opinion and say that I'm very appalled as a person who's lived here born and raised El Paso in you know voted for Mr. Leaser like I'm very sad to see that my neighborhood is being run by trucks pollution.
 I'm running in the morning by Black and Blackie Chester and there's just so much trucks. Like, I'm just wondering how many kids, how am I inhaling all these pollutants that we know that we're approving? When we have a beautiful vision, we could create something more beautiful in Socorro. We can create pedestrian areas and walkways. Anyway, I'm hoping that with this you guys are aware.
 And my concept is, you know, build murals in these restrooms, clean them up, make safety, put the stuff for like those, the needles or whatever that they do. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Can you leave a copy of your pictures if you don't mind? Yes. I would appreciate that. These are all very recent. This is Blackie Chester and Pueblo Viejo and also Capistrano. Those are the ones that I go to. Thank you. We'll look at that immediately. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como. Topic is animal services, followed by Loretta Hyde, Renee Corral, Christina Martinez, and Steven Strummer. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Thank you, ma'am. I'm sorry. Okay, so here we are again. I want to start out with the fact that we are still shy of the ASAC members. We got two that should be filled that haven't been.
 I'd like to bring to the point that the last a sec meeting one of the members actually congratulated Terry on his adoptions I need to bring up the fact that we are Hundreds less adoptions every month. We are one third rescue poles We are one third on return to owners. I don't understand why we're congratulating somebody for a
 Mediocre, I can't say the word, you know what I mean. Job, okay? I want you to see the face of a dog that was turned away by the shelter. Him and 10 of his siblings. His mama got run over. Where are we? We're being turned away by our shelter. Our shelter is leaving aggressive dogs in homes. You know, they're turning away strays. I have a lady up the street from me who's got nine puppies, eight days old,
 That dog was a stray. I'm sorry, we're creating the strays by leaving these unaltered strays running loose on the streets of El Paso. And as long as these things continue, El Paso Animal Services will continue to be the biggest backyard breeder in El Paso history. I'm tired of excuses. I'm tired of, okay, it's capacity of care.
 it's not capacity of care it's the fact that they don't want to fill their shelter if you don't want to do the job get out this dog could have died in el paso because he didn't want to take the dogs in this one because you didn't want to keep the dogs i don't know about you guys but i'm fed up i'm tired i'm a taxpayer
 I appreciate the meetings we're having. I appreciate what's been happening and the moving forward that we have done. But if we're not going to start taking care of the community and protecting them by taking in the aggressive dogs they say they are, if we don't start taking in all the strays...
 Because I don't know about you, but I understand you leave on unaltered strays around the streets you get more strays These dogs were on the street I cannot stress the fact that this dog could have died because he doesn't want to do his job enough enough
 We need to get the ASAC committee to do its job. When was the last time they came to this committee and did anything? Thank you, Mr. Cuomo. You've reached the three minutes. Thank you again. Sorry, sorry, but it had to be said. The next speaker is Loretta Hyde. The topic is general concerns for lack of services from animal services.
 Good afternoon. My name is Loretta Hyde. I run the Animal Rescue League of El Paso. I've been doing community service for over 30 years now and rescuing. I have never, ever seen so many strays, unwanted litters, dead dogs, dead cats, dead kittens.
 Everywhere. I get calls every single day. Why doesn't animal services take these dogs? They tell me to go turn them loose where I found them, and that's just not acceptable. I have better things to do than come out here and do this every single month for the last two and a half years, asking for your help to make change and have them...
 taken these animals, you know, I know they're offering more spay and neutering. That's not going to make a difference on the thousands that are out there that have been left out there to reproduce for the last two and a half years. The rescues cannot do it by ourselves. A lot of the rescues are stepping down because they can't handle the drama, the
 the cursing that we get every day because we didn't take that particular animal that they wanted to rescue and was turned away. We are full, we stay full, we are a 501c3, which means we work by donations. We do not have a budget of $12 million. We do not have a veterinarian on staff. These are things that have to be considered when the public comes and they tell us what are we supposed to do.
 I say go to your city reps please let them know that you're not satisfied. Let them know that animal services should be in open admissions which means they don't get to pick and choose what they take. They should take animals so people know where to go get them instead of giving the rescues numbers out when they're not satisfied with what animal services offers them. It's not our job. I want to work together but I can't do it unless you do your job too.
 Please please have them start taking in strays and giving you know the people that have a choice that want to foster. Great. That's perfect. But get them spayed and neutered and vaccinated. But don't make it the rescues problem. It needs to start with animal services taking in the dogs that they're supposed to and the kitties. So please I'm asking you again I'm really I'm begging you make a difference.
 make the change. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Rene Corral. Topic is loose, stray, and abandoned dogs. Good afternoon, Mr. Corral. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. The existing problem of loose and abandoned dogs throughout our city as well as the challenges with the dysfunctional El Paso Animal Services continues to get worse. This city cannot get to the root cause of the problem.
 which i believe is affordable access to spay and neuter programs cracking down on so many backyard breeders and enforcement of current laws until this council addresses and takes action on our dysfunctional animal services which the community has lost complete faith in preventing one pregnancy will save countless of lives and save the city valuable resources
 With the help of our local rescuers, we can move this issue in a positive direction and resolve this current crisis facing our city once and for all. But before we get to that level, we desperately need to address the current crisis we face right now as the number of loose, abandoned dogs has gotten out of control in our city.
 that have been countless of posts on social media of caring people picking up these animals only to have to return them back on the streets.
 Why? Because Animal Services refuses to pick them up. And this situation is getting worse by the day. The El Paso Animal Shelter has a sign posted on their front door which reads, Abandoning an animal is cruel and against the law. El Paso Animal Services is indirectly breaking this law by forcing people who can no longer take care of their animals to abandon them on the streets.
 because they have no other place to take them. This is why El Paso is starting to look like a third world country where people don't care about so many loose dogs.
 Not only is it cruel to have so many loose dogs roaming the streets of El Paso, but also dangerous for drivers as they avoid hitting them and potentially causing accidents. Loose dogs also pose a great danger to our community, especially our children, as they are at risk of getting attacked, which continues to be on the rise.
 I and other rescuers have spoken with the intern city manager about forming a task, a task force to address this issue, but have not heard back from the Colonel. I have also heard from many of you, many of you were working on it, that it takes time, that it's a process, but how much longer do your constituents have to put up with this crisis that has been plaguing our city for so many years? Why is it taking so long?
 Would you want them for all to something to address this ongoing issue? He says if not, you might as well change this city's name from the Sun City to the Heartless City. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Cristina Martinez. Her topic is animal services and abandoned puppies. Ms. Martinez, go ahead. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon. I'm here to address concerns about the treatment I received at Animal Services. As Ron stated, he has one of the puppies I rescued. I went and rescued a box of puppies on November 16th. There was a post made on Facebook for some puppies to be picked up due to the fact that their mother had been hit and killed by a car.
 The person I went to go pick up the puppies from had called 311 at 8 o'clock in the morning. At this time, those puppies were nursing puppies. I showed up at 1130 a.m. for the puppies. I called animal services and asked if I could bring the puppies in. They stated yes.
 These puppies needed care. They needed to be in foster care. I was told by a female officer that I needed a picture of the deceased mother to prove that that's where these puppies came from and to take the puppies back and leave them where I found them. Again, these are nursing puppies. There was no way that they were going to survive. There's no telling how long that those puppies hadn't had anything to eat.
 she was extremely cold-hearted when speaking to me. She did not want to hear anything I had to say. And it was like she thought that litter belonged to me. It was an unwanted litter for me. Now, mind you, I have three dogs. All three of my dogs have been spayed and neutered, and they are from AF. So there's no way that my dogs could have produced these babies.
 So, I mean, I'm, what I, sorry, I get very emotional with this, but I tried to explain to her that these puppies were extremely hungry, and there was no telling when the last time that they had ate. They were crying. They were dirty. They were suckling on my fingers. Again, super cold-hearted, told me again that that was not their problem, that I needed to go leave them where I found them.
 She could have offered some food for me to take. She could have asked, can you foster them? She could have asked a million things or offered a million things to me and she refused. So here I am with a house full of animals already, which came from AS with a box of puppies. I had no blankets. I had no food for them and thank goodness,
 for the people in the public that came up and helped and donated food for them and everything now we're doing we're doing the job of animal services we're having to look for foster homes for these puppies these puppies need a foster home for the next three weeks so that they can be transported out of here they don't need to be here they are always asking us for help thank you miss martinez what happened you've reached the three minutes thank you
 Thank you. The final speaker is Steven Strummer. Mr. Strummer's topic is an accident that occurred last Saturday involving a Sun Metro Rio bus. Good afternoon, Mr. Strummer. You have three minutes. Good afternoon, sir. I am asking for street linings at North Oregon at Arizona. Reason being we had an accident Saturday. It was not a major one. It was a Rio against the car.
 The car didn't have heavy damage. There were two college-age women that were in it, I've heard. There were two supervisory buses from Sun Metro that came. Thank gosh, people are still alive, doing well. No one was hurt. I am asking for lining on Arizona Avenue, please, before we have fatality.
 from North Oregon to Campbell. This is no small thing. Had I been out 10 minutes earlier, September 21st at St. Pat's, it would have been all over. Get a car, flip over. Need some help here. I believe in you, Mayor Lisa. I voted for you. I spoke with you June 15th. You said that we would get some lining.
 i believe in you sir i will always believe in you but we have some real issue here i don't want fatality i do not want a car to end up going like this at saint patrick's vertically mayor like this against the wall i do not want that
 I am asking for some mercy here, Chris. I called your office yesterday. I spoke with your beautiful, very friendly receptionist. I thank you for her active listening and friendship that she expressed. It had enormous impact on me. I know you spoke with me March 15th. I have gotten a little bit thanks to Ellen Smythe,
 We need this done, sir. It's not funny. And it's not that expensive that I see. And I also thank my two changing subject representatives, Ms. Anello and Ms. Hernandez, for their comments changing subjects abruptly at Mass Transit. You all are champions to me. I really appreciate what you said at Mass Transit. Your thoughtful questions mean an awful lot. Thank you for hearing me.
 Thank you, sir. Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Thank you, ma'am. I think we moved up every item but item 30. I'm not sure what's next. Is item number 19 that was moved up? Okay. Item 19 is a presentation by local nonprofit Project Regeneracion. I think they would like to take a break. It's 1 o'clock. What do you think? All right. We have need in four days, but that's okay.
 been four days but that's all right no is a presentation by local nonprofit regeneración regarding their concept for the restoration of Durango this item was brought forth by representatives canales and an L thank you mayor
 This item was placed on the agenda because Project Regeneracion, they're a local nonprofit, they asked to present and they first asked to present quite a while ago.
 I won't chastise them publicly. I wish that they had presented a little bit in advance of today, but this is when they were ready, and so this item was placed on the agenda to allow them to present. I know I can see the writing on the wall. There may be an attempt here to not allow them to present today, to delete this item, and I anticipate that that may be because some feel that it may be inappropriate given...
 the development of a process related to the direction that the council gave in October, October 10th. That motion was to begin soliciting and entertaining letters of interest from interested buyers for the purchase of the properties located in the Union Plaza area of downtown.
 This presentation has essentially nothing to do with that process. So this is an organization that's not coming to us with a financial or a business interest in these properties, but with a cultural interest and a neighborhood interest.
 So they're not planning to propose to buy properties today or to present their proposal for specific properties. They're presenting their goals and their standards that they want to see.
 for the neighborhood regardless of who develops it or whether the city sells it or retains it or whatever happens That said I'll make a disclaimer this item isn't intended to give any Entity an advantage or a disadvantage in any process for the sale of the properties that the city goes through project my hand that's Jones presentation doesn't once
 mention the sale of property or the purchase of property. Again, they're specifically only talking about what their organization and what the folks who live in and around the area would like to see in that area. It has nothing to do with the sales.
 With that, I'd like to see their presentation. I got a couple of council members who would like to speak, and so would I. Thank you, Mayor. One of the things, Dr. Romo, I was kind of insulted by your interview yesterday saying that the city's done nothing about it, and it's about time. We have done something about it, and we continue to do something about it. The city manager and his team,
 the vote from council to come back and they have a presentation ready. So to go on camera and say that the city of El Paso is doing nothing about it is very incorrect and I feel insulted by your comments, not to myself, but to the people of the city who have done a job that was asked to do of them and they're going to bring the presentation back. I know you brought this presentation to my office, had the presentation, I've seen it.
 Senator Rodriguez, Mrs. Rodriguez, he all brought it to my office. I've seen the presentation. It's a good presentation. You've had it for a little while, which is the one I saw, the one that was on TV last night. But we are working on it. We're not ignoring the area. There was some litigation that had to be done, and the litigation continued to linger until just recently. And we could not do anything until that litigation was lifted and done.
 And if I'm not mistaken, Ms. Neiman, when was that litigation finally finished and lifted? September 1st, sir. So since September 1st, we've done a lot. And we wanted to make sure we got the litigation done and that we didn't create any violations of the law. And that's something that's really important as elected public officials that we do that. Okay.
 We are doing a lot. We're continuing to do a lot and we respect the property We respect the area and we've asked the city manager and his team to make sure there are some covenants in there to bring forward What we can and cannot do so. I know you said that we had done nothing and continue to do nothing and it's a shame It's not a shame because we've done it really and I'm not trying to quote you perbatum but what I got out of your interview and We are doing something about it. We'll continue to do something about it so I just want to let you know that we're not sitting on our hands and
 We're making sure that we act responsibly. And like I said, it's only been since September, and we're only a couple months away. And we are, I know Colonel Weston, your team is prepared to bring this presentation. Mayor will be bringing it back on the 5th of December. On the 5th of December, which is our next city council meeting. So this is, you kind of got a little bit in front of us. And when you see that, I think you'll see that we are taking it seriously and making sure that we preserve the area and put some covenants to protect it.
 And with that, Representative Fiora. Thank you, Mayor. First and foremost, with all due respect, I believe that you were done a disservice because we should have never put this on the agenda, knowing that we had the presentation coming from Colonel Weston in a week or so. It was a little disheartening, the comment about we're doing nothing, because I think
 When you communicated with the representatives that put this on the agenda, I wish they had shared with you that we were waiting just one more meeting to hear from the colonel and his staff in regards to a directive that everybody on this council had given and asked for.
 I believe that it's been a disservice to you all to come do this presentation today, thinking that we had, the city had done nothing and we were just waiting, actually not waiting for Dick's meeting to see the results of the directive to the Colonel and his team. So again, I wanna apologize on behalf of the people up here who encouraged you to do this.
 Representative, may I contextualize what I said to the media? Okay. Representative Kennedy? Yeah, and I'm presuming that, because I know the mayor had said he'd seen it, I'm presuming that you've given this presentation to Colonel Weston. No, sir, I haven't received the presentation. Well, the comment on guidelines and standards and an overall vision and a plan for the community, that's what we directed our staff to come back with.
 I appreciate the presentation and I did go through it as that was backup, but I think you're talking to the wrong people for two reasons. First of all, he's coming up with a guideline and standards that we're going forward and as the Mayor said, there is going to be some caveats on our sale of the land. The second thing is it's pretty clear that because it was specific purpose bond money that purchased that land, we will not be the developers of that land.
 Okay, we cannot do it. It's impossible What we can do is what we directed our city manager to do which is come back with some concepts and some protections for the future of that land so Presentation to us I think and I agree with representative Fierro would be best first given to our city manager and second of all given to whoever we sell the land to and and you know, I
 I see where you're going. I have some concepts for downtown too that would feed into what is done with Duranguito. But I think that for today, our hands are tied on what we can do and we will not be developing the land. So telling us this is what we'd like to do is interesting, but beyond that it's ineffectual. I am concerned also, and I'm sorry you had to sit for half a day here, but I don't think
 Though it's well-meaning, I don't think it's effective or appropriate to be doing the presentation to us today. I think that if you wanted to present it to the city manager before he comes back in two weeks, we've been 322 days since it was moved out of Duranguito, and 14 days before we come back with a plan on how to move forward, I would move fairly quickly to try and hand him a presentation.
 um but i just don't think it's appropriate to do it today and i mean with that i'm going to make a motion to delete the presentation mr prime there's a motion and a second to delete the item yes sir there's a motion made by representative kennedy seconded by representative rivera and this is to delete item number 19 on that motion call for the vote representative thank you in the voting session
 And the motion passes 5-2. Representatives Kennedy, Molinar, Salcido, Piero, Rivera voting aye. Representatives Anello, Canales voting nay. Representative Hernandez not present. And the motion carries. Thank you. May I have a word, Mayor? The item has been deleted. I'm sorry.
 that once we delete an item, we stop conversation on it. I would love to meet with you if you'd like on a one-on-one basis as you did when we did the presentation.
 so disappointed and we apologize that you were put in this position as uh representative kennedy and fero has just said that we do have a presentation we were going to ask to meet with the city manager that was the whole intent well i think he'd be more than glad to meet with you why we wanted to meet with you i'm sure he would be more than glad to meet with you can we set up at your convenience he'd be more than glad to meet with with y'all and look at your presentation and maybe incorporate something of that with
 what he's working with city staff. Mayor, my specific comment to the media was that six years ago, city council was not ready to listen to our presentation. Right. I didn't say that currently they're not doing anything. I was going to ask you to thank you for listening. It sounded like we had been sitting on our hands and we're not, and we won't be. That was not...
 That was not what I told the media. It was taken out of context. So when you set up an appointment with the city manager, I'll be there with you. There has been no public information, and we have requested to find out what was going on, Mayor. Well, there was an executive session item. It could be said. Well, that's the reason, and I respect that it's an executive session, but that's the reason. We'll make a meeting with the city manager, and I'll make sure I'm there with you all. Thank you.
 Mayor, would council like to recess at this time? Absolutely. Motion to recess. Until next Thursday. There's a motion and a second to recess the council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1.14 p.m. until 2 o'clock p.m. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, there's a motion and a second to reconvene the council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 2.03 p.m.
 Mayor, may we go back and pick up the item that was moved from consent? Yes, ma'am. Number 14? Yes, sir. Item 14 is the award of solicitation number 2023-0623, Animal Narcotics to Midwest Veterinary Supply. Ms. Cody? Good afternoon, ma'am. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council. Nicole Cody, Managing Director of Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing. This item was postponed from the previous council agenda.
 and we'd like to go ahead and use this time to address the concerns of the public. So the Midwest Veterinary Supply did provide disclosure of the plea for guilty at one count, excuse me. So Midwest introduced misbranded veterinary prescription drugs into interstate commerce because the products did not contain adequate directions for the use of the end users of the medication or they were shipped to or from
 non-authorized locations under state law. So this is considered a single count. It was a misdemeanor, which is a strict liability offense under federal law, which does not require or suggest any intent by Midway. And so they did provide disclosure regarding this plea for guilty, and it was a forfeiture of $10 million and a fine of $500,000 under one-year probation. And then I'll let...
 THE ANALYST PROVIDED INFORMATION REGARDING THE AWARD THAT WE'RE RECOMMENDING. REPRESENTATIVE KENNY, YOU GOT A QUESTION, SIR? YEAH, BECAUSE I'M SOMETIMES NOT THE SHARPEST TOOL IN THE SHED. BASICALLY, THE PREDOMINANT... WHAT? I MEAN, I WAS AGREED WITH YOU, SIR. THANK YOU, SIR. I READ THE JUDGMENT, AND IT SEEMED TO PREDOMINANTLY BE THAT YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO HAVE WITH EACH CONTAINER INSTRUCTIONS ON USE, AND THEY WERE SENDING SINGLE INSTRUCTIONS FOR A LARGER
 10 boxes at the same time and it looked like that was their biggest issue was that they didn't have instructions on how to use it in every single dosage. Is that about right? Yes, sir. That is correct along with... Wow, I understood it then. Thank you. Interstate Commerce. Thank you, sir. Let me pass it to the procurement analyst. Is there other questions? Is there a motion? Motion approved. Second. There's a motion and a second to approve. Ms. Prine?
 Okay, thank you Mayor Pro Temo Lina seconded by representative Rivera to approve item number 14 on that motion call for the vote Representatives I'll see though. Thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously Thank you To item number 17
 And this is discussion in action to review parking accessibility at city senior centers to include the availability of wheelchair ramps and number of disabled parking spots and to direct the city manager to direct staff to update city code to reflect the necessary accommodations required for ample parking Accessibility at senior centers this item was submitted by representative I
 item okay we can go to the next slide um I brought this item to City Council for your consideration due to the numerous requests that we get in our district from senior centers with their concern with not having enough parking spaces so in reviewing our our city code it does set a minimum accessible parking spots but it doesn't
 specify a maximum number of parking spots. So for senior centers, you will find a couple of handicapped spaces
 But unfortunately, you know, there's several dozen, if not hundreds of senior citizens that use our senior centers. For the senior centers that just have a senior center and it's not a co-location with a recreation center, I really do believe the city has an opportunity to convert some of those handicapped spaces.
 The problem for some of the residents and their concerns when they approach me at the senior centers is that they need extra space. So when you have multiple vehicles parked right next to each other, especially if you have one of those walkers or a wheelchair, you don't have the ample space, therefore creating additional hazards and barriers for residents to get in and out of their vehicles.
 every single time I go to the Jesse Moreno Happiness Center got it right that's all they want to talk about so recently the County Commissioner for the area around the Happiness Center they mr. Stout also received those complaints as well as congresswoman Escobar when she visited she also received those complaints and they've all notified my office that we have to do something and
 I here have a screenshot of the Richardson Senior Center in Richardson, Texas. This is the senior center. They have 110 parking spaces. 32 of them are accessible parking spaces. That's about a little bit less than 30% of the overall parking spaces.
 you know in fairness to city staff you know this has been a request that we have been you know dealing with for the past year and I know that there's been some momentum but that's just for one senior center in my in my district and so I would hope that I can have your support so that we can ask city staff so that they can bring back a plan so that we can make more parking spaces accessible not only parking spaces but to have the adequate ramps
 For the example of the Happiness Center, there's one ramp that's nowhere near the handicap spaces. So residents who park in the interior of the parking lot, they have to trek quite away from their entrance just to go up a ramp. So I think this item addresses a lot of our concerns with safety for our senior citizens, our beloved
 vulnerable members of our community they love their senior centers and all they want is just a little bit more access to their parking spaces if Richardson Richardson Texas can do it I think the city of El Paso can and so the other thing I would like to understand is the number of new spaces that would come to senior centers so that we can you know if you know there's a funding request then we can they can bring the parks department can bring that to City Council
 budget requests or we can consider our own discretionary funds if you want to pay for those additional signage and handicap mark so if funding is a concern bring us the numbers that way we can address that during budget season or respectively with our discretionary funds if it's not a problem the city is okay with just doing it then I would encourage you to go do it so I just want to make sure that you know the concerns of our constituents are heard and so I would make a motion to approve
 And just exactly what is your motion, ma'am? So it'll be I move to approve that the City of El Paso reviews the parking accessibility at senior centers to include the availability of wheelchair ramps and the number of disabled parking spots and to direct the city manager to direct staff to update the city code to reflect the necessary accommodations required for ample parking accessibility at senior centers. Perfect. Thank you.
 Representative Molinar followed by Thank You mayor, so I do agree with representative at Nanda's that there is a need for more handicaps parking But I do have a question and I'm not sure maybe who can answer this but mr. Garcia or somebody Phillips here. What is What is the width regular
 parking space let's say in a business or and versus if there's a difference in a So the parking stalls good afternoon mayor councilman sir two and a half men Of planning inspections, so I'm reporting today So your question is
 The parking stalls are universal, 9 by 18. 9 by 18? Correct. Okay, is there any differentiation for a handicap? Yes, there's a five foot loading zone. But that's not for every handicap? Not for every load, yes. And each can? So you can actually have the loading zone in between two handicapped spaces. Okay.
 And correct me if I'm wrong, but already in our ordinance, the ways on handicap parking, let's just say new buildings coming up and they must have or they have a percentage of handicapped parking spaces that must be available. So our parking requirements is based on the square footage of the building. So if you have
 10,000 square foot depending on if it's retail so it's different for retail for for housing you know and for other commercial uses so you based that on that and then you can based on the number of parking places specific places that you provided you also provide appropriate handicap spaces
 And Colonel Weston, I will be supporting this item, but when District 4 does have its first senior citizen center, we have some ground rules to play with because we do not have a senior citizen center in District 4. So I'd like to make sure that when it does come to fruition that we are in compliance with revised handicapped parking spaces. Thank you. And when you talk about the five additional feet, that's man and wheelchair accessibility.
 Correct. So not all spaces would have that additional space? Not all spaces, correct. Right. So what Representative Hernandez is asking is to make them a little bit wider than the standard, to allow them just for walkers and additional things. I think... Go ahead, sir. So this issue is mostly a facility issue, and I think facility, we discussed this over a year ago,
 I'm actually surprised that it's on the agenda today. So I think this is mostly a facility issue. I don't know that court has anything to do with that. I think it just has to be retrofitted to meet those handicap requirements basis. And we'll work with facilities and parks and recreation to make sure it happens. Representative Kennedy. Ms. Bryan, can you read the motion back to me for a second? Yes, the motion is two.
 ASK STAFF TO REVIEW PARKING ACCESSIBILITY AT CITY SENIOR CENTERS TO INCLUDE THE AVAILABILITY OF WHEELCHAIR RAMPS AND NUMBER OF DISABLED PARKING SPOTS AND TO DIRECT THE CITY MANAGER TO DIRECT STAFF TO UPDATE CITY CODE TO REFLECT THE NECESSARY ACCOMMODATIONS REQUIRED FOR AMPLE PARKING ACCESSIBILITY AT SENIOR CENTERS. OKAY. FIRST OF ALL, I AGREE THAT WE NEED MORE HANDICAPPED SPOTS AT SENIOR CENTERS. BEING SOMEBODY THAT COULD UTILIZE A SENIOR CENTER, I'M IN THAT AGE GROUP.
 My question is, do we have to have a change in code? Because there's a minimum and no maximum. We can just decide we're going to add 10 more spots at each senior center, and we don't have to make any code changes. Am I correct in that? I'm looking at...
 Well, I think that's what Phillip's point was, is that we're in compliance with the federal rules right now. Right. For example, if you have between 25 and 50 parking spaces, you're only required to have two handicapped spots. So that's, for 25, that's like 10 percent. For 50, it's 5 percent. And that's where we are, about between 5 and 10 percent. So if our goal is 25 to 30 percent, that's very different from anything that we've ever constructed on the facility side. And I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that's a good point. And I think that
 But it would also then, if we changed the code, it would become the minimum for people that have limited parking. They'd have to use a third...
 And is it difficult to make the code just apply to a senior center and not just all facilities? I think you could just probably have a policy for like city senior centers. Why don't we go back and take a look? Yeah, we'll take a look at it and then provide a recommendation after we have a chance to meet with the staff. Yeah, I'm kind of deferring to Ms. Neiman here about do we have to make a change on the city code to just add more handicapped spots? Or can we do a policy? Right. What I'm hearing from Representative Adnan is that –
 citizens are asking for more at parking in senior centers, so I would recommend that you do a policy. Otherwise, you change the code, then all privately owned businesses would have to comply with that amendment. Thank you.
 Yeah, I'm trying to figure out the easiest way to add more as quickly as possible. I think we could just work with, Colonel, you could work with facilities. Yeah, the easiest would be a policy on how we handle our requirements for senior centers. Because if I'm hearing it right, everybody that goes to the senior center that Rep. Hernandez is talking about is hearing about parking spots where we could just say, okay, we'll make more. Right. You know, right? Yes. Okay. Okay. And is there any way we can blame Phillip for all this? All of it. Okay, thank you. Yeah.
 well well done we still got a few more questions um representative fiero followed by representative and on this again thank you mayor so if i understand we're directing the city manager to to come back with a plan to increase the the handicap parking spaces in seniors centers please yes ma'am go ahead
 The reason why I say update city code is because I actually received a CR3 response that says per code Facility is required a total of 85 regular parking spaces and 780 parking spaces. Currently we have 86 and
 parking spaces and 788 parking spaces and i think it comes down to the ramps so there's like this formula with ramps and i got this official request and inquiry i'm happy to share with city council which is why if there is a need to update the code just for senior centers
 then that's why because city staff already told me that per code the ramps are what dictates the number of parking spaces in 88 facility I don't know well enough to articulate that but that was the complaint that's the response I received and I'm happy to share with you
 Mayor, Mayor, Council, I think this can be resolved with working with Ellen's group to make sure that it happens. I don't know that a code change is required at this point. And this isn't an ordinance change at this time. I'm asking for a proposal to come forward back to Council. If it doesn't require an ordinance change, I'm great with that.
 If it's just a matter of maintenance and facility, then that's wonderful. But the ramp issue is the concern for some of the senior centers. They're not, they don't make any sense, the way they're placed. Excuse my time. No, no, thank you, ma'am. Thank you for that. So if we increase the number of handicapped spaces, and adding ramps, which we need,
 Won't that lower the number of other spaces in the lot? Well, sure. Okay, so I just want to make sure that that's what we're talking about, right? Right? What did she say? Yes. Thank you, Philip. Yes. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. And I think, I have one more question, and it's for Colonel Weston. Is Philip the only department head that has his own dignitary protection team?
 I've never seen him without them. I'm just wondering if... I think it just appears that way. Is he the only department head that has his own dignitary? Just his entourage. I don't think it's his dignitary protection. I just want to make sure, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. We do have a motion and a second. So, Representative Hernandez, the motion is correct as stated? Yes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you. Motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera. To approve, the motion is read.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido, are you there, ma'am? I believe she stepped away in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Salcido not present. That brings us to the first reading of ordinances. Move to approve. These are items 20 to 23. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Vanello, seconded by Representative Rivera.
 to approve the introduction of ordinances on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Salcido is back, ma'am. Thank you. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number 24, item 24,
 It is a public hearing on an ordinance designating a certain area as a reinvestment zone for commercial industrial tax abatement in the city of El Paso, Texas, to be known as City of El Paso Reinvestment Zone Number One, establishing the boundaries and providing an effective date. Good afternoon, Ms. Triggs. Good afternoon. Elizabeth Triggs with Economic and International Development. If IT wouldn't mind displaying. Thank you.
 So, this ordinance proposes the establishment of City of El Paso Reinvestment Zone Number 1 under Chapter 312 of the Texas Tax Code. This is the section of the tax code that governs tax abatements or exemptions or waivers. The zone itself covers approximately 1,042 acres of city-owned land in Northeast El Paso. You can see it here displayed on this slide.
 The purpose of the zone is to encourage businesses to locate within the zone through the provision of performance-based tax abatements, which again are reductions to property taxes that are otherwise due to the city or waivers of those taxes.
 One thing that a distinction I want to make just up front is that this is not the same thing as a tax increment reinvestment zone. This particular reinvestment zone again is under Chapter 312, whereas a tax increment reinvestment zone is established under 311. The difference between this and an increment reinvestment zone is this one again relies on property tax abatements for a particular project or business.
 whereas tax increment reinvestment zones capture the future property value growth within a designated zone and reinvest those dollars back into this zone through public improvements or other economic development projects. So two different things. Just want to be very clear about that from the beginning.
 So this slide talks a little bit more about the zone. Again, tax abatements are just another economic development tool that can be used to offset the cost of expanding a business or locating a business in a new area. And what that does for us by having that tool available to us, it makes El Paso more competitive, particularly when we're looking to attract businesses that other communities are also looking to attract.
 Um, requirements for a tax abatement, first and foremost, the business does have to be located in the designated zone. That can be an enterprise zone, which is designated by the state, or it can be one of these reinvestment zones, which is designated by city council.
 But that is not the only requirement. Just because a business locates in the zone does not mean that it automatically receives tax abatements. The city council has to enter into a tax abatement agreement with the business to actually extend those abatements. And that is a public process that requires at least 30 days public notice before council can actually hear the agreement. So there are additional steps to actually extending abatements to businesses. Thank you.
 This slide just summarizes some of the benefits and outcomes of using this particular tool. First and foremost, traditionally in economic development, the goal is to create jobs. By having tax abatements available to us,
 We can encourage businesses to set up or expand in El Paso, which means new job opportunities for our residents. There's also the opportunity to strengthen other businesses that are already established in El Paso. You have now employees with income to spend on those businesses. You also have a new business established that may need to source supplies from other local businesses.
 And then there's a couple other things on here. I think what's really important to keep in mind is that property tax abatements are intended to spur immediate economic benefits, but also they can be used to really strengthen our economy over the long term.
 Once these abatement agreements expire, you have a pretty significant capital investment that's been made in the community. And when the agreement is over, the city begins collecting on that property tax revenue. So, again, it's a tool for diversifying our tax base and taking some of that tax burden off of residents in the long term.
 This slide shows you a timeline just to kind of understand how the tax abatement process works. Again, first and foremost, Council did this in October. There need to be a set of guidelines and criteria that govern what types of projects may qualify for property tax abatements. Then the project has to be located in an eligible zone, which is what we're doing today, is looking to establish a reinvestment zone.
 And then finally, city council actually has to approve a tax abatement agreement with the company to extend those abatements. And again, those are performance based, they're tied to metrics, things like making a minimum capital investment, adding value to the property, creating jobs, all of those kinds of things are tied into the abatement agreement. And then after that, there are mandatory reports that have to be made biannually to the state.
 A little bit more about zone operation and designation. I don't need to go through all this. The point here really is to show that these abatements are intended to be a very transparent process. The zone, by state law, does expire after five years. And so if we wish to continue extending new abatements to companies that locate or expand in the zone after that five-year period, we would need to make sure to come back to council to renew it.
 So again, very simply, the request today is to establish this reinvestment zone, which is an abatement reinvestment zone, not a tax increment reinvestment. Thank you. Representative Canales, but there's a motion and a second. Thank you, Mayor. I made you say it yesterday. I'll make you say it again. And you said it at the beginning of the presentation, but this is an industrial –
 Reinvestment Zone. This is something different than a tax increment reinvestment zone, correct? Correct. And this type of zone, despite the similar name, as I said yesterday, we can thank the legislature for naming it something similar enough to be confusing, but this is a totally separate concept. There is no
 Increment that is captured within this zone any any incremental value that goes into any kind of segregated fund Everything there. There's no fund at all attached to this type of zone Thank you, there's the motion made by mayor Pro Temanillo seconded by representative
 Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Lina to approve item 24. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 25, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit for a planned residential development at 223 Silverwood Way. Senator Kennedy? Second.
 There's a motion made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve item number 25. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 26 is a public hearing on a Norton's granting a special permit to allow for infill development with reductions to side and rear yard setbacks, a 72% parking reduction, and an 85% density increase at 150 Brown Street. Representative Canales? All hiredly move to approve. There is a motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, to approve item 26.
 There was public comment, but I don't see the citizen in the queue. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Item number 27 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from R4 residential to C2 commercial and imposing conditions at 8687 Gateway South Boulevard. Mayor Prokofiev?
 Second. Motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anelo, seconded by Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Olenar to approve item 27. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. End the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 That brings us to item number 29, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for infill development with reductions to lot depth, area, and setback standards at 1408 and 1410 North Grama Street. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Anello, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 29. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Salcido?
 She said aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Item number 30 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 20 zoning, historic landmark preservation, alterations and changes to landmarks and H overlay properties to delete section 20.20.080A1. Move to approve. Second. Representative Canales. Second. Move to approve.
 no I just I think there's been enough discussion of this over the many weeks and so I don't think we need a full presentation I wanted to say thank you Pro V you've you and all of staff I know it's taken a long time to to get this change over the line I think it will provide a lot of clarity to any property owners who thought they might have been affected and now it's very clear where they stand so thank you very much
 With that, Ms. Prine. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Manelo, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molina to approve item 30. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 that brings us to item 32 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to execute a quick claim deed conveying all right title and interest to watermill express llc a parcel 0.16 acre more or less out of track 5b block 40 isletta grant there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative fierro to approve item 32. there's no public comment on that motion call for the vote
 representative salcido aye thank you and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously we're pro-term you want to move item 33 and 34 up
 Okay, thank you. Go ahead, ma'am. Item 33 is discussion and action on a resolution authorizing the city manager or designee to effectuate the purchase and closing of real property consisting of approximately 24 acres of land located within the city of El Paso County, described as a portion of the S2 Northwest 4 of section 17, block 79, township 3T and PRR surveys. Second. Acknowledge.
 I'm sorry, y'all. I would like to see the presentation on this one. I got a few questions from members of the public, so for their benefit, I think it'd be good to see this presentation. Go ahead. Absolutely. Good afternoon. Nicholas Ibarra, Environmental Services Department. The presentation is on the Eastside land purchase issue.
 Just a little brief history on the project. ESD has been inquiring, inquired about six properties over the last four years, and all of them have declined to sell or were sold during the inquiry process. But of June 22nd of last year, we received approval through executive council to inquire about the property that we're speaking of today, Alpha Joe Battle, just north of Bob Hope and south of Pelicano.
 The property owner is San Diego joint ventures. It's a special-purpose mixed-use property. It's approximately 24 acres It currently has no zoning because it's outside of city limits When we did an appraisal back in January of this year the appraised value was six point zero six million dollars But updated comp values through our land management program have they said the updated comp value is eight point one million dollars
 This is the current condition of the land. It's a bare desert out there with mesquite bushes throughout the site Just to the north of it is the new Frito-Lay Distribution factory and to the south of it would be Bob Hope and the two Socorro athletic complexes that are just south of the facility
 The proposed use of the property would be for a Far East Municipal Service Center offices, which would include environmental services collections, air quality and vector, and streets and maintenance, real estate, fleet, and park maintenance. This will also include fueling stations for all our vehicles, including unleaded, diesel, and compressed natural gas, a new fleet service center for compressed natural gas, loop shop, tire shop, and state inspections,
 aggregate stockpile for our medians group and for park maintenance automated side loader or trash truck and large vehicle parking a new citizen collection station with a 12-foot privacy screen the privacy screen is to you know block the view from the street side to make sure the residents don't have a direct view of the citizen collection station i know it's an iso from any of our residents so we put that up to make sure we block that out from their from their view a new city gym
 And the estimate construction costs currently present at $25 million, but we're looking at phasing that over multiple fiscal years. This is the proposed design that was provided to us by our Capital Improvement Department. This is what you would see off of 375, looking onto our property with the citizen collection station in the back portion of our property.
 This is the overall layout, proposed layout of the site with the municipal service center and employee parking on the front side. Large vehicle parking behind the building with the aggregate stockpile in the far northeast corner of the lot, hidden behind everything. Then just south of that would be the fueling station, loop station, and fleet service shop.
 and our solid waste truck parking. And then on the bottom portion of the property would be our new Far East citizen collection station. This was placed there because there's currently a drainage pond right off of 375 that also has an additional 6-foot wall around it, so we're just trying to provide two blockages to the citizen collection station, one with the drainage pond and then our 12-foot wall that would go around the CCS.
 This is the current locations of our municipal service centers. Number one, we are one off of Yarbrough and San Paulo. Number two would be on the west side off of Atlantic and Donovan. And number three would be just outside the loop at our new property.
 with our citizen collection stations we currently have five citizen collection stations throughout the city uh this would be the number six this one be proposed at the joe battle site and then we also included number seven there to show what we previously had at the the delta transfer center so we try to have them about three miles radius from one another to make sure we're providing adequate coverage throughout the city to make sure all residents have easy access to the citizen collection stations
 The proposed terms of the purchase price would be 8.9 million with earnest money being 50,000 inspection time would be 60 days and the closing timeline would be 15 days after inspection period and From the money who's coming up from ESD fund balance. This was part of the 2019 rate increase I went from 17 to 19 this was budgeted so we could purchase the land in the future when we did that back in 2019 and
 And just we're a little above market rate on the payment of the property, but just doing a calculation on just environmental services vehicles over the next 30 years, we'll save approximately $6.4 million on fuel and maintenance charges on our vehicles throughout that are saving on starting their day closer to where they work on the far east side and making trips back and forth from the landfill. This does not include any streets and maintenance vehicles or park maintenance vehicles also. And if anybody has any questions.
 Yep, so then just clarifying, this is non-general fund, ESD funds, environmental funds. Yes, sir. Okay, thank you. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir, there was a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Linares, seconded by Representative Canales to approve item 33. On that motion, call for the vote. Thank you. Voting session is open. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 item 34 is discussion in action that the city manager or designee be authorized to effectuate the listed budget transfers attached to the resolution as exhibit a for the el paso international airport as necessary to execute the approved capital improvement plan in fy 2024. good afternoon ma'am
 I'd like to see the presentation, please. We do not have a presentation for this one. You don't have one? Can you go over it, though, the amount of the transfer and everything, please? Absolutely, yes, sir. I think that's something important when we're doing a budget transfer to kind of let us know what it is and what...
 Absolutely, yes sir. So we have four budget transfers for our airports as part of their capital improvement program. So the first one is for the Ameristar hangar improvements and that is moving funding from their airport operating fund to the airport capital fund of 2.8 million dollars. It's an increase to this project.
 The next item we have. Are we increasing the size of the project or the costs go up? I believe it was due to the cost, sir. But we have, well the department is not here, but I believe it's due to the cost, sir. So the next item we have is an increase in the budget for the general aviation ramp reconstruction for the airport CIP, and this one is $50,000. It's an increase again from their airport operating fund to airport capital fund.
 The next item we have that's listed is an increase to the budget for terminal drive improvements. And that, again, is from their operating fund to their capital fund for a total of $2.6 million. Again, is that additional scope of the project or is it additional funding? I am not sure on this one. I don't know if they're available through teams.
 Do we have anyone from the airport that's able to speak regarding this item? Yeah, I just, you know, and when we see the increase. We'll get someone else with teams in just one moment. Please stand by. And then when we see the increase, I'd like to see the percentage of increase over their overall budget also, please. Yes, sir. And then the final item that we have is the parking lot electrical improvements. And so this is only for $50,000. And again, it's coming from their operating fund to their capital fund. Okay.
 Mayor, we're gonna ask to postpone this item for two weeks because we wanna make sure that you have all your questions answered by staff and staff that we need right now is unavailable due to unforeseen issues. So if you could please allow us to postpone this for two weeks, we'd appreciate that. Thank you. Right, is there a second? There's a motion and a second to postpone the item for two weeks. Thank you all. Yes, sir. The motion was made by Mayor Pochett-Manalo, seconded by Representative Fierro to postpone item 34 for two weeks.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Ms. Bryan, can I do a verbal? Yes, ma'am. Aye. Thank you. Representative Kennedy. Thank you. Representative Salcido. Aye. Thank you. And the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. And if I can have a briefing prior to those two weeks just to see what's going on, I'd appreciate it. Yes, sir. Thank you. We'll make that happen. Motion to adjourn. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Thank you.
 Anyone opposed? Aye. The motion passes, and the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, November 21, 2023, is adjourned at 2.44 p.m. Thank you, council.