Yes, Mayor. Good morning. We have a quorum. Good morning.
 Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, December 7th, 2021. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding and also present in council chambers this morning. Our Mayor Pro Tem Shortsvine, Representative Anello, Representative Hernandez, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera, and Representative Lizaga. It is 9.02 a.m.
 And will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Chaplain Joseph Morata. Chaplain, if you press star six, you can unmute your microphone. Chaplain Morata, if you press star six, you can unmute your microphone. Or if you're in teams, please unmute your microphone. Chaplain Morata, can you hear us, sir? You're on mute. Chaplain Morata, we can't hear you, sir. You're on mute.
 i believe he's having technical difficulties this morning well i'll go ahead and say a couple words and um and then we'll have a moment of silence uh following that i just uh you know this is the month for family friends and this family to think of others the time to think of others during this uh this holiday season and i know that uh we've all
 been through a lot in the last year with whether it's family, friends, or just our constituents that we represent. And we work hard every day to make sure that we represent everyone and make sure that everyone is safe and advocate for El Paso.
 So as we get into the holiday season and we're getting into the Christmas season, let's think of our families, think of our friends, and of course always think of each other and make sure we treat each other and everyone we come across with respect and dignity. And with that, Representative Rodriguez, I'll turn it over to you.
 Good morning everybody, thank you. I just want to say a quick prayer since today is December 7th and it's the memory of Pearl
 So, Lord, we remember what happened at Pearl Harbor. The blood shed on American soil and the day led to decisions that shaped a generation and ultimately brought nations low. I pray that those who lead our nation might remember and reflect on the lessons that we learned. Amen. Amen. And thank you for that. And, of course, when we have a moment of silence, a moment of silence for all that sacrifice, whether it's local authorities,
 whether it's men and women of our military that have sacrificed to give us our freedom and our safety every day so with that i'd like to have a moment of silence to remember everyone and and may god bless everybody thank you representative
 I'll turn it over to you, ma'am. MARTHA MINOWSKI. Thank you, Mayor. So I just wanted also to remember former representative Claudia Ordaz Perez, who lost her father, I believe, Sunday night. So we join our hearts in mourning the loss of her father, and we pray that his soul is resting in peace. Thank you, Mayor. KEN HOWARD.
 May God bless her and all her family. Mayor, and I believe Chaplain Moretta can hear us now. I think we did a really good job, Ms. Prine. Good morning, Chaplain Moretta. I'm sorry, I believe he's... Thank you. And with that, let's do the Pledge of Allegiance. Colonel Wesson, please.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As our friend Carl Robinson would say, God bless America. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Ramon Benavidez recognition day.
 Good morning Mayor and good morning members of council. We have two proclamations this morning and just to do a quick housekeeping. When we're done reading this we're going to read our second proclamation and then afterwards we're going to take photos. Okay. And Mayor would you like to invite Mr. Pinovides to speak after? Mr. Pinovides to speak after the proclamation? Okay. Sorry to put you on the spot.
 Whereas Ramon Benavidez Jr., a biology teacher at Del Valle High School in the Yisleta Independent School District, he is a passionate science and STEM advocate with a goal to create as many opportunities for his students
 every position he deserves and whereas Ramon holds multiple degrees including a Bachelor of Science in biology from the University of Texas at San Antonio, a Bachelor's of Arts in chemistry from the University of Texas at Brownsville, and a Master of Arts in teaching science from the University of Texas at El Paso. That was a mouthful.
 And whereas the son of migrant farm workers who dropped out of school at a young age, he pursued a career in education after his parents returned to school and became teachers in the Rio Grande Valley. And whereas Ramon Bienavides has been selected by the Texas Association of School Administrators as the 2022 Texas Teacher of the Year, and will represent El Paso, the state of Texas, and the phenomenal students and teachers of both as the state nominee for the National Teacher of the Year.
 And whereas the city of El Paso is proud of Ramon Benavidez's excellence and education and is grateful for the role model he is to our community students. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that Tuesday, December 7, 2021, shall be known as Ramon Benavidez Jr. Texas Teacher of the Year Day, signed by Honorable Mayor Leeser. Congratulations, Mr. Benavidez.
 And if you can come up just to accept your recognition and then at the end we'll take photos in the back with your family. There's a microphone right here. And congratulations on our well-deserved. Looking good. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and City Council, for this recognition. Thank you, City Rep Cassandra Hernandez. Thank you.
 I just want to thank first of all my family my wife and my son my parents who were my beacon of inspiration like it was mentioned they had dropped out of school to work the fields and returned back to school and became educators and I followed in their path. And I just want to thank the city of El Paso the Salet Independent School District my colleagues my administrators everybody who's been part of this journey and in my in my education journey. I'm ready to represent El Paso the best that I can at the national level I'm hoping
 We can make it all the way and show everybody what El Paso education is all about and for especially for our kids. And that's what I wanted to finish with. It wasn't for them. I wouldn't be doing what I do and I truly truly am passionate about what I do and I love my students and if they're watching. Hi guys. And thank you so much. Thank you. And I know you know you talk about your passion of what you do.
 And it shows and that's why you're getting this recognition recognition for your passion and For representing and your love for the job you do Congratulations, sir. And we're just quick quick note It's been over a decade since El Paso has been represented at the national level Sort of extremely proud of you and we'll be rooting for you at the national stage Thank you. Congratulations again, and the next proclamation is JJ on state. I
 Good morning, everyone. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas 89 years ago, our city saw the birth of its son, Julian Armas, most commonly known as J.J. Arms, and
 Whereas JJ arms has put the spotlight on his beloved city of El Paso throughout his lengthy acclaimed career as a private investigator Most notably for the rescue of Christian Brando son of movie star Marlon Brando and his role as a hook man in Hawaii 50 episode. I
 And whereas Mr. Arms' life and career have been depicted in various national news shows and magazines such as Primer Impacto, 60 Minutes, Texas Monthly, among others,
 And whereas he has dedicated his whole life managing the world famous, the investigators private investigation firm and training school, which was established in February of 1960. And whereas J.J. Arms served honorably on the El Paso City Council from 1989 to 1993. And whereas Mr. Arms has been known by several monikers, the world's greatest investigator,
 El Paso's 007, El Paso's Tiger King, but to a select few, he has the most important titles of all which are simply devoted husband, father, and grandfather. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that December 7, 2020, shall be known as J.J. Arms, signed the Honorable Oscar Leisher, Mayor for the City of El Paso. You know, Representative Molinar, you talk about
 Why five oh and I remember as a young man watching the show and he had a Corvette on the show and it would change Plates on him, you know, it would change the license plates on it. And that's what I remember about the show watching it so congratulations to him and his family and his dedication to Serving in on City Council for prior years and continuing to dedicate his life to our community. Thank you And with that you're ready to yes, ma'am
 Thank you.
 Just two people. All right.
 Ms. Prine, can we...
 Can we resume the meeting? Yes, sir. Council, will you please take your seats, please, so we can resume the meeting? Thank you, Ms. Prime. Yes, sir. Council, just a few reminders. For council rules, you may not use any electronic devices other than your desktop computer. Once you obtain the floor from the mayor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. And also, please refrain from side conversations while the meeting is in session.
 For those of us joining us virtually, please mute your microphones to reduce any background noise. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members.
 Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called off for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, everybody. This is a rare occurrence, but it is my esteemed honor and privilege to announce that today we have no revisions to the City Council agenda.
 Council, are there any revisions at this point? Representative Manello? No. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha
 That brings us to page 5, to item number 12. This is discussion and action that the City of El Paso accepts a donation of funds of $4,446.42 from the Ann Richards Legacy Project to pay for commemorative and inspirational banners throughout downtown El Paso. And this is Representative Anello's item. Move to approve. Motion and a second. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Shorthvine, seconded by...
 I think, who's second over here? Representative Rodriguez. Representative Rodriguez to approve. Can I just? Yes, ma'am. Representative Vanilla, I just wanted to say that those banners downtown look really amazing. So thank you. Thank you, Representative Lasada. They're very nice. I want to thank legal, city manager, and the DMD for really pulling together and making it happen. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session.
 And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number 13, and this is a budget update. Good morning. This is Nicole Cody, Director of Management and Budget. Good morning.
 Today we're going to be discussing the budget challenges as we get ready to start looking at our FY 2023, as well as as we're preparing a refreshing of five-year financial forecast. These are important items that we really want to make sure that we bring to your attention, which includes our budget challenges, revenue growth, as well as continuing to address our priorities and needs.
 So, as you know, our two major revenue sources are both property tax and sales tax. So, with property tax, we've looked at, especially for these two years, not in the property tax increase, and our tax base, of course, is primarily residential. Sales tax, of course, we've seen unprecedented growth, but really the future is unknown.
 So we have a large retail sector, and we continue to see inflationary pressures. Again, the future growth is unknown. We've seen previously steady year-to-year growth. And so we have many factors that impact our growth, but of course, we always focus on our regional economic development strategies, and that being really key in our development in both property taxes and our increase in retail sales tax.
 We've also been impacted by state and federal legislation. So here you can see we've got a list of all of the various items that have impacted our revenues. So we did have, the state had passed in Senate Bill 1152, we impacted our telecommunications franchises and actually reduced the amount of franchise that we're able to collect for our telecommunications companies. They eliminated our red light camera revenue as a revenue source.
 We also see the state median maintenance, but we were forced to take over median maintenance from those state roads. And you will see in the next slides our increase in tax relief for those over 65 and disabled. While it's a tax relief to our over 65 residents, it's important to note that it does impact our revenue growth.
 In addition to that, it was the state exemption for the disabled veterans and spouses. And then of course, I would be remiss in not mentioning Senate Bill 2, which limited our ability for property tax increases. Here you can see
 The tax relief for seniors and disabled over since 2012 when we, when City Council increased it from $30,000 to $40,000. And then again with this most recent increase that was approved in June from $40,000 to $42,500. With the total tax relief since 2015 even though it was approved in 2012 of $12,500 for our over 65 and disabled.
 And so the total exemption in impact is approximately $25.4 million.
 As we move on to focus on our priorities and needs, we always stop and ensure that we look at our long-term financial sustainability. It's been a common theme that we discuss and it's important that we remember that our short-term decisions truly impact our long-term financial sustainability. We, as we look to complete our quality of life projects, we know that the impact of our continued operations and maintenance costs will impact our budget and our finances.
 In addition to that, we have a continued public safety investment, both in staffing and capital replacement, in addition to address the public safety bond projects that are coming up in the future.
 We also continue to focus on our critical infrastructure and we'll discuss in this presentation those dollars that have gone to the PAYGO funding for street maintenance. In addition, our workforce investments for both compensation and healthcare will also cover the overall impact of an investment in our workforce.
 So as the City Manager mentioned during the strategic planning session last week, we have three major areas that we've been focusing on in order to both minimize the debt and we're also addressing decades of neglect. So since 2016 through FY 2022, we've seen $70 million in public safety investments with $18.9 million in capital replacement.
 Since then, we've also seen an investment of $43.3 million for our street maintenance and focus on traffic safety. And finally, $49.7 million in quality of life operations and maintenance for the completed projects, in addition to the investment in sports complexes and sports court resurfacing that we've seen through PAYCO funding.
 So here are actually the list of the 165 projects that have been completed and that we have operation and maintenance tied to in most cases. And so this shows all of the projects. So we've got actually three slides of all of the various projects that have been completed and do require some level of operation and maintenance.
 So for those projects, you're seeing a cumulative operation and maintenance of $49.7 million since 2016, with 165 projects completed that you just saw, and over 300 additional full-time equivalent positions added for these new quality of life projects and operations.
 As we get into public safety, you've seen this graph before, but it's an important illustration of truly the investment that we've seen over the years in our public safety departments for both fire and police. Since FY16, you've seen an increase of approximately $70 million or a 32% increase.
 Police staffing began to add the net increase of 300 officers truly began in FY 2016. It would also include the investments of our crisis intervention team and a recent increase in 911 communicators.
 You also see the PAYCO funding that's been built in. So the PAYCO funding is for the capital replacement for police and fire. And in the summer of 2021, the budget included $7.8 million as part of the FY 2022 budget for fleet and capital replacement for public safety.
 And also, of course, we need to always remember the public safety bonds. $167.3 million, or 40% of those that has already been issued, of the $413.1 million. As we look into the Police Academy graduates, right now what you'll see under FY22, this is a historical of the graduates since FY2009.
 So what you see here in yellow is the projected amount. These are the current number of cadets. So if no one else either drops out or leaves, they will be able to graduate 66 cadets. And of course this is an estimate because things do happen and so we we're hoping that they're able to maintain the 66 number.
 Future police academies, so as we're looking at building the financial forecast and really refreshing it, we take a fresh look at every item. And so here you'll see is an initial projection in order to make sure that we meet that net increase of 300 officers during the time period that we've stated. And then after that, a net increase of 35 officers to address our public safety projects.
 we would need to have 105 graduates as part of FY23, 24, and 25. And so that really reflects three academies. Here I know this says attrition, but it's really to address the attrition that they see normally during the year, which is about 50 to 55 officers that we lose every year to retirements, moving on to different –
 departments or cities. But the focus here is really looking at those three academies and what can we realistically recruit. And so we're looking at about a size of 40, but again, this is still initial projections. And I want to make sure that to let you know that it may change as we work with the departments and as we really keep our finger on the pulse
 of the environment for recruitment for our police officers. And so again, for this net increase of approximately 105 minus the 55 that we lose every year, it's an estimated cost of about $3.5 million.
 This graph just reflects, it shows the increase in staffing with those projected academies and the projected increase that we're looking at. If we're able to keep the 66 cadets that we have today, in addition to the 105 that we would need over the next three years, this is what the staffing would look like since 2009.
 Now this is the street investment that you've seen since FY 2016. This is the investment that's been made by this council in our neighborhood traffic management plans, in our ADA on demand, including the residential resurfacing, the arterial resurfacing that we have, as in addition to the new program of Vision Zero. So over since FY 2016, you'll see a total of an investment of $43.3 million.
 And of course, our workforce. Everything that you've seen here today could not be done without our workforce. So here you'll see the increases in compensation that we've had year after year, which were across-the-board increases for our civilians, and healthcare increase in costs and contributions. So we had six consecutive years of
 compensation increases, and for the past two years, no health increases for employees in FY 2021 and FY 2022 for our civilian employees, with a total investment in our workforce in both compensation and the amount that the City pays for our health care of $25.9 million.
 And you can see in FY 2022, that also includes the lump sums that our workforce just received on Friday.
 And so to wrap up today, we really need to keep our mind on those future cost drivers. Continue to look ahead and know that the impacts in the decisions that we make today and how they will impact our future for our city. And so it was so great to see as part of the strategic planning discussions last week that you all keep that top of mind, including the impact of collective bargaining agreement, our continued staffing needs.
 as well as the public safety bonds and the impact for staffing on our police officers and firefighters. The continued operating costs for our quality of life bond projects, the remaining debt should be issued, as well as our vehicle replacement and facility needs. That's all for today. Thank you for your presentation. We do have Mayor Potem. Thanks again, Mayor. Very much appreciate this presentation. It's a conversation that
 this council needs to be having at this point as we already enter into our budget season. And especially after a very productive and enriching strategic planning session as well. That I think really not only sets a path forward but also expectations and potential deliverables for this community as well which I think are extremely important. I just had a couple questions. What remaining debt needs to be issued? It's on the last slide.
 It's in terms of it's still have we still have quite a light proposition to that to be issued about 120 million for the APC project. We have as you saw we've issued only about 40 percent of the public safety bonds. We still have quite a bit remaining on the public safety bond out of that 413 million. And then we still have on the CEO side about 33 million remaining from some of the previous CIP plans that have been approved by council. And I don't know if Sam's on the line but the remaining 30 about 33 million.
 is for the top-need slope repair and then also as well as remaining 25 median and street lighting projects. Okay. There's a couple couple slides that I think are really important to highlight. Versus slide 13 if we can go to that relating towards these academy numbers as well.
 Before he goes to that number as he goes to that slide just to add to his points about answering your question with regard to bonds There's additional needs in the bond area that council identified during the strategic planning session That not only is focused on streets but also continuing to fund the NTMP program the in that P program and continuing to fund other
 needs that we have to do on an annual basis with regard to the MPO matches.
 those have to be done through bonds unless we have money set aside to do that. So there's annual needs like that. And so Council talked about a 22 bond process in order to address some of those pending needs that are still at our front door. And that also speaks to the neglect that Nicole talked about that we're playing catch-up on. And we've been playing catch-up on and trying to
 do that for the last several years and there's, there's a lot as y'all saw in the presentation that we're playing catch up on. Yeah, I was gonna reference that conversation a bit but thanks for highlighting that as well. Yes sir. Um, so slide 13, I don't know if it's up for the public to see as well. Um, so one of the things that I guess, and, and slide, slide 13 and then slide 14 reference this is that, um,
 Can you help us understand why we're looking at such a lower amount of graduates for FY 2021 and 222 as compared to 2020 and 2019 and 2017? I don't know if Neal Mack wants to address that issue, but she does. In FY 2021, you all recall with the COVID impact, we had been doing the two police academies prior to.
 In fiscal year 2021, we only did the one police academy. So we did have four go all of the academies. The intent there was to at least maintain the current staffing level, but not see a decrease. And so in that fiscal year, there was just the one academy. For fiscal year 2022 with what you all approved back in August, you did approve the two academies. You did have one that started back a couple of months ago in September.
 I don't know if Ms. Mack or Chief Allen is on the line or one of the other system chiefs wants to address the actual recruiting challenges and issues. So I guess...
 You know, for me and for the perspective, I think, of my community or my district and probably others, you know, I understand that there's challenges of attrition, of retirement. I understand that there's challenges of other communities poaching are trained and extremely confident and very well-trained police officers, probably best in the country. That's why Albuquerque has a sign-up off of I-10. But I understand those challenges. To me...
 I'm interested with the upcoming budget and the budgets moving forward that if we know that we're having challenges of attrition and of other communities that we figure out ways creatively to be more strategic towards solutions. If that means that we go from three academies to two academies or four academies, but if we go from three academies to two academies to deal with some of those attrition, I understand there's challenges of training, but I also know too that our...
 is frustrated hearing that we don't have enough officers on the streets at any given time. And so I look at these numbers and then I look at the next slide about what the anticipation, I don't know if we can go to slide 14, but we look at what, what the anticipation is about how many officers we're gonna have at two academies and what's the expectation for attrition. And that also the number that's not there as well as probably what is the expectation for officers retiring.
 And so I just want us to think about when we're coming into this budget season, what we can do to be more aggressive. What we can do to be more creative towards making sure that we have the officers that we need to keep this community safe. Because that is, as has been stated before with previous city councils as well as this, probably one of the number one responsibilities we have as a city council is public safety.
 and making sure that we remain one of the safest cities in the United States. So Representative Forsbein, if I may, and I apologize, we really should have listed this as Academy No. 3. So really what we're changing, and we're working with the Corso Paso Police Department, is to change our strategy and look at
 possibly having three academies in one year, but they're much smaller classes, to really be able to address any of the recruitment challenges that they're meeting in filling those classes. And then this line down here, this results in the total increases as well as the total cost of $3.5 million. You know, one of the things I did speak with Chief Allen, I spoke with Chief Sears about,
 the academies and the numbers and one of the things that the city did a good job in the prior budget to allocate to allow them to have the academy and they were not able to fill the numbers. Yeah. And that was one of the biggest issues is that they they had the room and they didn't have enough applicants to fill the numbers to be able to do the academy. And then after
 you know, you do an academy every time you do an academy, you do lose a percentage of them in the first month or two. So, Mayor, I'm very well when when I was in graduate school in New York, we were on the east side and there was actually one of the police headquarters right on 22nd Street and at the beginning of the second semester in January, they would have the police academy and you would see it on the top of the roof, it full of, of
 of trainees and by april of that year as the semester is running up about a third of the roof was left with people doing jumping jacks and exercising and training to be the next round of nypd so i'm very much aware of how these numbers are and we've seen it throughout these years as well the frustrating thing is is you know what can we do better to incentivize
 officers to incentivize trainees to make these academies more competitive. I understand that there's a natural attrition. To me, the response would be to have additional academies. If we have three or four rolling academies throughout the year, then that's something that we need to be looking at. But it is really hard for me to sit here when we have our leadership from the police department tell our residents and our community that they don't have enough officers to keep this community safe.
 That when I hear that at community meetings that I'm hosting and other community meetings that we don't have enough officers to keep this community safe from the leadership of our police department, then we need to be looking as policy leaders in this community as policymakers to go and figure out how we go and get more officers there, how we train more officers up so that we don't hear from the police department or from our residents that we don't have enough officers to keep this community safe.
 And so I just want us to really think about when we have this budget season coming up, what we can do not to go and say that we can't fill up academies but figure out ways that we make sure that these academies are overflowing. And even if that means having rolling academies or three or four academies in a year as opposed to two. Mayor Patel, I know you're very familiar with the process because you've been on the council for quite some time. And as you know, we've had a commitment to.
 300 officers over a 10 year period. And so this council's made those policy decisions in order to support that in the budget process. And I'm stating the obvious but with COVID it did set us back.
 But we have a strategy to add more academies. And again, that's an impact to the budget. And you'll see that in the budget process. And as Nicole Cody pointed out, just the police, just in the public safety area by itself, we've seen a $70 million increase in
 And that represents 20 cents on the tax rate. And so when people want to talk about the tax rate, you know, I'm happy to do that and talk about the fact that this council and the way we put budgets together has been funding the priorities, which is police, fire.
 and the equipment replacement for police and fire, which in the past was done with bonding. That means with debt. So y'all have made some really tough decisions and have set funds aside in order to fund that equipment replacement so we can limit the amount of debt that we have.
 We've also spent quite a bit of money on streets that you saw in the presentation as well as funding the operations and maintenance for quality of life as well as the quality of, excuse me, as well as the operations and maintenance that comes with the public safety bond package which will include increasing the number of officers above the 300.
 So yes, yes, sir. We are looking at academies and expanding that and adding more to it. So I'm glad you pointed it out. And we are looking at that and that will be an impact on the budget. And you will be seeing that. Yeah. And I, you know, I fully recognize that I don't have the experience in law enforcement as other members of this council do as the leadership that we have within within this organization. However, as as a policymaker on this board,
 And on the city council, it's important that we go and give the clear direction of what we want to see. And then we have those folks in law enforcement and in city leadership that can figure out how to make that happen.
 Thank you. Thank you. Representative Schwartzbein. Yeah, Mayor, the last point I had there was relating towards Side 16. We don't need to put that on there, but I do think it's important that we're looking at $43.3 million that have been invested in streets.
 You know, there's been a lot of concern about how we go and fund our infrastructure and investing in our community for decades and decades, especially in the 80s and especially in the 90s. We had city leadership, city councils that simply passed the buck and did not invest in our community. And it's a shame that this council and previous councils that have been on have have dealt with this issue head on.
 through a variety of financial strategies, but because of the sins from previous city councils, we're having to pick it up. And I just want to know that the last major, one of the last major projects that we had in terms of street resurfacing was the 2011, 2012,
 I'm CEO package that allowed street reconstruction and street resurfacing projects to occur. I strongly feel that we need to be looking at another bond package that is voter approved that can focus on again street resurfacing and street reconstruction across the city.
 utilizing data. We're recently completing and going through a PCI pavement condition index study across the city right now that this council approved over the last budget. So we should have very fresh data, especially after the storms to be able to guide how we invest in this community. But I think it's absolutely important that we look at a voter approved bond that can focus on this community's needs that can focus on streets.
 um, resurfacing and reconstruction and other methods to make sure that we invest in our infrastructure because we've seen city councils from previous decades choose not to do that because it was the easy thing to do, but not the right thing to do for El Paso. Thank you. And with that, anyone else have any questions? Yes, ma'am. You have a comment to respond to some of the comments about the police academies. Um.
 One of the big things that's included in this presentation, and Nicole went through it, but just to sort of repeat and make sure that all of the council hears, is that Senate Bill 2 passed in 2019 did put a cap on the property taxes and how much we can raise in property taxes. And so as we're looking again to that five-year forecast of building in what those academies are going to look like, we have to obviously take that into account. And so looking at the number of officers when they're cadets and then they graduate become very, very expensive. Yeah.
 So as we're forecasting now, we have to forecast out all the expenses, not just in the police department, but all of our city departments, and then look at the revenue sources that are going to be available and then how we manage that going forward. And so that's a challenge. And then also sales taxes, as we've talked about going back the last couple years now, yes, we continue to see positive growth in sales taxes. But obviously with what we talked about the last meeting, we don't expect to see a 14% increase year over year in our sales tax revenue growth.
 And so those are limitations that we're facing. However, this council has been very proactive with the recommendation that we brought forth in creating that budget stabilization fund to have the flexibility to be able to provide a financial tool and a resource to be able to address some of those issues that you brought up Mayor Pro Tem and the rest of the city council. So again, this council has been very proactive putting the streets utilizing the annual pay go money, funding the piece of fire equipment replacement
 creating the other financial tools and resources that are going to allow us to continue to report in a positive direction. However, again, I understand those limitations that have been put on us by the state, and not just NFL 2, it's also the telecommunications franchise revenue, which we've lost out several million dollars. It's the loss of the red light camera, which impacted some of our police department funding. It's all those things combined that, again, we continue to face the challenges, but again, being very proactive, and at the same time, continue to provide the high level and exceptional services for our community. Thank you.
 Thank you Molina followed by represent over the yes. Thank you very much mayor If we can go back to page 8 through 10, please while we're waiting for that I was going to ask there's 165 projects completed, but what is the Approximately start date for those is that I see NIP NIP the neighborhood improvement program but that was part of the package and the quality of life bond in 2012 and
 Yes, Representative Mulder, our San Rodrigo City Engineer. We have completed four rounds of the neighborhood improvement program, and we are now in the process of formalizing the recommendations for round five, which would be the final round for the 2012 Quality of Life Bond Program. But all of these projects were not completed or funded through NIP, but how far do they go back? Different capital, different fiscal years and the different capital projects?
 These are all part of the 2012 Quality of Life Bond. The initial ones, there's a, you see the full list here, but they go back starting in 2014, 2015 is when the initial projects began being completed.
 with some NIP round number one, and we had some park projects that began as part of that, this particular program. But they were all approved as part of the 2012 Quality of Life Bond, and as the City Manager has stated before, some of those projects were eventually supplemented with some of the capital programs
 that were subsequently approved by city council to supplement the budgets as they were not properly scoped and costed out as part of the initial development of the program. All right. Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Also in speaking, I mentioned certain things last week at the
 strategic planning session and this is for recruitment of potential candidates for the El Paso Police Department and the El Paso Police Academy. And I did mention one of the things was the credit rating. I still believe that strongly needs to be looked into as far as how we handle that and give these people credit.
 an opportunity to say hey you know yes I didn't handle my credit very well, but I am now hopefully looking to improve in different ways another thing I'm not sure if the El Paso Police Department still uses the polygraph examination as part of the recruitment process or not, but I would say this back in a long time ago. Mayor when I was working for a job called Mac Massey your former competition.
 But anyways, a part of the process was a polygraph examination and I was extremely nervous and I didn't pass. And so they asked me a question which I was like, well, you know, I was just nervous. Anyways, I got the results later that I didn't pass. And so I challenged that through human resources and they accepted me later on. So yes, I did have a minor career.
 and sales of vehicles and other things like that. But the point I'm trying to make is this. A polygraph is a tool and it is part of the process, I believe. That needs to be researched and stuff. I say we need to get these candidates into the academy classroom and see how well they do in the classroom, see how well because you're still going to do a background check.
 And so I'm not saying totally eliminating this, but take a good look at how we're doing that process to get more people into it. It's not about numbers, and it's not about just accepting anybody, but it's doing the due diligence to get these people, qualified candidates, into the police department, which goes back to what Representative Schwartzbein is saying, and which I hear also.
 You know, a lady recently received a letter where she waited seven hours for a police unit to come. Another gentleman that he's waited for like three or four hours for a police unit to come to take a report on a stolen vehicle and other things like that. So that is unacceptable. And so we just really need to relook and examine on how we're what the process is to getting quality candidates into the Opaso Police Department. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. And with that, we have Representative Rodriguez followed by Mayor Pro Tem.
 Thank you. So I guess from what I'm understanding the the 40 recruits per Academy that that we're suggesting that's because of a budgetary limit. Is that correct?
 No, ma'am. Actually, we're looking at those 40s is based on the number of recruits that they can actually get to fill the class. And so instead of doing the large academy classes, I think we're looking at different strategies in order to meet the same number of graduates, but look at a different strategy of smaller classes. So ideally, how many recruits would we need a year, regardless of the classes?
 Well, that's what we're achieving as part of that slide. So in the slide, we're going to need about 105 recruits graduating from our police academies each year to meet that net 30 requirement.
 Set by council. Okay, so that has nothing to do with budgetary constraints or anything like that, right? That's just the ideal number for a city our size to keep us up and running safely, correct? That's based on the net 30 officers. So every year increasing our police staffing by 30 officers as our initiative that was approved by city council.
 Nicole will you put the slide up that shows the number of police officers over a 20 year period? Can you make it as big as you can yes, sorry, it's full screen I'm not sure it may be on IT side. They can bring it up. So Representative Rodriguez if you can see this I can't see the bottom there Nicole what's the what's the bottom number on the first one where it's one thousand one hundred and twenty eight FY 2009. I
 Yes, they only had 34 cadets that year. And that's when? 2009? Yes, sir. Okay. I know that we have another slide, Representative Rodriguez, where we go back to like 2000.
 Anyway, the numbers have been low for a very, very long time. And so we have been working over the last several years in order to increase that number. And we shot for 300 over a 10-year period in order to start increasing the force. During COVID, we were impacted by that for a lot of different reasons. And we wanted to maintain the number. We didn't know what the budget was going to do.
 And so now we're back on track to getting to that net 30. And we feel that based on the way that the
 the attrition rate in the academies are working out that we need to have maybe three academies and not just two academies and maybe make them smaller. So that's the strategy. So I just want you to know we are committed to adding more officers. This is something we've been doing for a while. This council has been very supportive of that. And it's because of the neglect that Mayor Pro Tem talked about that it was something that –
 the numbers had been allowed to get very low. And so we started adding those back on. So the anecdotal responses like from Representative Molinar or a lot of other people that talk about the response times and how long it takes to do lower level priority calls, this is the reason, this slide right here. Because even the numbers that we're adding, we're still not where we need to be.
 And when we add those additional facilities with the public safety bond, it's going to have to be more police officers that we add over and above the 300 that we set as a goal in order to staff those new facilities. Right. And I guess where I was going with all this, and again it is anecdotal, but for example, I have a family member who lives in Chaparral, New Mexico, and he applied for the academy but not here in El Paso. He's actually an officer in Monahans, Texas.
 So I'm just curious if maybe not necessarily cities our size, but nearby cities are doing something differently That they are recruiting from here from El Paso. Well, I mean, I don't understand chaparrales, New Mexico, but they're essentially here What they're doing differently that they're able to recruit them all the way over there versus us that were just right here And so I don't know if it's numbers game. I'm not sure if it's an hours game I'm not I don't know exactly how
 The the police system works in terms of hiring and and the academies But if we're able to tap into our neighboring cities like Chaparral like sullen Park Santa Teresa even Las Cruces You know the county Socorro See what we can do to attract more and I'm sure you all are on top of this But I'm just suggesting seeing what what they're doing because like again, how is it that Monahan's is recruiting people from El Paso? I?
 Do you know what I mean. I do know what you mean. We can give a more detailed background for context on what all they're doing in the recruitment side. We can definitely provide that we'll we'll get that information put together and we'll send that to you via email and we can even present in a future council meeting if you also choose.
 Yeah, I think I would want to see that I'm just very curious and again, you know, this is very similar to Sun Metro You know, what are we doing to recruit here locally? And and I feel you know coming from from the trucking industry that it's probably a numbers game again I could be wrong Yes, but but I would be very interested in seeing what how we compare not only two cities our size But neighboring cities as well right, and and I think that the the
 The problem of recruitment, not only for police, but across all departments has been exacerbated because of COVID. But we're not using that as a reason. We're still working to overcome that. We've even been very flexible, like with pay. I know that I've told Robert and he's told Araceli that, you know, with department heads need to be more agile in terms of starting pay and things of that nature. We've been able to do that.
 I don't know that that's an issue with police, but if it is, we can look at that as well. But we can come back with more definitive information or more detailed information, I should say, on the recruitment efforts so that we can share that with you all. Yeah, and if you could also include fire in that same presentation. I appreciate it. Yes, ma'am. Absolutely. Thank you. That is all. Mayor Pro Tem? Yeah, Mayor. Thanks again. So I just had a couple things. One was relating towards...
 looking at another looking at a having a voter approved bond initiative what what other steps are needed from from council and staff to look at doing that and and this isn't something that I just think just came out of the blue this was something that a member of us I don't know if you recall when we were having the discussion about
 back in 2019 about creating a public safety bond project there was a discussion from members of council at the same time of wanting having you know having prop one and having prop two that could focus on on funding street resurfacing street reconstruction etc and if you all recall we we didn't end up acting on that so i'm kind of curious if we're going to look at it that kind of initiative of a voter voter approved bond
 initiative what what sort of steps are we looking at from from staff and council that need to be taken I'm sorry you're just referring to a bond package yeah if we were to look at doing doing a bond project and that was something again that we've talked about previous previously and also was mentioned as I understood it based on the action y'all took at the strategic planning session we have that direction to put that together and bring it back to council okay
 so we've been given that direction and y'all voted on it great yeah i know and part of that was also working with the community as well so absolutely and i know that you mentioned that uh representative anello i remember mentioning that several council members did but i remember both of you making it uh yeah an issue for sure do you know if we might have some sort of work session or update about it in the beginning of next year and beginning of it's funny you should say that i was emailing sam during this conversation okay
 I think that's something that I do think we need to get something in front of you all very quickly and that's what I asked him for I think we can get y'all something in writing very quickly and then gets a presentation in front of council very soon as well okay and I and I do get your sense of urgency and I would think that we would have to put something in front of y'all no later than January great one of the other the other things I had and
 representative Molinar brought up some good points that I wasn't aware of and I think uh representative Rodriguez brings up some very valid points as well relating towards essentially understanding the sort of training process as well as policies relating towards our
 our training of our police officers and our academies in general, rather than just kind of piecemeal different questions relating towards what credit checks are needed, what we're doing for for recruitment.
 regionally as well as I'm looking at incentives to retain our officers. Maybe what might make sense is to have more of a deep dive with the work session item coming up maybe within the next 60 days that could talk about what how is it that we have our academies are they set up.
 what is the process is for for bringing in recruits what is the background checks and everything I'm not familiar with with the credit check that representative Molinar is referencing but I think those kind of questions when we're seeing these challenges of recruitment of retention of filling out our police academies I think it would make sense to have a work session item where we could all be briefed a little bit more in detail about this.
 Yes, sir. We can do that. Again, I don't want to overstate the COVID issue, but at the same time, I don't want us to overreact either and that we want to manage how we do recruitment, not only for police, but for other departments as well. So I'm just advising all of that.
 I but I totally get else concerned and your your interest and we can definitely put that together for y'all. Yeah, because we're having discussions about other communities like Moynihan's and others that we need to go and look at at what we can. Yes, sir. I don't I don't think what we're doing is wrong here with it, but I think it's a question
 understanding it because I could go and take another 7 minutes right now and ask questions about what kind of credit check we we have here but I think for better use of everybody's time would be to have a work session item specifically to talk about the process and policies absolutely of training officers retaining officers in our police academy but absolutely and as you all as counsel is very well aware we do benchmarking we also work on best practices
 We lead the nation or the state in various categories not only in PD but in other departments and the organization as a whole So we very much appreciate and welcome these questions and want to show you what exactly is being done in these areas Thanks again. Yes, sir. That's thanks, man. Thank you mayor pro temp and with that we have represented better. Thank you mayor
 I just want to thank staff for the presentation made here and just to say that the numbers have risen since we've been here with you, at least me. And so I recall when we only had a few graduates come out and spread out throughout the whole city wasn't enough. Equipment wasn't enough. And to hear the talk that's going on, it's kind of, kind of,
 It was kind of disturbing until the mayor pro tem suggested that we do a work session so that those not in the police department could understand what a candidate has to go through. Okay, so I believe that, in short, when I went through that, and I believe so when Representative Molinar went through that, and the officers back here, the young officers back here, you have to have a sparkling clean record because you're – hold on, hold on. I'm talking, Mayor Pro Tem, because you have to –
 You're representing the city of El Paso, and not only that, you're taking an oath with the state of Texas to carry a gun and force a loss. And so I believe, I know when that's a very concerning issue when a individual doesn't know what credit is all about, that's failure to me. That's failure on the schools, not educating the kids enough. If they can't even balance their own checkbook, that's a major problem right there.
 The other thing is that the training that goes on in this city has evolved into one of the best, and I'm not just saying that because I was there, but you get other communities, just like you said yourself, taking these officers that are well-trained, better than their own. And the most important thing, they're bilingual, and they offer them pay for bilingual. Obviously, in this community, it's very hard to do that because the majority are Hispanics.
 So we can talk to each other about without any problem the the issue is here I believe the staff is doing the best they can and your suggestion about the work session is a great one and I look forward to that because It'll it'll bring to light what some of the questions that you had that we passed that we went through I know I went through and When Joe came on later on he had a different thing. So, uh the deal is that
 To be a police officer, you have to want to be one. To be a police officer, you have to have to sacrifice a whole lot of other friends. You can't, I mean, because once you mar your career with something that you take an oath to protect, that kind of gives a city a black eye, just like as if you would a military officer. Okay? You take an oath to serve your country.
 Those those rules that are in place right now are in for a reason because they represent not only you know We represent our constituents. They represent this whole city of El Paso and what it stands for and and really again I think the city has Since we've been on I believe we've done a heck of a job to to equip them with with what we need to because it used to be like five cars and Joel tell you I
 five cars or 10 cars for the whole city of El Paso. So you'd be lucky if you get two cars, two brand new cars. And then you'd have to trade what was best in your fleet to another region. So I say that we continue what we're doing. Bring that work session. And in that work session,
 And I said like I said in that strategic planning it's not only attracting the officers to do their work here but it's also technology. Representative Rivera please counsel no sidebar conversations please. Thank you. That's you. So it's it's it's it's talking about bringing in technology as well.
 I know the first year 2017 I brought in we brought in the drones for the fire department We asked police department as soon as they found out how it was working They have one of the best drones now and it does everything that we we had anticipated it would do a response times
 Response times are also due to many of the construction areas that we have throughout the city of El Paso on our roadways. And sometimes it's frustrating when you can't get to the call in time because you're stuck in traffic. Take those into consideration. Take those into consideration when you're helping somebody else on a major crime where you have officers protecting the scene. Why? Because they've got to testify to that scene if they get to court. And if they somehow screw up that scene...
 It's going to set somebody that's guilty free. So the thing is that the officers have to do what they have to do. And the response times, although it used to be you could time it and have it quicker, a quicker response time, when I came on, because the city ended at Lee Trevino in Montana. The rest was desert. Yes, sir. So I think that we, like you said,
 And I appreciate Mayor Pro Tem bringing this up to you, to the rest of the council, is let's have a work session on that so they can find out what it is. I know they've offered us to go up to the academy to do some of their training. I mean, who went up there? And a lot of us, a lot of them have gone to ride-alongs. But it's done during the non-peak hours, and the officers will tell you.
 Days are nothing compared to evenings or graveyards and the officers back there will tell you that that is so true because days all you're doing is report taking. So you're going from report to from call to call report taking. So I look forward to that if you do bring it and I thank Mayor Potem for bringing it to the council and I just want you to take those into consideration because I've been through that. Representative Leone has been through that.
 The small things, the credit is very important because you don't want to nosser hounded on this job to pay up a bill. As minor as it seems, it's embarrassing to the city of El Paso.
 Thank you. Thank you mayor. Thank you River during the strategic planning process the reason why we have the strategic planning process and the reason why we have work sessions with The council and give operational updates like we're doing now To get a lot of good feedback from the council and we make adjustments some of those adjustments that were made over the years That we're also doing not just adding officers But also looking at other strategies of how we can attack this problem, you know in terms of giving them more resources is seven years ago
 and through that process of listening to the police department, they had like 60 some odd officers during straight time that were responding to the ballpark in terms of the traffic. And straight, that means that they were taken away from their duties that they were supposed to be doing during straight time, as you know what that means. Today, we have them on overtime and it's a lot less. It's like a dozen or less officers that we have out there doing the traffic control because you don't need that many officers.
 And so that's one example of how we're looking at various ways. We've also done Lean Six Sigma projects in the police department in order to help them with efficiency. And some of the things that they've been able to stand up that they didn't have before, which is a problem, is fatalities that we have in our community, we have too many.
 And so we now have a traffic division that was stood back up that had gone away when you look at that graph in terms of the numbers, the lack of numbers that the police department has, and the fact that we've added more police officers, they've been able to set that traffic division department back up again in order to attack that problem.
 yes we're listening we also listened to the council during the strategic planning session when they talked about this subject and we were talking about are there other ways that we can attack this issue and not just adding more police officers
 so i talked to greg just the other day subsequent to the strategic planning session and said that you know this next year's budget cycle i want to look at strategies on the things that are being done by officers like the council talked about that that maybe can be done by administrative personnel maybe we can hire more people in that area in order to help offset some of the report writing that they're doing that they may not need to be doing sure so we're looking at various strategies so the work session when we come back
 with the recruitment, we might have more additional comments and details on other things we're doing in the police department in order to make it as effective as possible. Yes, sir. And just to add to that, I know we keep mentioning technology. And of course, that's one of the major products that I want to bring to the police department because it does attract the younger officer, the younger crowd, because they're tech savvy.
 Just to give you an example also of moving to another subject and why we lose officers. Even though I joke Chuck Cohen who is, was, I don't know if he got the job permanently, maybe the officer will tell me on this, but I know he started off here in El Paso as a rookie. He went to Austin.
 had served this community for a few years and then went to Austin because of an applied down there at the police department. Of course, they accepted him on this bilingual capabilities and Joe Chacon became the chief of police in Austin.
 We've had people retire from here and go become chief of police at the universities. We've had police officers retire and become chief of police at, what is it, Port Arthur, right down there? And so the training here is fantastic. The training here is, I think it's sought out by other communities. Didn't you say that earlier in the year when that happened? I think they were trying to model the training.
 After the old past police department. Yes, sir. So to bring in to bring in Recruits can bring hundreds of them in but if they make them a better offer with better pay they leave. All right So thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I did um, they had a a
 night at the academy and I was I went to it about two months ago and we got to see how the sniper team works, we got to see how they all their technology, their workout room which was
 I'm not quite sure I could ever work out in that room. There was no ventilation in it and it's a trailer. I think they need a little bit, a lot better workout room. But we, we went to see the classroom. We met the cadets that were in the academy at the time. And this was about two months ago. And I was from about seven o'clock at night till about 10 o'clock at night. And the last thing we got to blow up some up on the mountain, we got to witness how they they blow up things.
 So it was a, I got some great pictures by the way, but it was from 7 to 10 o'clock at night. And it really gives you, like you said, a perspective of how they're doing it and the training and everything else and what they endure and go through every day. Sure. And before you came on, they had that. Remember, they opened the doors to the academy and they had all the departments up there. It was a huge success. Yeah. And every time I get to see something different. Yeah.
 Thank you. I think you're all making the point as to why the public safety bond was put in front of the exact in 2019 And there's a lot of need and so those improvements are necessary And so Robert talked about their 60% more of that bond has yet to be sold in order for us to continue All of those projects. They're sorely needed. I
 Thank you with that. Thank you. Point of clarification, Mayor? I appreciate it. No. Mayor, I just was addressed by Representative Rivera. I just would like to briefly respond. I appreciate your support in wanting to have a word. No, no. Do me a favor. I know that you were next to speak, but give me the opportunity to call on you if you don't mind. Okay. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. Just had a quick point of clarification, Mayor. So I just want to thank Representative Rivera, you know, again.
 I'm happy that you support having an item on the work session. I just want to be very clear that I fully have all confidence in how we train our officers and in the policies and processes that we currently have in place by leadership. It just, we have seen when we talk about not having enough officers and we hear that from leadership.
 about the need to do that. And so I think this would be a great exercise to do that. And I appreciate the value and the perspective that you bring to this Council because of your
 years of experience on behalf of the police department as well. Thank you. So thank you for that. And if there is a tour of the training academy, that would be something. I wasn't aware of what the mayor had with sniper team and classrooms or whatever, but I would very much appreciate that, and I think it would be helpful, too, as we start to build a new joint training academy and facility as well for this city. Thank you. And with that, Ms. Prine? Thank you, Representative Rivera and Representative Shortswine.
 Yes, Mayor, that takes us to item number 14, and this is the introduction of an ordinance. May we have a motion? There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 15 is discussion in action that the city manager be authorized to sign a contract for cleaning services between the city of El Paso work West formerly known as TIBH industries Inc and Professional Contract Services Inc for cleaning services at the El Paso International Airport terminal There's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representatives on Ceele to approve. Yes, I'm a representative of
 No, no, let me turn your representative Hernandez his button is not working. Did you want to speak? Yeah, that's right. I mean I have a question. I'll let you go first. Is it okay? Yeah. Thank you Do you see it on your screen? No, you're not on here. Just will you turn it on? Let me see again. Okay
 No. Yeah. Okay. I think they switched yours with Representative George Bunch. I think that's what happened. They took, they gave me Peter's. Yeah, you're not coming on. Just a quick question, Mr. Rodriguez. I didn't look at the backup for this, if Sam's on the line. It's a pretty significant increase to the, 28% increase to the scope of the work due to additional items being added.
 Added, can you just clarify what additional items are being added to the cleaning service for the airport? I
 Yes, I'm Rodriguez, director of the airport. One of the things that we're having them address is as we have been challenged with hiring custodial staff, we have quite a significant amount of vacancies and we've been working to try to fill those vacancies but as a stop gap we've added additional areas to this contract so they can continue to keep the airport clean, especially during this time where we have enhanced cleanings throughout the terminal area.
 Is this going to be added cleaning for areas like lobby areas where there's a lot of people congregating?
 Correct. Typically, this contract is focused on a lot of restroom facilities throughout the terminal. We're having them address additional areas such as the eating areas up in the concourses, where, again, we have enhanced cleaning, additional cleanings throughout the day. And so this is allowing us to do that with this additional resource. Again, understanding that we're having a hard time filling the custodial vacancies at the airport at this time. Okay. No, but that's fine. Thank you.
 Thank you. Representative Ronella? Thank you. Thank you, Sam. That answered a lot of my questions. I did want to know actually if there would be an increase to salary wages for workers. I know that this is a really amazing contract. It primarily hires individuals with disabilities. And so just wondering if there was, because of the job shortage and the increase in the contract, if wages would be going up for the employees, if you were aware of that.
 I'm not aware of that, Representative. Part of the structure of this contract is a lot of the employees also have additional benefits that's tied to how much they make as part of their employment with this company. And so we basically stay away from that aspect of this particular contract because of the asset of benefits that a lot of the employees get from the state and federal government. Sure, I understand that, but I mean, I just...
 I don't know if you're able to kind of, I'm obviously going to vote for this, I think it's a great contract. I'm very supportive of it, but if you could kind of follow up with what their salaries are when the last time that they had any increases where it would be great. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir. There is a motion and a second to approve item number 15 on that motion. Call for the vote. And the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 16 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-1383, Fire Station 36 to Harrington Construction LLC, DBAHB Construction, for the construction of the new fire station number 36 to be located at 1960 Ressler Drive. Move to approve. Second. We do have a member of the public that signed up to speak, Mayor. Please. We have Mr. Adam Pacheco.
 mr pacheco if you're in the queue star six to unmute your telephone mr adam pacheco may i don't believe he's dialed in and i don't see coming him coming forward in chambers either well thank you we can take the motion yes sir there's a motion made by representative molinar seconded by representative rivera to approve on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Arnello voting nay. The motion passes. Item number 17 is discussion and action on the request that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue a purchase order to fit in Smarten Emergency Group LLC referencing contract 2019-782, Pierce Proprietary Parts Repair and Maintenance Training. Do we have a motion? Second.
 A motion to second, Ms. Pryor? Yes, there's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item number 17. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 18 is discussion in action on the request that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department be authorized to issue purchase orders to MB Companies Inc., the sole and authorized distributor for the 2022-0221 Striper Parts and Service. Move to approve. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rodriguez. Lizada. By Representative Lizada to approve on that motion. Call for the vote.
 Mayor Pro Tem in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Item number 19 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2021-1037 Rojas Drive Whitening to JAR Concrete Inc DBA JAR Construction Inc. Motion to approve. Representative Rodriguez I got you there you go. Thank you. Is there a presentation on this project? Yes if I can bring it up please.
 office that he was in the queue trying to speak. So after this, I'm going to ask to reconsider item 16, if that's okay. No. It is. It is. Yes, ma'am. Well, since we're doing the presentation, I'll go and cover the procurement side of it.
 The strategic goal for this item was goal number seven, enhance and sustain El Paso's infrastructure network. The linkage to the strategic plan is subsection 7.2, improve competitiveness through infrastructure improvements impacting the quality of life. This was a low bid procurement for Rojas Drive widening. There was 108 views online, five bids were received, all being local suppliers, and no protests were received for this requirement. And like I said, we are recommending a word to, as indicated to JAR, concrete, DBA, JAR construction, the lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
 Thank you, Derek. Eva Hernandez, CID. As I stated, this is the presentation for the Rojas Drive Widening Construction Award. Next slide.
 This project is located within District 6. The total budget is $8.3 million. This is a federally funded project, so our funding source is from the Federal Highway Administration and Certificates of Obligation. There are parts of the scope of work that includes El Paso water financial contribution. Next slide.
 This project consists of widening of the existing Rojas Drive. This is from a four-lane roadway to a six-lane drive facility. This provides better traffic and pedestrian amenities. Next slide.
 The detail part of the scope of work is new asphalt. There will also be concrete pavement, medians, illumination, shared paths, use, traffic signalization, landscaping, and also looking at ADA compliant facilities. As I stated before, this project does include drainage and water improvements within the project limits. Next slide.
 As you can see, the limits of this scope, we start at Loop 375 and we end at Bill Burnett Drive. And this will tie in nicely to work that was previously done and performed by the County of El Paso. Next slide.
 This is the information that Mr. Russell provided. Five firms submitted their bids, all being local. And we are asking council to recommend the construction contract to JR Concrete in the amount of $8 million.
 $8.3 million. We are estimated to start once we receive approval from Council and all the necessary documentation in spring of next year and being completed within winter of 2023. And we are asking for Council's approval and award for this construction contract. Thank you. Thank you for that.
 Thank you. So yeah I just wanted to make sure more importantly where the location of this project was. This is pretty much border of the city and the county.
 Thought this was gonna be on the other side of 375 where I know we also have a lot of semis and I know that That's that side's pretty wide as well But I just thought there was gonna be some improvement to the asphalt because I know when it rains it It pours in that area and the roads get destroyed, but that is it Thank you
 Thank you, Ms. Prine. We have Representative Anello. It's for me. Oh, Representative Rodriguez. Cassandra. And then Anello. And then on to the stuff that I said. Thank you. You sound like my mom when she's trying to say all of our names at once. So, I'm curious, when we're doing procurements and purchasing,
 Is the federal funding, is the requirement from the state and federal funding to have low bid contracts? Yes, ma'am. That is requested by Federal Highway. Okay. They do allow for competitive seal proposal, but within the city of El Paso and typically what even texts on El Paso is low bid. Okay. Okay.
 Okay. And I just wanted to highlight that for members of council that I'm a big proponent of low bid contracts for street projects. I think that that's what we should be doing given the fact that we just have limited resources. So the federal government has that requirement. The state has a requirement. And so we should have the same at the city of El Paso specifically for like repaving just quick pavement projects so that we can get more for our dollars. But at any rate, I'm happy to hear that it's going to receive much needed.
 improvements in this area. Thank you. Thank you for that representative. Ms. Sannella? You were just doing for, okay thank you. And with that we have a motion and a second. Ms. Prang? Yes there is a motion and a second to approve item number 19. On that motion call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem Shortspring was not present. Mayor?
 Yes, Representative Nenello. Can we please reconsider item 16? My office was contacted by the individual signed up to speak that said that they were trying to unmute themselves. I think there's a little bit of a delay. I don't see. I didn't see Mr. Pacheco's phone number in the queue. She can see their number in the queue. They're saying he's on. I don't see him in the queue now.
 I wonder if they have the wrong ID. You might be using a different phone number. Representative Vanilla, they could have the wrong meeting ID, so they won't show up in her queue. If they could see, they'll make sure they have the right meeting ID, and then we can come back to it. And to reconsider it, the motion has to be made by someone on the prevailing side, and you voted nay, Representative Vanilla on this item. But I don't see Mr. Pacheco in the queue. Matthew, what do you got? You got him? I don't see him.
 We just need to make sure that we have the right meeting ID, otherwise it won't show up. There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Lizada to reconsider the item. All in favor? Yes. Aye. Anyone opposed? The motion passes. We're on item number 16. This is discussion and action on the award of Felicitation 2021-1383 Fire Station 36 to Harrington Construction LLC DBA HB Construction.
 for the construction of the new fire station number 36 to be located at 1960 Ressler Drive. Matthew, is he on, are you on the phone with him? You can hold your, he didn't have his cell phone. Yeah, you can just put him up on the microphone speaker. Go ahead and go, sir. Thank you. We need the volume up, please. Mr. Pacheco, you're good. Okay. Go ahead, Mr. Pacheco, you have three minutes. Yes, I'm in, I want to speak. Go ahead, sir. Go ahead. Yes, good morning. Can y'all hear me okay? Yes, sir.
 OKAY, GOOD MORNING. GOOD MORNING, MAYOR, STATE COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVES. THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TIME TO SPEAK. I KNOW IT'S KIND OF CONFUSING MY APOLOGIES TO TECHNOLOGY THESE DAYS, I TELL YOU. MY NAME IS ADAM PACHECO AND I'M THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR THE OPAZA ASSOCIATION OF CONTRACTORS. ON BEHALF OF OUR MEMBERS, WE HAVE TRUE CONCERNS ON THESE RANKINGS, ESPECIALLY FOR FACTOR B OFFERS, EXPERIENCE, AND REPUTATION.
 For experience, how can a contractor from Albuquerque, New Mexico, who has never done work for the city, get ranked higher than local contractors who have completed work for the city on time and on budget? For reputation, how can a recommended contractor who has yet to close out their administration building with EPISD and is also behind on their project with the EPCC by event at campus?
 If any diligence was done to check their experience and reputation, HB would not receive 17.47 points for factor B. Yet, antics and antics have recently been awarded or completed work with the state about lower rankings.
 We've also seen that Aztec and Dantex are lower and or extremely competitive with their price. We cannot continue to award projects from bonds that our local people voted on to out-of-town contractors. We all take pride in our city and continue to use our slogan, keep those banners strong. Let's keep our local construction community strong and reconsider awarding Fire Station 36 on out-of-town property. Thank you all for your time. And once again, I apologize for the confusion of getting me on that.
 Thank you. So we'll need a motion again? Yes, sir. Mayor, I'm sorry, mine doesn't work. Okay, go ahead. I just wanted to know if the Pre-Kimmery Department had a response or the department who oversees this. So from what I understood, which is kind of choppy, Mr. Pacheco's comments, is that the bidder does not have a responsible response
 track record with current local projects. And so I'd like to hear from the departments to see if that's a concern when awarding this project. Good morning, Claudia Garcia with purchasing and strategic searching department. We conducted these, we facilitated this procurement according to our processes in place. So for this particular solicitation, the criteria to evaluate experience was part of the solicitation.
 So as soon as we received the items, we were reviewed for responsiveness and responsibility. And HB complied with the requirements included in the solicitation, so the committee evaluated their experience. We also contacted the references included as part of their proposal, and that's why they score in the ranking that you have as part of the backup.
 required projects to be comparison in scope and that is a result of the evaluation. Can you verify if their references were from the local projects that were just listed? Yes. I heard EPISD was what are the others?
 Yes, so they included a project completed for El Paso Independent School District. They also included Pueblo Vizleta project and another with the federal government, the military. So all those references came back positive based on the owners. Okay, so you're saying that the local contract holders have said that this contractor has an acceptable track record?
 Yes. CHRISTIE WOODARD- OK. And then any feedback or any concerns from the capital improvement? And the reason why I'm concerned, it's only because these are a general obligation, GO voter approved dollars for police, for the police bond. And so I just want to make sure that we're hiring the most responsible and.
 contractor who's gonna be able to excuse me fire station thank you for the update it's a spending service public safety bond I'm sorry so the fire station 36 on Resler Drive to make sure that we have the best contractor
 Representative Hernandez, we work very closely with the purchasing department, Claudia and Bruce, as part of the evaluation. Purchasing does the reference checks themselves. They call the references to get the backup. And then we evaluate the proposal based on what gets submitted and the actual statement of qualifications that comes in with each one of the bids.
 And that committee then grades each one of the contractors. And then as part of the competitive seal proposal, the initial ranking goes out to all the bidders and they have an opportunity. I believe it's three businesses or Claudia, where they have an opportunity to protest or contest the initial rankings. In this particular procurement, nobody, none of the other contractors contested the ranking through that process.
 And so that's why you see the recommendation that you have in front of you today.
 Just because Representative Hernandez wasn't here when we had the conversation, part of my concern is I do sit on the bond, it's not called the Bond Oversight Committee, it's called the CBAC, Citizen Bond Advisory Committee for EPISD and I remember there being concerns with the work that this company did. I know that staff and Bruce after a conversation yesterday reached out to EPISD to confirm
 their recommendation and so I appreciate staff doing that. I just for me it's like I remember this situation happening. There's obviously a little bit of confusion and I'm just not comfortable having been through that with a different organization and specifically what Representative Hernandez is saying you know that these are our bond dollars for a fire station. It's very important that it's done right. And so I'm I'm did not vote in support because I'm not comfortable with it.
 So and I again want to I appreciate staff's work and due diligence especially after that conversation was had yesterday. Thank you Representative Rinella. Mayor can I ask some additional information or just a comment? Yes sir please. Okay so as Sam McLeod has indicated we followed our standard process and when we look at the number of CSPs which the city has facilitated
 There's close to $33 and $146 million that's been awarded through this process. As I indicated with staff when we spoke to Representative Anello, we actually contacted the school district for which we're hearing that this vendor has not performed satisfactorily. The school district themselves put in writing to the purchasing department that the vendor performed very well.
 So I know there's information that maybe had been presented informally, but in the formal writing from the school district, they've indicated that this vendor has performed very well. So staff would like to maintain our recommendation and move forward with the award of this item based upon the written documentation that has been provided to the city. Thank you. Thank you for that. Mayor Pro Temp. Yes. You know, this is a project that's...
 Sorry, this is a project that's very important to my district. It's in an area that has clear challenges in response times. Um Bruce, Mr Collins, can you can you share this letter that's in writing of support from EPISD? Yes, Mr. Garcia will pull it up. Because I think, I don't know if all of us, I mean we've had different infrastructure projects that we've lived through in our districts and in our city.
 where we have delays and challenges with completion. Some of y'all from the class of 2017 don't remember the San Jacinto Plaza project, but I'm sure you read about it in the news. And so I'm very concerned. And I just wanna make sure that
 that this is, you know, that this process was one that is there. My colleague brought up her concerns specific relating to EPISD projects and so being able to see that in writing if it can be brought up, this letter of support would go a long way. I think in assuaging my concerns about this vendor or hopefully my colleagues concerns about it. Because to go and place that in writing probably means a lot of support.
 Do you have that, Mr. Collins, sir? This goes to Ms. Sierra. Yes, give me just one second. Let me have it here. So let me share my screen. So what I'm sharing, it is the documentation that we have to back up our evaluation. And these were the references submitted by AHB. As you can see, one of the projects submitted similar in scope was completed for EPISD.
 So we ask these questions and the process we have it is to contact the owner of this project by email. So this is an email we got back from EPISD providing these scores and according to the scale, they were excellent and very likely when answering those questions that we made. Who from EPISD is the letter from? So it is from Alan Ruttnicki.
 Yes. Thank you. Thank you ma'am. So as you can see it is coming from EPISD and these were the scores provided for that particular project submitted as part of the projects to be evaluated as part of the experience. So these scores are based upon what kind of grading? So we provide a scale and these are the guidelines we use to evaluate the score.
 for this particular one. So this is the number they were going to give if the answer was going to be responded as excellent or very likely depending on the question. So this is the way we evaluate references with these questions across the board. So Representative, I think the point that you're seeing in, as Claudia went through
 The representative from the school district was aware of the scale. He provided his review and reference. When contacted on yesterday, he stood by his previous score and did not want to change it. So the city has conducted our due diligence with the project that the hearsay disputes, but in the actual writing from the school district, they affirm that it's a good contractor.
 And the .667 is a score that is considered excellent or very good? Yes, sir. Okay. So I mean, again, I'm wanting to make sure that we put ourselves in the best position to have somebody there that is of the best quality so that this project gets executed. So I would think that based upon the concerns from my colleague that
 you would have the chief quality officer of EPISD go and put it in writing that there were concerns. Otherwise, I'm not really sure how our procurement department or this board would have any, this council would have any ability to make any other sort of informed decision if it wasn't put in writing.
 I mean, it would seem that this would be a pretty good opportunity for the chief quality officer of EPISD to state his concerns if they were well-founded.
 and I'll remind Council Senator Lucas and Engineer as well. Part of the contract requirements that we have and before we start any construction, all contractors are required to submit a payment and performance bond as well to ensure that we have the backing should the contractor fail or default in any way, shape or form that we can call on that surety to complete the project if needed.
 the construction schedule. And then the one last concern is that there also is discussion about it's listed that this contractor is locally based. Is that also been verified as well? That's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. And then the one last concern is that there also is discussion about the contract. It's listed that this contractor is locally based. Is that also been verified as well?
 Yes, sir. The company we did do a vetting of the company's location. Previously, the company had an office in Lubbock, Texas. They closed that office and reestablished their headquarters in El Paso on Executive Drive.
 So we did verify that they moved their headquarters to El Paso. We had the certificate from the Secretary of State also confirming that and signed affidavits from the legal counsel also because in our vetting process,
 We did see the Lubbock office and when we started the vetting process, we were able to get updated information from the Secretary of State and also from the company. Attesting that they're head clubbers now in El Paso. And this vetting was done in August. So it was very recently completed.
 Yeah, and again, I think these questions are worth it to ask because at the end of the day, if there's projects that do have delays on them, it's the council that receives the arrows. We're the ones that receive the complaints and just want to make sure that we cross all T's, dot all I's.
 And then triple check those T's and I's to make sure that we have a contractor that will fulfill this project on time and on budget again. I also think it's important for the council to know too that, you know, we all are aware of the inflationary pressures, supply chain challenges as well. And as the contract is currently written, those prices are locked in at this point, if this were to go through. Yes, sir.
 Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem Representative Ranallo. Thank you, Mayor. I think I stated this before, but just wanted to clarify. I think staff absolutely did their due diligence on their end of this project. This for me is just something that I am not comfortable with, and it has nothing to do with our staff or the process that they had or the information that they got from EPISD. Thank you. Thank you. So that's no other one. Anyone have a motion either way?
 No one's made a motion. Either way. There's a motion to approve. Is there a second? There's a second. Ms. Prine? Yes, there's a motion made by Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Lizaga to approve item number 16. On that motion, call for the vote. In the voting session, and the motion passes with seven affirmative votes, Representative I now have a voting nay. We now go to page number 10.
 Item number 20. This is a public hearing on an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign an offer to sell a deed and any other documents necessary to convey 59.022 acres of land, more or less, to the United States of America Department of the Army. Move to approve. Motion and a second. There's a motion made by Representative Molina, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve. There's no public comment on this item. Call for the vote. Thank you.
 in the voting session and the motion passes with six affirmative votes. Representatives Schwartzwein and Anello voting nay, the motion does pass. Item number 21 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title V, Chapter 5.18, convenience store regulation relating to the registration of and safety and prevention requirements for convenience stores within the City of El Paso. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Assistant Chief Victor Sato with the El Paso Police Department.
 Agenda item 21 aligns with Go To set the standard for a safe and secure city. It's an ordinance amending title 5 to create chapter 5.18 and subsections there under to the El Paso City Code relating to the registration, safety and prevention requirements for convenience stores within the City of El Paso.
 So we have a presentation for you today and the public on the crime prevention ordinance. And I have members assisting today with the cross-functional team, which is Assistant City Attorney Eric Gutierrez, Amy Arona, the Interim Court Manager, Enforcement Manager, Commander Bionis, and Officer Pamela Smith. IT, if we could please go to slide three. Good morning, Chief. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Mayor.
 So the purpose on the convenience store, this chapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of El Paso by reducing the occurrence of crime, preventing the escalation of crime, and increasing the successful prosecution of crime that occurs at convenience stores within the city of El Paso.
 This chapter establishes a registration program for convenience stores and provides requirements related to surveillance camera systems, alarm systems, job safes, pipe markers, security signs, protection of inventory, store visibility, as well as safety training and prosecution statements such as criminal trespass. Next slide, please.
 So the focus and discussion today we're going to be talking about classy thefts under the Texas Penal Code it's a classy offense if the value is less than 100. In this particular case
 One of the things we're looking at on this ordinance are beer runs. Beer runs have been a problem within the city of El Paso dating back to 2008 and beyond. And this usually occurs when an individual walks into a convenience store and takes merchandise without paying for it. In this case, it would be beer or wine. If guilty, it's a classy misdemeanor and it's punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. Most beer runs fall under this dollar amount.
 Next slide, please. So one of the first things we did with the cross-functional team is look at the beer run problem within the city of El Paso, looking at it as large with a few years to qualify it. In this particular case, we're looking at 2018, 2019, and 2020. In these three years, we averaged 5,000, excuse me, we had a total of 5,777 beer runs citywide on the definition that I had talked about the slide before. Next slide, please.
 So we reached out to TABC and we found that there was basically about 600 off-premise permits within the city of El Paso, but were data-driven and we also wanted to make sure we were addressing the problem where it occurred.
 So this is where the team came up with the definition on a convenience store applicable to this chapter only. And this means that it's any business with extended hours and convenient location that is primarily engaged in the retail sale of convenience goods and gasoline. Designed to accommodate a large volume of stop and go traffic. It does not include a business where there's no retail floor space accessible even if they sell gasoline. Next slide, please. Next slide, please.
 So when we put this definition up against the location citywide, we found that 5,378 beer runs had occurred in approximately 194 convenience stores. These are the convenience stores that fall within this definition and sell gasoline. And we have the numbers updated there for Council to see. So the difference was basically 399 fewer beer runs citywide. Next slide, please.
 Also, this slide here is important and I want to touch about the alcohol prohibited sales hours because it impacts our ordinance. These are the times that alcohol is not sold. Back in September of this year, it was updated to 10 o'clock until midnight. Previously, it had been from noon. And our thefts on those three years, 38.39% of the beer runs occurred when alcohol prohibited sales hours were in effect.
 Next slide, please. So we also did a survey with our patrol officers. We measured the time spent on these investigations, and this particular slide deals with just investigations. We had a 99% participation on it, so higher than the 95% level needed for level of confidence. And what we found that patrol officers were averaging 1 hour and 49 minutes for the initial call and investigation.
 and the detectives on their follow-up on an investigation was 3 hours and 34 minutes at a cost of $131 and change. Overall we were looking at roughly $200 on investigations where we had no leads and we did a comparison here we have a case number listed up here in a location where a property taken from this location was valued at $2.75. We're pointing this out because
 Our city and our officers have a big investment in regards to what's occurring on these thefts. And I want to point out that the City of El Paso, the police department, is not looking to get away from responding to beer runs. Beer runs lead to other offenses. We could touch that on the questions at the end. But we want to make sure that we're efficient in the way we're investigating these crimes and having the cooperation as well as keeping everyone safe. Next slide please.
 As noted here, the convenience store owners play a key role in promoting safety in their establishments, a responsibility to both the community and their employees to ensure safety in their establishment. So to this end, the regulation of the convenience store outlined in the ordinance will protect the health, safety, and welfare citizens of the of the City of El Paso. Next slide please.
 So what's going to happen here is these stores will have to obtain a valid certificate of registration. They're going to be contacting the El Paso Police Department. We're working on the process and have a process in place on how this is going to be done. It's going to be done through the El Paso Police Department. First starting off with the connection at planning and inspections with the one-stop shop and involving our code officers as well.
 What's going to happen is we're going to issue a certificate of registration if granted that they're going to display as well as the decal. Next slide, please.
 I'm going to talk about nine items that are in this ordinance. First one is the surveillance camera and recording and storage. Basically we're asking that each store have four cameras. Obviously one store is going to be over the cash stand. The second one's going to be on the floor that includes the cooler areas where alcohol is kept. Another one's the entry and exit of the business. And the fourth one out at the parking lot. A fifth one will be applicable if
 They have more than one entry and exit. And it also has additional regulations in regards to the minimum. This is in digital resolution, and we've outlined the two megapixels on it, and the fact that they will also need to be able to store the video recordings for 30 days. Next slide, please.
 We're also looking here at the alarm systems. We know that some of the stores have alarm systems. We've gone out and we've been looking at them as well. We're also asking that the alarm systems have a panic alarm. A panic alarm to alert us whenever it's going to be a high priority call in regards to a robbery or aggravated robbery.
 Another item we've added here as well are the drop safes. These are the safes that are secured and bolted to the ground, and this minimizes the type of currency available when an individual walks in the store, and it's helped in other areas in regards to preventing thefts. Next slide, please. Security signs and height markers.
 The first ones in regards to the salutation and criminal trespassing, that's basically going to be letting the event, those know that they will prosecute. And the height markers, we often see these at some of the convenience stores that have banks. It assists when we review video and also with the witness to the offense, being able to give us an approximate height of the subjects involved in an incident at the convenience store. Next slide please.
 Protection of property. Excuse me, of inventory. I'm going to bring in Commander Pidiones to cover that part. Thank you, Chief. In regards to the property, we're including property in the open floor, located on the open floor of the store, such as freestanding coolers like you see in the picture containing beer and ice, or also those large displays that you see when you go into a convenience store. We're asking that that property be secure, locked or blocked, or otherwise marked off,
 and that the customers cannot access such property when the store is open for business. We understand that sometimes it's not logistically possible to put everything away, so we're asking in those situations that the property will at least be blocked off, covered or marked off, so that the customers don't have access to the property when the property is not available for sale, but the store is open for business. Next slide, please. Thank you, Commander.
 So employee safety training, this was very important because when I spoke earlier that we had gone out to some of these stores and talked to employees and all, one of the things they feel they need is training. And basically what we're going to be doing through the police academy is putting a training program that's going to be updated year to update their current trends and any changes in law and also review the type of penal offenses that they would report. For example, sometimes a beer run occurs and it gets reported.
 by a third person when they contact the managers of robbery. So we want to make sure that the calls that are coming in are reported accurately. But most important, this is a win-win for the convenience stores as well, because it will train their employees how to handle situations, how to become better witness, and keep them safe. Next slide, please.
 Criminal Trespass and Prosecution Statements, self-explanatory. Good example would be if a graveyard unit is responding to one of the convenience stores and it's 2 in the morning and we're having to track down the owner, responsible manager for a prosecution statement, this will be executed in advance, kept on file with the record at the convenience store, making us much more efficient so we could progress with the report and the criminal charges that are applicable.
 On store visibility, this again goes in regards to having a clear view of the cashier stand where the employees work when we're in our normal course of business. This helps to ensure that we can at least verify we're not able to visit the store that all is well at the store and there's no problems being reported. Next slide please.
 So what we did as a team on September 29th, October 1st, myself and Officer Smith met with the convenience stores via Microsoft Teams. We talked about the ordinance, and also asked for suggestions. And what we also did was between the meetings, we also had meetings with the community in regards to the regional commands and talked about the impact that we have in regards to the convenience store thefts. Next slide, please.
 So this was held in the month of November and you see the dates there. Each meeting was catered in regards to the problems that are experienced in that area with the commander person as well. We had the meeting start at 6 p.m. and they were hosted by Sergeant Zambrano. And we've also posted him in regards to our social media for individuals to review. Next slide, please.
 So I'm going to be turning it over shortly to Mr. Gutierrez in regards to the suspension and revocations. The important thing here is to make notation that it's a partnership with the business community and it's a crime prevention ordinance. Class C citations can and will be issued, and I could expand on that if there's questions afterwards, but I'll let Mr. Gutierrez chime in. Thank you, Chief. Eric Gutierrez, the City Attorney's Office. I want to thank Chief Zarora. He did a great job of...
 I'm going to start off by talking about the requirements that we have on this ordinance. We're spearheading this ordinance and leading each of these subsections to make sure that we have a pretty good final product. And I just want to start off by talking about each one of these requirements that we have on this ordinance
 by protecting the inventory for example. A more successful prosecution is the second one. These videos that we're going to be getting are perfect evidence for municipal court. The evidence that we're going to be seeing through these videos is a lot better than testimony. And finally it protects the stores long term because we'll have these criminal trespass notices against any shoplifters that do get caught shoplifting.
 And so back to the presentation, there's two different things that can happen if a store violates the ordinance. The first one, like Chief Zuerer said, is a classy citation can be issued to the owner or the manager, and that will cover for any of the violations if they're violating the ordinance itself.
 The second aspect is the regulatory scheme with respect to revoking and ultimately suspending a license if there's non-compliance. And so the way we drafted this specific ordinance is to mirror the other regulatory schemes that you will find in the Muni code, such as for the sound amplification permit and also for the animal grooming services ordinance.
 There's also an appeal process in here. And the main thing to remember about our appeal process is that it gives the owners and the managers both due process and an opportunity to be heard. So we'll be there to prove up any violations and they'll be allowed to explain what exactly is going on. Chief.
 And that concludes our presentation. I'm not sure if there's any questions. Yes, we do. Thank you for the presentation. Very well done and we appreciate that and I know there's a lot of work behind it. We do have Representative Lissaga followed by Representative Molinaud. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Chief, for all your hard work on this and to your team as well. I have a question on slide 11 where you were talking about the certificate of registration. Do you know how much that's gonna cost? The owner?
 If we could bring up slide 11, please. Thank you. So basically what we've been doing in regards to the registration fee, it's a new process, a cost of service. So there's staff involvement on it for the application process. We've been meeting with the
 planning and inspections, one-stop shop. We have some estimates, but we know that today when the vote takes place and if all nine items are kept in there, we're going to test the process. We have a follow-up meeting on the 9th in regards to this, and we want to make sure we get everything right. So when we come back, it has to come back as a resolution with the odd cost estimate placed in there. So we will be coming in, excuse me, in January with that estimate.
 You'll be letting us know what the estimate is? Yes. It's a resolution, and it will have to go through council as well. And, you know, so being that it's a cost of service and a new process, we need to test it to make sure everything's right. And that's why I'll reserve in giving the estimates until we know that we have everything in place and it's –
 working the way it's designed. You know, one of the things with this ordinance, there's like four or five items in there, like the alarm system, security sign, height markers, even the prosecution statements and store visibility that are almost active in regards to our services when we're out there already. We have numerous calls for services. So we're able to see some of this and that is what we're fine tuning in regards to coming back with the resolution on it.
 Okay. Thank you chief also so on the next page two you're talking about the Surveillance camera systems a fifth camera and then the alarm system and drop safes do most of these convenience store owners already have? I
 this equipment in place? Do you know? You know, we actually have one of our, the command staff, and this has been a great teamwork. We had Commander Julian Tigata from the Northeast having officers checking some of the areas. And without specific names to businesses, some of the businesses may have one or the other. Not everyone has everything at the same time. But I do want to point out that, for example, on the surveillance camera systems, part of our cross-functional team included
 IT and they were able to guide us as to what would be needed at minimum in regards to the stores required equipment. For example the ratio of 1920 pixels by 1080 and such. This is a minimum. It's a digital and it's also 15 frames per second. Thank you Chief. I appreciate all your hard work. Thanks. That's all. Mayor. Thank you Representative Nassari. Representative Moulinard. Thank you very much Mayor.
 Chief Azarud, always a pleasure to see you. Great job on your presentation. Just a couple of questions. What was the feedback that you received from the majority of the businesses? Positive, negative? Was there some resistance or anything like that? And I'm gonna have Pamela, Officer Smith cover that section as well. Good morning, Officer Smith from the Pebble Hills Regional Command. Actually, so when we met with the
 business community we had two meetings they expressed that it was very well received they felt that it was a little bit long overdue and they felt that it was a matter of a form of including them within the community and so we I wanted to voice that this was not a list of sanctions but rather a list of standard conditions so that we can open up that communication and the crime prevention
 It was very well. I did not receive any opposition. I have also many times throughout this process, I have continued to be in communication with the business community, sending out both electronic emails, informing them of the status of the process and also both through regular post.
 Thank you very much officer another question chief or whomever is going to answer this the ability for those patrol officers in the field when they're taking the report if they have a suspect named would is a web RMS or other capabilities through channel one or something to get any type of repeat offenders for possible theft enhancements and
 Yes sir, good question actually. So under Texas Penal Code, once you have one conviction, the second one can be a Class B and that's where you show the conviction. So when Eric talked about the fact that this is a de-escalation of crime and we have successful cases, individuals are
 put a notice, but we also have the evidence needed for municipal court. And that's one of the important things about this video equipment that we're requesting is the officers need to get it within 15 minutes from responding at the scene. That way the search could be
 the investigation could be productive in regards to that. The detectives, one of the biggest drawbacks on the detectives is having to go out to the location, not finding someone that could provide what they need. So all this leads to the prosecution part. Your first offense and conviction, it's a Class C. Second one, it's a B, and it could go as high as a state jail felony after the second conviction as well. Thank you very much, Chief. Appreciate your help. Thank you. Thank you, and with that, Mr. Prine, we have a motion and a second.
 Mayor, I do need to read out an amendment to the items before the actual vote, if I may, please. Go ahead, sir. This is in regards to, Laura, in regards to definitions on page 3, section C, we're defining days meaning to mean calendar days. And then on section 5.18.070 on appeal, page 7,
 This identifies that the administrative hearing will be held no later than 30 days after the appeal is received by the city manager or the designee. Thank you. Thank you, sir. We need a motion on the amendment, Ms. Pines. Thank you, Chief. This was a floor amendment. If council wants to include that the ordinance was amended. Representative Rivera, would you include that? Second. And it was second by Representative Molinar. Thank you. With that, we have a motion and a second.
 Yes, sir. There is a motion and a second to approve the ordinance as amended. Can you repeat the amendment again? The amendment was to the ordinance on page number three to add section C to define days to mean calendar days and also on section
 5.18.070 under section C to also add that an administrative hearing shall be held no later than 30 days after an appeal is received by the city manager or his designee. Thank you, Ms. Prine. We're gonna take a vote now? Yes, sir. So if council prefers, you can vote on the amendment first. There was a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Molinar.
 On the amendment on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Then we did have a motion made by Representative Rivera seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve the ordinance. On that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 We now move to item number 22, and this is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12, Section 12.04.040, Bicycle, of the City Code to amend in its entirety the definition of bicycle. And we do have public comment when Council is ready. Can we take public comment, please? Yes, Mayor. We have Mr. Mike Osborne.
 Mr. Osborne submitted a presentation. IT, will you please bring it up for Mr. Osborne? And sir, once they bring up the presentation, you'll have three minutes, sir. Good morning, sir. Good morning. We're going to do the presentation first. IT's bringing up that presentation, sir. Once they bring it up, you'll have three minutes. IT, this presentation was submitted by Mr. Mike Osborne and forwarded to you this morning. It was submitted by Ms. Katz this morning to the presentation group.
 That's not it, IT. It was submitted by Mr. Osborne. I believe it was shared with you by, it's a PDF file. Thank you. Go ahead, Mr. Osborne. Yes, my name is Mike Osborne. I'm Mayor of City Council. I'd like to thank you for allowing me to speak today. I'm speaking on behalf of myself, and I am speaking in support of updating the bicycle definition. I serve as president of Adaptive Cyclist Plus, and I'm also the instructor
 a nonprofit organization which serves disabled veterans and civilians here in El Paso. I am also an adaptive cyclist. I served in the United States Army from 1984 to 2001. During the first Gulf War, I was a vehicle accident and a collapse of a disc in my upper neck. I got started at adaptive cycling after going to an adaptive sports camp and seeing the true joy that disabled people were experiencing through adaptive cycling. So when I got home,
 I told my wife I'd like to start an adaptive cycle program here in El Paso. We started in June of 2017 and become a non-profit in December of 2019. Adaptive cycling enriches the quality of life for people with disabilities. I have people riding with us with many different disabilities including amputees, visually impaired, paralegics, neurological disorders, etc.
 Adaptive cycling can even benefit people with PTSD. I've seen that firsthand. I'm passionate about making our roles in municipal codes accessible and exclusive to people with disabilities. The current municipal code definition of bicycle does not apply to adaptive cyclists or adult trikes. Adaptive cyclers and adult trikes are cyclists, and we deserve to be recognized as such in the municipal code.
 Updating the definition will make us feel safer knowing that we are covered under the municipal code and our cycles are street legal. We always welcome you to come out to a cycling event and see the true joy that this program brings people with disabilities in our community. Again thank you for your consideration and allowing me to speak today. Thank you very much. Thank you for your time. Representative Nundas. Mr. Austin do you have a presentation you can present please?
 Yes, this is Fred the Austin bicycle program coordinator for the city of El Paso and I do have a presentation. Let me go ahead and share my screen. This is not. This is the city presentation. This is correct. And so this item's an ordinance amendment to section. Excuse me? Go ahead, sir. Thank you.
 So again, this is an ordinance amendment to section 12.0.0. I'm sorry, 04.0.0 definition of bicycle. And it meets goals 2 and 7 from our strategic plan. And the reason for this change is to make sure that our municipal code mimics the definition for bicycle in the Texas Transportation Code, which was updated on September 1st of 2021 under House Bill 3665.
 And the amendment will be as follow. The current definition reads bicycle means every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride having two tandem wheels, either of which is more than 14 inches in diameter. To read bicycle means a device excluding a moped that is capable of being ridden solely using human power and has either a
 two tandem wheels, at least one of which is more than 14 inches in diameter, three wheels, two of which are in parallel, at least one of the three wheels is more than 14 inches in diameter, and C, any number of wheels, and adaptive technology that allows the device to be ridden by a person with a disability. And that concludes my presentation.
 CHRISTIE WOODARD- OK, thank you, Mayor. So you all have this presentation. I gave it to you at the last council meeting. Mr. Osborne has been patiently waiting for the past two council meetings to hear this item. And so I just wanted to thank Mr. Osborne for all the work that he's done. He led the effort with the state in tandem with Representative Ortaz Perez, the state representative, to lead that definition on what a bicycle means.
 And so we want to be inclusive with our code within our code as well as state statutes. I'm really proud of all the work that you've done and I hope that Council will support this amendment. So that our definition of a bicycle and then folks who do use bicycles that don't look like your traditional 10 bicycles.
 are covered under our code and so people can be you can use as Mister Osborne's definition their street legal because they weren't before and so with this change they will become street legal and so thank you again Mister Osborne for all of your hard work in leading this effort. I move to approve.
 Second. Thank you. Representative Nello? No, that one. Representative Maripoten? Yeah, I just have one question, and it's probably the staff. I know that there's one of the biggest growth we've seen with bicycles and with personal transportation has been with the large growth of electric powered bicycles.
 And I'm just kind of curious how that how that fits in there. It's a different sort of thing than your Then some of the scooters and that sort of thing. I'm just curious with this update or what our current what our current code classifies of electric or hybrid bicycles as Yes, so in reference to electric equipment and there's different definitions under the the Texas Transportation Code that puts limits
 the capacity of electric vehicles. So we can definitely provide further information on that. I don't have all that information off the top of my head, but there are limits as to what kind of equipment can be used and fit within the definition of a bicycle. Are hybrid or electric bicycles considered bicycles as our code currently?
 the right.
 Do we have a motion? Yes, there was a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem, do we have a motion to recess? Oh, yeah, it's 1130. It's 1130. Whatever you guys want. Go ahead. Go ahead. We just have on there that you guys want to recess at 1130 to 12, but you guys, it's up to you.
 Okay. Okay, we'll keep going. Keep going then. Ms. Parnes? Item number 23 is a public hearing on an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for a television and radio broadcasting antenna at 12285 Pelicano Drive. Motion to approve. Motion and a second. There's a motion made by Representative Sancido. Rodriguez. I'm sorry, Representative Rodriguez, seconded by Representative Anello to approve.
 There's no public comment on this item. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Hernandez voting nay. The motion passes. Item number 24 is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from RF Ranch and Farm to C4 Commercial at the property generally located east of Dyer Street and north of Sean Haggerty Drive and Angora Loop Avenue. RICK PEDOLSKY.
 motion in a second there's a motion made by representative Molina seconded by representative Rivera to approve there's no public comment on this item call for the vote and the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 25 is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating a portion of city right-of-way over a portion of San Jose Street east of Cotton Street and north of Murchison Drive
 Is there a presentation? Do we have a presentation? Good morning. Yes, ma'am. If IT can bring it up, please. Item 25. Thank you. Good morning. Armida Martinez with Planning and Inspections. And item 25 is the San Jose Right-of-Way Vacation
 Next slide. This is an aerial view of the proposed area to be vacated and as mentioned it is located east of Cotton and north of Murchison. The subject property is unimproved and has remained as such since the planning of the property in 1923. Next slide. This is a view of the unimproved section of San Jose Street looking east and as you can see you are looking down a slope. Next slide please.
 And this slide shows the existing portion of San Jose that will remain as is. And it also shows the grade difference. And we are looking west here. I'm sorry, east. Looking west from the unimproved section of San Jose as well. Next slide. A public notice was posted in the El Paso Times on March 12th of 2021. And notices were mailed to property owners within 200 feet.
 And Planning Division did receive one call and two emails of inquiry regarding this request and one call in opposition to the vacation request. And City Plan Commission did vote for approval, unanimous approval, as well as recommendation from, recommendation to approve from Planning. That does conclude my presentation.
 Representative Piniella. Thank you. I have a lot of questions and it's not specifically about this vacation. And I do have questions about the vacation as well. My first question is has there been an. There's an echo. Has there been an approval of construction. Are you broke on them. I. I know I'm waiting to see if this echo goes away.
 Maybe. I think it worked. Has there been an approval for construction of a home or a multi residence on this property. You're muted. Sorry. SPEAKER 11 My apologies. No ma'am. This this before you is only the vacation of the unimproved portion of San Jose. DIRECTOR HARRIS KAYYEM PEMBERTON But there is something in process involving a structure on this property correct.
 The property owner is proposing multi-family development. And I think the process. And I'm trying to understand a little bit, sorry, kind of where the vacation will be. Will the property be where the grade changes or is the right of way on that hill?
 So you broke, you kind of faded away in the second part of your question, ma'am. Can you repeat that please? Yeah, I think, actually if you could mute while I ask you a question, I think that's what's causing the echo. There we go. So my question is, there's a very steep grade change here on your map on slide four. And so I'm wondering if that is specifically the right of way, what construction is going to be done there, and if there has been any water management studies done.
 So now if you can unmute before you answer, sorry. Yes ma'am. The vacation portion is only in that flat level that you saw, which was within that colored square. If they want, I can bring that presentation back. The slope area, the unimproved area, nothing will be touched. And we did receive concurrence from El Paso Water.
 So the shaded area on slide four will not be touched? The area inside the square is what will be vacated. The slope will not be disturbed. That will remain as is both south and east of the area. Okay, it's confusing just because it's within the square.
 Okay, I mean if there is going to be no change to this graded area at this time, I'm fine with this vacation But as the process for construction comes closer, I'd like to be Briefed thoroughly by staff. So thank you. Thank you Thank you Anyone? I don't know if you were up here. Okay with that do we have a motion and a second? Yes, there was a motion made by Representative Rodriguez seconded by Representative Lizada to approve.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 26 is a public hearing on an ordinance renewing and extending the special privilege license granted to Western Refining Company, LLC, at 6500 Trowbridge. Item 26, shared district. Yeah, I move to approve. Second. Motion and a second. There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rodriguez.
 I'm sorry, was it Rodriguez? Molinar. OK. Thank you. To approve item number 26, there's no public comment. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 27 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12, Section 12.88.030, Schedule 3, parking prohibited at all times on certain streets to prohibit parking on portions of Piedras Street. Move to approve.
 Can we have this presentation or should we wait? Or yeah, can we do the presentation? Yes ma'am. This is Hannah Williams-Allen with Streets and Maintenance. I am pulling up the presentation now. So item 27 is an ordinance amending title 12-88-030, parking prohibited at all times on certain streets. And this is in support of the CID project, Vievra Street Road Diet Phase 0.
 This item aligns with Strategic Plan Goals 3 and 7. And the purpose of this amendment is to amend the existing parking restriction on Fiedras to supplement the Phase 0 of future phases moving toward a more permanent street infrastructure.
 The City Council history and existing conditions. So the current code reads in Chapter 12-88-030, which is Schedule 3, parking prohibited at all times on certain streets. Item 85, both sides of Piedras Street from Grant Avenue to Gateway Boulevard East. And there is an illustration to the right with the parking restriction in purple. The proposed conditions
 for the parking restriction will amend item 85 to read on the following described portions of piedra street from grant avenue to montana avenue and b both sides from yandel drive to gateway boulevard east and so that would leave a two block
 the street. So we have a portion of the street open to the proposed conditions of permitted parking. So on the west side of the street, there's approximately 11 spaces and on the east side, there are approximately 12 spaces and these are parallel and currently unmetered.
 And this is the legalese of the requested council action. Again, amending the existing line item 85, which reads both sides of Piedra Street from Grant Avenue to Gateway Boulevard East to read on the following described portions of Piedra Street, A, both sides from Grant Avenue to Montana Avenue and B, both sides from Yandel Drive to Gateway Boulevard East. And that concludes the presentation. Thank you. With that, we have a motion and a second.
 yes mayor there was a motion made by representative anelo seconded by representative lizardo to approve item number 27. yeah we have represented rivera i just have one question are there any homes that are going to be affected by this uh any homeowners that usually park their cars out there um no sir it was a traveling before but i do have mr joaquin rodriguez on the line to answer any other questions
 I was saying no residences to phone grant down on Piedrasno. CHRIS RODGERS. That's fine. Thank you. CHRIS RODGERS. Thank you. CHRIS RODGERS. CHRISTIE WOOD. CHRISTIE WOOD. Yes on the motion and second to approve item 27, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 28 is discussion in action that the director of purchasing and strategic sourcing department is authorized to specify the wage rates for each craft or type of workers for building construction trades and the calls for bid for any public works contract and in the contract itself. Second. Is there a presentation? Yes there is. Miss Yolanda Dion is going to be doing a presentation. This is Jerry DeMero. Go ahead Yolanda. IT can you pull up the presentation? Yolanda you're muted.
 Good afternoon. This is Yolanda Diaz, contract development coordinator for CID. And the item I'm presenting is the adoption of 2020 building prevailing wage rates. And this applies to goal C6, set the standard for sound governance and physical management. Next slide, please.
 Under Texas government code chapter 2258, the city required to determine the general prevailing wage rate per diem, wages for each craft or type of worker within geographic limits of the city for construction public works every four years. Currently, the construction contracts include the 2016 prevailing wage rates, which were approved back in 2017. Next slide, please.
 The city has two options. They can use a federal wage raise or they can do also their own survey. However, back in 2012, the County of El Paso proposed a cooperative effort to complete a survey to update the wages for the use of governmental agencies within the County of El Paso.
 Back in May 8, 2012, the city approved and authorized an interlocal agreement with the county, allowing the city to participate in conducting a survey of the general prevailing wage rates. Next slide, please.
 El Paso County led a cooperative effort to complete the 2020 building wage rate surveys. They included pretty much all the entities within the city and the county of the private and public sector. The county hosted all meetings, did all mailings and reproduction at their expense and provided database support for the data analysis test. Next slide please. The survey process, I have summarized it here. It consisted of designing two survey forms.
 one for the building trades and another for the heavy highway trades. The contractors were asked to submit their older payrolls during January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2019. A committee was formed and the committee validated the completeness and authenticity of each survey. At the end of the review of all the data information,
 The database was also used to calculate the mean, the median, and mode of each classification submitted. At the end, the committee approved the following to be presented to Commissioner Scott for approval. They approved the rates that only had a percentage increase between the 2020 data and the 2016, the comparison.
 For those classifications that had a percentage decrease, the committee approved the 2016 rate to remain. And they also approved the rates for classifications that did not receive a response by selecting whichever rate was higher between the 2016 and the Davis-Bacon. Next slide please. CID is submitting to city council for consideration in approving the 2020 building prevailing wage rates to be used on all future awarded construction contracts.
 Currently, the County Commission has approved the building wage rates back in 2022-2021. Next slide, please. This is pretty much just a summary of the changes between the rates of 2016 to 2020. There were two new classifications added, the asbestos abatement and the scuffling director. So for 2020, there's 40 classifications versus 38 back in 2016.
 I have also included a little bit of a summary on the rates. For 2020, the minimum wage rate is $10, the same as was in 2016. The highest wage rate for 2020 is 52.32. The highest back in 2016 was 46.45. For 2020, the average wage rate went up to 21.70, and back in 2016, it was 19.68.
 26 of the positions have a higher wage rate than the county average wage rate of 14.71. Average wage rate for all 40 positions is 21.70, which is about 47% higher than the county average wage rate of 14.71. Next slide, please.
 This is pretty much a listing of all the classifications. On 2016, there's only 38 classifications. On 2020, the fourth classification, and pretty much it reflects the percentage increase, decrease of the classifications. There were 23 classifications that remained the same as 2016. Fifteen classifications...
 went up and there were only two new added positions. Next slide please. Impact of spending approximately 112.3 million 56.1 million was spent on labor costs as an average. Next slide please.
 Pretty much what I'm showing here is the jobs that were created per fiscal year for FY21. 5,914 jobs were created for all these construction contracts that get awarded. Next slide. This concludes my presentation. I would also like to say that we do have a representative from the county in case there are any questions regarding the survey prices. Thank you. Representative Nello? Hello.
 Thank you. So I have a there's a little bit of confusion for me on slide seven. So on the right it says the 2020 minimum wage rate of ten dollars. But then at the second to last bullet it said the higher wage the rate of 14 71 and based on what I had seen and heard from the commissioners is that they adopted the 14.7 one is the minimum wage is that correct. I. Yes ma'am. Right now the.
 The average for the construction with the city is pretty much 21.70, but the construction for the counties is just an average. And Lorena Rodriguez is also in the audience. If you would like to make any comments, Lorena, regarding that. Good afternoon, Mayor and Representative Lorena Rodriguez.
 contract operations manager for the county of El Paso. I do not have any more comments. Any further questions I'm happy to answer. OK. I guess I'm just I'm just trying to understand where the difference between the 10 dollar minimum rate and the 1471 minimum rate.
 because I am seeing jobs significantly under the $14. For example, the fence erectors is at 10, floor layers carpet is at 12.87. Essentially all the floor layers are under the $14. And hazardous material remover workers is at 10. So I'm just trying to understand, is the minimum the 14.71 or is the minimum the 10?
 The minimum based on the listing of classification is a 10, which has been approved for 2020. The $14 is just an average on the constructions that is being paid by a county. That is just an average. But as far as approval of rates, the 10 will be the minimum of all classifications.
 Okay, and can you tell me the classifications that we are approving today for the building wages? Are those the same ones that the county has approved? Are you all still playing hazardous material remover workers and fence directors $10 an hour? Yes, ma'am.
 Before we presented to City Council these rates, the County Commissioner approved all the ones that are being presented today. Based on our interlocal agreement, we participated with the county on the survey. So before we bring to City Council, County Commissioners approved the rates. Okay, Sam, I just saw you jump on. I didn't know if there was something that you wanted to share. In order to present it, I think the only thing I would add to that is that these are the minimum rates, the labor force or the labor market.
 that is out there. It doesn't mean that the fence directors are going to get paid $10. If the market is out there paying them $12, I mean, they'll meet the contractual requirements, which is a minimum of $10. But the labor force is really what's dictating the actual wages. This is the minimum bottom that we require all our contractors to meet.
 Yeah I just seen the county a lot of the commissioners really proud of that 14 dollars and was confused and I saw that there are still some that are classified at 10 and I would think for hazardous material remover 10 is very low for for that job based on you know the medical.
 difficulty that you can arise from that kind of position. I guess my next question and I don't know if that's maybe a Robert Cortina's question or Tommy Gonzalez question is I know that we you know we did our own study in 2017 for our workers.
 And so the conversation has been to continue that and do that again. I don't know if we are able to kind of overlap with the county's overall survey and look at what positions match because I know it is there is a cost to it. It takes time and since the county has done this countywide if there is a way to cross reference those or if it is something that we need to do specifically for city positions.
 So we can take a look at that to see if there's any similarities. I think that's a good question. And also just, as you know, just to remind some of the council members that are new, that we did do that study. Hello, this is Christian.
 We did do that study and we have been not only giving pay adjustments but we've also done equity adjustments during the budgeting process that the council's approved. So we are working that issue but I think you raise a good point. I'll talk to Robert and to Araceli Guerra and see what we can do in terms of looking at the county study and determining if there are similar positions and if there's ways where we can cross reference that material. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you everybody for the presentation.
 Thank you. Ms. Prine? Yes, there was a motion made by Representative Lizardaga, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve on that motion. Call for the vote. We approve. Thank you. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 29 is discussion and action on a resolution to approve a 14th amendment to the city's 2019-2020 45th year annual action plan Hello for the community development block grant coronavirus to delete the financial counseling and bankability project to delete the united way family resilience center project and add a homeless youth outreach and case management project Motion and a second Ms. Pryor Yes sir there is a motion made by
 Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Rodriguez to approve. And that motion call for the vote. Pretty good. In the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Would council like to recess for four minutes? Will council like to recess for four minutes? Hello? There's a motion and a second to recess. The city council meeting all in favor?
 Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1156 a.m. and will reconvene at noon for call to the public.
 I did last week. Last week. Okay. No. I'm going to say. Right. Right. Well, I think that's how many less adoptions. I'm sorry. Because I keep explaining to them why the animal shelters. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 members of council it's 12 p.m.
 yes mayor council may we have a motion to reconvene so move second there's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting all in favor yes anyone opposed the meeting is back in session at 12 03 p.m we now go to call to the public the el paso city council is a local
 Government body charge was serving all of the citizens of the city and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The city council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening.
 or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against the person or group's character or integrity, which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose a topic commented on be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we had
 11 members of the public that signed up to comment during call to the public. We'll begin with Ms. Wally Sheck, followed by Abel Legaspi and Ron Como. Ms. Sheck? Yes, ma'am. Ms. Sheck will be followed by Abel Legaspi, Ron Como, Barbara Valencia, Michael Castro, Christian Pina. Ms. Sheck's topic is Right or Wrong, Save America. Good afternoon, Ms. Sheck. You'll have three minutes, ma'am.
 Good day, my dear people. Please help me save America. I have no relative in the United States. I adopted you as my family. I trust every one of you as you represent every El Pasoan. Your call has been forwarded to an automated voicemail. I couldn't hear you. I'm sorry, Miss Shea. Go ahead, ma'am.
 My right ear is not working. I don't have it fixed because what I want to hear, I use it with my left ear, but I don't want to hear. I can't say it. I didn't hear you with the sincerity of my heart. I wrote to the Supreme Court to Mr. Roberts, our chief judge, and this is what I wrote. With the sincerity of my heart, please,
 You had the power to take players out of school, give the OK an abortion in 1973. You, the power of America right now, please ask the people with a postcard to write to you to void the
 November 3rd, 2020 election. Because the old man Biden, his health is degeneration as you can see it daily on TV. Mrs. Harris has got no way of being the President of the United States of America with her knowledge.
 and Russia and China is laughing the way America has turned out, and we cannot let this happen. I am old, but not senile. I am at the age of my years of sunset, and I do not give up because I swore November 14th
 1951 to defend God and America. So please help me. And I will be back one more time this year and then
 I write you letters because my leg is getting out on me. Thank you, Mr. . God bless you, everyone. Please, save America with all your power with the help of the people that support you. Thank you, Ms. Schuch. Thank you. And the next speaker is Mr. Abel Legaspi. He will be followed by Ron Cuomo, Barbara Valencia, Michael Castro. Mr. Legaspi also submitted a presentation
 As soon as your presentation is on the screen, you'll have three minutes, sir. His topic is elder support center. Hello, Mayor, representatives. Hey, how are you? Good morning. Thank you. Good afternoon. Can you put it on page six, please? If you don't mind. Page six, please, IT. So speaking today, I'm going to bring up a touchy subject that is well spoken about, elder abuse. But the difference in this type of elder abuse, it really...
 stems up in the in the cyberspace. The Department of Justice presented to Congress on October 19th a report highlighting Internet Crime Complaint Center focused on elder fraud and elder abuse. What this report highlights is the exasperating amount of cyber crime happening within the elder community. Now understanding that
 The our elders are being infiltrated. It's not just happening on the local level. It's really happening worldwide, so what am I here to propose or to advocate for a elder support center is Think about it as a tech center think about it as a IT support for for elders now I'd like to commend the the city staff for the 3-1-1 center and the 3-1-1 communication that that the
 that they've created and something similar of that nature can be accomplished for specifically for our elders. Now the problem that we're having is the unreported crime that that's happening. Now if you could change the slide to the one before that please. You would see that every year it's been a problem, but 2020 has just increased dramatically like there's no tomorrow. Now
 What we're talking here about unreported crime, unchecked crime is, I'm going to leave you here with a story about Maria. Maria, she goes by Tita. That's short for Abuelita. Abuelita, her grandchildren call her Tita. They can't pronounce Abuelita. Now Tita, all her life she's worked at a service industry.
 saved up her nest egg and all her life she's worked hard and now she lives by herself and her kids are off, her grandchildren are off. The type of sophistication of attacks varies but Tita gets targeted by a tech impersonator helping her and assisting her with fixing her printer. This impersonator
 gets access to her computer and pulls every single piece of information that she has, leaving her with zero dollars in her account. Now, she's so embarrassed that she wouldn't even tell her grandchildren. She wouldn't even actually report it. Tita is an example of what's going on and happening in our community. And really the answer is, what are we doing about it? What can we do about it?
 Now, we talked about public safety with the topic today, and elder fraud and elder abuse really boils down to the psychological effects that someone like Tita would have. Thank you, Mr. Luguespi. You've reached the three-minute limit, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for being here. The next speaker is Mr. Ron Como, followed by Barbara Valencia, Michael Castro, Christian Pena.
 Mr. Como's topic is animal services. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. So I want to start with some of the basics. I know back when you had your plan put in, we had to come up, we had to do a proposal. You had Nathan Winogard, who is an expert on no-kill, which is what I gave everybody last meeting, who condemns Austin Pets Alive. My question is...
 Mr. Mayor, if you remember, we had the proposal meeting and you wanted to vote on it right away. The city attorney said you couldn't do that because we had to have both meetings, the proposal and then the voting. I want to know when Haas was voted on. I want to know if anybody's even talked to you guys at a meeting and proposed the Haas program. We all know the Haas program is a disaster. These are animal services reports. The information I'm about to give you is direct from here.
 Mr. Mayor, you own the dealership. If you started a program in 2020 where you lost sales in 2021 of the tune of 5,508 less sales than you had in 2019, would you continue with that program that obviously failed? This is telling us that people are not working with animal services.
 We're getting the same attitude that we had in 2013, where people didn't care about animal services. 5,508 less dogs, cats, were adopted from El Paso Animal Services in 2021 as compared to 2019. Do we not see the problem here? You know, we've got to fix this situation. We have dogs dying on the streets. We have dogs dying from parvo distemper. And nobody's doing anything about it.
 You people need to do a field trip and go walk through our shelter. The shelter is in horrible condition. Of course, we've lost a lot of good employees. Can't imagine why. I just, I get so frustrated because, you know, we've got this huge problem and it just seems like nobody cares. You know, I'd like you guys to spend a week with me. You know, in this last few days, we've transported like 40 dogs to Arizona and I'm getting ready to move another 50 to Maine on Thursday. This is what we do.
 Wear boots on the ground. We see what's happening. You all need to see what's happening. Where did these 5,500 people go? Thank you, Mr. Crummel. Please fix the shelter. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Ms. Barbara Valencia. She will be followed by Michael Castro, Christian Pina, Liz Groh, Sabrina Soto. Ms. Valencia's topic is also animal services. Good afternoon, ma'am. You have three minutes. Okay, thank you.
 For the last 18 months, Animal Services and the city has been lying to the community. That ends today. Paula Powell, former director of El Paso Animal Services, is part of a group that developed the HAWS plan. In June 2020, she officially announced that Animal Services is a HAWS participating shelter. She also trained Ramon Herrera extensively on continuing HAWS after her departure.
 Per her statement, HAWS is to build better safety programs for pets. On this board that Ron is holding, that is the actual HAWS plan. Per HAWS and Animal Services, effective February 20th, 2020, intake of healthy strays and owner surrenders no longer exist. No kennel space is to be used for rehoming stray hold or owner surrenders. Intake has been close to these animals since its implementation.
 per HAWS. Animal Services is no longer the shelter. The community is now the shelter and it is the job of the community to take in the strays and the community is solely responsible for the strays. Yet Animal Services has taken 18 million dollars from us, the taxpayers, since implementing HAWS and that's double dipping.
 The community does not have the resources, knowledge, or experience to take unfamiliar strays into their homes. Mayor and City Council members, how many strays have you taken into your homes? Per HAWS, animal services needs to be creative when making up data, i.e. make up lies. To falsely represent, HAWS is better as opposed to the old way the shelter operated. Per HAWS and Animal Services.
 A person who finds a stray animal and is unable to hold onto the animal instructs the person to release the animal back onto the streets in hopes it finds its way back home. Haas Animal Services and the City participates and supports animal abandonment, which is a crime. The goal of Haas and Animal Services is to leave the animals on the streets to fend for themselves and die.
 do away with the ability of the citizens to take animals to a safe place and force the community to do the job of animal services. Nothing in this plan builds better safety programs for the pets in our city. Today the lies ends and the truth about HAWS is right there. It is the job and responsibility of the Mayor and City Council members to end HAWS which is nothing more than an intake reduction program that enables and justifies animal cruelty at the very least
 and has the city instructing and participating in committing illegal acts. HAWS is not a no-kill plan and nothing in HAWS aids in making El Paso no-kill. On this other board here is a sampling of the innocent victims of HAWS. Take a good, long, hard look. This is what you, Animal Services, and HAWS are doing to the animals in our city. Thank you, Ms. Valencia.
 The next speaker will be Mr. Michael Castro, followed by Christian Pina, Liz Groh, Sabrina Soto. Mr. Castro, good afternoon, sir. You'll have three minutes. His topic is cannabis decriminalization. Go ahead, sir. Hi, yes. Good afternoon, State Council. So cannabis legalization is upon us.
 There are five legal dispensaries setting up shop right here in Sunland Park, New Mexico that we currently know of. They will be less than a five-minute drive away from the state line and city line of El Paso, Texas. Currently, the funding that has been requested and any future funding that may be requested for cannabis testing to further convict people for possession and consumption of cannabis in any form is 100% wrong.
 And it's all because of what is happening right next door in Sunland Park, New Mexico, in the state of New Mexico. El Paso City Council, you guys work very closely with the Sunland Park City Council as both cities border each other. If you guys approve funding at any measure to further convict people for cannabis, you are acting in negligence toward the people of this community. Don't forget, Texas has a legal medical marijuana program.
 Like I said before, cannabis is here and it's going nowhere. It is very easy to obtain, especially in its many forms. In El Paso, Texas, you can legally obtain CBD, Delta 8, and Delta 10 products. And a five-minute drive away, you can now obtain Delta 9. Or maybe not yet, but in April, you'll be able to obtain high THC cannabis. It makes no sense for the city to waste money going after our people.
 when every single news station in El Paso, KFOX, KBIA, KTSM, have recently aired stories covering the legalization of New Mexico, how the growers and dispensary owners are getting ready for recreational cannabis sales. They're excited and ready for the people of Texas and out-of-staters to travel to New Mexico and purchase legal cannabis. The news stations have covered what is going to happen in New Mexico in a great way, but they are not covering how this directly affects the people of El Paso.
 They are not telling the people in the city of El Paso that the city is not protecting them. And the El Paso Police Department still wants us, marijuana users, and let me correct that, it's cannabis users, caught and convicted. And that's the truth.
 You guys can come after us, but thousands of us will choose to still obtain this medicine. We understand law enforcement has to follow law, but your community is asking that the city of El Paso and the El Paso Police Department come together and work together to start to understand the future of cannabis and what it represents. What it is doing all around this country and what it's about to do right next door to us.
 We have to understand that the cannabis community is here, it is thriving, and business is about to boom, and it's all because of the people in El Paso. So El Paso City Council, let's work together, you guys. I wish y'all could spend a week or even just one day in my shoes so you can understand what is happening five minutes away from your biggest university, the University of El Paso, Texas.
 Right? To date myself personally, I have registered. Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Thank you guys. Thank you so much. Thank you guys very much. Y'all have a good day. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Ms. Sabrina Soto. Ms. Soto's topic is denying El Paso Police Department's funding for cannabis testing. Ms. Soto, star six to unmute your microphone while she's doing that. Hello? Go ahead, Ms. Soto. You have three minutes. Go ahead, Ms. Soto. You have three minutes, ma'am. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, City Council.
 Almost four months ago, the cannabis community asked you to deny the El Paso Police Department starting request of $72,000. We said it was only going to be the beginning, which has been proven fact, since the budget request is now $360,000. We're asking you to please hear us. Thousands of tax dollars doesn't need to be wasted on arresting and prosecuting us. Why continue to give us a criminal record over a plant that provides for so many of us?
 whether it be medicinal or recreational purposes. Let me remind you that there are states surrounding Texas that have decriminalized and legalized cannabis. They are getting with the times and on the right side of history. No later than April 2022 is when recreational sales will begin in New Mexico. If this funding is approved, you're going to be driving many El Pasoans to New Mexico to spend their money over there.
 meaning the city of El Paso is going to be losing a lot of money, not only for 2022, but for the years to come. As long as the police department wants to test on cannabis, El Paso will continue to lose money. No one is going to want to come to El Paso just to leave with a criminal record over cannabis, especially over misdemeanor amounts. I encourage everyone to do away with the stigma revolving around cannabis and its consumer. Please look at the research and see what cannabis is doing for so many of us.
 Update your way of thinking that people are failing to acknowledge the research backing up the benefits of consuming cannabis. It is completely normal to change your mind when presented with new information, which the cannabis community has done. We have presented you with current information, which is constantly being updated and testimonies over the years.
 Change is needed. It is long overdue for change, actually. Again, testing cannabis will cost thousands of taxpayer dollars. This money could be put back into El Paso and its community, but it is going to go to waste. El Paso could be thriving off of cannabis, but if this funding is approved, you are choosing for the city to move backwards. I strongly suggest that you deny this increased funding request. Thank you, City Council. Have a good day.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Carlos Mireles. He will be followed by Cole DeMores. Mr. Mireles' topic is also EPPD funding for cannabis testing. Mr. Mireles, star 6-2, unmute your microphone, please. Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes.
 Hi, I just wanted to talk today about this cannabis issue because I know this isn't my job to make the final decision. I know everyone has their own way of thinking and their own opinions on things. And I just wanted to kind of talk to you all about the perspective that most El Pasoans right now are actually going through.
 we have a lot of people here like veterans and people who are who are heard that actually could benefit a lot with this drug and now that new mexico is actually going to be legal a lot of people are actually thinking wow this might actually be my chance to maybe try it maybe it is beneficial maybe i could be open to seeing the benefits that everyone claims to see and we've seen the fact of all the benefits of how it cures
 depression, how it helps people who have lack of appetite, who have people with cancers. It's very beneficial, but the fact that when people have the opportunity to go try, and they live here in El Paso, why should they be living in fear of wanting to go try something that a lot of states in the United States are actually starting to legalize it. They're all starting to join together. A lot of cities here in Texas are now starting to legalize it or decriminalize it.
 And eventually as all of the cities here in Texas work together, eventually we could possibly get the state of Texas to start maybe being medically legal or eventually recreationally legal. And it all starts with now, how we think about it and how we go from it from today. I know that once we actually get into recreational sales and once this actually starts becoming a regular thing,
 This could actually start bringing more than 6,000 jobs to the city of El Paso and every city here in the state of Texas bringing over $260 million to the city. So this could be very beneficial for all of us. The fact that we are all trying to work towards that and just because of the way you think you want to go ahead and.
 It's still fun people to put us behind bars and give us tickets and give us fines that we have to forcefully pay just so that we can go about our day. It's wrong. And the fact that all of us want to go ahead and move forward and come with what's coming up in the future, I just think that everybody needs to just realize that
 just because you thought everything was bad because of how you grew up shouldn't be how you should think of it from now on things have changed and i really suggest that city council you start opening up to what the benefits of this and the reality is a lot of us are still going to keep going at this no matter what because just like every other state
 They all started pushing and pushing back and pushing back and pushing back until eventually they listened to us and they won. Thank you. And that's exactly where we're going to keep going. Thank you, Mr. Medialist. Thank you. Thank you, sir. The next speaker is Mr. Colt DeMorris, followed by Mr. Christian. Love you, America! Mr. DeMorris, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Mr. Colt DeMorris. Can you hear me? Yes, sir, we can hear you. You have three minutes, sir. Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Okay. Good afternoon, council, mayor. You know, everybody's...
 Hit the nail on the head that has talked before me. Yesterday I dealt with a set of parents that came in to me trying to get into the New Mexico reciprocal program for their minor child who is in the Texas program. Unfortunately, there's nothing I can do for them because the reciprocal patient has to be the patient themselves. There's no way to get a caregiver in. But these are the people that are seeking cannabis from New Mexico.
 These are El Pasoans that are coming out. Of course you're going to have those ones when recreational hits that, you know, are doing it just for the recreation, but you're going to have a lot of patients that now have close access to medicine that they've been wanting to get and can't get, whether it's because they don't qualify for the Texas program, you know, or for whatever reason. Yeah.
 TO CONTINUE ARRESTING EL PASOANS FOR IT IS ABSURD. AND WITH THE NEW MEXICO LEGALIZATION JUST A FEW MONTHS AWAY OR RECREATIONAL SALES JUST A FEW MONTHS AWAY, IT'S ONLY A MATTER OF TIME BEFORE SOMEBODY ONE OF YOU GUYS KNOW. IT DOESN'T NEED TO BE LIKE THIS. WE DON'T NEED TO BE PUTTING OUR CITIZENS BEHIND BARS FOR A PLANT THAT THEY CAN LEGALLY PURCHASE OVER AN IMAGINARY BOUNDARY FIVE MINUTES AWAY. I DEAL WITH A LOT OF TEXAS PATIENTS DAILY.
 I know when the reciprocal program loophole was there, I dealt with thousands upon thousands weekly. Now even more people are gonna have access come April. And we need to keep our arrest down. We need to keep our arrest away. Thank you guys for your time. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Christian Pina, also speaking on EPPD funding for cannabis testing.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Pena. You have three minutes. Hey, good afternoon. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. Thank you. A large budget amount of about $300,000, that's access to a lot of possibilities for the police department that should not be taken away, but it should be considered that it could be used for something else. Children are growing up, and they have to decide if they're going to be using marijuana or not.
 Why is why cannot the money be used to strengthen the relationship between the police and the community? I'm asking you to consider to consider who the money would be going to is it a third-party corporation for testing or is it a? corporation here locally in El Paso from students that are coming up from El Paso Community College in UTEP and
 is the money going out of El Paso or is it coming back inside of El Paso? And how can we further the relationship with police department with the time moving forward? Thank you for your time today.
 Thank you. And Ms. Liz Groh also called this morning to note on the record that she's against the EPPD funding for cannabis testing. And the final speaker this afternoon is Mr. Rigo Macias. Mr. Macias' topic is water project, which cut a rib across the road. And IT Mr. Macias submitted a presentation. If you'll please bring it up for him, we will appreciate it.
 Mr. Macias, good afternoon. Once IT brings your presentation up on the screen, you'll have three minutes, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor. Good afternoon. First time seeing all of you faces. I'm new in El Paso, and I'm loving El Paso. I bought a property at the intersection of Clark and Welch.
 And it's a home that used to belong to the Macias. And there is a street name which I was surprised by the name of Macias. And I'm also Macias, which is really weird to buy this home under previous owners of Macias, no relation. The house, I was enjoying it for the last year and a half, except that currently there was a project that just started with El Paso of old piping since 1950 that they replaced.
 And they did, I'm sure, a fantastic job because I'm getting my water, it seems to be clear. But they did cut along vertically and horizontally on the street. And now there is Old Dominion that really is down the same street. So we have 24-7 big rigs coming and crossing over into this temporary patchwork.
 The problem is that it shakes the house. At night, they're going 24-7. I'm just getting ready for the next shock wave which happens. And since they're double boxed rigs, they bang three times. You know, boom, boom, boom.
 And I feel it and it's been going on now for three weeks. I did try to reach out to the different departments including my representative Mrs. Hernandez's Assistant and she was working to resolve the issue or communicate with someone. I was promised that I would get a call back But I never did at this point
 I have a feeling that it's just desk people that are just taking calls and maybe making calls, but no one is really coming out to look at the problem. And I really am requesting my representative, Mrs. Hernandez, if she can help me, to send someone out just to come into my home, feel what I feel. I've had to actually go to a hotel or go to a friend's house and sleep the night now in the last few days because it's gotten worse.
 And that's all I'm asking is just somebody can come on and look and experience what I'm going through. That is the only thing really that I'm requesting so I can continue to enjoy my home. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Mayor. That concludes call to the public this afternoon. Do we have a motion to adjourn? There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Opposed?
 And the regular City Council meeting for Tuesday, December 7th, 2021 is adjourned at 1236 p.m. Thank you, Council.