Good morning, Ms. Pryor, it's 9 a.m. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, this is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, December 3rd, 2024. Mayor Leaser is presiding in council chambers along with Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, Representative Hernandez, Alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar, Representative Salcido,
 Representative Canales has requested to be excused this morning, it is nine o'clock a.m. Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Senior Chaplain David Mayfield. Good morning, sir. Mayor Leaser, council, this will be my last opportunity to perform this service for you, for this council in its current configuration. And I wanted to take this opportunity to thank all of you
 for allowing myself and my fellow chaplains the opportunity to serve both the PD and the city of El Paso. We very much appreciate your support. Thank you, sir, and thank you for always having kind words and meaningful words. Thank you. And now I would invite everybody to join me as I pray. Creator God, as we gather here today to serve our community,
 May we be guided by wisdom, compassion, and understanding. Grant us the strength to listen to one another with open minds and open hearts, embracing the diversity of ideas and perspectives. May we approach our responsibilities with humility, placing the needs of those we represent above our own. Grant us the courage to lead with integrity and the wisdom to make decisions that uplift and empower every member of our community.
 Help us to listen with empathy, to act with compassion, and to seek solutions that promote unity and justice. Remind us that true leadership is not about authority, but about service. May our work today be guided by a shared commitment to the greater good, inspiring hope and progress for all. In gratitude for this opportunity to serve, let us move forward with purpose and resolve. Amen. Thank you, sir.
 I'll lead the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Ms. Prine, I'm gonna try not to talk very much. Yes, Mayor. And for the record, Representative Acevedo joined the meeting at 9.03 a.m. along with Representative Fierro.
 That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. For those of you receiving a proclamation this morning, your group will have up to six minutes collectively to speak at the podium. We begin with a proclamation for leading the way, workplace well-being week. Leading the way, workplace well-being week. Representative Salcido. Good morning, thank you, Mayor. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the health and wellness of the City of El Paso's workforce
 The strategic plan is vitally important to sustain a healthy environment for our employees, producing productive overall healthier individuals. And whereas we are continuously developing innovative ways to engage our employees and offer them opportunities to get and stay healthy, including virtual exercises, mental well-being classes, disease management, and weekly educational podcasts.
 And whereas the city of El Paso has received Aetna's highest recognition for the fifth year in a row by featuring a well-crafted, comprehensive wellness strategy for employees to live a healthier and a more active lifestyle while prioritizing physical and mental health wellness.
 Whereas this recognition demonstrates how the City of El Paso has exceeded the nation's standards for the healthy workplace and leads the way with the innovation implementation of a program to assist employees in prioritizing their mental, physical, social, and professional well-being. Now, therefore, it be proclaimed by the Mayor and the City Council of the City of El Paso that week of December 1, 2024 shall be known as Leading the Way
 workplace well-being week signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Thank you. Good morning Mary Wiggins chief human resources officer at this moment. I would like to introduce you to mr. Christina Christina Chacon from Aetna who is our wellness coordinator? Hi. Good morning mayor and City Council. I
 Aetna is excited to recognize employers that are committed in supporting their employees path to well-being through our This is our eighth year in the workplace well-being award this year. We had over 220 employers apply for the award and
 This application is an extensive questionnaire. It's filled with open type questions on areas such as employers' well-being strategy and design, their communications and organizational engagement, their workplace programs, policies, their incentives and employee engagement, as well as the overall wellness program evaluation.
 Out of over 220 employers nationwide, 147 of them won a well-being award. We had 32 winners in our bronze category, we had 37 in our silver, we had 48 in our gold category, and only 30 win the platinum leading the way category.
 I am happy to announce that the City of El Paso has won the coveted Platinum category yet again. This is the fifth year that they have achieved the highest recognition and the second year that they have literally had the highest scoring application out of all the applicants. So it's quite an honor. The City of El Paso is very deserving of this honor as I know much support and energy is putting put into the robust Shape It Up Wellness program that is offered. Congratulations.
 Thank you, Mr. Cone. Mr. Mayor City Council good morning miss city manager I saw my great city employees out there. It's great to be here First things first we can't accomplish Stuff like this without having a great foundation. So I'd like for the team to come up here. We have the best team behind the scenes Helping, you know move forward and do what we do motivated employees, you know as said in the prayer earlier and
 that our mission is to help out the community and do what we can. So what we do as human resources is we make sure that all city employees have an opportunity to better themselves, whether it be physically, mentally, spiritually, and we can't do that without them. So I just wanted to give them a round of applause. And any other city employees that were a part of the team in the past, thank you very much.
 Of course, can't do this without the support of our chain of command, so thank you to Miss Mary, our city manager, and of course, our city council, some of you guys, the employees are watching you, and your little participation that you might feel small, it leads a big deal to our employees, whether it be participating with our medical plan discount and our blood work, coming on our Shape It Up Hour, and throwing yourselves out there, promoting our Shape It Up Baby program,
 We thank you guys. You know, we've made a we've made a lot of good progress in the past and The mission is just keep moving forward. We can't do that without you. We can't do that with our chain of command We can't do that without you know, the best team back here and we can't do that without our best, you know city of employees shout out to our public information office for putting our name out there and you know, it's a group effort and
 and we have nothing but appreciation, and to let you know that we have no point in stopping, and we're just going to keep moving forward and being the best that we can be, so that way the city of Paso employees can be the best that they can be for our community. So thank you all. Thank you. Thank you.
 Just one last item. I mean it really is it does take the Leadership allowing us to do these things some of the the application one of the things that they have to even include on there is How you as the leadership mayor and council promote our wellness? We've had to actually go back
 find clips of um city councils where you've actually talked about our shape it up program so that we show that you are encouraging and that you are uh part of delivering that message so it is important it's not just that you know that we're doing it behind the scenes they want to know that it's coming from the top down and so we're continuing to do it um as you know we were awarded the aetna account again going forward into next year and we
 As part of that award, our wellness amount that we receive has increased, which is going to allow us to be able to do greater things with our wellness plan. We already have plans for different diabetes management. We're now doing some one-on-ones in departments.
 We have a great big plan that we're going to be moving forward, but it's never enough. We always want to be knowing what can we do different, what is out there, what's going on nationally, how can we be competitive, and how can we reach our employees. Recently, you know, we have areas that we're recognizing where employees can't really come to us, and so we're going out to them.
 So we never want to be complacent. We always want to be better. And we just appreciate that you support us with that, that you back us, and that you give us the ability to help take care of our employees. So thank you, and thank you again to our wonderful team. Thank you.
 Thank you all. And, you know, you talk about guidance and leadership, and that's what you all bring to the program. And I want to thank you all for that because it just doesn't happen, as you said. It doesn't happen on its own. And it's important that we continue to have wellness and things that will continue to keep us healthy.
 Keep those premiums where they are today. So I want to thank you all for your guidance and your leadership and again, congratulations Thank you. Thank you a photo with council, please. Yes Now Sarah's here One two three
 Can we do one of everyone pointing to the award looking really excited? Yeah, there we go. Ready? One, two, three. A couple more. And the next proclamation is Creative Kids 25th Anniversary. Representative Rivera, good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Thank you. Proclamation from the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas are they here first of all? Yes. Come on up. Come to the front please.
 Whereas Creative Kids has demonstrated a profound commitment to enriching the lives of children and youth through various art programs, including Project AIM, Resiliency Art Program, Project ABLE, Project MAP, Little Picassos,
 kids and migrant families and past programs such as early college high school program and Kids with special needs in the El Paso Del Norte region for 25 years
 And whereas Project AIM has recognized nationally receiving the President's Committee on Arts and Humanities Youth Program Award and being named Best Practice Model for Arts and Healthcare Programming by the National Endowment for the Arts and
 Whereas the Resiliency Art Program was established in response to the tragic events of August 3rd, 2019 in El Paso, Texas and aims to promote healing, dialogue and resilience through the arts. And whereas Project ABLE provides vital after school arts education to disconnected youth
 in Fabens in San Elisario, Texas, and most recently expanding into rural southern New Mexico, fostering self-expression, leadership skills, and self-esteem. And whereas Project MAP
 in partnership with the Boys and Girls Club of El Paso and Texas ACE program, offers supplemental academic and enrichment activities to students from high poverty and low performing schools. And whereas, Little Picassos offer early access to art education for children aged four through eight, encouraging creativity, self-expression through age appropriate activities.
 And whereas past programs such as early college high school program and kids with special needs have provided essential skills and opportunities for youth to realize their talents and pursue higher education and career goals.
 And whereas Creative Kids is commended for its outstanding contributions to our community through its diverse and impactful art programs. Now therefore it be proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that December 3rd, 2024 shall be known as Creative Kids 25th Anniversary signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Hi, good morning, I'm Andrea Gates Ingle. Good morning.
 I'm the co-founder and executive director of Creative Kids along with my husband, Steven Engle, the creative director. It's just an honor to be able to do this work in our community. Hard to believe it's been 25 years. But being nationally recognized and doing the work with pediatric oncology patients, migrant youth, disadvantaged, at risk, and disconnected youth in our region and beyond because now we've expanded into southern New Mexico.
 and our rural Fabin San Alisario communities. We just thank you and the community because this has been a community effort. It's not just a Creative Kids effort. We always say this has been highly successful because our community has really wrapped around with us to do this work together. So this is something that we can all celebrate together. And so we're just honored for this and we appreciate you and hopefully we can do this in another 25 years. Thank you very much, Representative Ferrell.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to thank you very much. You, your board, it's such a great program. My daughter went there for a couple summers, absolutely loved it. She wishes she could go back and hopefully someday we can put it in her schedule again, but she just raves on it. It was just such a great program to help her with all aspects of her life. But there's no creativity in my family, so you all really brought it out of her. Thank you.
 Thank you. We should also mention we're excited because in 2025 we will be expanding nationally through the Mott Foundation. We'll be in over 22,000 after school programs with our curriculum that's being licensed out so that's huge for us. It took 25 years but we finally got here so I don't know if you want to say anything and we also have one of our program partners, the Rio Grande Council of Governments that will also be giving you guys a gift.
 I'm just really thankful and excited for the things that are coming for the next 25 years. We don't plan to retire. That's not in the game plan.
 So with this new opportunity of launching from El Paso, Texas, a homegrown nonprofit nationally, I think it's going to bring in not only funding but recognition to how great this city is and what it's done for creative kids and ourselves. So we're very thankful to you guys, the community, for everything you've done.
 Good morning, Mayor, Council Members, Madam City Manager. My name is Yvette Lugo. I am with the Ruranda Council of Governments and today I'm actually here on behalf of our Executive Director, Ms. Annette Gutierrez, who unfortunately was not able to join us. But she felt it was important to bring this proclamation, so thank you all for supporting that on behalf of Creative Kids.
 They, as was shared, are a recipient of funding that comes through the Council of Governments. But more importantly, the importance of just recognizing their work, all of the important ways that they've helped shape and change our community and our region, quite frankly, and just representing the good work that they do. And so we felt strongly about bringing this to them to honor all of the work and the foresight
 and thought that Andrea and Steven have put into this program. Really, I would think their life's work, in my opinion. And so we just wanted to recognize that, honor them, thank them for all of the work that they've done and the difference that they've made in our community. On behalf of the Council of Governments and Creative Kids, as a token of appreciation, we'd like to offer you all a small, it's a bag that our staff here with us have an image that was produced through Creative Kids
 You'll see this image on the Playa Drain, and it's just kind of filled with a little Council of Government swag, if you will. But more importantly, just to recognize and provide that, to note that this is the work that Creative Kids has done. And again, we're so grateful and thankful for their partnership, and more than anything, are so proud of the work that Creative Kids has made and done in our community. Thank you.
 One thing on the bag there it's the public art that is done for the Playa Drain Trail. We also have accomplished lately in the Children's Museum work done by the kids and so I invite you to get on the website and see the work that's been done by our local talent. All right thanks. Thank you thank you very much for everything you do and you know we talk about
 the future of our community and I've said it a thousand times as I've said it once since I've been in offices the children are the success and the future in our community and having proper guidance and people that help them moving forward is so important and Thank you for like represent bureau talked about how his daughter loved it It's something that really helps them mold and continue to move forward in their lives. So thank you for what you all do Representative Thank you
 I guess we're both in the same zone there. It's like everybody else has said, and when I first met Creative Kids, it was on a project both in District 3 and District 7, and it's at the Carolina Bridge. I would encourage everybody who sees their art around town. It's really fantastic. The kids really go all out. Thank you very much for being so active in our community and keeping the kids busy.
 And thank you all, it was an honor for me to present it to you. And the final proclamation this morning is Los Compadres Day. Good morning, Representative Nandez. Thank you, Mayor. Happy and honored to read this proclamation into record, being one of the largest immigrant communities on the borderland. It's wonderful to get to share a wonderful story about some local entrepreneurs.
 Proclamation of the City of El Paso, bienvenidos. Whereas Los Compadres was founded in 2013 in Tonala, Jalisco, Mexico by Luis Erasmo Lopez and Silvia Dinajero with the vision of promoting the gastronomy of Tonala, Tonala.
 while providing hospitality and offering great customer service, quality food, authenticity, and humbleness. And Raza Lopez-Casaneda family took advantage of the investor visa in 2023 and partnered with the Perez Castro family with El Paso to expand the vision by establishing the first Los Compadres food truck in 2023 in El Paso, their second food truck in 2024, and their third coming in 2025, becoming international business.
 Whereas the last two years, Los Compadres have created job opportunities for residents of El Paso, including military families, disabled veterans, and students from the Southwest University who are pursuing chef careers. And whereas Los Compadres supports and sponsors local events, such as Vive en Mexico, Thanksgiving Parade, Fiesta Latina, Movies in the Park, Make-A-Wish Foundations, Eagle Treasures in Heaven, the American Cancer Association, Humane Society, Hospice of El Paso, and Stand Up to Cancer.
 and Rasmus Tino Paso and the Children's Ministry of the Centro Cristiano Esmirina, were sponsored by Los Compadres and the Memorial Playground in the partnership with the Eagles Treasures and Heaven GCC and Centro Cristiano Esmirina in honor of the cancer warriors that have gained their wings, also receive financial support.
 And whereas Los Compadres is committed to continuing to give back to the community and offer their assistance in El Paso and the community. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council that the city of El Paso proclaims December 4, 2024, three day shall be known as Los Compadres Day, signed by Mayor, Honorable Mayor Oscar Leiser. Congratulations. Good morning, Mayor, City Council Reps.
 City Manager and everyone here present good morning ma'am good morning we are humbled to be here my name is Abigail Perez Castro I am one of the business partners of Los Compadres I am humbled and honored to be here at the City Council meeting with my business partners
 Luis erasmo Lopez and she is one of our military families that is being benefited by the employees that are now being provided by los compadres of course we do have other employees but she was the only one that was able to be here we want to thank our mayor.
 our city representatives, the El Paso community, for this proclamation and for opening up their arms to our business and allowing us to provide and promote with honor the gastronomy of Tonalá, Jalisco, while at the same time living the American dream.
 My business partners are a clear example that if you give dedication to your dreams and follow the correct and right path to legal immigration, everything is possible. Los Compadres is a project that was started in Tonalá, Jalisco in 2013. And thanks to the opportunity given to us here in El Paso, we are now an international business that provides jobs to families in Mexico and in the US, including our military families and striving chefs
 from Southwest University. We will continue to work hard to always provide the best customer service and promote our gastronomy while expanding and continue to support the economic development of El Paso, Texas, and supporting our local non-profit organizations that we currently work with.
 Today we are filled with joy, honor, and pride and feel humble for receiving this recognition and thank God, our families, friends, and community for their continued support. God bless you guys. Thank you. Thank you. You want to come up please? For the record, Representative Rivera joined the meeting at 9.06 a.m.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Potem.
 Item 2, request to excuse absent City Council members. And that's to excuse Representative Chris Canales. Page 3, item 7, move to the regular agenda per Representative Hernandez. Page 7, item 20, move to the regular agenda per Representative Hernandez. Page 8, suspend the rules of order per Mayor Leaser to change the time for call to the public from 12 p.m. to 10 a.m.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Tem Kennedy, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Mayor, would you like to take the items that were moved to the regular first? Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Item number seven is a resolution to update the debt management policy for the City of El Paso. Hope so, none this.
 Good morning. Thank you for bringing this forward. Typically we have a conversation about the debt management policy. I was not able to look at the backup. There's always sentiment from the community that there's concerns over the debt. So has there been any changes to the policy or anything worth citing?
 So the main changes that we have to the policy this year, good morning. Good morning. Margarita Marin for the Rekord City Comptroller. The main changes to the policy were presented to FOAC on November 14th and they're technically changes that we made to align this policy with the capital assets policy as it pertains to the capital assets threshold. Hold on, let me go through a presentation. Do you want me to go through a presentation? Sure. That's fine.
 So section 5.1 was updated for the useful life of the capital assets acquired with general obligation debt to be 10 years instead of 15 years. And again this is to align this policy with the capital assets policy for best practices. And then section 5.3, capital assets financed with the GOs should have a...
 value of at least $10,000 instead of $5,000 and The federal government the uniform guidance was updated at the beginning of October and they updated the threshold from $5,000 to $10,000 So since the city has a lot of grants we decided to move forward with this update So we can align that as well and instead of having different threshold too much with the grants. I
 Also, because what you bought with $5,000 before is not the same that you will acquire today. So this is just for alignment to that. Also we added to Section 5.9 another financing alternative is state infrastructure bank loans, the SIP loans, just to have it available for the city in case that in the future we need to use this alternative.
 And then also section 7.6, we added an alternative to refundings, to bond refundings to include the tender offers, also in case that the city gets to use this alternative. And then section 9 includes a clarification related to the assets that are purchased with the bonds that does not exceed the life of the bonds.
 The reason that we included this is because whenever we have a bond issuance to build one of our projects, we have to furnish the facility to be able to open it to the public. So we want to include that exception in there to make sure that we
 we don't, that we take care of the bond, right? Because when we usually issue the bonds, we issue it for brick and mortar, right? To buy facilities, infrastructure, big items. And so since we have to furnish these facilities, it's at the minimum amount, but we wanna make sure that we include this in the policy to protect the city from any miscompliance on this.
 And also the latest things that we did was the community progress bond authorization that happened right after we updated the policy the last time. So we made sure that across the policy we're including that this time. Those are the main changes. Everything else is cosmetic. The only question I have is the previous slide, please. It's the first. I'm just trying to understand what was the purpose of changing from 15 to 10 years?
 The 15 to 10 years. So in the public safety authorization, you're going to be buying big equipment for police and for fire department, and the big equipment used for life is not going to be 30 years or 20 years. So best practices says that they last about 10 years, so in order to comply with that, we have updated the policy to include.
 What specifically for 10 years? Like ambulances, fire trucks, those are big items for police and fire. But they're not going to last 20, 30 years according to capitalization threshold best practices across municipalities. So that's why we included that. We lowered it down from 15 years to 10 years to accommodate the type of assets that we're now buying for the public safety bond authorization. Okay.
 Understood. Thank you for your time. Thank you. And that's so important that we do not finance something over the lifetime of the existence because then You have to buy new ones and still continue to pay for the old ones. So it's very common sense to do something like that Absolutely. Yes, sir. Thank you with that. Do we have motion? You're welcome There's a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by mayor pro Tem Kennedy to approve item number seven on that motion call for the vote and the voting session and that motion passes unanimously and
 We now move to page 7 to item number 20. That was moved to the regular. Item 20 is the award of solicitation 2024-0620, R, Actuarial Services and Consulting for Fire Police Department and Civilian Plan to Foster and Foster Consulting Actuaries, Inc., DBA Foster and Foster, Inc.
 I did have a question for the department, not on the solicitation itself. I'm just trying to understand why or what is the purpose of this or what's the intention here? Good morning. Mary Wiggins, chief human resources officer.
 The intention is every five years we are required to go and perform an actuarial audit on our pension plans to make sure they're in compliance with all state guidelines and everything. So this is our this is us going out for the actuarial company that's going to come in and audit our pension plans.
 We did it five years ago. We went out for a bid. The same company, Foster & Foster, actually won that award. So they're comfortable. They know our pension plans. But that's what it's for. Okay.
 Want to make sure that I just want to make sure that there was no other efforts just this is a regular compliance That you do every five years every five years were required By state law to have to come to actually audit our pension plans to make sure that you know that we're in compliance So it's just in accordance with our actuarial audits. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Move to approve. Thank you. Miss Reagans We did this five years ago Thank you
 With that, Ms. Pryor? There is a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 20. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously.
 the next item is number 21 and this is an update and discussion on the status of the final motion of ex1 sunset amphitheater from the april 23rd 2024 city council meeting agenda this item was placed by alternate mayor protege molinar thank you mayor good morning everyone uh karina good morning um places item in the agenda for several reasons but number one um there's a lot of public
 People were public asking questions about when is it gonna start? When are they gonna break around as you know that's already been approximately seven months And so they were supposed to break ground and I believe during the month of August here We are almost three and a half months later and we don't have any groundbreaking at all So the people of Northeast do want an answer, but it also benefits the entire the city of El Paso So I'll leave that up to you man. Go
 Certainly Karina Braz Gala economic and international development so this is related to the agreement with and it's it's venue doing business as notes live and So the one thing is I believe the company had talked about wanting to break ground in August. We never had a groundbreaking deadline So we have not yet closed on the land transfer There was an issue with the title work the munitions map the unexploded ordinance which I think most I'll pass once known especially those in the Northeast and
 Sort of an item that comes up on a lot of those because of the way that their Financial structure works that that parceling out that condominium structure to sell that out to investors They need a very clean bill of title on the property. So we are expecting to close on that transaction this month So it's a little bit of a delay. We do not expect that that this would impact any of the contractual timelines we may miss the beginning of the 2026 season, but we're still on track and
 I will also say the parking agreement is under review both with the city attorney's office and with our capital improvements department since we'll be required to do that and then we've been coordinating very heavily with TxDOT to figure out the access in and out of the property in the way that that's going to work out.
 It's not related to the agreement specifically, but I will also say that we have been working with several interested parties on development for the remainder of Cohen. Those are still kind of early stages. And so as with everything, when we are at a point where we have a firm list of obligations of recommendation from staff, we bring that forward in executive session typically and then move through that agreement just as with any other deal. But.
 Everything is moving, so a slight delay, but I do not expect it to impact the opening in 2026.
 So this month you're saying something should happen the month of December? So as with all of these, they're working through pre-development work. So it's a lot of emails. It's a lot of plans being submitted. I don't know that folks – I don't want to promise that folks are going to see like machines out there on the site, but we are closing the transaction, which will allow venue to then go out and start marketing those boxes, start collecting the investor information, and I think you'll start to see a little bit more movement. Okay. Thank you, ma'am. Of course. Thank you.
 Representative Acevedo, good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor. Thank you. I just had a question. So none of the boxes have been sold yet? They're waiting on this? I don't want to say not for sure. I wouldn't know. I don't know the company's business. It's likely that they have internally sold. But I don't believe it's open for investment because they don't own the property yet. Okay. Right. All right. Thank you.
 Now you did and maybe you mentioned it I missed it but you did when I asked you about this You talked about that the box has been that it's going to be ownership when people buy it. It's a lot. It's real different and
 So there will be like condominiums instead of boxes where at the end of the term you own nothing. You actually own the box and then you have the ability to resell it. Yes, correct. And because that investment model works on the condominium scheme where you are actually selling land then through to investors, they need a very clean title on this property. So I assure everyone again, there is not actually unexploded ordinance. Nobody's going to get blown up going to an event.
 We've never had an issue. We had a stadium there, we demolished it, but it is just kind of something unique to El Paso, I think. Thank you, ma'am. Yes, sir, there is no action on this item, so we'll move on to item 22, and this is an update and discussion on the status of the motion of item one, the 380 agreement with MEDA from the December 4th, 2023 Special City Council meeting. This item was also placed by alternate mayor Pro Tem Molinar. Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor, once again,
 Meta this is almost approximately one year It was December 3rd and December 4th and everything that we were responsible to do Did and so once again the people of Northeast El Paso and I'm sure other places throughout the city of El Paso are hungry They want to know information what's happening? What's not happening? I also remember that they were supposed to be rebuilt parts of a Stan Roberts Road and the controlled intersection out there Which was a plus
 So do you can you update that on that for us? Absolutely
 So as discussed when we did the CFOX approval, so it was Project CFOX, but the meta sale and all those actions last December. So those actions were the first of many additional steps needed to take the data center and get it to be operational. We did a 25 year incentive period, but it was within a 37 year agreement term. So we gave them some flexibility kind of floating in there because we knew that there were a number of steps, many of which are outside of city council's control.
 So one, I will assure everyone that we continue to work closely with all of our internal counterparts. So both capital improvements, the utility affairs, planning and inspections, and then also with our utility partners. So it'll pass electric and I'll pass a water to move this project forward because there are a number of utility agreements in place with meta. So the sale of the property did close last December. The deadline for that was April 2024. But we closed at the end of December, Mr. Cortina's ran around getting signatures and we're very grateful that he managed to get that one closed out for us.
 So we do have that sale price in. We have that $8.5 million in. The first milestone in the agreement was the completion of Stan Roberts within five years. So that would be a deadline of 2028. They are well in advance of that. We have 60% plans under review with city departments and TxDOT. Comments were due back from TxDOT, I believe,
 yesterday or today, so those should be going out this week back to the company. They have also submitted their grading permit and the preliminary subdivision plot was approved by city plan commission in September. So there's all that. And then I will also mention you all have been receiving
 Updates an executive session, but there is the filing with the Public Utility Commission at the state for the renewable energy tariffs So that is in progress you all been receiving updates on that. That is of course something that is absolutely essential as they move forward just knowing they have all of the PUC and
 regulations, anything that they need, they're handled. So there's a number of filings again at the state and then with the utilities to get this up and running. But Stan Roberts is underway and we would expect sort of early, mid next year to start seeing some groundwork out there. Is there anything else holding us back on that?
 Everything's running through the approvals that it needs to. We knew that this was going to be a longer process. Again, that first deadline is five years out because we knew there were a number of items that needed to be sequenced with us, with the utilities that just take time to move through. OK. I also do see several gentlemen from El Paso Electric. I don't know if anyone would like to say anything about that. Oh, I don't know if they're the right. I don't think that's the right team. It wasn't much El Paso Electric more than they had to get approval from the PUC.
 Yeah, it's PUC, so it's the state. It's the state, yeah. I just wanted to know, oh, I'm sorry, ma'am, I didn't see you. Anyone had any comments on that? Mr. Pettis or anybody? Would you like to share anything with us? I don't think you've got the right folks from El Paso Electric. Okay, all right. Thank you very much, then. I appreciate your time. Thank you, and I think it's important to note that this is an $800 million project that's moving forward. So congratulations to you and your team and the city on that.
 Yeah, it's very exciting. Everybody's moving forward. And El Paso Electric is absolutely committing on their obligations. El Paso Water as well, working very, very closely with us and with META to make sure that we get this up and running. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Pryor?
 Yes, sir, and item number 23 is a presentation and update from the El Paso electrics Account management process in Texas to include deposit and disconnection policy and customer assistance programs available Good morning, sir. Good morning mayor and council involved with strategic and legislative affairs I
 On November 12th, council directed city manager and city attorney to review disconnection policies with El Paso Electric and to look into additional safeguards. Staff intends to come back to council on December 17th to share the results of that review.
 In the meantime, we've asked El Paso electric to come and talk about their disconnection policies and their low-income programs so with that I'd like to Introduce Daniel Perez with El Paso electric and hand over The mic Tim. Thank you. Good morning, Daniel. Good morning Mayor telltale miss Neiman miss Mac. Good morning. Thank you Ian. Yeah, so I I did want to start off first with a
 just take a moment and recognize and and thank mayor representative hernandez representative south city representative rivera for for your service to to your city from from el paso into to another just really appreciate everything you've done and i'm always willing to to take a phone call or take a meeting or or you know engage with us so we really appreciate um everything you've done and and and all the good work that you've done on behalf of of us el pasoans
 Thank you, and I want to thank you for always willing to take a phone call. And you guys have always taken care of any issues, whether...
 It's big or small, whatever, you're always 100% of the time of taking a phone call and taking care of the customers and our citizens, so I do wanna thank you for that. And it goes without saying, our phone, my phone's always on. Whether you have a policy question or you wanna invite me for a cold one, please, please, the, my phone's always on and our phones are always on, so.
 especially representative so with that yes we you know we take a lot of pride in
 in being second to none at El Paso Electric, right? And so I have the privilege of introducing our Vice President of Customer Service, Cheryl Mealy, who, you know, there was commentary about what's been done across the state, what other utilities do, and who better to speak to that on what we're doing and, again, how we're second to none.
 than Cheryl, who was both COO at ERCOT, which is the market within the state, so the deregulated market sector. She was essentially COO at Austin Energy, which is a municipality. So again, we take a lot of pride in, we are a top-notch outfit, and I'll turn it over to her for her to walk you through
 ALL THE PROGRAMS WE ALREADY HAVE, HAVE BEEN IN PLACE FOR QUITE A WHILE AND HOW WE ENGAGE ALL OF OUR CUSTOMERS. THANK YOU, DANIEL, AND THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK ON THIS TOPIC TODAY. WE DO APPRECIATE IT. SO I HAVE THE MAYOR, CITY COUNCIL, CITY MANAGER AND STAFF. IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE HERE AGAIN. MY NAME IS CHERYL MELE AND I'M THE VICE PRESIDENT OF CUSTOMER EMPLOYEE SERVICES AT EL PASO ELECTRIC. I'VE NOT PRESENTED TO YOU BEFORE, BUT I'M GOING TO GUESS THAT I CAN MOVE THESE ALONG. I CAN.
 All right, so I think first and foremost just you know setting the stage We are a utility who serves four hundred and sixty thousand customers from Van Horn, Texas to Hatch, New Mexico 314 thousand of those customers are residential So, you know We take great pride and continuing to deliver to our customers the best service that we can And we're continually looking for ways to enhance and improve that with things like our smart meters that are rolling out. Oh
 Right now, we know that we've got a lot of opportunity to engage our customers even more than we have in the past. I think one of the questions that was asked and I'd like to provide some insight on is, you know, how are we handling customer deposits?
 Well first we use the guidance of the Public Utility Commission as well for that new customers that don't establish a good credit history are asked to make a deposit that deposit can be up to two months of Historical use at that premise although people use energy We also know that buildings use energy and so when you're moving into a new property if you've not been a good paying customer we will ask for a deposit up to that two months of the premises prior use and
 and we also look at that being held for 12 months. Once you've established good payment history, we return that to the customers with interest as a credit on their bill.
 The other reason that we would ask a customer for a deposit is that they've been disconnected. And so we want them to make a contribution or a deposit towards that to help us manage the risk to all customers. Because if people don't pay their bills, the rest of us pick up the tab for that. So it's important that we can properly manage the customer accounts.
 I think the other thing to consider is that of those 314,000 customers, about 9,000 currently have a deposit. And that includes our Texas and New Mexico customers. So it's a small percentage of customers that are asked to make that deposit.
 So, I think the next topic that we want to talk about a little bit is the disconnection process. So, obviously, when customers fail to make a payment beyond the actual time that we provide to them, then they are subject to a potential disconnect. That is never our goal with our customers. The first thing we want to do is that if a customer is having difficulty paying their bill, we want them to contact us.
 and make sure that if they qualify for some assistance, if they qualify for some extended time, if they need a little bit more time, that we can enter a payment arrangement with them to reduce that immediate bill, but to hopefully help them be in a place where they don't get disconnected. We know that it's important for all of us, right? It is one number one thing that brings comfort and safety and security to our homes today.
 is having that electricity supply on. So we never have the intent to want to disconnect our customers, but we do need to make sure that everybody's paying for the services that they receive.
 So a little bit about when we disconnect. We don't disconnect on Fridays. We don't disconnect on the weekend. We don't disconnect on the holidays. We don't disconnect day before a holiday. We actually have some discretion there as well. Sometimes, depending on how a holiday falls, we will extend that period to make sure that customers do have power and we can delay those disconnection processes.
 Cold and heat also important for the safety of our customers We make sure that we look at with the National Weather Service Forecasts are and we're required to do that by the Public Utility Commission of Texas Looking for was it below freezing yesterday is the current forecast that will remain below freezing customers will not be disconnected in those circumstances and the same with heat when the National Weather Service issues a weather advisory for heat and
 we will discontinue our disconnections to make sure that our customers are staying safe.
 This one looks like it's going to grow. Let me get it all on there I wanted to give you some perspective as well on the timeline for our customers So this represents just the days in order obviously We've not included into this timeline weekends and holidays and things that might but just want to give you a snapshot The customers will always have at least 33 days To make the payment on their bill from the time that they're billed until the time when they would be entering a disconnection process
 So when we look at the billing date, we give our customers 18 calendar days to make a payment. We then give them three days grace, if that falls on the weekend or if, you know, depending on how that falls, it could actually be longer. And then we get into what the Public Utility Commission requires us to do, and that is to give our customers a 10-day notice that their account is past due and that they are now into our severance or collections process.
 So they get those letters, they are issued to them. They also will receive, prior to any disconnection, an automated voice call, and that will go to the number on record of our customers that they have provided to us. So they will get an outbound call giving them, again, that reminder that they are overbilled on their account, overdue on their billing account.
 After that time period passes, then we would get to a place where within the next two days they would be eligible for that disconnection. So I think some things to think about when we try to think about is, are we making it easy for our customers to make payments? 24-7 you can use a voice automated system to call and make a payment. You can pay online.
 You can pay at payment centers around the city, Western Union and Bill to Pay centers where you can do walk-up service at grocery stores, Dollar General's, all kinds of places where customers can make payments are available to them. And again, the most important thing when a customer enters into this process, if they are not able to pay by that due date or by that potential disconnection date, is to call us and contact us and try to work out a payment arrangement so that they are not disconnected.
 I think the other questions that came up were around other utilities have kinds of programs. What do you have?
 We have a low-income rider and that offers a discount to qualified customers to waive the energy charge, the customer charge every month. And this just for our Texas customers. We don't have a similar program in New Mexico. But they get to waive the $9.25 customer charge in the event that they qualify that. We'll receive a SNAP list from the state and that is how we get our customers enrolled in this program.
 So qualifying customers, we currently have about 8,000 customers enrolled in that program. Budget billing, you know, levelized billing, those types of things. We offer that service to our customers as well, and we have currently got 38,000 customers enrolled in that. That is a popular program because we know that a customer's bill can triple in the summertime if they have refrigerated air. And so they want a levelized payment, something they know what that budget billing is going to be.
 So a lot of customers have taken advantage of that program. There are some obligations when you're enrolled in that program. One, it doesn't mean that you will not pay for what you use, right? We estimate the 12-month average and spread that across those 12 months. If people lose consciousness of how much energy they're consuming, they will potentially have that number adjusted.
 So it's not a only kind of program. And also when customers enroll in that program, they need to make that payment every month.
 If we look at where we are today in arrears, if you're a customer in the budget billing program, you are going to have a debit or you're going to owe us money because we've just come out of the summer months. And so we know that those customers are showing up as part of our total arrears. In fact, right now we've got about $6 million that is considered arrears, but it's within those budget billing customers. So as long as they make those payments, they will get their accounts back to a positive place probably by about April.
 and then they will build up some savings as they enter those hotter months of June, July, and August again and have those higher bills. Payment arrangements. 4,500 of our customers currently are enrolled in a payment arrangement. That means they've called us or they've gone online and they've enrolled into a payment arrangement plan to spread perhaps those high summer bills over a little bit longer period of time so that they can afford to make those payments. Typically it's three to six months.
 And you know, and we often will have the conversation with our customers. Can we get two more weeks? I'm gonna get paid next week. Can I get a little bit more time and we work with those customers? We certainly provide lots of training to our customer service reps to make sure that they are empathetic and they're hearing the customers and really You know addressing the concerns with those customers where they can now again customers need to stay on those payment arrangements and follow through on those commitments with us or they'll end up back in
 into the collections process again questions were raised as well about do we provide something for our medically vulnerable so critical customers that perhaps have medical equipment they work with their physicians to get enrolled in our our program for the medically vulnerable that gives them additional days you saw about 33 days on that slide showing the process from the day i'm billed until the day i'm disconnected these customers get additional time to make those payments
 prescribed by the PUC they should get 63 days past their due date to be able to make their payments or to get a payment arrangement in place so that is a process that we're refining internally because we currently don't actually disconnect those customers but they are accruing significant debt that will be hard for them to pay off if we don't get them on to a payment arrangement or a pay plan
 And finally, I think that we all know that there are people, even though our average bill is $3.50 a day for the average customer over the course of the year, there are people who need assistance. And so there are LIHEAP dollars that are available to qualifying customers. About 32,000 of our customers currently receive assistance.
 Many of them in Texas get that assistance through Project Bravo, Amistad, the United Way, other organizations. But LIHEAP is primarily implemented here with Project Bravo. And so those are our partners in trying to get those customers, you know, the support that they need to be able to keep current on those bills.
 Once a customer has applied for that, we put that note onto their account. They are not eligible for a disconnection. And so once we get those payments, we bring those accounts current and those customers are relieved of that, you know, stress in their lives of the potential for disconnect.
 The other thing that we have that I think is more of a community-based support for our customers who can least afford, but perhaps for some reason they haven't applied for LIHEAP, maybe they don't qualify for that program, is our Bright Hearts campaign. And those are dollars specifically raised from those of us in the community who perhaps can afford a little bit more that we can give directly to the Bright Hearts Fund. It's managed by the Community Foundation, and our customer service reps administer those dollars to our customers.
 They're listening, they're hearing the stories, they have pretty good experience and judgment, and they know when somebody truly does need a little bit of help. And so they can award those dollars to our customers, up to $200, and El Paso Electric will match that. So a customer that our customer service reps have determined need support from Bright Hearts, that will be matched by El Paso Electric to help reduce the debt that that customer has with us.
 So QR code works if anybody would like to look at what are those organizations that help provide that assistance to our customers on the orange side. Or if anybody would like to make a donation to Bright Hearts to help support those customers, especially during this holiday season who may be having difficulty in paying their bills, it is there for all of us to participate in.
 I think our balance today is less than $5,000, and we know there's a lot of need out there for those customers who either don't qualify for other programs or for whatever reason are not comfortable submitting the paperwork required for those other programs. So that's my last slide. I do wanna assure you that we,
 do not want to disconnect any of our customers but we do have to treat all of our customers equally because if somebody doesn't pay that cost is shared back to all customers in that customer class and i'm happy to take any questions if anybody has any i got a couple for you and then representative about fear so if i've never been late and i call you for an extension or payment program have you ever turned anyone down
 I don't believe that we would turn anybody down, especially if you've never been late. There are circumstances where customers have repeatedly broken their payment arrangements, and we may want them to come up with a significant portion at that point because they've not that. But anybody who calls us and has never been late, we will always grant them a payment arrangement. What would it take for you to turn someone down when asking for an extension?
 I think, again, if you've broken several payment arrangements and we don't see that you have the intent to pay us, that would probably be a difficult conversation. Okay, perfect. Thank you for that answer. Yeah. And most customers who are disconnected, they are reconnected the same day. I noticed it.
 Someone was telling me that they they got their lights turned off And they went online and we're talking to computer paid online and by the time they hit send their lights went back on Yeah, and that's how our process is designed to work in this way. Sometimes people just forget quite honestly I hear that a lot from customers. Oh, I forgot the power bill And so, you know, it's it's quick as you just described for them to restore themselves. Thank you for that represent Fierro followed by representative Nunez. I
 Thank you, Mayor. Ms. Neely, thank you very much for the presentation. Our office had received a few emails and calls in regards to the last concerns that Council shared with in regards to El Paso Electric, and you answered both questions.
 IN REGARDS TO THE PEOPLE WITH MEDICAL EQUIPMENT, THANK YOU FOR ADDRESSING THAT ISSUE. AND THE OTHER ONE WAS IN REGARDS TO CALLING AND ASKING FOR A PAYMENT PLAN OR EXTENDED TIME FOR THEIR BILL TO BE DUE. SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH. NOW I HAVE TWO COMMENTS.
 One, I had intended to make a compliment, a compliment El Paso Electric in regards to the, look how nervous Daniel gets. Is he back there nervous now? The smart meters. Unfortunately, I just heard it's $3.50 average the consumer uses per day? The average customer. I mean, look at all our customers, it's an average of $3.50 per day. I have always been average, but except on my electric bill.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Representative Hernandez, followed by Representative Acevedo. Thank you for always being a good partner and coming forward. I did get some questions from some realtors. Let's say you sell your house or you're a renter, what happens to your deposit?
 So deposits are always returned to the customer. So once you disconnect. With interest and that's by rule. We have to provide the customers. Now if you have a balance due that will be applied towards your balance due. If there's a situation where your electricity is out and you need to, you're out of town, you come home on the weekend, is there an emergency number so that it could be connected?
 Yeah, so if a customer goes online and pays, as the mayor pointed out, it's a very automated process. But we do always have one of our customer service supervisors on call.
 when people use our outage line they will be able to contact our 24 by 7 distribution operations team and we will make they will make sure that if a customer has brought their account current that they can get their lights turned back on so yes although we don't staff our customer service centers 24 by 7 we have those open Monday through Friday 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. for calls for text for emails but there is always a way to reach us 24 by 7 for
 an outage and then the process would from there Find out whether it's truly an outage or if it's a customer who's paid their bill and wants their power restored got it Question regarding the funds. How are the funds at the end of the presentation? The big hearts. What is the source of funding and
 FOR THOSE? THOSE ARE PURELY DONATIONS. THOSE ARE DONATIONS FROM OTHER CUSTOMERS TOWARDS MAKING SURE THAT THEIR FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS THAT CAN'T AFFORD TO PAY ARE TAKING CARE OF THROUGH THOSE PROGRAMS. WE ENCOURAGE THAT THE COMMUNITY FOUNDATION DOES MANAGE THAT FOR US. THE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF EL PASO AND EL PASO ELECTRIC, I DON'T HAVE A COPY OF IT, BUT DOES IT REQUIRE FOR EL PASO ELECTRIC TO HAVE
 funding available That are not donations. Yeah, I do not know the answer to that So we will match I do recall that this was a big I spent a lot of time on that franchise agreement
 We actually came after I believe When we negotiated the franchise agreement At the cell the of the acquisition of El Paso Electric. Were you part of that? so I think you're referencing the the there was a there was a fund tied to low-income customers as part of the Acquisition right and so we are currently working with a
 city staff to pick a project that both the city and EP are in agreement with and are well on our way of finally deploying those funds. No, I mean that it was not for and I recall now and correct me if I'm wrong, Daniel, but I believe that was dedicated towards energy efficiency for low income customers within the city.
 Is that correct? I know when I previously had energy efficiency team as part of mine we were working with the city to try to find the best ways to utilize those funds for residents of the city. I believe we've worked with Project Bravo, we're back to working with the city staff to find a way to get those funds administered. I know it's a priority, it's been five years and I'm pretty surprised that we are now just
 trying to figure out how to deploy those funds. And so I know the pandemic was in the way, but when we have customers who are suffering, I think now's the time to deploy those funds. Yeah, the funds are available to the city. The city is working out how they want to deploy those funds. Okay, so it's the city's responsibility. Is that what you're saying?
 I don't know if we still hold your statement your statement implied gave to this your statement implied that it was the city's responsibility It's available to the city to administer or is it El Paso electrics? Administer of those funds. I'm not I'm not aware Mutual it has to be a mutual agreement. Okay to your point about the timing. Absolutely I mean we we are we are working as diligently as we can right there's been some turnover and staff and so
 we like cheryl mentioned we're working with project bravo as a third party um but yes it's it's a mutual so similar to like the ted fund where is there like a mutual agreement to that is is paid out to the city every year automatically whereas this is more of a it has until there's an agreement um nothing happens does that make sense sure let's study that a little bit further um
 And I'm looking forward to seeing any additional safeguards. I've always been hopeful that there are opportunities like the ones you've demonstrated today. For the record, I've been at City Hall for several over a decade, and that's the first time I've ever seen your breakdown.
 I would be curious to know how many are behind payments that number is not Stipulated there and then how many of those behind payments? are on that bracket of Payment plans versus just not paying and then what is the total collections due to El Paso electric? and then my concern with AMS is
 I HAVE HAD VERY PERSONAL AND FAMILY AND CONSTITUENT CALLS RELATED TO THE DISCONNECTION PROCESS AND TRYING TO GET THE RECONNECTION PROCESS. IF YOU PAY ON BILL MATRIX, DID YOU KNOW IT'S NOT AUTOMATIC? SO THOSE ARE THINGS THAT YOU'LL CALL AND BE LIKE I'VE ALREADY PAID ON BILL MATRIX. IT'S NOT SHOWING UP. I'M SORRY. I CAN'T TURN ON YOUR ELECTRIC YET. SO THERE'S SITUATIONS THAT NEED TO BE REFINED.
 AND I KNOW THAT YOU SPEAK GENERALLY ABOUT SITUATIONS AND I UNDERSTAND THE GRATITUDE OF THE WORK THAT YOU'RE DOING, THE GRAVITY. NOW YOU HAVE 400,000 CUSTOMERS. THAT'S YOUR ENTIRE CUSTOMER BASE. AND FOR WE HERE, THE
 the stories individually in households and they're much different than the way that we've presented and I recognize that you do good work generally but for those who have problems I'm telling you there is some kind of customer service miscommunication or something but what's being communicated here is not what's being communicated through the customers.
 And so we would love to share that feedback with you anytime we get those complaints. Yeah, we're happy to take any individual customer issues and look at those. And occasionally our systems do have some problems processing everything. So as designed, and we continue to work with our vendors to find out those exception ones where a payment is made and it's not promptly turned into a turn on. So we're aware that that is happening on occasion. And we are available to take those calls and work that out.
 We do hope that all of our customer service agents are, you know, always delivering a consistent message. But we do have some turnover, especially in our contracted customer service organization. And we work hard to make sure that we retrain and train when something doesn't go right. So anything that you're hearing, we more than willing to take that so that we can refine our processes. Thank you for your presentation today and being here.
 Thank you, ma'am Thank you mayor. Thank you for presentation. Oh Yeah, I just wanted to address something really quick evil weed City of El Paso Representative or none has mentioned the low-income program. We're planning on bringing that program to council in January What do you think? It's almost ready to go. So I just wanted you to know that we're hard at work on that project Thank you, so I
 It was kind of nice to see those tables kind of laid out with some data. I appreciated that. On the low-income option where there's 8,000 people enrolled, you said you get a list of SNAP benefits from the state? Yes, and that's how customers can be auto-enrolled into that program. Okay. So it's automatic. It's not an opt-in type of thing. Yeah. Okay, perfect. But if customers have, you know, need to talk to us about that program, we can look at what that is. But it is auto-enrolled as we get those lists. Okay. Okay.
 And then on Bright Hearts, can you explain how you match the 200? Like, what does that mean? Like a donation that somebody gives you or...
 You match 200 from a fund? So that fund, as long as we have funds in there, as our customer service reps are working with customers, they can make a decision. They're empowered to say, this customer deserves something. They don't qualify by HAPE, but perhaps they've had a job loss or something in their family. They've always been a good paying customer. I want to grant them this $200.
 El Paso Electric will match whatever our customer service reps decide to provide to that customer in addition to the Donations that have been collected from the community. Okay, and
 Okay, so it's up to 200. It could be at the discretion of whoever they're talking to. That's right. So if somebody owes $90 and they just need another month to pay and they just can't come up with it, our customer service rep could decide that they would make that contribution from Bright Hearts if there is sufficient funding available for them. Perfect. And then I think one of the other things that keeps coming to mind is the utility could start using more technology.
 to kind of enhance customer service, right? And I'm sure you have these conversations. And I saw that you have an automated call, but.
 But I think the problem with an automated call that I'm kind of realizing, well, one is that you have an older generation that would appreciate that, right? But then the younger generation is more text prone, right? And I don't see that you're texting at this point. And then the other thing that has come up in recent years with how technology has evolved is that we get phone calls and it says potential spam, right?
 what if El Paso Electric's automated call goes out as potential spam? I never answer those calls. And then the other thing is that the telemarketers have gotten smarter and now instead of calling with outside area codes, they're using 915 numbers, right? But then they're identified as potential spam. Yes.
 So how can we combat that? When we see those happening, we do try to shut those down. And those are on our roadmap, certainly, Josh. We recognize that when we do our customer satisfaction surveys, how do you want to do business with us? Most people don't want to get calls, and most people don't want to call us. That's why we added texting and email to ways that we can service our customers as well. But on our roadmap is also to provide customers a text that says, we see that you've missed your payment.
 You know, even before you enter the collections process in that three-day grace period, it's gone by your bill date. Maybe you've forgotten. You've missed your payment. So we're working on those types of technologies to always keep it top of mind for our customers that they need to make those payments.
 And then other other you know things that would make sense from a texting perspective And we're also looking at some other ways that we can do perhaps some personal reach outs Again on our roadmap to look at other ways that we can intervene before customers enter that collections process to try to make sure they don't let that go too long and Build up something. They really can't afford to get back on their feet with I
 No, and I appreciate that and I think the big thing that also comes to mind is the smart meters is a push of a button right and really kind of Telling that story on yes, we may disconnect you. Hopefully we don't disconnect you but we can get you back on I'm not sure that people are really fully understanding that and I think that people are seeing the smart meters as an easy way to disconnect rather
 IT'S VERY EASY TO RECONNECT. ESPECIALLY IN THE SCENARIO THAT COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVE HANNES TALKED, RIGHT? I WASN'T HOME. I GOT HOME. MY LIGHTS ARE OUT. I CAN NOW SELF-SERVE TO RESTORE THAT ANY TIME OF THE DAY WITH THAT AUTOMATED PAYMENT. AND I THINK THE LAST THING THAT I HAD IS I NOTICED ON YOUR SLIDE IT SAID PER THE PUC ON PRETTY MUCH EVERY SLIDE.
 I'm really fixated on this deposit because I think it really works against somebody that is in hardship. It gives them more hardship. But is this something that you have to do because of the PUC?
 The PUC allows us to do that. Okay. And much like other, right, when I moved here, EP Water made me pay $75. Didn't bother looking at my credit history. They said $75 is our deposit policy. So I think most utilities try, you know, different ways. We try to be compliant with the PUC. But that's not to say, as I said, 9,000 of our customers have a deposit. It is possible and probable and likely that we don't always enforce that.
 So we think it's best practice too, right? So, and I understand your concern, right? It could take a lot to get somebody going and that will show up on their first bill. And so the PEC allows it, but doesn't require it is what you're saying? Okay. But so then does that mean that the PEC would also allow a smaller deposit? The discretion of our team really is what comes into play there to look at what the appropriate amount is for a customer. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you and thank you all for being here and for I can see you're still continuing the work on Making sure it works better for our community and again the transparency. So thank you all. Thank you. Have a great day Real quick for Resident of Molinar's question on the previous item. I
 Can't speak to that item specifically or that project specifically, but we are working very closely with city legal staff on two, at least two filings that impact prospective customers that we're trying to recruit to the region, right, from an economic development perspective. And, again, we're working very closely with city legal and their external legal to try to.
 To help you know move the process along at the Commission. So just wanted to thank you and that's why I mentioned And that's why I mentioned in the make sure that it's they're working not with you all but through the PUC Thank you. Miss prime. Yes mayor that brings us to call to the public. I
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving the citizens of the, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity Which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning Please note that during call to the public the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda However, council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda this morning We have two members of the public signed up to speak. I
 The first person is Ms. Elizabeth Crawford. Her topic is the impact of the incarnation in 2024. We're having technical difficulties, but we do have her on speakerphone. Go ahead, Ms. Crawford. You have three minutes. Thank you. Good morning. I'd like to speak briefly about the advent of Emmanuel, the theme born to die.
 designated as Giving Tuesday. In this season, when we focus on the Advent, I'd like to start with a quote I was recently sent
 An awesome quote by a leader of Grace Community Church in California. The quote is this, God treated Jesus on the cross as if he had lived your life so that he could treat you as if you had lived his. Let me reread that. God treated Jesus on the cross as if he had lived your life so that he could treat you as if you had lived his. Yes.
 2 Corinthians 5, 21. God has made him who knew no sin to be sin, to be a sin offering for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. That is God's promise to all who repent and believe. Years back, I had the privilege of serving in Belem, Brazil. On the weekends, I would help with the street children ministry. Belem is Portuguese for Bethlehem.
 it was fascinating to me one december when my roommate a seasoned worker at the orphanage said to me you realize right these kids think that jesus was born here
 Well, the kids are not accurate, as we well know. The Bethlehem reference in the Bible is in the land of Judah, in Israel. Often today it's references of Palestinian West Bank. But the beauty of the incarnation is the assurance that no matter where we live in this world, Jesus is here. Why? Because he is omnipresent. Jesus is Emmanuel, God with us.
 The Washington Post recorded an interview with Ron Sayard, the abortionist who has practiced in Santa Teresa for many years.
 In the course of that conversation referencing pro-life doctors, he's reported to have said, they will treat you like you killed Jesus or something. It's good that he sees it that way because babies in the womb are Jesus' handiwork created in his image. The presence of Jesus everywhere is either a comfort or a danger.
 I used to have the privilege of praying in a group with a man who would begin his prayer with the words, God, you are the most awesome, holy, dangerous being in the universe. The message of the Advent season truly is Emmanuel, holy and he is love. He is righteous and he is merciful. He is a judge and he is the savior. Written centuries before the advent of Jesus.
 We read these words, Micah 5, 2. But thou, Bethlehem Ephrata, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting. Isaiah 9, 6. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder. Thank you, Ms. Crawford. Thank you, ma'am. You've reached the three-minute limit. Thank you.
 The final speaker is Ron Como. Mr. Como's topic is constitutional rights to the Rescue 1983 Animal Services. Good morning, sir, you have three minutes. Good morning, ma'am. Good morning, sir. Good morning. So we all know the citizens of El Paso are kinda tired of property taxes, but I wanna point out that the bond for the shelter for county passed immensely. People realize that we have a problem. We had to build another shelter in the county.
 if we all got together that did our job we wouldn't need so many shelters would we kind of hindsight at this point there's just so many strays you don't have a choice um we keep hearing things about rules regulations policies procedures and i gotta say i i was part of the asac committee for a while and they give you a book it says that they follow robert's rules and in the mayor's office i had somebody from legal tell me well we kind of pick and choose what rules we take
 Because I was kind of hitting on some rules that they didn't like me to do it a sec You know, we were running the Haas shelter program no matter what anybody says It's been in place for like four years And if you step back and look that wouldn't be in place if we followed policies and procedures So I've got a question if we were we're gonna follow policies and procedures that means including animal services and a sac need to follow policies and procedures and
 Mean enough is enough guys. We're just we're not doing our job cost in the city money It's gonna cost the city more money because we have so many strays and yet we're still turning strays away We are making more strays because we're turning strays away, which means our problems only gonna get worse You guys are leaving you have a month. Are you going to walk away from El Paso with this disaster on the books? I
 Are you going to step up and take the necessary changes that need to be done in advance of the new County new? Council so that when they can come in they can finish fixing the issues from the last four years I'd really like to not have to come down here every two weeks. I really would I got better things to do with my life At this point I'd like to be a New Hampshire sitting on a beach I mean I've got my winter t-shirt on you guys don't get it you put the community in danger. I
 You did. We need to get the fire department out of our shelter. Period. We need to stop the friends and family hiring. Period. Balls in your court guys. What are we going to do? Are we going to leave everything to the new city council? Or are we going to start fixing things? A little late but it would be a nice thought. Thank you sir. Council that concludes call to the public. And for the December 17th meeting council will also be asked to
 to move the call to the public from 12 p.m. to 10 a.m. So council will be asked to suspend the rules for the December 17th meeting as well. Mayor, would you like to go to mass transit? Please. Is there a motion to recess? There's a motion and a second to recess. The regular city council. And the mass transit department board meeting for December the 3rd has been adjourned at 1031 a.m. Thank you. Is there a motion to reconvene the regular meeting? So moved.
 There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? And the meeting is back in session at 1031 AM. We're on the introduction of ordinances. These are items 24 to 26. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the first reading of ordinances. These are items 24 to 26. On that motion, call for the vote.
 in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously. Representative Fierro not present. That brings us to item number 27 and this is discussion and action on the award of solicitation 2024-0640 on-call hotel lodging rebid to Rockwell American Services Limited. This contract will allow the Office of Emergency Management to provide temporary lodging to migrants while they await travel arrangements to their final destination.
 There's a motion. Was there a second? Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. Real quick on this item. Is this being used with the federal dollars? Let me speak to the department. Yes, it would be. Mario DiAgostino, Deputy City Manager. It would be used with federal dollars. Perfect. How much do we have right now currently still in that account? I know it's a question I'm
 It's right around the 20 million when you look at the emergency food and shelter grant That's be expiring at the end of this year and then going forward. I believe we're around 14 million with the SS
 Okay, when you say is it gonna be experience that we don't basically use the funds then they just go away That's it. That's exactly it. So these funds are only used for that. We've asked for extensions We're still waiting on this one to see if they're gonna allow any more extensions We've had several we brought back to council over the last few months Perfect. Thank you. How much money you still have there sir 14 or 10? Leave it's 14. Okay those I thought we'd do some of that already. I think it's not out of the SSP. All right. Thank you. I
 There was a motion made by alternative mayor Pro Temo Lina seconded by representatives I'll see them to approve item 27 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously representative Fiat or not present that brings us to item 28 and
 And this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2024-0648R, stop loss insurance to a life insurance company. This contract will provide services necessary to assist the city in developing a comprehensive review and plan for stop loss insurance, which is self-funded and open to all full-time active employees of the City of El Paso. Good morning, ma'am. Good morning, sir.
 There is a motion made by alternate mayor Pro Temo Lunar seconded by representative Salcido to approve item 28 on that motion call for the vote. Voting session is open. In the voting session and that motion passes unanimously representative Fierro not present
 Item 29 is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2024-0319, on-call towing of motor vehicles city-owned to AD Record Service Inc., DBA-AD Towing and Recovery. This contract will allow for the continual recovery of city-owned vehicles in a consistent, safe, and efficient manner. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linares. Seconded by Representative Salcido.
 to award the solicitation on item 29. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Representative Fiedro not present. Item number 30 is discussion and action that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue purchase orders for solicitation 2025-0007, veterinary lab testing to IDEXX Distribution Inc., the sole source provider,
 To maintain standardization for companion animal products laboratory testing supplies This contract will allow the animal services department to conduct in-house medical laboratory testing There is a motion made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Salcido to approve item 30 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session And that motion passes
 Item number 31 is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning of a parcel of land from our for H residential historic to our MUH residential mix use historic and approving a master zoning plan with reduction to minimum district area required and 100% parking reduction at 914 West Yandel motion approved second there is a motion made by representative Salcido
 Seconded by representative at nandes and this is to adopt the ordinance for item number 31 There is no public comment on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes six to one with representative Molina voting nay the remainder of council voting aye the motion does carry
 Item number 32 is a public hearing of an ordinance granting a special permit to allow for infill development With reductions to minimum lot area and minimum average lot width at five zero zero four Catskill move to approve Yes, sir, could you could you go to Detail what what this is about the good morning mayor and council with some auto chief planner. We're planning inspections so item 32 is a special permit and
 under infield development is for a proposed duplex at the property located at 5004 Catskill Avenue. Okay, that's okay. Thank you so much on that. Appreciate that. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Motion to approve. Second. There was a motion made by Representative Acevedo. There was already one. Seconded by Representative Fierro to adopt the ordinance on item 32.
 On that motion, call for the vote and the voting session. And the motion passes 6-1 with Representative Molinar voting nay. The remainder of council voting aye. The motion does carry. That brings us to item 33, and this is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning from R3 residential to AO apartment office and imposing conditions at 1401 North Zaragoza. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Fierro.
 to adopt the ordinance on item 33. There's no public comment on that motion. Call for the vote. Voting session is open. End the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Item 34 is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning of a portion at 7000 Alabama Street from R2 residential and R3 residential to C3 commercial and imposing conditions. Roger Lopez, López Obrador.
 Thank you, Mayor. So I'm really excited about this one and I know that it was unanimous in the Planning Commission, right? Correct. Correct. And so some of my constituents have been reaching out and
 There's just thoughts around how we can look at traffic and kind of do that as they develop this, because I know when they were looking at this at first, they wanted to do hardware store, and then I talked to them about doing a grocery store. There was excitement about that. We're looking at that through our grocery store study to see how that can fit in. And so I'm just thinking about this
 in the long term, how we can mitigate traffic things that are there. And then I just really appreciate the owners of the property cleaning up and being good neighbors. I know that I had sent something to them about cleaning up this property because my constituents were kind of complaining of the trash that was happening there. But overall, the map that has been shared has been a little confusing on what will be preserved, what won't be preserved. So I just kind of wanted to put that out there.
 in in terms of this property because there's a lot of desert that is really great and people like enjoying on that and when i had the conversation with the developers they had said that they can't develop all of it but then maybe the trails that they can add to it could really enhance that area so really just very supportive of this i just kind of wanted to put
 the concerns that i've received from my constituents so we can look at it moving forward with the developer and i think if we really get a grocery store in this area it'll be a really big home run for the area because of where this is situated but with that said i move to approve this there is a motion made by representative vasavedo seconded by representative hernandez to adopt the ordinance on item 34.
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously.
 Item 35 is discussion in action on a resolution authorizing the city manager to sign a chapter 380 economic development program agreement between the city of El Paso and the El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce a 501 C nonprofit organization to provide an incentive not to exceed $130,000 over a two-year period to the applicant for the implementation of the procurement excellence boot camp program second
 All right, we did have a speaker sign up, but she was only gonna answer any questions if council heading. Okay, thank you. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Piero to approve item 35. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session, and the item passes unanimously. Item 36 is discussion and action on a resolution that the city reviewed and approves the issuance of the contract
 Tax revenue bond series 2025 by Paseo del Este Municipal Utility District number one with the acknowledgement that the issuance of such bonds does not constitute debt issuance by the City of El Paso. Motion approved. There is a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve item 36. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. End of voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Thank you.
 Item 37 is discussion in action that the city manager or designee be authorized to effectuate the listed budget transfer attached to the resolution as exhibit a for the Parks and Recreation Department in support of the closure of project of veterans recreation center expansion and Allocate investment interest proceeds to set up budget to complete quality quality of life project Grandview Recreation Center There's a motion made by representative Rivera similar
 Thank you mayor So I understand proceeds are being moved from district for for project in district 4 to another project in district 2 But and I'm not sure if you're the right person answer when will the project in district for the north specifically the veterans park Project be completed or even started Nicole Cody managing director Representative Molinar I will get with the capital improvement department. They're the ones that would have that information But we'll make sure anybody here to you in council They're not here
 Representative Mullen, I apologize that I can't be there in person. The scope of work for the Veterans Recreation Center has been
 been completed we are currently working on an ADA requirement at the showers we're making those ADA accessible there was some curbing that had to be replaced but I will send your district the final completion date and also coordinate with mr. Pablo Caballero and his team if they need to do anything prior to turning it over to them thank you ma'am yes sir
 thank you mayor um now that i have you there um just wanted to ask is this related to the piping issues that have been happening at grandview
 Yes sir the budget transfer was required to pay for the piping issues and then included in that while we were doing our investigation we noticed that the grease trap did need upgrades so in addition to fixing the plumbing issues for the kitchen we're replacing the bradden grease trap as well so there was additional work that was done there. Okay that's great to hear and do you have a timeline and when on when all of this will be finished?
 The grease trap has already been completed and I was told that the seniors were able to have Thanksgiving within their kitchen which we were really pushing for that date. Okay I really appreciate it because they they really wanted that and they felt very displaced so thank you for doing all that I really really appreciate it. Yes sir.
 Thank you, Representative. Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Would that respond? Yes, there is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 37. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes six to one with Representative Molinar voting nay, the remainder of council voting aye. The motion passes. The final item on the agenda is item 38, and this is discussion and action
 that the city manager be authorized to sign a two-year on-call agreement for professional services to perform environmental services on a task-by-task basis between the City of El Paso and three consultants. The first is WSP USA Environment and Infrastructure, Inc. The second is Arcadis US, Inc. And the third is Soder Miller and Associates, Inc. Motion through. Second. There is a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Alternate Mayor Poten Molinar.
 to approve item 38 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and that motion passes unanimously council that brings us to the end of the agenda there's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting all in favor anyone opposed and the regular city council meeting for tuesday december 3rd 2024 is adjourned at 10 50 a.m thank you council