Yes, sir. Our right side is a little heavy today. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, December 5th, 2023. Mayor Leaser is present and presiding inside council chambers along with Representative Kennedy, Mayor Pro Tem Manelo, Representative Hernandez, and alternate Mayor Pro Tem Molinar. It is 9.01 a.m. Now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting.
 and rise for the invocation delivered by a ministry coordinator for the El Paso County Sheriff's Office and Chaplain Emeritus for the El Paso Police Department, Sam Ferron. Good morning, Mayor, representatives, officials, and guests. If you'd care to join me as I pray, I invite you to bow your heads. Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty of God.
 Indeed, everything that is in the heavens and the earth, yours is the dominion, O Lord, and you are exalted as head over all. Lord, as we begin the business of this day, help us to lean into your sovereignty with trust and surrender. We cannot be what we need to be without your wisdom and guidance, because on our own we fall short. Help everyone who has a part in this meeting.
 speak and make decisions with character, setting aside personal agendas and ambitions to focus on what is best for the future of our city. I thank you for, and I pray for, my mayor, city representatives, and all who have a part in governing and directing the affairs of our city. Give them strength to fulfill their responsibilities and to face the challenges
 that come their way each and every day. Watch over them, protect them, and may they consider every agenda item with clear minds and pure motives. Thank you for this wonderful time of year and how we long for the joy and the peace of the Christmas season, which is expressed in the scripture, glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace, goodwill towards men.
 Please watch over and protect those who guard our freedoms and those who keep us safe. God bless El Paso and God bless America. In the name of my Lord Jesus, I pray. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, sir. And I hope you're enjoying retirement. And now to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, we have Sidney Candelaria and Nolan Candelaria. For the record, Representatives Salcido and Rivera arrived at 9.04. Awesome.
 Representative Fierro has joined the meeting at 9.05 and Representative Canales at 9.06. Good morning, everyone. And it's, you know, when we think about December, we think about the month of giving, not receiving. And it's a special time of the year as we spend a lot of time with family, but also we reflect and reflect.
 of how we can continue not to receive but to give. And that's something that's always been important. And a lot of times it's not what's in the package, it's who gives the package to someone and the gift. So I'd like really to have a moment of silence to everyone kind of think back of some of the great moments in life that have really made us who we are today because
 of our parents and everyone that's really molded us into what we are today. So I'd like to have a moment of silence to everyone say a little, you know, have it back in their mind and kind of think about the great things of life, and I think that'll put a smile on everyone's face. Thank you. Thank you. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Gold Star and Military Survivor Children's Champion State. Representative Moulinard.
 Good morning, thank you very much. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas the City of El Paso recognizes the importance of honoring and supporting
 the military dependent children who have lost a parent during the service to their country. Gold Star Military Survivor Children are the immediate relatives of U.S. Armed Forces service members who died in battle or in support of certain military activities. And whereas honoring their families is a sign of their importance to the City of El Paso, and we recognize that the strength of our military is our service members.
 and the strength of our service members is our families, and that no one has given more for the nation than the families of the fallen. And the City of El Paso seeks to foster a sense of community, resilience, and empowerment among Gold Star children through innovative and engaging activities, and whereas the
 Esports have emerged as a dynamic and inclusive platform, providing opportunities for skill development, teamwork, and camaraderie among youth. And whereas, Gold Star Gamers, a nonprofit organization, has been working tirelessly to provide opportunities for military children survivors to engage in esports. And whereas, Gold Star Games organization in the City of El Paso's Division of Veteran and Military Affairs is organizing a children's esports competition.
 And whereas the Gold Star Children Esports Competition will take place on December 28, 2023 at the Battleground on Fort Bliss, Texas. And provides a platform for participants to showcase their skills in esports disciplines.
 And whereas, esports competition tailored for Gold Star children will not only promote a healthy outlet for their energy and talents, but also serve as a tribute to their courage and sacrifice. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that December 5th, 2023, shall be known as Gold Star and Military Survivor Children's Champions Day. Signed, the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser, City of El Paso.
 Good morning, sir. Morning, Mayor, City Council, the city leadership in particular. Now this is just another reason why it's always a great day in the Veterans Capital of the USA.
 These kids that unfortunately are not going to be able to be here, they're going to be coming in on the 27th. This is the first time we're going to do an e-sports competition in conjunction with the Sun Bowl. But their parents paid the ultimate sacrifice, and we're going to give them a world-class event here in the city. Just another one of our very special veteran events that we do throughout the year here in our city. And we're going to make this an annual event. We're going to continue to...
 to get donations to bring even more of these Gold Star children and their families here to the city and kind of do different games. Really, at the end of the day, the importance of this event is that for the first time in some of these children's lives, they're going to be the ones that are on front of the stage, kind of living...
 in the shadows, if you would say, of the parents that passed away in combat. And so we're going to recognize them as their heroes, champions come the 20th. So I appreciate this again, and thank you so much for your support to our military and our veterans and our families. Thank you. Thank you, Command Sergeant Major, and thank you for your service to our community and our country. The next proclamation is the greetings from El Paso Mural and Artist Dedication to the city's vibrancy and resilience.
 Proclamation, City of El Paso, whereas in 2016, Victor Ving and Lisa Beggs, the founders of Greetings Tour, along with local muralist Dave Herrera, embarked on an ambitious project to create a large letter postcard mural in El Paso, Texas, and whereas the mural proudly displayed at the substation, an outdoor retail and dining village, serves as a vibrant canvas that masterfully weaves together the city's iconic landmarks
 cultural tapestry, historical significance, and natural beauty, including the awe-inspiring Franklin Mountains and the unique desert flora. And whereas the mural's creation was a testament to the power of collaboration brought to life through the harmonious partnership between Greetings Tour and local El Paso artist Dave Grave, whose invaluable insights into the city's distinct character infused the mural with authenticity and depth,
 And whereas the mural has transcended its artistic purpose, becoming a beloved landmark deeply embedded within the El Paso community, inspiring creativity and serving as a tangible reminder of the city's rich heritage and unwavering spirit.
 And whereas Greetings Tour, with its unwavering commitment to fostering community and promoting local businesses, has since painted over 60 postcard murals in 27 states and internationally, leaving an indelible mark on the cultural landscape. And whereas the Greetings from El Paso mural stands as a significant artistic expression that encapsulates the very essence of El Paso, a city brimming with vibrancy and resilience,
 It is a physical manifestation of the city's soul, a testament to its enduring strength and unwavering spirit. Now therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council of the city of El Paso that December 5th, 2023 shall be known as the Greetings from El Paso Mural and Artist's Dedication to the City's Vibrancy and Resilience Day, signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. We had people from the mural here, but I'm not sure.
 There they are. By the way, I went by it this morning. I think it's a requirement to anybody that comes to town. They're supposed to take a picture in front of the mural. I know we've all got selfies in front of it at some time or another. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. This is my daughter, Kivana. Hi, Kivana. I try to get her involved in everything we do, murals and art, and teach her about our beautiful city. But first of all, let me thank the city council, the mayor, and everybody here for your support. Thank you.
 and your recognition of this mural. It means a lot to us. When we started this mural back in 2016. It's okay, Katie. I'm sorry, guys. She's going through a sense of, she's very emotional right now. But I just wanna say thank you. I wish I could say more, but I'm gonna head off. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. President, come on. The next proclamation is Paul Albright, Defense Community Champion Day. Representative Nundas. Hi, good morning, Mr. Albright.
 If you could please approach the podium front and center. Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas, whereas Paul Albright served almost 30 years in the United States Army, which included overseas deployments on top priority operations and received close to 20 distinguished medals and badges during his service. And whereas in 2019, Mr. Albright retired as Command Sergeant Major with the 11th Air Defense Artillery Brigade at Fort Bliss, Texas.
 and since then has worked for the City of El Paso Division of Veterans and Military Affairs and leads the office as Chief Military Officer. The division serves as a liaison between the City of El Paso Fort Bliss, the El Paso VA, and other military and veteran organizations.
 And whereas earlier this year, the city of El Paso was honored with the Great American Defense Community Award by the Association of Defense Communities, acknowledging the city's outstanding integration with its military installation and community building initiatives. The ADC is now recognizing Paul Albright as one of the 16 defense community champions in the nation for his exemplary efforts to enhance the welfare of defense communities.
 And whereas Mr. Albright diligently worked with stakeholders to establish the El Paso Veterans Needs Assessment, which has been the foundation of change in the veteran community, leading to synchronization of services, a rapid aid response, and a remarkable improvement in the quality of life of El Paso veterans.
 veterans. And whereas Mr. Albright effectively coordinates with government and community partners to guide service members and veterans through employment, mental health care, housing, as well as assisting in their transition from the military life to civilian workplace, our
 through the city's Bridge Fellowship Program. And whereas Mr. Albright's recognition as a defense champion is a testament to his dedication and collaborative efforts to support our service members and veterans by providing them with dignity, opportunity, and well-being, now therefore, be it proclaimed by the mayor and council
 the city of El Paso that December 5th 2023 shall be known as Paul Albright defense community champion day signed by honorable mayor Oscar Leaser good morning command sergeant major well good morning mayor and council thank you so much I really appreciate this recognition you know it's it's been it's really been enjoyable all of the work has it's it's you know when I say it's work it's passion
 And it couldn't have been done without the great support that I received from you from the city leadership In in the in the veteran community In Fort Bliss as well in the military Leadership out there. We've all kind of came together and
 synchronized our efforts really paid attention to what was needed and then what could be attained and then what needed to be changed in order for us to obtain it we continue to look up and out to see what other resources are out there across the nation what funding sources are available our last choice is always the city of El Paso's taxpayer money that is absolutely if we can avoid that we always will there's different pots of money
 all over the nation and that's what we go after we go after different resources and we just try to bring it here because about quality of life it's quality of life for our active duty it's quality of life for our veterans about a year ago the city leadership made a change and put the military and veteran affairs in the quality of life portfolio under Dion Mack
 And I have to give a shout out to Ms. Mack because she's just an amazing leader. And what she has done for us is paramount to the success of this department. The way that she leads us through...
 think the words that i'm looking for is just astute leadership and being able to help guide us and get us to the right to write answers and get us and keep us on track and in the right direction it's very important so we really appreciate our deputy city manager dion mac for doing this for for helping us along the way
 And all of the city leadership staff too. Just outstanding leadership, outstanding support. So we really appreciate you. We still have work to do. We still have veterans. We get the phone call. A veteran in need needs a heater.
 And we could provide that heater easily. But what we have to think about is the other wraparound services, what's causing that veteran to not be able to afford the heater? What's causing that veteran to not have that financial stability for if they have a family? So we have to continue to look at that from a quality of life perspective. So we're not done yet. We still have plenty of work to do. We're excited to continue to do it. We will always provide for our veterans and our military.
 and once again I thank you for this recognition we don't do it for the recognitions but it's nice to be recognized so thank you so much and my wife was planning on beer actually she's walking in right over there she was looking for parking but I couldn't do it without my my wife and the support that I get from my family as well so thank you very much command sergeant major I do want to thank you for serving our country but then when
 When you decided to retire I've always said that the biggest compliment any service man and woman can make to a community is when they retire and to make El Paso their home and El Paso's become home to about 70,000 veterans today and Not you know, you didn't only just pick the city of El Paso to retire. He picked a profession to work in
 with 7 000 team members from the city and to make a difference for our veterans so i thank you for wanting and and making a difference thank you sir thank you ma'am there's your wife right on time good morning the next recognition is the mayor's distinguished award to steve and nancy fox the mayor's distinguished award to steve and nancy fox
 thank you thank you first of all for um being here council members but um i just uh before i read the mayor's distinguished award which we give very seldom it's something that's really special for our community but um you know i've known you all for a really long time and um i can tell you that uh you know we're both in the same business and we're not competitors we're friends
 And I admire the way you've always handled your business, understanding the business myself, knowing that you're a class act. And you run an operation that, in my opinion, is best bar none. Thank you. And I know that I'm very honored to call you my friend, Nancy, you too.
 Again, we're not competitors, we're friends, and I have all the respect in the world for what you guys have done and what you continue to do, and of course for the commitment to the Cancer Center. So I'm gonna read the award here. It says, Mayor's Distinguished Award, Steve and Nancy Fox, in appreciation for your generous contribution to making a cancer treatment center reality for El Paso community and for our surrounding, and also for our surrounding region.
 behalf of the city of El Paso and its citizens thank you for your steadfast commitment dedication and resources that you devoted over many years to make this dream possible thank you very much well it's an honor to address the council and some of the city leaders here and we just want to tell you how much we appreciate your service
 What you do is so incredibly important, and the results of what you've done is so visible downtown. I've been here for more than 40 years. Nancy grew up here, but the change in the community, the way it feels, so many fun, beautiful things are happening. I want to compliment all of you for being a huge part of that success, but the work's not done in all areas, and I want to thank Oscar for,
 for being my friend for so many years and he knows that we he and I have talked about this dream of improving health care in El Paso for so long and and I'm so proud we're making some progress in so many areas and I just want to acknowledge three people real quick on this cancer center and that would be Representative Mary Gonzalez she's played a huge role in helping this happen.
 And then Dr. Lang and Jacobs and Trone. There's so many other people behind this, but I'm confident that we're going to have a world-class cancer center, and I'm also confident we're going to come to you and ask for help. But thank you so very, very much for the honor today. We appreciate it. Thank you.
 Just for a point of reference, Steve and Nancy donated $25 million to make this a reality and a possibility. I know that you and I have both spent nights and time at MD Anderson, and there's nothing better than to be able to do that.
 than to be in your own bed and be in your own home for recovery and have your support system around you and that's going to make the biggest differences i know when when you lay there and and you wait for your to go for your next treatment the next day out of a hotel room is kind of tough you know oscar you're you're a cancer survivor and you can relate to this i've been privileged to be active in the cancer community for more than 20 years and i've worked with hundreds of cancer patients
 And it has troubled my heart so many times when I've seen good, wonderful people that I know could survive their cancer, but we didn't offer to them the quality of care that was necessary. And so I made a commitment, and Nancy joined me in this commitment. We're going to change that.
 So even if you're not affluent and you don't have money, there's no reason why you can't have world-class cancer care. And that's a mission, a goal. Stay at home. Stay with your family and get world-class care. And we're going to make that happen. So thank you. Ms. Pryor? Mayor, would you like to continue with a consent agenda or research? Yeah, let's do the consent real quick. Thank you, sir. And then after the consent, we'll break for pictures. Thank you.
 Yes, sir. That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting.
 Ms. Prine, I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions. Item 4, page 3, move to the regular agenda. Page 6, item 15, delete per Representative Hernandez. Page 9, item 26, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Economic and International Development. Page 9, item 27, move to the forefront of the regular agenda per Economic and International Development.
 Page 10, item 30, move to the forefront of the regular agenda for economic and international development. Page 10, item 31, move to the forefront of the regular agenda for economic and international development. Page 11, item 32, move to the forefront of the regular agenda for economic and international development. Mayor Pro Tem, is that going to take long? I would like to move the PD item, item 17, if we can, so we don't have to tie them up long.
 Well, I think if you moved it at this point, it would just follow the economic development ones. Okay. Thank you. Do we have a second? Thank you. And we do have public comment on item four from Corbin. Did you move that one up, item four? Yes, I moved it to regular and to the forefront. Right. Item four? Yes, ma'am. That will be the first one we'll take. Thank you. The motion was made by Mayor Pochett-Manalo, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve the consent agenda as revised. Thank you.
 On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. We'll get IT to help you log into the system. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. And we'll recess for a minute. Is there a motion to recess? There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Council, take your T-shirts for the box family photo. The meeting is in recess at 929 a.m. in order to take photos with this morning's honorees. Good morning, council. Second.
 There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 9.48 a.m.
 Mayor, would you like to go to item four that was moved to the agenda? Yeah, before you go to item four, and then we'll do mass transit after that. Thank you. Item four is a request that the Managing Director of Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing is authorized to notify EMG Construction LLC that the city is terminating contract number 2023-0403 Fire Station 38. Good morning. Good morning. Derek Rose, Purchasing and Strategic Sourcing Department. The linkage to the strategic plan is subsection 2.3.
 we request the managing director purchasing and tragic sourcing is authorized to notify emj construction llc that the city is terminating contract 2023-0403 fire station 38 pursuant to section 14 subsection 7 liquidated damages for failure to enter into contract of the solicitation document that determination shall be effective as december 5th 2023 and that the city may take the necessary steps to seek forfeiture of vendors bid bond and as liquidated damages thank you motion to approve
 Do you need to say something, ma'am? So, Mayor Nicole Cody, Managing Director, would you like me to go through the sequence of events, or would you like the call to the public? Yes, sir. We have Mr. Corbin Blackwell that signed up to speak on this item. Thank you.
 Good morning. You'll have three minutes, please. Good morning, Mayor, Council. I just would like to provide a little more information on the details that transpired for the solicitation. We were notified the bid was opened on April 19th of 23, which would then dictate that 120 days following that was August 17th.
 We received notification that the August 10th the agenda for the August 15th City Council meeting that We would be awarded the solicitation unfortunately the notice Was not the official notice per the solicitation was not sent to us until August 18th Which placed it at 121 days because of that unfortunately the prices did increase no longer the
 the highest and best use contractor. We then had some conversations with purchasing that the contract would be terminated out of convenience, the bond would be returned, and there would be no additional action taken by the city. That did not happen. We received a letter in October stating that the bond would be called and that we would be penalized for three years for many solicitations.
 So we were just respectfully asking that the bond be returned and that no further penalties be levied. So, and I'm having a hard time hearing you. Oh, I'm sorry. But you're saying that the bid was to expire September 5th. You got the official notice on September 18th? No, sir. The bid expired August 17th, and we received the notice August 18th.
 Mm-hmm. Okay, miss Cody Nicole Cody managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing Mayor and council the award is awarded at the time that council is approved. That's the date of award Which was August 15th as as mr. Blackwell indicated
 The item I'd like to bring up is that please remember that we're still pending all of the signed documents at that point, so we send an award letter notification to the vendors letting them know that it has been awarded at that date. And so that's our common practice. And so we always try for that same week, and it may be longer, but usually it's within that week. And so as he stated, he did receive it on August 18th.
 He is correct the bids expired on the 17th, but it was awarded on the 15th And they were they notified that it would go in front of council and be approved and awarded on August 15th Yes, sir. My understanding he received an email That did indicate that it was going to be awarded on the 15th. Mr. Blackwell. Were you aware that did you receive an email on the 15th? Saying it was going to council. Yes, sir. We did. Okay unfortunately the solicitation states that
 you know per the letter that we received from purchasing that this is our official notice and the the solicitation explicitly states that until you are notified of the award you are not allowed to proceed and there's there's the rub okay mr cody he's saying that can you kind of give me some information on the chain that it says until you are notified then you're not awarded the bid
 So we commonly especially with construction projects and Derek can speak more to this. A lot of times if there's additional documentation that's required we live we provide the notification also remind them of the time frame that they have to provide the additional documentation if it's required.
 So even though he was awarded the bid he was not notified till the 18th Yes, which is after the 120 days. It was the notification but the award was prior to the one Okay, so on your bid just to make sure because I'm trying to if once you're awarded whether you're notified or not It becomes an official award or said the award once you're notified correct. It's when council awards. I
 Okay, so when you bid it it says once council awards it it becomes yours or this would say once you get notified Because he's saying that it says once you get notified. He was notified after the hundred and twenty days So I'm looking for the specific language Let me pull that for you, sir Mayor historically when council awards the contract at the council meeting that is the official action of the award No, and I understand that but he's saying that in where he was that he would not get the bed till notified. I
 And that's why I want to make sure the language is correct. So I can provide you the language specific to the expiration notice that we provided. It's item four of the solicitation. And so this was, sir, this is directly from your proposal. Item four of the expiration notice. It states the offer agrees to furnish all items, supplies and services at the prices offered and delivered at the designated point or points within the time set forth in the schedule.
 if this proposal accepted within 120 consecutive days from the date set for the receipt of proposals. All proposals shall expire on the 120th day after the proposals are opened unless the City of El Paso requests an extension of the proposal in writing and the offeror agrees to extend in writing. It was both checked and confirmed that it was read and understood. So as you can see, it does not specifically say what type of notification,
 but per our policy, it's based on award. I don't know, Claudia, are you online? Do you have any other items that you would like to add to this? So Claudia Garcia. You made a statement that said that it says once you're notified, do you have that somewhere? Yes, yes, sir. Can you share that with Ms. Cody, please? Yeah, I need to find it here.
 Mayor also the language the traditional language the proposal states that the proposal is accepted when awarded So the city is accepting the proposal of the bidder at the time of the award and that is part of I
 Yes, sir. It's it's in here. It says article 14 of the solicitation That says that each contract shall be deemed as having being awarded when formal written notice of award shall have been duly served upon verbatim
 Didn't hear I'm sorry, please forgive me so Article 14 provides that each contract shall be deemed as having been awarded when formal written notice of award shall have been duly served upon Miss Neiman So mayor again the the language when a proposal is being submitted to the city They are checking off the boxes that they understand that upon the award They are committing to being bought being bound by those prices so
 The argument that is being made that he didn't receive notice immediately The item was properly placed on the agenda and that is notice to the public that this award is being awarded To this to this group. So after the fact, I mean those those questions aren't for the council to consider It's whether we followed the process and he committed to being bound by the terms that he was submitting to the city which were Accepted upon the award but what he read to us does state that he will be notified immediately
 and he was notified after the 120 days so that's what i want to clarify i mean he just read that to us unless it's so mayor what we are what we are what we are proposing to council is that you move forward with with the request from staff to terminate the contract we followed the terms of the bid proposal and i get that ma'am i just want to clarify what he told us and it's in writing right there and
 Just want clarification. I know what we're asking for to terminate the contract that he will be reliable for Liquidated damages he'll lose his 5% bond I get all that but he's contesting it based on writing that he has there in front of him And I just kind of want to be able to give him an answer that says whatever he's got in writing It's not right. Where did she get that letter from? Which one are you referring to the one who was read to us? Well, that was from the solicitation that the city I
 From the bid? Yes, sir. Okay. I know they're looking something up real quick. Yes, sir. Go ahead. Representative Kennedy. When were you notified that it was going to be awarded? We had an initial conversation. The project was revalued for best value, and I believe that was in June. Were you, but you received notice that it was going to be awarded on the 15th of August, right?
 via email we were awarded that roughly the 10th of august that it would be presented at count the council right so on the 10th of august you got a formal written notice that it was going to be awarded no sir the council has to approve it so we got noticed that it was going to be resended to council for council to approve and then you got a letter on the 18th saying it was awarded to you yes sir
 The letter, we did receive an email, and the contract states a date of August 16th as the award date. Unfortunately, we were not in receipt of that until August 18th, which was sent electronically by the city, which by purchasing, which is outlined in this letter that we received.
 And your stance is that since you didn't receive the correspondence that it was awarded within the 120 days, that it violated the 120 days? Yes, sir. So unfortunately because of that, we had the contractual obligation to reach out to our subcontractors and suppliers to verify that the prices were still valid. Unfortunately in this environment, you know, with volatility, the price increased. We had that discussion with purchasing and understandably, we did.
 there was a better value which then we we had the discussion that the contract would be terminate out of convenience which we do not have an issue with the bond would be returned and there would not be any implications or penalties to bidding future work with the city we never received an official response to that until roughly October 9th which
 The city said they were going to – purchasing said they were going to recommend to council to terminate the contract, to call the bid bond, and to prevent any business activities for three years. Well, and I appreciate that. I think that to focus down on the issue is whether you were required to have received post-award the notice of the award within 120 days. Yes, sir. So per the solicitation, it explicitly says that you will receive notification –
 within 120 days and also mr. Blackwell if I can see that exact portion of the language to that you read off because in section 6 under public disclosure of bid proposal information we include as part of this and so this is part of the solicitation language as part of the template when anyone is going to bid it's included as part of that template online
 It states that, an important notice, any changes in due date or material changes for any solicitation would be, of course, on IonWave, and it provides the link. And then it says it offers responsibility to ensure they all have pertinent information regarding solicitations, including all amendments prior to submitting their proposal.
 For paper submissions, we refer to IonWave to ensure you've viewed and viewed all amendments, of course. And then it goes into recommendations for formal awards shall be posted on the city website the Thursday afternoons prior to the Tuesday City Council and or mass transit meetings, wherein the recommendation shall be presented. Offers are responsible for monitoring the city's website for posting and awards. So I...
 The award is at the time that council awards. Right. And so we are asking all, not just EMJ, but all bidders to make sure that they are monitoring for the award on council. And I understand this difference between a solicitation and the actual bid itself, which is two different documents.
 But in our case, we actually compile it so it's all one. It's all one? Yes, sir. So this becomes the bid, the solicitation, and the contract. So that way there is no ambiguity or differences between documents. Okay. And the question then becomes whether there was or was not the 120-day activated because receipt of notice of the award was not received in his hands or in his mailbox, so to speak.
 So that's what he's, but based on our practice and all other vendors, award is at the city council date. And then after the city council date, we provide notice. Okay, thank you. Representative Molinar. Thank you, Mayor.
 Mr. Blackwell, I believe. Correct, sir. Okay. Can you please state what your correct title or position is with EMJ? I'm the business development manager. Okay. How many times have you done business with the city of El Paso in any capacity? We were successfully awarded the Penguin exhibit the first time it was solicited, and
 And due to COVID, it got put on hold. So to my knowledge, that's the only project we've done with the city. We have done numerous CPISD projects and numerous private sector projects. Okay. And are you well aware of everything that Ms. Cody says as far as the bid, the solicitation that's on the website that when you –
 I guess you and your team are attorneys for your company. They review all those documents prior? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. We have a team that goes through all those documents. That is part of the contention is that, like I stated earlier, Article 14 explicitly states that each contract shall be deemed as having to be awarded when formal written notice is given. And at any time, did you or your team have any questions to the process for the city of El Paso?
 Sure, there were lots of questions that came up. Okay, and did you ask those questions and get a response? Not frequently, not on all of them. So you didn't receive a response for all of your questions? No, sir. And did you further inquire about why you weren't receiving responses? We tried numerous times through numerous channels.
 E-mail is the most documented. And to whom did you inquire about this? To Purchasing, to Ms. Cody. Do you have any specific person or entity? To the Director of Purchasing and Ms. Cody. And is this documented, let's say, in an e-mail or letter, formal letter? E-mails. All right. Thank you. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor. Ms. Cody, the gentleman is saying that he has a letter that says that he would receive written notice. Is that correct?
 I, I, that's what he said, but I haven't seen it. I'm sorry. Yeah. Can we see the letter, Ms. Prine? Would it be possible? Yes, we can put it on. If I, can you turn on the Elmo? Yeah, that would be great. Yes. So, and while they're, go ahead. It is the letter from our office giving him the notification, but in the first sentence, you'll see that it clearly states that it was awarded on August 15th. Okay. I mean, I, I,
 Listen, I think that if you're filling out a solicitation online, it's telling you to check this online portal. I do think, and if you're just applying for a solicitation, I think it does behoove you to follow and track that. I do think that there may be some conflicting information via letters.
 So the point of my question and the point of my statements here is that I think there needs to just kind of be some kind of cleanup to make sure that we're being very clear about what that process is, but I do think that it is the responsibility of the applicant if in that solicitation it is telling you to check the website after the council meetings and this letter is telling you that you are awarded. But Ms. Cody, I would be concerned that just in the future that we're cleaning up language so there isn't confusion moving forward.
 Thank you. May I quote to Representative Canales? Thank you, Mayor. Sorry, I was reading the letter. Ms. Cody, do we typically provide notice only by e-mail, or is notice of award also sent by certified mail or any other method? Yes, it's by e-mail. Okay, and by e-mail only? Mm-hmm.
 SO ALSO I'D LIKE AN OPPORTUNITY JUST TO POINT OUT THAT, BECAUSE I DON'T WANT ANY CONFUSION, THAT THIS IS TERMINATION FOR LIQUIDATED DAMAGES ONLY, SO IT'S ONLY A CALL ON THE BID BOND. THIS DOES NOT IMPACT THEIR ABILITY TO BE AWARDED A PROJECT IN THE FUTURE. AND THEN MR.
 FORGIVING ME IF I'M NOT SEEING IT. I DIDN'T QUITE GET TO THE END OF THE LETTER. YES, SIR. WHAT WAS THE LANGUAGE THAT YOU READ PREVIOUSLY? YOU SAID THAT WAS FROM NOT FROM THIS LETTER, THAT WAS ACTUALLY FROM THE SOLICITATION. ARTICLE 14. I THINK THAT'S THE LANGUAGE WE WERE TRYING TO SEE. YES, SIR. SO ARTICLE 14 OF THE SOLICITATION PROVIDES THAT EACH CONTRACT SHALL BE DEEMED AS HAVING BEEN AWARDED WHEN FORMAL WRITTEN NOTICE OF AWARD SHALL HAVE BEEN DULY SERVED UPON. OKAY. ARE WE ABLE TO CAN WE PUT THAT ON THE ELMO, PLEASE? JUST SO WE CAN ALL SEE IT.
 that this is a letter from our outside council uh outlining that uh right i'm sorry that the print is very small for the actual solicitation so and then i mean you have it in front of you mr blackwell i'm searching right now okay no problem i just want to confirm i mean this is i don't doubt the citation of your council i just want to make sure this is exactly what it says in the in the solicitation as well
 Okay, and then also a notice to offer is under section 14.
 and I should have brought this up sooner. Time of award. Each contract, if I may read, each contract shall be deemed as having awarded when formal written notice shall be duly served upon the offer to whom the owner has awarded the contract by some officer or agent of the owner duly authorized to give such notice. Upon receipt such written notice, the contractor will proceed to verify the availability of required materials or equipment needed to perform the project
 and submit his shop drawings to the Capital Improvement Department, our owner-designated representative, within 21 calendar days from issuance of notice to proceed with submittal phase. If problems are encountered in the availability of materials or equipment, the owner will be notified in writing immediately prior to the scheduling of the pre-construction conference. So I just want you to know that we are aware and we are in agreement of the required duly notice. But at the time that...
 The agenda is posted that that isn't a notice as well and we have asked as part of the public disclosure to ensure that all contractors are monitoring the city council agenda which is also for public information. We also let them know that it was going to be at the city council and city council did award publicly. That's it for me for the moment. Mayor, thank you. There's no other questions. So, Ms. Pryor, thank you for being here. Thank you, Ms. Cody.
 The motion to approve was made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Kennedy. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes seven to one. Representative Canales voting nay, the remainder of council voting aye. Thank you. The motion carries. Can we go to MassFrancid? Yes, council, is there a motion to recess the regular city council meeting? There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 The regular city council meeting is in recess at 1015 a.m. in order to conduct the Mass Transit Department board meeting. Mr. Rivera, seconded by Ms. Anelo, to adjourn the Mass Transit Department board meeting of December 5, 2023 at 1023 a.m. Is there a motion to reconvene the regular city council meeting? So moved. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Opposed?
 And the regular city council meeting is back in session at 1023 a.m. Mayor, if we may, there were several items that were moved to the forefront. They are all related. Would you like me to read them into the record together, sir? Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Item number 26 is a public hearing of an ordinance changing the zoning from M2C heavy manufacturing conditions to C4 commercial at 7000 Stan Roberts.
 Item number 27 is a public hearing of an ordinance releasing all conditions placed on the property at 7000 Stan Roberts. Item number 30 is a public hearing of an ordinance authorizing the city manager to sign a contract of sale with Worldwide LLC, a Delaware limited liability company for the sale of approximately 1039 acres of property situated in section 3 block 80 township 1 Texas and Pacific,
 Railroad Survey Abstract Number 2381 and Section 4, Block 80, Township 1, Texas and Pacific Railroad Survey Abstract Number 9862 in the City of El Paso, El Paso County. Item Number 31 is Discussion and Action that the City Manager be authorized to sign a tax abatement agreement between the City of El Paso, Texas and Worldwide LLC in support of the construction in one or more phases which may extend over a period of years one or more data centers.
 And item 32 is discussion and action that the City Council approves the allocation of funds from the Texas Economic Development Incentive Program to fund the intersection improvements at Stan Roberts and US 54 to support and facilitate development of 1,039 acres of land on the north side of Stan Roberts Senior Avenue and west of US Highway 54.
 Okay. I just have a quick question. I know we went through the presentation thoroughly yesterday. We did receive, and I know that there was some conversation about traffic mitigation and all of that yesterday. We did receive a statement from one of our neighborhood association presidents, not in the area, but discussing some of the noise mitigation. I don't know if you all were able to see that statement. Do you have any comments on that?
 I know that there's not a lot of development around this area at the time. I know that there is a neighborhood, I think, on the other side of 54. And I don't think that there's any land adjacent to this that we assume that will be rezoning as residential at any time soon. Is that correct? Right. So there is the surrounding properties. Well, first of all, it's a more than 1,000-acre piece of property that they're looking at constructing on the complex.
 The company itself has a lot of security requirements, so it benefits the company not to locate directly on the property line, right? So I think there's a couple of protections in our code. First, certainly the noise ordinance. Secondly, the reason why we're recommending the down zoning to C4 is because it's a less intense use. Most of the activity is housed inside of a building.
 And then third, of course, there's protections within C4 about how far away from property lines you can be. So I think those are the primary ones in terms of surrounding land uses. Yes, you're correct. The closest neighborhood is Chaparral to the north of the state line.
 and then residential within the city limits is across us 54 the properties to the south are zoned commercial as well and then to the east it's ranch farm and all of that is owned by the city so if a rezoning took place it would you know the city would have heavy involvement I know that you went over a lot of that yesterday I just wanted to clarify since we did receive that letter thank you
 no more questions yes mayor there was a comment submitted by vero ann carrillo i'll read it into the record as she asked us to and it states dear city council members i would like to address agenda item 30 concerning the sale of property to worldwide llc for a hyper center data center in el paso while economic development is crucial for our city we must consider its impact on our community residents chandler arizona
 Residents have complained for years about 24-7 humming from data centers constructed near their homes. The Chandler City Council responded by enacting ZOCODE amendments, Chapter 35, Section 2214, that include noise mitigation and noise monitoring measures. However, I didn't hear a similar provision discussed during yesterday's special meeting. This is especially important since META plans to massively expand this facility in the future.
 To ensure that this development aligns with the best interests of our community, I urge the City Council to consider delaying the vote on this item until Worldwide META provides a clear plan for noise mitigation and monitoring. A few provisions, among others, that I humbly ask the City to consider include, number one, the establishment of a detailed communications protocol to inform effective residents about pre- and post-construction.
 including mandatory neighborhood meetings and the appointment of an on-site liaison. Number two, a requirement for a pre-construction sound study to establish a noise baseline. The results of this study should be made available to residents before the scheduled neighborhood meeting. Number three, implementation of sound mitigation measures to ensure that noise levels from the data center do not exceed those observed during the baseline study.
 And number four, mandate for the data center to conduct an annual noise study during peak operational times for the first five years following the completion of construction. By considering these and other provisions from Chandler, El Paso can ensure that the art community remains a great place to live while also encouraging responsible economic development. Thank you for your consideration and commitment to the well-being of El Paso and its residents. Sincerely, Vero and Carrillo. Thank you.
 Yes, sir. The motion was made by Representative Rivera. Who made the motion? By Representative Fierro. And who seconded? Alternate Mayor Potemal. Salcido seconded. Salcido. And these are items 26, 27, 30, 31, and 32. On item 31, we have Patricia Osmond that signed up to speak. Good morning again. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. In regards to the data center,
 I'm not too sure if the city is aware the amount of stress a data center would put on our electric grid. No different than Bitcoin farms and so forth, all right? El Paso does not have the same issues that East Texas does and I would like that to remain a fact. Honestly, when I worked and dealt with paperwork for the El Paso Industrial Development Corporation,
 What bothered me is the city only brought in low-paying jobs. This data center is just another example of that, call centers and so forth. We need more development in higher-paying jobs, not low-wage-paying jobs to keep our citizens at a bare minimum below the poverty level.
 Something higher this data center is not good for El Paso in many aspects Yes, sound level but also the strain it's going to put on our grid system that also needs to be looked into Because that alone is going to end up hurting the entire city all parts of the city all citizens as a whole and
 So I would definitely recommend that anything be tabled as far as that data center until there's more studies done so that you make sure that the citizens of El Paso are not adversely affected because, quite frankly, anything you all do in this chamber, it's not to be taken lightly. Your choices either harm or help our citizens. So it all depends on what you decide to do.
 for not only for right now in our present, for our future. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. And the motion was made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Salcido, and this is to approve items 26, 27, 30, 31, and 32. On that motion, call for the vote. End the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. That brings us back to page number 6, to item number 17, item...
 And item 17 is presentation and discussion by the El Paso Police Department on a strategic public safety plan to address incidents in and around the entertainment venues and house parties. This item was submitted by Representative Rivera. Good morning, Chief. Good morning, Mayor, Council, Peter Pacillas, Chief of Police, for the record. We're going to be going over a presentation so we can inform you what we're doing with
 entertainment district areas and the house parties activities that are going across the city of El Paso that we We could help you inform your constituents who going on. This has been a multi-agency approach to this problem that we're facing
 We partnered with the county attorney's Texas alcoholic beverage Commission the military over at Fort Bliss with a general Eisenhower in fact two of his staff members here lieutenant colonel Mazon and deputy director of emergency services Mr. Antonetti are here along with Amy Muncy vice from the county attorney's office with her investigator Victor Boulos and
 We have held community meetings with business owners. Our approach is to educate the business owners on some of the danger zones or minefields that they might be in, so that we don't have to deal with our problems. In fact, we had a meeting several weeks ago where over 20 business owners showed up to this meeting to be educated on some of the problems that we're seeing out at these types of establishments.
 So, also brought all the commanders from the area regional commands to introduce them to you all, so you know which commanders working in your area should you need them to speak at any of your community meetings, so you can introduce the commanders to your constituents also. And I'll have them introduce themselves before they leave and this presentation's over. So with that, I'm going to turn this over to Commander Steve Lopez, and if IT can bring up the presentation. Thank you.
 good morning commander mayor council city leaders good morning steve lopez i'm from the west side regional command center commander out there and i'm going to have a short presentation to go over not only the concerns and issues that we've identified but also the the initiatives and like the chief mentioned we have cross-functional teams we have stakeholders and we have programs in place to address these issues and concerns in our entertainment districts and to address house parties if we can go to the next page please
 The challenges for the El Paso Police Department are crimes against persons, property crimes, disorderly conduct, traffic and pedestrian safety, nuisance noise disturbances, business noncompliance, parking issues, and then of course house parties involving juveniles. Next slide please. One of the programs that the El Paso Police Department has in place is called DDEX. It's Data Driven Approach to Crime and Traffic.
 For year to date to October 31st of this year, we've identified 190 crimes against persons, 1,852 officer-initiated calls for service, which shows that the officers are self-initiating calls for service in these specific areas. We have 819 disturbance calls for service,
 And we have, of the 2,861 calls for service, 462 involve weapons, shots fired, and subject disturbance calls. And the three identified areas are going to be 200 Cincinnati Avenue, 1100 Airway Boulevard, and the 1400 block of North Sarawasa Road. Next slide, please.
 Next we're going to go into traffic enforcement crashes and DWI arrest year-to-date up to October 31st of 2023 as you can see on the graphs Fridays and Saturdays the weekend crash reporting are more significant between the hours of 1 and 3 in the morning and that coincides with when most of these businesses close at 2 in the morning and
 Crash report during this time period within the identified entertainment districts majority the crashes again occur on Fridays and Saturdays During this same reporting period a total of 94 driving while intoxicated arrests were made within these three identified locations majority of the rest Occur between Friday and Sunday morning Sunday morning because it bleeds past the Saturday at 2 to 2 a.m. In the morning Sunday closing time for these businesses and
 And then these arrests are taking place between 10 a.m. and 3 a.m. We do have specific units out there to address the crashes and the DWIs. We have our El Paso PD DWI Traffic Enforcement Unit, and we have our High Performance Vehicle units that are out there addressing these crashes and these DWIs. Next slide, please.
 As part of our commitment to the overall safety of the citizens of El Paso, one of our stakeholders, a member of our cross-functional team, is the U.S. military out of Fort Bliss. And the reason for this is active duty military involvements year-to-date September 1 of 2023. There have been 206 crimes against persons that have occurred in these three identified entertainment districts.
 Of the 206, 49 incidents, or 24% of the total, involved active-duty military. There's a couple of press releases here where active-duty military personnel have been involved in shootings. The two mentioned here, one's going to be on Airway Plaza, which is the 1100 block of Airway, and then the other one was the shopping center in the northeast, Northeast Regional Command Center. Next slide, please.
 This is not a complete list, but these are our major stakeholders and members of our cross-functional team. Everyone working together, good partners moving forward with our initiatives and with Strategic Goal 2.0. It's the County Nuisance Abatement Team, as Chief Acillas mentioned. So Ms. Amy Monsivice leads that team. TABC, Texas Alcohol and Beverage Commission.
 Texas Department of Public Safety, El Paso Fire Department, El Paso Code Enforcement, and Mr. Alvarado, the Director of Code Enforcement, is here with us today. The El Paso Planning and Inspections Unit, the El Paso Health Department, Area Law Enforcement Agencies, as Chief Macias mentioned, this is a multi-agency initiative that we have. We also have the meetings and the presentations for the business owners and associations. We meet with landlords, the brick-and-mortar owners of these establishments.
 Neighborhood associations, Kerr Neighborhood and Rim Neighborhood associations are two that we are in constant contact with. Local school districts where we have the presentations and then the University of Texas at El Paso. Next slide please. This slide is dedicated to Ms. Monsi-Weiss and her team with the county attorney's nuisance abatement team. They're known as the net unit.
 Their mission is to protect and improve the overall quality of life in our community by using civil litigation to combat habitual criminal activity occurring on properties and to hold business and property owners accountable. A very strong partner with the El Paso Police Department, and we truly appreciate all of her efforts.
 How does she accomplish her mission by filing injunctive lawsuits against businesses, owners, landlords, and properties, and or by asking for landlords to take responsive action against tenants? Result as to bars only for 2023 criminal activity abated at seven different locations. Accomplished with collaborative effort with the El Paso Police Department and other agencies, cooperative action from landlords,
 presentations, education to stakeholders, which is very important. And then of course the lawsuits or the possibility of being named in a lawsuit. Next slide please. We also have a program or an initiative with the El Paso Police Department known as the Social Host Ordinance.
 It is a goal of the El Paso Police Department to promote the effects of underage drinking at bars, house parties, or outdoor areas where alcohol is served to, consumed by, or purchased by underage persons. Either directly or indirectly, we all feel the efforts, the effects of the aggressive behavior, property damage, injuries, violence, and deaths.
 They can result from underage drinking. This is not simply a problem for some families, it is a city-wide concern. The department continues to work with all stakeholders to include short-term companies such as Airbnb. And then there's a screenshot of their efforts, their initiatives to work
 as a partner with the El Paso Police Department to identify house parties prior to the house party actually taking place. Examples on how underage drinking parties escalate immediately to deadly conduct and the loss of life. Recently on Tierra Inca, six minors shot. We lost two lives, the 14 and 19 year old. 10 900 Gary Player, two minors shot in the chest. 5800 block of Sixta.
 Three miners shot, one was shot in the face. And 4,500 SWAN, six miners were located with gunshot wounds. So this is happening, hence the reason for the social host ordinance, our initiatives, and our partnerships with all of our stakeholders. Next slide, please. The noise ordinance, everyone's favorite.
 Enforcement citywide, year-to-date October 31st, 2023, and I would like to command Mr. Steven Alvarado and his team for all of their efforts. The current noise ordinance and sound amplification violation is still at 70 decibels. Code enforcement, working alongside our police officers, have taken a proactive stance to conduct continuous decibel readings citywide
 based on our initiatives and also complaints that come in from our citizens and our residents year to date a total of 1793 readings have been conducted citywide and a total of 375 notices of violations have been issued most of the violations and most of the readings and most of the Infractions are occurring if you can see on that time clock between 10 p.m. And 11 p.m. Next lightless. I
 Parking initiative. We started receiving multiple, numerous complaints citywide about illegal parking, parking blocking driveways, fire hydrants, the amount of complaints coming in. So.
 We took a proactive approach to this to the El Paso Police Department took a proactive approach to parking violations citywide a Multi-tiered plan was introduced to address illegal parking complaints while enhancing the quality of life for all affected residents in their neighborhoods Officers verify the residential no parking zones and areas that have been granted residential parking permits officers continue to enforce these parking zones on a regular basis citywide and
 Due to the continued police presence, as you can tell by that graph top left, the number of violations has seen a decrease, significant decrease, over the last couple of quarters. We did see a small spike in quarter four of 2023, but that's based on the holiday season, school letting out for fall break.
 So there was a small increase, but overall we have seen a tremendous decrease due to our efforts and our initiatives and working with our residents and our neighborhood associations. Next slide, please. Proactive initiatives. There's multiple ones that we have in place that we continue to manage and maintain. One of the initiatives that we have.
 It's an average of 28 police officers are scheduled to work mandatory overtime in the entertainment districts to address calls for service, crime traffic, and parking issues that occur in and around the entertainment districts. To meet the current demands for police resources citywide, the El Paso Police Department continues to draft officers on mandatory overtime in order to address these calls for service.
 On-duty personnel continue with the department's directed patrol initiative. Officers patrol the identified districts in an effort to display presence while deterring crime and seeking compliance. Fort Bliss military personnel provide courtesy patrols within these districts to help with our active duty military personnel, to keep them safe and secure and to get them home safely. They work in unison with the El Paso Police Department to address incidents directly related to their personnel.
 Weekly joint entertainment district operations with our stakeholders the El Paso Police Department continues to work with the recently hired Consultation firm the reasonable hospitality Institute RHI This pathway is a city led initiative that involves the RHI group The El Paso Police Department and the city of El Paso the mission is to identify and label entertainment districts because we don't have a true definition yet and
 With an emphasis on the quality of life for all El Pasoans. We have a strong alliance with TABC and the El Paso County Nuisance Abatement Team. This collaborative effort has resulted in the legislative sanctions and fines issued to problematic businesses citywide, as mentioned previously. Next slide, please. Some additional proactive initiatives. The El Paso Police Department.
 Is in phase two of a plan to install additional cameras citywide based upon our city watch program and you can see the bullets there We have partnered with local landlords and businesses. We are in the final stages of planning for installation signage will be placed throughout that will be visible and these cameras will help the department's incident response and investigations while deterring overall crime in these districts and
 The El Paso Police Department continues a light-up-the-night initiative that we started on the west side. The installation of additional lighting in strategic locations within our entertainment district. I can specifically say that the alleyway between North Mesa and Stanton at 200 Cincinnati Avenue, that whole alleyway has been lit up and has made a profound difference in our calls for service. Next slide, please.
 another slide proactive initiatives continued presentations are conducted periodically to stakeholders community members residents local schools and fort bliss active duty military personnel during their in process to fort bliss community service officers attend monthly civic meetings in order to present current events to our residents while answering questions and concerns related to crime quarterly meetings with fort bliss executive staff and the commanding general for continued support
 for military-involved incidents to include their courtesy patrols, while maintaining a liaison direct communication between Fort Bliss and the El Paso Police Department. Most importantly, the El Paso Police Department remains proactive with underage drinking, narcotic use, and weapon violations. We see the news. It's being reported citywide of all the issues that
 We have identified when it comes to underage drinking parties house parties Citywide many of these house parties are announced within the entertainment districts via social media word-of-mouth and or party flyers that we have actually found discarded at the entertainment district the El Paso Police Department also works closely with Airbnb as mentioned previously in an effort to identify potential underage drinking parties citywide So it's ongoing initiative been very very successful. I
 All information in reference to underage drinking parties, house parties, is forwarded to the affected regional commander at his command center, and resources are dedicated to investigate and address the information gathered. Next slide, please. So in closing, the El Paso Police Department continues in its mission to work towards achieving the mandates as listed in Strategic Goal 2.0, set the standard for a safe and secure city. 2.1, maintain standing as one of the nation's
 Top safest cities, 2.2, strengthen community involvement in resident safety, and 2.4, improve motorist safety and traffic management solutions, which is part of our DDAX plan. By working closely with our stakeholders, the community, city leaders, educators, youth-based organizations, and business owners allows the El Paso Police Department to continue to strengthen the lines of communication,
 while creating a robust network dedicated to public safety. Community and business-based policing is the key to our success by promoting accountability at all levels and by establishing a strong foundation of transparency, interaction, and collaboration with our community as a whole. Thank you, everyone. Questions? Thank you, sir. Yeah, we have a couple questions here. One question. Now, who controls...
 overcrowding of any establishments in the entertainment district code compliance or the fire department it's the fire department and the fire marshal's office no so are we doing that because I think that's when you go over I think that's one of your biggest issues you'll see that it's overcrowding and not a few but probably most of the establishments are overcrowded
 Are we looking to be proactive on that? Because I think that creates a lot of pushing and shoving and people getting aggravated when you're talking about going into a crowded establishment like that. Yes, sir, Marion. I know you've been out there a couple of times, and you've seen the issues that we're addressing.
 We do work with Lieutenant Ortega with the El Paso Fire Department, and his marshals actually go out with us every Saturday and assist the overtime officers with overcrowding and sprinkler systems and the exits that the fire marshals takes care of. As a matter of fact, this past Saturday at one of the businesses there on Cincinnati, because of the overcrowding, there was 277 inside a business with an occupancy of 89 people.
 So they were able to shut down the business for the night and put them on notice, and then that notice was forwarded to TABC. Great, because I think that's really important for control and making sure people don't lose their temper inside a crowded area. I think that's where it begins. Yes, sir. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you, Commander. That was an extensive detailed report that I was looking forward to, as well as everybody here. And the reason it was placed, as we discussed this, is to educate the community as to what the El Paso Police Department is taking, what steps it's taking to curtail all the violence and underage drinking and house parties that are plaguing our community. I noticed that...
 You included the business owners. How many business owners for right now do we have as part of your team that are gladly cooperating with the department? Actually, fully involved, we have 22. And we had the 20 that actually showed up to our fusion center in the Northeast when we had that presentation for bar owners and landlords. So we are in communication with them. We have that link. And as...
 Major parrot from TABC will say we're seeking compliance That's all we're asking for you know comply with the rules and regulations in place Our mission is not to identify or target or close any business We seek compliance by working together with them by making them Good neighbors true, but also your mission in this case is to deter any kind of violence from occurring and
 Or, you know, underage drinking, correct? Yes, sir. So, I mean, you've described so many that so many –
 Steps that the department has taken I'm proud to say that you you've increased your the police department's transparency and inclusion of the public Community to help you in the with this community based policing as well, right? Are you having the same cooperation from the community itself? Yes, we are and Another big component and all the commanders can attest to this is our citizens advisory boards We have monthly meetings
 and that's when we invite the community to come in and we make them good partners, stewards of this community, and they get involved and they want to help, they want to get involved, they want to help the department, they want to help the city moving forward maintaining our standing as a safe city. Great. And you move these meetings throughout the community itself? Yes, we do. From east to west, west to north to south? Yes. And you're having a great participation on that.
 You know what, it's starting to take off, and that's because of the efforts from all the commanders of announcing the community meetings by inviting not only community and residents, but the business owners and the landlords. It has to be all-encompassing. And I'd like to hear from the military, if possible, what steps they've taken to assure us that they're out here with you and wanting to stop and curb the activities that we have going on.
 Yes, sir. And the other guy was Planet, right? Or was the other gentleman that you brought? So we have Lieutenant Colonel Mazan and Deputy Emergency Director Dory Antonetti from the military. Good morning, sir. Good morning, sir. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, sir. I'm Lieutenant Colonel Lee Monzen. I'm the Director for Emergency Services for Fort Bliss. Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
 and and sir it starts off with just the like you had mentioned the the transparency and that's the partnership that we do have with El Paso PD along with other local state and federal
 And with that transparency right there, sir, it allows us to be informed and it allows the leaders throughout Fort Bliss to also inform our soldiers as far as what our expectations are to be good stewards and tenants of this already supporting El Paso community.
 and uh like chief said sir um the quarterly meetings that we have it allows us to better nest our efforts from the the tactical level all the way to the strategic level and i think that's what promotes uh that way forward and and uh you you know you you educate your shoulders before uh before entering ford bliss during your time at ford bliss and once they exit i guess
 Every so often do you make sure you make sure that the rules are in place? Yes, sir Yes, sir, and it starts off with what we call engaged leadership. I
 against her all the way from the lowest levels all the way up and it starts with the once they in process that's where expectations are shared across the board in terms of maintaining the standards both on and off off post and since your involvement have you found it to be a success on the base itself
 Yes, sir. And we call them the 10 percenters. Unfortunately, there is out of the...
 the entire military population, we do find at least 10% where they need a little bit more attention. However, again, sir, you'll see routine and deliberate efforts across throughout the week to end the week additionally with safety briefs and all. And additionally, our leadership works 24 seven and our soldiers know that so at any time of need,
 they're always there so that's one way that we try to also prevent incidents from occurring off posts thank you I thank you I thank you for that I thank you for letting the public know your involvement as far as you know a leader on our on our family our sister city or bliss the little city within the city but sell their family and so I thank you so much mayor thank you so much right now thank you thank you Colonel
 thank you sir and again uh thank you for being here and um you know us working together will be more efficient and I think this is a perfect example of how we can work together to be efficient and do the right thing to make it a safer community and Fort Bliss and El Paso are one community so I thank you for that thank you sir mayor if I if I could just make one one comment maybe uh chief pacillas can talk about I think you you've seen from the
 cross-functional teamwork and the great presentation today and all the participation with just all the different organizations that you saw listed that Public Safety is a is a total community effort to include you know getting the message out and things that are being done within our community with our citizens and one of the things I've been very impressed with and it is asked chief to see us to speak on it really quickly is
 His efforts to work with the media and the approach to get messages out to the kids. You know, we were having some of these problems with house parties. And, Chief, if you don't mind just talking a little bit about the Do You Know Where Your Kids Are campaign and some of those efforts. Yes, sir. Thank you.
 So we started a proactive initiative and going back retro for those of us that Are baby boomers back in the day the media used to put out at 10 o'clock when the 10 o'clock news would come on Little campaign it's 10 o'clock. Do you know where your children are? I?
 We started that campaign with the repeal of the municipalities being able to enforce curfew laws. So we started a campaign through our PIO's communications office to educate parents and kids. These house parties are not the house parties of back in the day.
 A lot of these kids know that these short-term rentals are out there and they rent them, and they even know the dangers that are going on in that where they're patting down the people showing up to those parties. We need to get the message out, and that's where we need your help at when you're talking to your constituents about the campaign of it's 10 o'clock, do you know where your kids are? Commander Lopez on the slide about the short-term rentals with Airbnb. On their website,
 Citizens can go in there and click into their website and report a loud house party immediately to the corporate level. And it goes there so that they can notify whoever the owner is of that Airbnb. That's another mechanism.
 Airbnb and the other, Vermo, are working as corporate partners now that if one of them kicks somebody off of their platform, that they're going to inform the other corporation that they've been kicked off their platform. So these violators cannot go around and just hide behind the ability to apply for these short-term rentals.
 There are some other initiatives that we're going to be working on with these short-term rentals But the main thing is is we have to educate the parents and the kids With that campaign that's where we need your all's help with your constituents on our it's 10 o'clock. Do you know where your kids are? Thank You chief Thank You mayor
 First, thank you to Reveta for putting this on the agenda. I think it's super informative. And Commander Lopez, excellent presentation. And thank you, too, for being here today, Chief, and everyone who you've brought with you because it's good to see the whole team here. I've been sharing with my constituents and trying to convey –
 how much has changed in terms of the cooperation. There's a huge amount of cooperation now between all of the various stakeholders. Obviously the area of great concern for me is the Cincinnati area because that's in my district. There are the few others as well, areas that we've seen a lot of service calls. I mean again, just three separate blocks essentially
 2,861 service calls in 10 months is a massive amount. You know, 65 calls for service per week and 10 of those per week involving a weapon. So just an immense amount of calls for service. And I appreciate...
 very much the approach we've taken to enforcement but also to prevention which I think is very important you're not just out there you know rounding people up but we're trying to prevent these from happening in the first place and I definitely have to mention the involvement of Amy Monsivais from the and the county nuisance abatement team they've been immense in
 kind of the other prong of our multi-pronged approach, and that is working with the landlords and the business owners to make sure they're aware of their responsibilities. And it has led to a few of the problem establishments being closed down or being evicted by their landlords. I know that's, as you stated, Commander, that's not the goal. The goal isn't that we're targeting places to shut down. We want compliance.
 But I think the message needs to be clear that for the operators who are not able to comply or not willing to comply with their responsibilities, that there are consequences for that. And we've seen that happen already with several establishments. And I think as the process continues and this collaborative work continues, people need to be on notice that they'll continue to see that.
 for anyone who's not able to comply with what I think are some very simple safety requirements, right? Simple laws that keep people safe within their establishments. One more thing, I wanted to thank the department, you all, you specifically, Chief, too. You've been a big help.
 throughout the process when it's come to protesting license renewals through TABC. Data like this is what you've been able to provide me in advance of that, and it's so important that, again, we're not targeting specific establishments. You all aren't. I have submitted protests about one establishment in particular.
 that has been a bad actor and it's so important that we're able to back that up with this kind of data and so I think it's very beneficial that you're sharing this with the public today as well to show again how much of a problem has arisen out of these areas but also just the sheer amount of work that's being done by the El Paso Police Department but also all of the partners on the cross-functional team
 to address this head on. I think in a way that hasn't been done, you know, going back historically. This is a really renewed effort and an escalated effort to make sure that we're looking to curb these things. So thank you to you all for the hard work that you're doing, and I think we'll continue to see the results pay off in this.
 I appreciate that representative, but I'd be remiss if didn't recognize those young men and women out there every night doing very difficult work Under the circumstances it is a multi-faceted Asymmetrical approach with all our partners the county attorney's office Amy Muncy vice the
 the military with General Eisenhower's team. I mean, it's just a multi, TABC, you saw the shooting that happened up on Lee Trivino. They immediately suspended licenses. So we're getting the message out. We wanna work with these businesses, but if they don't come in line, we will do everything legally to impose sanctions on them to make sure that
 This is a safe community for everybody involved. We appreciate your efforts, too. Absolutely, and I've ridden along with them. I've been out there and seen the collaborative effort with Fort Bliss, with the fire marshals, with everybody. And it's an impressive operation that you have going on out there to address this problem that hopefully we're also addressing on the back end so that we can prevent a lot of it from happening in the future. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Representative Piedro. Thank you, sir.
 The county has been big partners and is really focused on issues with SOBs, occupancy, the relationship between the fire marshal and you all and TABC to be more aggressive when it comes to the issue that the mayor brought up when it comes to occupancy. So it's good to hear about that one establishment that you were able to close. Thank you.
 My question is more in regards to the Trans Functional Team. It was cross-functional. It was trans-cross. Was the Short-Term Rental Alliance part of this team? They're new into this organization.
 So we were looking at the entertainment districts, that's where a lot of this stuff was happening. And then these short-term rentals where these parties were happening where we had shootings and deaths. So that's a relatively new initiative that we're working with them on. I would suggest you include them because I know that there's no one who's more focused on transparency. This is a business, and they don't want to see –
 any of this happening in their rentals or in their establishments. I was glad you brought up that point about Airbnb and that other group working together so people don't cross over. So thank you for that work. But I would suggest that we reach out to them and
 and have them have input moving forward. In fact, Airbnb provided information to all the major city chiefs at our last conference, so they're doing this nationwide. It's not just the unique tier. Representative, thank you for putting this on the agenda. What we need is really data like this to make informed decisions for our community. So thank you, Chief. Absolutely. Thank you, Representative Piero. Representative Molinar.
 Thank you, Mayor. Chief and Commander Lopez, thank you very much for all your hard work. Thank you for this presentation. I do have several questions. We'll begin with slide number six. You identified different stakeholders. You don't have to bring it up, but it is there, and there's 13 different entities that are there. Is there more than this besides what you listed here?
 Yes, there are. These are the main stakeholders that we're working with on there, but as we see different things developing, we can bring in other entities. Okay. And how many people, when you attend these meetings, how many people are there in these
 As far as the stakeholders or like the business owners coming in the stakeholders the stakeholders it depends on the topic that we're doing At the time so we can we could have something where we're looking at where it's a fire department TABC Along with the mrs. Miss Monsey vices office so we can have anywhere from four or five to all the stakeholders that we might need Okay, and how often do you meet?
 Again like the the chief alluded to it depends on the topic in the area that we're concentrating on say it's you tip and it's Spring break for you tip and in proximity to the Cincinnati Entertainment District will bring in you table bring in a UTEP PD their administrators and then we'll also bring in The stakeholders that are helping us with the entertainment districts and those those big three are going to be the fire marshal's office a code enforcement and miss Monsi's vice with the county nuisance abatement team and
 When it comes to community relations, that's when we get into our citizens advisory board meetings and we bring in speakers and we do presentations for the community. So like the chief was mentioning, it's a complete machine and it keeps revolving and evolving and then it depends on the topic at hand on which stakeholders are brought in to address specific issues. Okay.
 Change in subjects here just a little bit these I'm gonna concentrate let's just say on the Cincinnati Entertainment District Is there any policy that a lot of these businesses have where? Patrons when they come in that they're patted down. No, there's no policy That's one of the things that when we're meeting with the the business owners That was one of the topics that we addressed a few weeks ago with them on how to properly check for weapons and
 we've made recommendations to the business owners on on what they should and shouldn't allow coming in whether it's uh backpacks but even with this recommendations there's no one taking that action that initiative of business owners restaurant or maybe not restaurant or bar owners that are doing this through their bouncers or anything like that other employees
 Once again, with that meeting that we held with about 20 of the business owners that came in, that was one of the things that they wanted to learn from us on how to do that properly. And these are the ones that want to, they wanna just be good partners. And we're willing to help them out through that process. So do you think in the future some of them might enact this policy? We're hopeful that they'll do that. Well, we're all hopeful for that. Let's talk about noise. So what type of decimal reading instruments are utilized?
 I don't know the exact brand. I can ask if Steve Alvarado might know. What I'm interested in learning or finding out is the current state of technology that is being utilized. So is this current? Is this three years old, five years old?
 Good morning, Mayor, members of the council, Steve Alvarado, Code Enforcement Director. Current equipment we've had for the past three years, they're cycled through as they become, they try to calibrate them and they're not calibrating correctly, so we'll put in, implement new sound meters. I believe the name is Ethletec is the name of the sound meters.
 may be off on that, but that's currently what we're using. We're looking into new meters for our nighttime enforcement team as well as PD officers. We are out there taking these readings from the public right away and continue to educate. And so have you been researching the technology on the sound meter, sir? We have. We've looked at different options to
 to look at. We're going to get with our training academy as well to make sure that they are okay with what we're looking at as well and get it approved. And are you aware that certain sound meters do not capture the base levels when they're being recorded?
 That is correct, sir. There's different levels of sound. There's AC and there's also a Z. And speaking with a sound engineer from UTEP in the past, there's different levels to measure these as well. Would it be more feasible to try and capture those sound meters that do record the bass levels? Because you can go to a bar and you can hear that bass, boom, boom, boom. But if the sound decibel meters are not capturing that, what good are they?
 That is correct. We would have to amend the ordinance to implement that as well. Currently, it's not in the ordinance. This is where Ms. Neiman is, so you would have to change the ordinance on that? Which is part of the work that the CFT is currently conducting in regards to what the sound ordinance needs to look like. Okay. All right. And your code compliance officers, can they issue Class C citations? No, sir. They issue notices of violations only. Okay. Why can't they not issue Class C citations?
 I'd have to refer to the Enforcement officers are not peace officers sir. So they're only a peace officer under the state of Texas can issue a class a citation Okay, so we've done that training so that they know how to do notice of violations and bring them into compliance So they do issue notice of violations. And so is that let's say initiative notice of violation given to that person is it filed in municipal court at a later date and
 What's the process? That is correct. We'll issue the notice of violation typically to the bar or restaurant manager or club manager. They'll have to show up at a set date, usually 30, 45 days after the fact. Okay. On slide number nine, a total of 375 notices of violations have been issued by our code enforcement team.
 The data that supports that. In other words, out of those notices of violations, what are our judges doing to say, hey, you have been adjudicated and part of an adjudication, what did you receive as a fine and court cost? If we have anyone from municipal court on the call. We do, sir. We have Ms. Worrell on Teams right now. Good morning, Ms. Worrell. You're on mute. Can you hear me? Yes, now we can hear you.
 Okay. This is Lily from the municipal court. I would actually have to run some data on that, but I can send it to all of city council for that. The judges do hear the cases, the, uh,
 the fine and court costs are 222 dollars um but as to the uh final dispositions i would have to send that out to everybody if you could do that for us ma'am and share that all with our city council and our mayor and their leadership as well uh i understand this slide is from uh covers everything the i guess the calendar year through october the 31st of this year so we could do that and also miss world do our judges receive training on uh proper uh
 Because the Class C citation, traffic citations are different versus a notice of violation. Do they receive training on that as well? Not so, no. They receive training from the Texas Municipal Courts Education Center, but that's an overall relating to magistration, warrants, traffic, state violations, but not specific to just notice of violations. In your humble opinion, ma'am, do you think they need training for that?
 I would say so, and as a matter of fact, I'm working with the legal department, and we're setting up a training for animal violations in January. All right, that's great. And the animal department. The animal department is actually conducting the training. Okay, Colonel Weston, so as part of the cross-functional team, would you be able to put that in the process as well? I'll discuss that with them, sir. Judgeships? Okay.
 Let's talk about changing gears here just a little bit. Mandatory overtime for police officers. On any given day, Friday or Saturday, you have a lieutenant, how many sergeants, how many officers and detectives working on an overtime basis? Going back to that slide, we have 28 officers and supervisors working on these operations. So on any given night that could fluctuate the actual number of officers?
 Money funds spent from because a lieutenant of course makes more money a sergeant makes more money The different officers on where they're at will make more money, so and where is that money coming from these Initiatives are targeting the peak hours like we showed on the slides Fridays and Saturdays into Sunday mornings Some of this money is being funded through the tag the Texas anti-gang unit Because our gang task force goes out there and works and the other comes out of our budget. I
 All right. Thank you very much. I have no further questions. Appreciate all your work. Thank you. Thank you, Representative Moulinard. Representative Kennedy, followed by Representative Dundas. This could be the easiest question of the bunch. Can you introduce the lineup over there? Absolutely. I mean, the individuals you brought with just looks like a lineup. I'll let them come forward, and they can introduce themselves and tell you what area they're responsible for. That would be great. Thank you. Come up, gentlemen. He just wants to know their name when they pull them over. They're trudging like it is a lineup.
 Good morning. My name is David Ramos. I'm the commander for Mission Valley. Good morning. Michael Gaither, lieutenant. I'm representing Commander Thomas Pena for Central Regional Command. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Ignacio Hernandez, Northeast Regional Command Center. Good morning, Mayor. Mayor Leaser, city representatives and city leaders. John Lanahan, commander of Pebble Hills Regional Command. I also want to add that Pebble Hills has four city districts. Under District 7, Representative Rivera,
 district 5 represent us seal district 3 under head nandes and also district 6 representative Seattle so it's a large region but I'm available anytime you need thank you thank you all for what you do why is commander telematis I thank you none this if you're looking back he stayed back over there is assistant chief umberto telematis over operations and major crimes none this
 Thank you all for coming up and introducing yourself and thank you for your hard work. I do have just a couple questions. The first one is related to kind of the process. Is there any vetting from the police department in the event that a business closes an entertainment center?
 What is the police department vetting as part of the planning and the one-stop shop efforts to issue a new certificate of occupancy so that they can come in and establish a new bar? Is there any vetting on your part? And then let's say a bar does close for cause, and then they just change your name, new ownership, and then go to a new location. What vetting do you do in that case as well?
 So we're working also with Mr. Ettaway's department on that along with TABC. So they have to communicate between that city department and TABC to establish a license. TABC is trying to get their hands wrapped around somebody getting closed down and then maybe getting a family member to open it up and get a different name. But that's where these two...
 entities are working together to try to streamline the vetting and the issue it's a permits both on the city side and on the state side and from what I understand It's it's a joint venture like both the city planning department has to give the okay as well as TBC because they they asked for like some kind of feedback from the city and so there's my hesitation is that I think low-hanging fruit as part of your CFT and your efforts
 is to identify who those bad actors are. And so in the event that they want to open again, it's got to be some kind of report that goes back to El Paso Police to give some kind of confirmation. Because from what I understand, it's an administrative call, right?
 And so when representatives like Representative Canales and others who are making complaints against establishments, I feel like that is kind of falling to the wayside and it's not being brought in just like a very formal,
 way that we can report that There's some kind of disconnect there and I think that's something easily that we can address We're working on that we identified that between the three entities and so that we were starting to close that gap Okay, so vetting from the police department critical so that we can stop some of these nuisances and in the future you mentioned mandatory over time
 I hear many from your members of the police department. Quite frankly, it's very taxing on families and your officers. And part of the conversation I had with Colonel Weston is my concern that our academies are producing less than 20 graduated members per academy. And I've been here long enough to see some of these academies
 I think at the time it was like six months or eight months. We were producing over 50 to 60. And part of our plan to increase the number of officers to meet that net 600, I don't know that we ever met that because we have so many retirements. Is there an artificial cap for the number of folks who are joining an academy or are they dropping? Because these numbers are way too low.
 No, there's no artificial gap. What we're doing is we're recruiting and we're targeting our recruiting as best as possible where we're seeing the best, where we're going after the different demographics. There is a positive, it looks like it's going up, the academy that's going to start in January. Right now we already have 39 seated with 13 still in their last phases of the application process, their medical and psychological exams.
 the contract that was entered in between the union and the city of El Paso helped us a lot. We've done some other initiatives to draw more people in, but it's the same thing that's going on all across the country is we're all fighting for a very small group of people that want to go into law enforcement. But it looks like it.
 If we can keep this up with this January class and then the May class where we're getting more than that, like I said, we're already at 39 for this class in January. We're hoping that trend continues. Okay, just food for thought, consideration on the length of the academy.
 I'm so proud that you all go through so much training, but I don't know that it makes a difference in the outcome to get some of our officers quicker to the street. I'm just trying to find ways to increase our numbers, maybe reduce that. You've demonstrated really well with this administration, the past administration on the crisis intervention team, because I think that that was part of the process.
 the reasoning to increasing the academy. But I think with those ongoing trainings annually, I don't think it's necessary to have that long of an academy. So just something to consider as we're looking to find innovative ways to increase the number of cadets in our academies. I do have a question for our friends at Fort Blissley, Lieutenant Colonel. As you approach
 From what I understand, the Fort Bliss has an off-limits establishment list, and then there's some form of committee at Fort Bliss. I'm not really sure what that process looks like. Can you explain to Council what that looks like? Yes, ma'am. And so we have quarterly meetings, and it gives both all our partners information.
 We were better informed of certain establishments where we've identified certain incidents. And again, ma'am, as far as partnership, we're partnered with TABC along with El Paso PD. We also have other LE government agencies that informed the committee.
 And then additionally, again, it's the entire purpose of that is to seek compliance so that our service members don't find themselves in certain situations or environments where it's promoting inadvertent type actions as well. And then we allow for the process to go through in terms of the compliance piece.
 we exhaust the process then a determination is made if if changes were made then okay it's not on the off limits establishment or maybe we proceed forward and recommend that it does become part of the off limits establishments for service members but again ma'am we allow and exhaust
 uh all opportunities the entire process so it's fair and equal across across the board you mentioned you meet quarterly and i think that because of the rise of some of these gun incidents and the entertainment centers i would encourage you to continue to meet even if it's like an emergency basis or more frequently because those off-limit establishments really make a difference for the safety of our community and for for your service members
 I do also want to thank you and Fort Bliss and our commander there for this unity and approach to address some of the crime. We couldn't do it without your support, so thank you for that collaboration. And the Off Limits establishment, is there any patrolling that the MPs do at these sites, or you're just kind of just put a list together, and how do you enforce that list?
 Yes, ma'am. So we have the list together, and that was one of the discussions on the previous board was what are certain measures that serve as direct backstops to further promote and ensure that service members don't go. But really right now as far as our partnership that we have with El Paso PD, being out there
 We can tell what a soldier looks like, and it's a small army. So we know our service members, ma'am. And when we do see them, again, as I mentioned earlier, we apply engaged leadership at that moment, ma'am. Thank you. Was there anything else you wanted to share with council that we should know about?
 about these efforts ma'am uh so to the mayor uh ladies and gentlemen again i can't thank you enough on behalf of uh fort bliss uh leaders we can't thank you all enough for for the support that this community provides uh to our service members their families and additionally our our civilians as well um we're very privileged uh to have our base
 here nested within supporting community thank you thank you and the only thing I wanted to mention is about the social host ordinance I think that was a great step forward
 Are we showing up to house parties? Are we breaking up the house parties? Or are we just... Because I've had some situations where I just see the sirens kind of go off and then the kids disperse. But I do get requests if you were actually showing up and enforcing the social host. Yes, when we have units available, yes, ma'am, we do. That's what we're trying to address. We had an initiative when we had the violent task force out there and the social or the...
 short-term rentals where we had officers going out there that's where our gang and some of our SWAT officers were we're looking for these establishments as these calls were coming in to relieve patrol of those opportunity those calls also had our PAR officers reaching out to the schools to help educate the kids and the parents about the dangers of these types of parties okay is there a way I can look at all the PAR officers per
 command center yes we can send that to council everybody I appreciate that I want to mention one thing about the military you asked about their quarterly meetings they do hold emergency meetings in fact recently we're involved in one of their emergency meetings because they were concerned of a couple of establishments so they do react quickly to their trends also thank you representative on this there pro tem and this should be our
 Thanks, Mayor. Chief, really quick, in regards to the academy, a lot of the training that you have to do is mandatory, correct? So about three-quarters of the academy is TCLIL required.
 But we also do a lot of scenario-based training, which takes up a lot of time, so that's not the first time a new recruit going to be a police officer sees that they've already gone through that. Great, thank you. And then I know that we've talked a lot about the relationship with Fort Bliss where it comes to entertainment centers and entertainment districts. Do we have data on DWI's drunk driving accidents and how that relates to Fort Bliss officers as well?
 And I don't know if the member from Fort Bliss wants to talk about how the Army is addressing that. My understanding is that number's very high. And I don't know if there is a way for Fort Bliss to set up a program with free Ubers or something. I don't know if you all have that data
 readily available. But I think that's a conversation in the future too. I mean, I know MPs are at the bars and that's been very helpful, but I think we're also seeing a lot of increase in highway accidents, drunk driving, wrong way driving. I'm getting a lot of calls of concern about it. My understanding is a lot of those are soldiers that might be incorrect, but there are a number of them that are, and I would like to hear in the future from Fort Bliss how they're addressing that as well.
 I can tell you from our side before the lieutenant colonel comes up here is when when we Officers are involved with the incident with a soldier. We notify the military right away So I could depending on what it what it is They could be a victim of a crime or they could be subject to arrest. So there's that open communication I know we want to prevent it though before we get there, but I appreciate that Pro tem. Okay, go ahead
 Good morning, ma'am. As far as just the prevention piece, again, ma'am, going back to the engaged leadership and what we promote is that they always travel in battle buddies and there's always a designated driver. We provide the information and the opportunities for access to all the different resources that's available to them.
 whether it's uber some type of ride share or there's a dedicated individual part program within that unit that okay this is going to be the designated driver so those are out there and then additionally ma'am
 Also as a deterrent, Fort Bliss does at certain hours when they're more susceptible for DUIs, we do what we call random access measures slash inspections. And from a certain time of the hour, and this is seven days a week,
 We conduct 100% and we're able to catch some of the individuals that are driving impaired. So we're able to stop them at least at the access control points coming into Fort Bliss. And then additionally, it serves as a deterrent that, hey, if you're driving, you're going
 you have the potential to get caught here as you try to enter back into installation but they've already driven from point A to B I mean again as someone who's been through a serious drunk driving accident I think that there is a responsibility from Fort Bliss to be addressing this and I would like to see in the future some potential programs because I again there have been some very serious accidents involving Fort Bliss soldiers and people
 that we're just driving home in the evening. And it's a very serious issue that is occurring in our community. And so I would like to see a little bit more pro activism in that communication on how we're preventing that. Because again, and I appreciate that you're catching them at Fort Bliss, but they've already driven home and we're happy that they've gotten there safely. That hasn't always been the case.
 Thank you. Yes, ma'am. And then Chief, I wanna, and Ms. Neiman, please stop me if I'm off of topic a little bit, but I wanna talk about the outreach. You know, we've talked, someone just asked about the number of PAR officers, but in addition, I think this conversation with entertainment centers started back in 2018. We saw a real increase in crime. Over the last year, we've seen increase of crime all over the city. Gun violence, especially in the central area, I can't talk for every area, has been up at house parties,
 there was a stabbing the other day at seven in the morning right in central there's a body found in an alley but what I'm hearing a lot from my constituents is they're not having conversations with PD they read these stories on the news that's how I find out about them they're calling for information I don't have any nobody has showed up their neighborhood to talk to them about what can be done so I would in the future
 like y'all to have a public conversation. I may not be here, but I will be watching about how you are all having those conversations with neighborhoods, right? If my neighborhood has asked for you to come to a community meeting, if I'm here in January, we'll be reaching out on that. But what I am hearing from the community is that they're not feeling safe
 in addition nobody is communicating with them and I think that's an issue right I can't keep you can't hold you responsible for all of the crimes that are happening in the city but what we can be responsible for as a city is how we're communicating with people after the fact correct yes ma'am and that's going back to the citizens advisory boards that the commanders are holding on a regular basis and that's where we need your all's help to help get involvement in that we will increase our messages to the different
 regional commands and the different police districts to get the message out. Going back to your previous question with the military on the DWI, so they do put out courtesy patrols that help us at these different entertainment districts. So we get the...
 involved with the soldier they immediately take them so they wouldn't be driving because they have their their own way of getting them back to Fort Bliss also on the proactive side is they partner with our power officers when they're in processing soldiers and they get the different and DWI is one of them about drinking and driving yeah and the other thing that I want to mention in cheap to see us has talked to me about this is extending the invitation to have PD leadership
 Attend your meetings to be able to talk to your constituents. You know one of the things that that chief has been Really promoting is trying to find opportunities and ways to be able to get the message out to the community I think that that's another good venue for for this is to do it with with all the council reps I also know that a number of our council reps have also been having Informal meetings with chief to try to work on different issues and concerns within within the districts. So that's that's always open as well. I
 Thank you, sir. Representative Molinar? Thank you, Mayor. Just one quick observation. So for the public here and viewing public, Danny, before you here, us as mayor and council, you have these gentlemen here.
 That's the leadership of the El Paso Police Department. And I'm trying to do the math in my head, but there's probably 160 years here of dedicated public service to El Paso, the citizens of El Paso and our community. And, gentlemen, I thank you very much. Appreciate everything you do. God bless you. Thank you. I know we can speak from the youngest patrol officer out there on the street to the most senior officer on the department. We all feel that the citizens are worth the service. Thank you.
 Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor. I do want to reiterate the fact that you all did a wonderful job today. It's a great report that was presented to us and to the public as well. And your cross-functional team, we finally got to know what it looks like. And thank you, Colonel, for the opportunity to have this conversation.
 presentation done and as a education for our public and know that we're not we're we have a different department now we have one whose initiative and is to work with the public and be more proactive as and addressing the issues that are plaguing our city right now and they're doing so as best as they can I do appreciate each and every one of you I've known since rookies
 And so thank you very much for your present time and your time and effort. Sir, thank you for representing Ford Bliss as well and everybody else that's involved. The gentleman that was sitting down, did we get to introduce him? We've introduced him three times already, sir. Oh, did we? Yeah.
 the one that's sitting down yeah okay well thank you thank you all very much appreciate the presentation thank you thank you all again for being here and i think i do want to thank everyone for being here but also fort bliss we're
 We're a very, very blessed community by having General Eisenhower be the commanding general. He has become an incredible partner to our community. And I thank the Army, really, for sending such a quality individual to run and command Fort Bliss. So thank you. Mayor, we do have public comment on this item. Yes, ma'am. From Ms. Patricia Osmond. Good morning, ma'am. You have three minutes. Morning, counsel, again.
 As you know I was here on November 7th talking about getting PD more support because as I emailed you on November 13th a more detailed explanation We have a BDSM prostitution group working out of several bars throughout our city so PD definitely needs as Yes, I know bad subject, but it needs to be brought up because it's the safety of this city as I was discussing with the chief and
 They've only had one detective that cycles through vice. Vice handles that, okay? So I'm glad we're having this, but more needs to be done. And I want to say more than needs to be done, and Ms. Anello is correct about the crime in our area, okay? El Paso is in my soul. I live on a piece of property that's been in my family. My grandfather bought it over 100 years ago. Antonio Garcia, thank you. I am still here. My family has been here.
 In this area from the 15 and 1600s, a lot of what established El Paso, okay? Historic record. So I take everything here very personal. When I see people hurt, I try to get involved. So much so, June 1st, I had PD in my home because I have cameras. They were knocking at my fence over after midnight, and they were in my home.
 It's five o'clock in the morning, looking at surveillance footage. Because although I have reported drug crimes on my same block at the corner, apparently drug deal gone bad, busted into the wrong apartment, and then PD was called. But you know what didn't happen, although they were there, and I kept, and that officer asked, how long do you have your surveillance? I let him know. And I kept asking, are you gonna come back and get it? Detective hasn't called me back.
 So there's a crime that went uninvestigated, or at least they didn't get all the evidence they could have. There's two drug dealers within a stone's throw from where I live. I have reported both. They are still selling drugs years later. Where Kiki's Restaurant is, Tourism Comes, it's on that same block. So anybody know, hey, you go eat lunch there, you're right next to two drug dealers within a stone's throw.
 I do believe that the county should not be the only one picking up the slack. Yes, the abatement team, I have spoken to them about this matter, but they cannot do anything unless law enforcement actually triggers them. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Ms. Prine?
 Yes, sir. The next item is number 18, and this is discussion and action that the City Council declares that the expenditure of District 2 discretionary funds for holiday meals and celebrations at Memorial Senior Center, Wellington Chuse Senior Center, Grandview Senior Center, Iloza Plata Senior Center, and San Juan Senior Center serves a municipal purpose. This is Mayor Pro Temanelo's item. Move to approve. Second. Second.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanelo, seconded by Representative Kennedy to approve item 18. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. Will you, thank you Representative Guerra. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. Next item is number 19, and this is presentation and discussion on the Buy El Paso Rewards Program, providing an overview and update on the program. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Mireya Crago with Economic and International Development.
 I'm here today and I'm very excited to announce the launch of the BioPASO Rewards Program. Over the past few months, our team has been working diligently with the Better Business Bureau, Barracuda, Spectrum, and Curracubby. And collectively, this team has worked really hard to ensure that this program would launch ahead of the holiday season. And so we were able to accomplish that. Next slide, please.
 Through the use of a QR code, this program is designed to boost engagement and support for our small businesses. It is designed to increase revenue, encourage repeat business, have businesses grow their customer base, and it's also a way for the businesses to thank the businesses for visiting their establishment. So it creates that customer loyalty.
 The program did launch in October, and we already have 70 businesses signed up. Next slide, please. But over the weekend, we had our fourth annual BioPASO Day, and through the help and assistance of our Strategic Communications Office, we were able to have another 50 businesses sign up. So now we have 120 businesses signed up on the directory that you can visit. If the IT can play the video, please. Thank you.
 If you can go back, it's on slide three. There should be a link. Was it touched on the email? Well, they do that. It's going to demonstrate that it's a very simple program to join. All you have to do is use your phone, scan the QR code, and you can sign up with your phone number. While they're looking for that, I can also fill you in again on just a successful launch of having all these businesses join. This program is available at no cost to the small businesses,
 And through research, we learned that if a business were to implement this program on their own, they're looking at spending upwards of $3,000 a year. So it is a tremendous savings for our businesses, as that could mean maybe a month or two's worth of rent. So very beneficial. We can move on to the next slide or come back to that. Let's go ahead and put the presentation back up. You can just go ahead and proceed. Okay. Okay.
 So, one of the key benefits for the businesses is one of the things that we've learned through studies is that 78% of consumers are more likely to visit a business if there is a loyalty program. So, for the business, it helps them build that customer loyalty base and it rewards the business for returning and giving them that business back.
 but it also creates us as consumers to be the brand ambassadors. And I think we all know, if we visit a new restaurant, a new store, we are very quick to pass the word and let our friends and family know about this great spot that we've identified. And so again, it helps the business increase that foot traffic and it just increases the awareness for the public to come and visit this new establishment. Next slide, please.
 So again, this is a twofold objective. Not only is it boosting the customer loyalty for the business, but one very key, I think, benefit for the business is that there is business intelligence behind that. So for example, let's just say you own a bakery. You now have built a number of businesses that have signed up with your business to be part of the program.
 It's end of day, you realize you have inventory you'd like to sell at a reduced cost, you can quickly send a message to your clientele base and say, hey, hot sale, 50% off, 75% off. And so it increases, again, the communication with the business and creating that repeat business. Another way to think of that is the business will have a dashboard to also see the
 how often and what the peak times are. So if you see that you're maybe overstaffing, it might allow you to see the trends in your business and realize, well, hey, maybe I don't need to have three employees working at this hour. So it'll allow them to make those adjustments for the business, and that's something that they don't have at this time, and it is incredibly, I think, beneficial for them to see that something that they don't have at the present time.
 Next slide, please. So it's very simple to join. If you see the QR code there, you scan your code, you enter your phone number so you can be a participant.
 You also will see a link to the directory that shows you all the businesses that have joined. And as I mentioned, we're now up to 120 and growing. Our goal is to have 1,000. So we asked you all to share with your constituents, put this out in your newsletter, and encourage our businesses to join because it's going to be a really, really robust program that we believe is going to help our small businesses grow. Next slide, please.
 And here is just at the end, you can, again, scan the code, learn what you can visit and learn more about the program. The marketing pushes that were done through social media. But we're also happy to visit you at community meetings and spread the word and answer any questions for business owners.
 And with that, I'm happy to take questions. Mayor, if I may, members of council, the ED team will be sending you the link to the video, the how-to signing up, and then all of the other information, and we would love it if you would promote and share with your constituents as appropriate through newsletters. Thank you. Thank you. There's no questions. No, we don't have public comment on this item. Is it okay, Patricia, from the BBB? What are we doing?
 There's no any questions. We didn't have anyone sign up for public comment. Okay. Thank you By the way, I downloaded the thing it worked pretty good from the screen Thank you The next item is number 20 and this is presentation and discussion on the sale process for 19 city-owned properties located in the Union Plaza area of downtown El Paso Good morning economic and international development
 This item is an update to City Council on a motion previously made directing the City Manager to begin accepting letters of interest for the disposition of the city-owned properties in the Union Plaza area, which was the former multipurpose center site. And so the intent of today is to provide that update, to go into a bit of detail about what staff recommends the process look like moving forward,
 And then also to gather feedback from Council as we begin to roll this process out to ensure it is a really smooth process and aligns well with what Council's vision is for the future of the site, for its future rehabilitation. So just a reminder, the Council motion was made on October 10th of 2023. It was a very broad motion.
 Directing again the interim city manager to begin soliciting and entertaining letters of interest from any interested parties For the purchase of the city-owned properties located in the Union Plaza area of downtown El Paso There certainly has been a lot of discussion around what should be done in that area and
 And so as we talk through the process, we want to ensure that we are very well aligned with what council wants to see done in the area. And specifically, Karina will go into more detail and specifically talk about the adaptive reuse of the properties and the structures that currently exist in the area.
 So just to anchor ourselves, this is the map. The 19 properties in green are the subject of the direction for the city manager to begin the process to dispose of the properties or sell the properties. There are 19 total, and these will be included in the request for interest that we're looking to move forward with.
 With respect to how we'll go about soliciting, you know, offers or interest, we propose a two-step process beginning with a request for interest. That request for interest, it's not a formal procurement process. Instead, it's a process that allows us to gather from experts in the field, but also from community stakeholders, people who have an interest in looking at what happens. Sorry, the microphone is, there we go.
 interested in what happens with the neighborhood, it's an opportunity for them to tell us in a very, I guess, controlled manner so that we don't lose any of these recommendations in the process, to tell us what is possible in the area and what they would like to see. From that request for interest, those responses will be reviewed, looked at, and I'll go into a little bit more detail about how we'll do that.
 And then staff will return to council for step two and make a recommendation on how we proceed with the sale, whether that's through a formal procurement process, which could be anything, you know, including a request for proposals, which certainly we would work with the purchasing department to execute or any other formal procurement process.
 or proceed with a direct sale. We know that these properties definitely have economic development value to the city. We know that because of the state, the current state that they're in, it likely will take some participation from the city to bring the properties back up. And so there are provisions of the state law that allow us to entertain direct sales.
 We're not there yet though, I want to be clear about that. We're today, we're at step one and wanting to get council's feedback on initiating step one and then after we have time to advertise and then receive interests or responses to that request for interest, then we return to council with a recommendation on moving forward again, whether that's through a formal procurement process or a direct sale.
 So a little bit more about what a request for interest is. Again, a little bit different from a formal procurement process. Economic development will manage this process.
 course in partnership with City Attorney's Office and we have also worked closely with purchasing just to ensure that we're we're very well aligned and but really the the purpose of it is a formal way of gathering insights from industry experts and community stakeholders about what could be on this site about what we could do understanding clearly though you know what council's vision is for the site so we we sort of will start
 in our request for interest with an overview of the site and what council would like to see from the site and then ask very open-ended questions about what could be done here. The benefit of doing this sort of data collection is it helps the city understand what's possible. It helps us uncover industry standards, best practices in other communities,
 What the costs might be associated with this, that is where it is very helpful to have industry experts chime in. They have more familiarity with what it takes to rehab some of these properties. And then also just innovative ideas, things that have been done in other communities that maybe we don't think of. And certainly we can do research on our end as well, but a lot of times it does help to have that outreach and that experience come to us through
 response to the request for interest. With respect to a process, it will be posted online. I want to be very clear that we will have a separate landing page for this RFI. It will not be through IonWave. It will be a separate landing page. It will be well advertised on the City's website, but we'll also be working to do a lot of direct outreach and
 to industry experts, to real estate brokers. We'll be working with other development-related media, things like CDFA, to work together to make sure that it's very well advertised. Without that advertisement, it's hard to know it's out there, right? So this is really a critical component to the process for us, is advertising the request for interest.
 Limits for use, so to be clear, this is not an, what will result is not an award. What results is us being able to make a recommendation to you about how we proceed. Whether it is through formal procurement to get to an award or if we see a really interesting response,
 whether or not we can move to one or more direct sales with with those respondents under the Portions of the state law that allow us to do so which are heavily economic development related And then I've gone through how we'll use that info on the following slides Karina will go into a little bit of detail. We've benchmarked with other communities who have had similar projects where you know
 adaptive reuse there's an interest in maintaining the history of the site that's of importance to these communities and so they've used a similar process starting with the RFI to then explain how you go further to actually award and move to to disposition and getting these things built so with that I'm going to turn it over to Karina to go through those those benchmark cities
 Karina Brescala, Economic and International Development. So as Elizabeth mentioned, I'm just going to go through a few sites. We've also looked at white papers other ways, but these are also requests for interest proposals on sites across the country that we think will heavily inform kind of the formatting, but the process kind of taking notes from how this has worked in other communities.
 and seeing what we can kind of add into our process to get good proposals and good information out of the RFI. So the first one is Tulsa, Oklahoma. This is the Evans FinTube site. So they are also dealing, it's nine acres of municipally owned property, so you're dealing with a municipal owned site.
 and it's got a similar urban context so it's right adjacent to central downtown tulsa there's you know a baseball stadium nearby the highway it's near it's within an arts district and then it's adaptive reuse of metal manufacturing facilities it does include national historic register sites we have sites in union plaza that are eligible for historic registry status
 And then their process was two years of intense community feedback related to planning efforts around the site. Did leave their interests led to a formal RFP and selection process.
 And then their goal really here was mixed-use project adaptive reuse and then this was the location of Black Wall Street So there is a heavy focus on creating wealth opportunities specifically for black communities in Tulsa and a lot of conversations around equity so looking at kind of again how their process ran how they added those components in and if this
 if our process did lead into an RFP, looking at how the selection, the analysis, the review would work.
 And then San Francisco has recently released their Downtown Adaptive Reuse RFI. Theirs is a little bit different. It's aligning with their recently adopted downtown plan. It is targeted at private sector projects that would need municipal support, but they are broadly looking for projects, ideas, concepts in downtown San Francisco.
 that would need assistance, whether that's regulatory or financial or other means. A lot of their language is very, very good in terms of how do you build housing, how do you build, enhance those public spaces, how do you build different industry sectors in there, and then conversion of underutilized commercial space. So really good language in there, although of course the target audience is a bit different from ours.
 And then Phoenix, Arizona, they have a award-winning adaptive reuse program. It's been replicated in Tucson, in other cities across Arizona, and the Sun Belt, one of their major program.
 performances is through the warehouse district in Phoenix so it's a targeted development area for that program you can see the before and afters here it's very similar urban context and design as Union Plaza with these brick buildings old manufacturing sites revitalization efforts rehabilitation so really focus on
 small business neighborhood connection, that sort of thing. So looking at their toolkit there and how they have done their rehabilitation projects over time, again, not a municipally owned area. It's been kind of a longer term project there, but seeing what we can take from what they've done, what worked, what didn't, and see how that can inform our process and our information. And then the next few slides, oh.
 I guess this is the old presentation. Okay, give me just a second here. No, then I'll turn this over to Elizabeth while we pull up the slides on the guidance on the vision.
 So you can see those three communities all began with an RFI process, which again was very open-ended. I think San Francisco is a good example. They do actually have the RFI up online, so if you have a chance, take a look at how it's structured. It very much starts with what the goal of the RFI is, which in that case is to secure to look at vacancies downtown and how those vacancies can go from office buildings to
 residential units very different situation for El Paso so we are aware of that and are making sure that as we write the RFI what we're focusing on is adaptive reuse of the properties I know that we've heard it's important to
 to maintain at a minimum the seven properties that could be independently designated, if not all of them. So that will be very clear and upfront to structure the responses from the beginning. In addition, we'll provide information about the project location. We'll talk a lot about what we're looking for to gather from these responses is,
 you know, ideas for how the properties can be rehabbed and used in an adaptive way. We will certainly look for visions that align with those of council, an estimated project schedule, and then it's always helpful to have feasibility and financial information. Understanding that this will be very broad at this point because, again, this is just ideas that are generated
 through the request for information. And the slides that Karina's working with IT to pull up will help anchor exactly how we'll structure the RFI with respect to what the parameters or the boundaries of the responses we're looking to receive.
 We will include reference documents. We certainly want local community stakeholders to respond to the RFI. That's important to us, and they may be more familiar with what is trying to be done in this area, but we also want others to respond. It's always helpful to understand, again, what industry best practices are.
 what's been done in other communities and innovative ideas. And so in order to help guide those responses, we will include these reference documents. Could IT pull up? I didn't notice they don't have the presentation up. IT, could you pull up? Thank you. So we will include these reference documents. Council has passed and approved a number of items recently. Very importantly, the uptown and downtown and surrounding neighborhood plans, which does in fact address this area. So that will be good context.
 The Union Plaza design standards as revised if Council so chooses to do so at its next meeting on December 12th. Any properties that are redeveloped or rehabbed in this area will be subject to those standards. And then in addition the Union Plaza property conditions assessment. This is really useful for those seven properties that may be independently.
 contributing because it does go through what their current condition is. It defines what is needed to bring them back up to be in a place where the public can visit them.
 and then also provide some ideas for what adaptive reuse might look like. And then finally, the Gensler Multipurpose Center Feasibility and Programming Study. And the reason why we're including this as a contextual document is because it contains a lot of feedback from the community about what the community's vision is for the Union Plaza area, separate and aside from the discussion about the multipurpose center. So those documents will all be included as context.
 With respect, again, to the process, I mentioned before that advertising is critical in this case. It must be proactive. We can't just post it on the website and then hope that people respond. We'll have to do a lot of outreach to do that. And so we'll have that dedicated landing page. Council will have access to that so that you can refer people as they come to you with their ideas. You can refer them to this landing page and to the submission process.
 so that everybody's ideas are collected and eventually reviewed. We in the department will leverage our network with real estate brokers, neighborhood and community stakeholders, and then certainly with development-oriented media to advertise on that media. One of the really good ones is CDFA, among others.
 I think that this again provides for a way to control and ensure that everybody's ideas are collected and reviewed in a very systematic way.
 One of the other things that I do want to bring up is that as we're working through the RFI process, some of the best practices that we've seen in other communities, like the three that Karina mentioned, is that we offer walkthroughs. We may get, you know, requests through that RFI process that say, well, there might be something more we could do if we could see the properties. And so we will certainly be available to do those kinds of walkthroughs and, you know, make that available to the community.
 And then finally, the end goal of the RFI process is to recommend the next step in the disposition of the properties. So again, this is not an award process. It is to help us define what is possible and then make a solid recommendation to council about how we go about achieving what is possible, whether that is through a formal procurement process or through one or more direct sales under an economic development provision allowed by state law.
 With respect to timing, you heard Karina mention that one of the communities, it was a two-year process. We do anticipate it'll take some time to actually get to the point where we enter into a contract of sale, but we're breaking that up and looking only at step one. This is the RFI process. So today you have the presentation. We're hoping to gather feedback from you on what you'd like to see in terms of parameters around that RFI.
 And then in January, we'll be releasing the RFI, which includes establishing the landing page and begin that process of advertising very proactively. February through March, we anticipate receiving submission of responses. And then the spring, so a couple months after that, we anticipate reviewing the responses and coming back to Council with a recommendation on how to move forward based on those responses that we saw. And with that...
 I think we've switched the presentation or so they're gonna pull up the slides This is discussion. So just to give a little bit So again, the RFI itself will be very open-ended as Elizabeth aside. We are looking for all proposals From developers from interested buyers from community from stakeholders what we do want to do though is place some
 Provide some sort of framework for those responses and so this is from the MPC feasibility study again The focus of that was the sighting for the arena on the back half But the community outreach the stakeholder feedback was about the district as a whole So they did develop this vision statement and some guiding principles here So about breathing life into downtown making sure that it's reflecting and understanding the history of the area and engaging in that providing opportunities for day-to-night activity different and
 you know, people from all walks of life, community well-being, and then a lot of focus on green spaces, connectivity, pedestrian, bicycle access. The site does have alley access for these sites, so looking at maybe efforts to combine with our alley activation plans, et cetera.
 Again, just a framework. These are not in any way metrics. There are no, you know, like we would in procurement. There are no Scores associated with this. This is just to provide some information on what the city has already had in place In addition to those backup documents and then goals in terms of adaptive reuse adaptive reuse
 inherent to the practice is the idea that buildings will be retained and preserved or rehabilitated in some way. So focus on historic building facades, enhancing the public realm. So how do you bring activity into streets, sidewalk spaces, generating new housing units, including affordable units. This is a key
 Goal of our downtown uptown and surrounding neighborhoods plan. It's been in the housing study So we would look at we would certainly be looking at proposals that would include affordable housing New housing units in any configuration and then activating ground floor spaces neighborhood serving retail Looking at ways that perhaps we could do small business incubation there adding cultural uses attracting new sectors diversify downtown and looking at kind of alternative so education our research technology and
 you know not just a co-working space or you know a restaurant or retail but just really we are looking for creative proposals as well as something that might be considered more traditional development and we want that to be open for them but again want to kind of focus and make sure that people understand that the intent is adaptive reuse its rehabilitation it's something that fits in with the community vision for the site
 That's it. We're open for any questions. Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks, Karina. I have a little bit of concern on what we're – well, first I want to talk about – it's slide nine for me. I guess that's the incorrect presentation, though, so I don't know what it is for you. That's fine. But when we talk about this study and this – you were calling it not the master plan. What were you – the guidelines? The guidelines. So are you talking about – let me click. It was something that was done, I think, back in 2012, 2013, I think.
 Let's breathe new life into downtown, understand the history of the area. Right. No, that's from the multipurpose center feasibility study performed in the back half of 2022. Sure. Which we've had a lot of criticism from over the years. A lot of the community said that their voice was not heard in that. And so I'm just going to make that point. I want to make a few points and get to where I'm going.
 I'm concerned that your vision isn't my vision. I think adaptive reuse is really important, but I think we're not looking at the significance of that neighborhood. I think that when you say Tulsa,
 I wouldn't pick this place in Tulsa. I would look at Black Wall Street and how they renovated that area, how they added in historical elements, how they built up community, how they used that area to do local, black-owned small business revitalization, similar to what the community was. I would look at Charlotte and what they've done in revitalization to not only new businesses, restaurants, new housing units, but low-income housing units, community-based programs.
 What I envision is a mix of what some people would say is progress and then also community engagement, historic preservation, community resource. And all I'm seeing in this presentation is adaptive reuse for new restaurants and new housing units. I'm not saying that's what you're saying. I just want to be clear on what my vision was. And when we're talking about the MPC...
 master plan or whatever, we've already heard from the community who has been in that neighborhood for decades that they were ignored in that conversation, that they have not felt like their voice was heard. And so I have concerns that we're building an RFI on something that we've had some concerns about.
 I'm happy that we are moving forward with this process. I think that we need to get input, but I also want to make sure that we are not just putting out this RFI and saying, okay, it's online. If you know about it, you know about it, go apply. How are we reaching out to the people who have been involved in this conversation and quite frankly, this fight for,
 seven years now and encouraging them right how are we building an RFI that says you know these are community basis points versus economic points I know you don't have that right now I'm not asking you to answer it but I just want to say those are some things that were flagged for me when I was looking at this presentation which I now know is the incorrect one that you did not want on the backup but
 But I just, I wanted to share those points. You have the correct one on the backup, so it just didn't get uploaded to the system. But so I think what I would highlight just because I hear you very clearly, those three communities that we brought up, they're similar in the sense that it's adaptive reuse.
 But really we brought them up more from the perspective of the process that they used. So they all three began with an RFI. And that's really what I want you to take away from those three communities is that they all three had big projects, didn't know exactly what to do with the area, knew adaptive reuse was important. They started with an RFI.
 and eventually went to or well san francisco's in still in the process but eventually go to an award or disposition process that makes sense i appreciate that clarification it's just because i know that these cities also have a little bit more community-based projects um and so it it triggered me a little no i i completely understand and so happy to clarify that really it's from the perspective of the process um it's a it is a best practice and it's one we think is useful here um the other point that i want to make is
 Part of the purpose of today's discussion is to show you what we're thinking so that we get good feedback. So we did include the list of contextual documents that we would include. I hear you on the multipurpose center feasibility and programming study, and that is certainly one that is not necessary to include. The parts of it that we thought were valuable were the parts that did involve the community feedback about what they wanted to see the area look like.
 But it is not necessary that we include it. I think what is necessary is the uptown and downtown and surrounding neighborhoods plan because that was very recently passed and approved by council. It gives good context for what the area outside of Union Plaza looks like as well as Union Plaza. I think certainly as you all take up and consider the Union Plaza design standards during your next council meeting, that's another important piece because it's good for potential –
 buyers to be aware of what those design standards are because they will be subject to meeting those. It's a basic of the zoning code.
 And then finally the Union Plaza property conditions. I would also strongly recommend including that is a really valuable document That at least for seven of the properties tells you exactly what is needed to Put them back in a place where they can be inhabited or visited by the public And also give some ideas for what appropriate adaptive reuse might look like but but I hear you and we are not tied to including that final document and Then represent canales
 thank you um yeah thank you all for the for the hard work you've put into this and for the good presentation here um i like the the method that is being proposed here using an rfi request for information to figure out what is possible at this site what you know anyone interested in the property would be interested in doing there and that's a useful first step i do think that
 have a clear interest in preservation here. And that there's a whole spectrum of buildings there, but I think they kind of fall into two clear delineated buckets, right? There are the seven independently contributing, or independently eligible contributing properties for the National Historic Register, and then there are some other properties
 that have maybe a lesser historic value. Not that they don't have any value historically, but there's a difference between those two types of properties. I think we need to guarantee that at least for those independently eligible properties, any potential buyer or developer of the properties would be willing to work with us to get those places on the National Register.
 Again, because they've already been identified as contributing properties. I think that's a starting point for those seven properties. I personally would like to include that at the beginning of the RFI process to make sure that that is understood by anyone who's interested in these properties. I can get to a motion on that in a little bit here if needed.
 I also think, you know, for some of the other properties, again, there's a mix, right? Some of them are significantly older, but some of them date from the 1980s, and they don't have quite the same historic character as others. I would hate to get in the way of something like development of affordable housing on some of those properties where maybe the same restrictions don't apply on those properties anymore.
 So that we're not stepping on our own feet and prohibiting uses that are desired in that area that we want But again, this is I think the seven properties we need to be careful with What we put out and make sure it's clear upfront that we have a strong interest in preserving those and getting them listed on the National Register. I don't know what's needed from us to accomplish that if that would if we've given you a
 If this constitutes significant enough direction or if you'd like a motion to include that in the RFI process? I think this would count as direction. What I will say is that the county did do that report on the independent eligibility. We can also include that in the reference materials so that folks have the history of those sites as they were assessed. And then again, we would just include it in the general language about what we're looking for, what we're seeking, put parameters on that that the intent is that...
 historic registry properties seek eligibility or in some way preserved and then we can just take information back from the process and okay turn yeah and I think specifically like I we want to make sure that those end up listed and so I'd like to include that that is the eventual goal that they will work with the city to make sure that those properties are listed in the National Historic Register
 and then I'll just say I'm excited to see what comes back I know their last meeting we had a local organization who is here they weren't ultimately able to present I think they've since met with the city manager and team is that correct yes we had a really good meeting yesterday are you able to
 Expand a little bit on how that went while you were able to hear from them. I mean, I thought it was a really good meeting They talked about The communication they received from the community in terms of the character of the community a lot of the same kinds of objectives ever briefed Today, I think that my comments back to them was that What they're proposing in terms of and they kind of looked at in terms of instead of very specific developments
 they talked about some of the very specific things that would also include potentially the city being involved you know things we discussed in terms of alleyways things in terms of kind of walkability community gardens these kinds of projects that not only have they introduced and talking to me yesterday but some of the things they've heard in the community so I think it'd be a really good
 really good for that group to bring their proposal and submit that within the RFI process because I think a lot of those things are very relevant to what I'm hearing from the City Council fantastic thank you and thank you for meeting with them before today and this presentation I think it was important that they were able to provide their feedback on the front end and yes I invite them and again anyone else who's interested from the community and beyond
 participate in the RFI process here and hopefully submit something that we all like and that matches the objectives that we're putting forward in the RFI. Thank you. Thank you and thank you for the presentation I know there's already been some interest in the property and that's something that I know you all are going to work and look work through and see what what that brings but I
 i um i know that um by talking to some people that that could be a really neat area and we need to continue to make sure we preserve the buildings to the fullest that we can and also redevelop the area and i think the people that are interested are some of the people that are that want to do something like that so that's really good and thank you again for our presentation and ms prine i know we have public comment
 yes mayor we have mr arnulfo hernandez that signed up to speak on this item yes ma'am and then after this we'll go to a call to the public thank you sir thank you ma'am good afternoon mr hernandez you have three minutes sir good afternoon mayor leaser city council and uh city manager colonel weston um i speak uh in support of the sale of properties with durangito footprint
 Taken into account the comments by Sanelo and mr. Canales And in that vein we support the call for project Regeneracion that before the city sells the these particular properties that they adopt guidelines and standards and over in the overall vision of generacion which includes a heritage corridor with musings Mercados performance arts and
 affordable housing mr. Canales would you pointed out a new Missanello affordable housing community gardens and other services one thing that I think so pointed out what else do we need in here I think that Durango ought to be married with streetcars streetcars are El Paso provides a mode of transportation it will bring the tourists that will bring the visitors if you develop a small spur to Durango that takes these folks to all these things that we just mentioned
 Imagine that we revive the streetcars from El Paso to Juarez Loop again and go to Duranguito. I think your merchants, I think the business would love it. And you would provide a much-needed service to folks that don't have transportation. And even if they do, they are too infirmed and unable to drive. The streetcars will provide that.
 And it would also revive this corridor along, I think the street is Plaza de la Luz or something de la Luz in Juarez de Alerdo. And it would bring much more economic importance to the city of El Paso. I think what you also need is an advisory committee to the city.
 that would include, for example, folks like Dr. Max Grossman, who single-handedly sued and successfully prevented the arena being built over the Duranguito footprints. I think it also should include members of Project Regeneracion, many of them who are co-authors of the book, in the book, who rules El Paso. I think that these folks and others in the community would give the city the kind of guidance that,
 the residents and the taxpayers would like to see in the Durango area. And again, I emphasize, I think it's the streetcars that will make it work together. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Ms. Pryor? Yes, sir. That brings us to call to the public. Thank you.
 The El Paso City Council is a local government body charged with serving its citizens, and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language.
 Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity, which are not pertinent to city business, nor may any member of the public use this forum for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have five members of the public that signed up to speak. The first person is Elizabeth Crawford.
 Her topic is stable birth. Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford. You have three minutes. Good afternoon. Thank you so much. Good afternoon. The eyes of the world are focused at this moment on the Middle East. We're all watching the tragedy that's unfolding in Israel, in the Gaza Strip, Jewish people, Arabic people losing their lives.
 Bethlehem, it's a city in the West Bank. I want to speak briefly about Advent, what took place in Bethlehem, and how that relates to our current situation in the world. And as we know, it has impacted El Paso and the communities here as well.
 Luke chapter 2,
 Verse 11, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. The Apostle Paul, in writing to the believers in 2 Corinthians, speaking of salvation, wrote, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich.
 This event that took place in Bethlehem in the Advent season, as we remember this event, has massive implications for the future as well. The book of Isaiah, the prophecy of Isaiah, an awesome prophecy referencing Assyria. Assyria will correspond to parts of modern-day Iraq, Turkey, Iran, Syria.
 In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the land, whom the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt, my people, and Assyria, the work of my hands, and Israel, mine inheritance.
 there's awesome hope in what took place the advent there's awesome hope in the future and it's a beautiful season a beautiful opportunity to remember the past and to look forward to the awesome future for Israel and that extends to the Gentile nations thank you so much hope you have a very good day thank you so much
 Thank you. The next speaker is also participating via telephone, Jesus Mendoza. His topic is electro and chemical sensitivities on children. Mr. Mendoza, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Can you hear me? Yes, sir.
 Thank you. I respectfully request the Mayor and City Council to request doctors from the city payroll or doing business with or in the city to get training in environmental medicine. I have been homebound for more than 12 years with painful debilitating and life-threatening electro and chemical hypersensitivity, EHS and CHS, which are aggravated by exposure to even low levels of radiation and chemicals and fumes commonly found in the environment.
 It is estimated that because of the dramatic increases in environmental pollution, more than 150 million Americans, more than half of the U.S. population, especially children, are suffering symptoms and signs of EHS and CHS which mimic and are being confounded with symptoms and signs of most illnesses, including catastrophic, irreversible, and then illnesses and disabilities.
 Despite the EHS and CHS are reaching pandemic proportions, most doctors are in the dark on the denial of environmental medicine and continue misdiagnosing and mistreating the harm caused by radiation and chemicals, with chemicals and radiation including powerful and toxic drugs, highly addictive and daily painkillers and daily x-rays, chemo and radioactive therapies.
 These massive medical errors are foreclosing any possibility of a cure on millions of children and other defenseless and unsuspecting victims defeating the purpose of medical care.
 According to the latest research, diagnostic errors kill or disable almost 800,000 Americans every year. This number is more than 250 times the number of people murdered by terrorists on the 9-11 tragedy. And I will say that it's a very conservative number, says Dr. K.P. Stoller.
 The evidence proving the fraud on the course to conceal this massive medical error is detailed by Terrence Alert, October-November 2023, posted on the case law documents of Jay Mendoza wirelesswatchblog.org, wirelesswatchblog.org.
 Sharing this evidence as much as you can, requesting your doctors to get trained in environmental medicine and requesting your legislators to intervene can save immense pain and suffering and the lives of millions of children and other defenseless and unsuspecting victims. Government officials have a duty to verify this evidence and a duty to protect our children as the evidence demands.
 Denouncing these massive medical errors is consistent with the supreme law of the Lord. Treat others the same as you would like to be treated. Our children cannot defend themselves from these aggressions.
 Don't wait until it's too late. Ignoring the facts doesn't change them. Carly Cooper, our lives no longer belong to us alone. They belong to all those who need us desperately. Eli Weissel, silence is the deadliest weapon of my destruction. Former Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney, thank you very much.
 for your response to this act. Respectfully, thank you again. Thank you, Mr. Randolza. The next speaker is Patricia Osman. Topic is ethics and discrimination. She will be followed by Richard Schechter and Michael Amaral. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. What I'm going to speak about today
 AFFECTS NOT ONLY MYSELF BUT ALL SENIORS AND DISABLED CITIZENS OF OUR CITY NOVEMBER 2022 I CALLED THE CITY OF EL PASO'S DEPARTMENT TO APPLY FOR ASSISTANCE MEANT FOR SENIORS AND DISABLED IN OUR CITY AT THE TIME I WAS TOLD THERE WAS NO FUNDING BUT I COULD BE PLACED ON A WAIT LIST FOR WHEN THE PROGRAM OPENED BACK UP FOR APPLICATIONS IN JANUARY OF 2023 AND WAS TOLD TO DO MY BEST TO STABILIZE MY ROOF AS AS UNTIL
 I was able to receive the home repair assistance because when it rains outside, it rains inside.
 I was contacted in January of this year, 2023, and began the application process. Applicants are on a set timeline, although it appears city employees are not held to the same standard. I was approved in February of this year and felt blessed at the time, but that changed. When in the grant process, I experienced ethics violations from what I initially thought was one employee, and in the course of reporting that employee discovered that it was not merely an issue with one employee, but far greater.
 It appears the city of El Paso is attempting to run out the clock so that my approved assistance on my home is no longer eligible for repairs to be made due to time and requirements of eligibility, which I meant. But continued delay on the part of the city could very well happen.
 Lose I could very well lose eligibility. I was approved for assistance in February of 2023 Which to date near a year later now being December and the beginning of the process in January I have yet to have the repeat grant repairs done to my home as I have been retaliated against in my home repair project deliberately delayed by city employees and
 The Council is aware of these issues as I have emailed each of you along with department directors and was advised to do so with all management.
 But I have yet to receive any response as to the status of my approved grant assistance since October. When I received an email stating because I asked for a meeting with the department director, I was now being asked to provide approval proof for my project to move forward. According to open records request, no such approval exists for any grant approved application.
 So I pose this to the council and citizens of El Paso. Is this how our city's most vulnerable are to be treated when they report ethics violations? To be stripped of the assistance they were approved to receive? It's in your court, gentlemen. I've sent this to everybody, and I wanna make sure that every citizen is aware, because it doesn't just affect me. There are victims before me, and there will be victims after me if I don't keep speaking out. So you will see me.
 More frequently, I wish I didn't have to come here, but unfortunately I do. Thank you. By the way, Merry Christmas. Thank you. The next speaker is Richard Schechter. He's also participating via telephone. Topic is investigative revoking the Spectrum franchise and awarding it to another provider. Mr. Schechter, star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Mr. Schechter, you're on mute. Star six, please, to unmute your telephone. Hello? Good afternoon, sir. You have three minutes.
 Hello. Yes, sir. Go ahead. You have three minutes. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Council.
 I was trying for days and days to get my spectrum bill reduced because I don't watch much television. And when I do, I only watch pretty much the local channels. I was able, after considerable calls, to get it reduced to $102 from $176.
 But when I got back in town, I didn't have any TV. And when I called, it turns out that their lowest television grouping does not include the local stations.
 And that doesn't make sense because when you give a company a franchise, you do it with the understanding that it will benefit the people of El Paso and the El Paso community. So...
 I can tell you from being at the local Spectrum store yesterday, the manager told me that the CEO of Spectrum will be in town next week and in his store on Sunland Park. And perhaps you, Mr. Mayor, and the members of City Council and the city manager should probably try and make contact with Spectrum and talk to the CEO when he is here in town.
 The reason being, El Paso shouldn't have to pay $153. That's what my bill went up from $102 to $152 in order to have local channels.
 And the local channels are supported by people that buy the service for local through spectrum. The local channels sued to the Supreme Court.
 And the Supreme Court agreed that they should be paid for their, the content that they provide, and it shouldn't be at free to Spectrum. So Spectrum collects $23.85 each month.
 for the purpose of being able to have the local channels. That money goes to Spectrum, but is turned over to the stations in the city, the local stations. Now, those local stations benefit, and when they benefit, the citizens of El Paso benefit. So it makes sense that the cheapest... Thank you, Mr. Schechter. You've reached the three minutes, sir. Thank you.
 The final speaker is Michael Amaral. Topic is feedback impact clarification of ordinance 019552. Good afternoon, sir. Thank you. Good afternoon and happy holiday season. I'm Mike Amaral, and I'm here to make a public statement from a veteran's point of view on the changes that you all approved back in November regarding disabled veteran parking at El Paso Airport.
 For a city that earned the title of America's Veterans Capital, there have been great improvements with services for veterans throughout the city to include at the El Paso VA healthcare system over the last several years. Ironically, adopted on 7 November of this year, four days before Veterans Day and a year and three days after declaring ourselves veterans,
 Veterans Capital of the USA, you passed a resolution to amend Title 14, Chapter 20, Section 240. My assumption is that you approved the implementation plan as well. This change reduced the parking benefit afforded disabled veterans at EPIA.
 The media initially sold it in part as improving overall access to disabled parking. In 2021, I worked with Senator Blanco to clarify the state law that had previously been misinterpreted to allow DV tags to park in handicapped parking.
 This new law went into effect on 1 January 22, yet it was six months before the airport put up signage and started passing out flyers that they would start enforcing it. I was actually honored that the airport copied a flyer almost word for word that I've been using for months to notify veterans. Yet this recent change was approved and implemented within 10 days.
 I happened to have been traveling, leaving El Paso on 4 November with another veteran and his wife, returning after two weeks. That was when I found a notice on my car. I got in the queue to check out and read it. The poor parking lot attendant had been put in a very bad position, dealing with people who had been...
 who had pulled in prior to the 16 November implementation been impacted by this change. There was no grandfathering for those who had already parked in the parking lot legally understanding what the rules were.
 She offered to go in and recalculate it based on how long I had been there after the implementation. I didn't want to hold up the line. I didn't want to give her any more headaches. So I just paid for the whole thing. Fortunately, I'm blessed that I was able to do that with no significant impact. But I did promise her that I would bring this topic to the city, to the city council, on the implementation of this change.
 So for clarification, the notification that I got is right here if you want to see it. But the ordinance says long-term parking is indefinite for DVs.
 but the notification says that it's now 30 days. I would recommend that you adjust the short-term parking to two weeks and then maybe have a reduced rate after that, $5, $7, whatever it is per day. Long-term parking, if it's not indefinite, like I read the ordinance to say, then it should be 30 days and then a reduced rate after that. Please consider rewriting the amendment to actually be veteran-friendly. Thank you, and I hope you all have a fantastic Christmas.
 Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mayor. That concludes call to the public. Thank you. Next item. If we may now move to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 21 to 23. May I have your approval? There's a motion made by Mayor Pote Manalo, seconded by Representative Rivera to approve the first reading of ordinances, items 21 to 23. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present.
 The next two items are related, Mayor. Please. Thank you. There's emergency ordinances. Items 24 is discussion and action on an emergency ordinance extending emergency ordinance number 019333, authorizing the city manager to assign personnel and resources to assist in addressing the humanitarian and public safety crisis resulting from a mass migration through El Paso. Item 25 is discussion and action on an emergency ordinance
 extending emergency ordinance number 019485 due to a humanitarian security and economic crisis resulting from a mass migration through El Paso. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Potemanelo, seconded by alternate Mayor Potemolinar to approve the emergency ordinances 24 and 25. On that motion, call for the vote. Mayor, do you consent? Thank you, sir. Yes, ma'am.
 In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously with the mayor's consent. Representative Hernandez not present. The next two items are also related, mayor. They are 28 and 29.
 Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Item 28 is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 12 vehicles in traffic, parking prohibited during certain hours, school days only, to add 2600 Tierra Cadiz Court from John Hay Street to Tierra Murcia Street. Item 29 is a public hearing on an ordinance to amend Title 12 restrictions on parking in residential districts to add portions of Tierra Murcia. Motion to approve. Second.
 There's a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve items 28 and 29 on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. And the final item is number 33, and this is discussion in action that the City Council approves
 be authorized to effectuate the listed budget transfers attached to the resolution as exhibit A for the El Paso International Airport. Move to approve. Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanelo, seconded by alternate Mayor Pro Temanel to approve item 33 on that motion. Call for the vote. Who's seconded that, I'm sorry? I heard alternate Mayor Pro Temanel. Oh, thank God I didn't hear. Yes, sir.
 Alternative Mayor Pro Temo Leonardo, I heard on the microphone. In the voting session, the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? Aye. And the regular city council meeting for Tuesday, December 5th, 2023 is adjourned at 1250 p.m. Thank you, council. The next meeting will be next Tuesday, December 12th.
 December 12th, next Tuesday. The next meeting is next Tuesday, one week from today.