public libraries. That's what I was going for with my I was hoping to wear a sweater that lit up and that sort of thing. Maybe next year, but I love all the holiday-inspired outfits that everyone has on right now. I know. Yes, sir.
 Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, December 12, 2023. Mayor Leaser is president presiding inside council chambers along with Representative Kennedy, Mayor Pro Temanelo, Alternate Mayor Pro Temo Linar, Representative Salcido, and Representative Rivera. It is 9.01 a.m. Good morning, everyone.
 And now will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by El Paso Police Chaplain and Sun Valley Baptist Pastor Dennis Kaufman. Good morning. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your many blessings. We pray for your guidance and wisdom on this meeting, that your will would be done, that you'd give guidance for leadership.
 to make decisions for our city, that you would guide them in all that they say and do. We thank you for this time of the year when we celebrate Christ's birth. Help us to keep our focus in the right way that we remember what you have given us and the gift of your son. We thank you that you love us and we thank you for your continued blessing. We just pray now for wisdom and guidance and understanding.
 And we thank you for loving us. In Jesus' name, amen. Thank you, sir. And with that, we got our beautiful choir. And if you all would lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance, I would appreciate it. Pledge of Allegiance to the United States of America. I know you all are going to play a song, and I know I got the opportunity to do a solo earlier today with you all. But now, and if I wasn't up here, I would go ahead and do another solo, but I'll go ahead and...
 pass it over to y'all and thank you again for being here. Y'all did a beautiful, beautiful job. I recorded a couple of your songs and I'm going to try to sell them in the open market, but y'all did a wonderful job and I want to thank y'all for again being here and y'all want to come up to the front? I want to wish you
 Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas. I want to wish you a merry Christmas.
 Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 9.09 a.m. For the record, representatives Hernandez, Fierro, and Canales arrived at 9.08. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 9.14 a.m.
 That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Beacons of Hope Day. Who has that one? Representative Fiora? And Representative Fiora is here now, by the way, ma'am. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. I requested to speak. Go ahead, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. It's an honor. And, Mayor, first and foremost, thank you for allowing me to read this proclamation.
 we have invited a gentleman here that's a friend of everyone up here a friend of El Paso when there's an opportunity this gentleman is the first one to step up and and to address it if it happens to be volunteering or putting together a Thanksgiving event a Christmas event and now he's taking on another challenge and again thank you for allowing me to read this
 Proclamation City of El Paso, whereas every year El Paso children are either born with or suffer a facial injury creating facial disfiguration conditions and whereas these facial disfigurations do not only affect their appearance but also create self-esteem and other psychological personal issues. Whereas some children do not have insurance and cannot afford the needed reconstruction facial surgery. Whereas Dr. Mario A. Gonzalez
 Attorney Cesar Ornelas II and Angel Gomez of Angel Gomez Operation Hope have joined together to provide the facial surgery and follow-up treatment at no cost for these children.
 or their families when they qualify for treatment. Whereas Dr. Gonzales, Mr. Hernandez, and Mr. Gomez also joined together to help a baby get the much needed modeling helmet to help with proper skull formation at no cost to the parent. And whereas Mr. Hernandez
 Mr. Gomez and Mr. Gonzalez teamed up to help young children with a tumor fulfilling her wish to go to Disneyland during this holiday season. Therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor, Council, City of El Paso on December 12, 2023, shall be known as Beacons of Hope Day. Signed, our Honorable Oscar Mayer. Mayor Oscar Lee, sir. Would you like to speak? Good morning, sir. Good morning, sir.
 Thank you guys so much for the opportunity. Thank you for the honor bestowed upon us. Truly appreciate it from the bottom of our heart. It's an honor to work alongside Angel, Dr. G., and providing such needed support to El Paso. El Paso has done so much for all of us in this community, and it's truly, truly an honor to be able to give back and continue to do so. God has gifted Dr. G. with hands of magic. Mr. Gomez here with extreme leadership and a big heart.
 and me and my firm with a voice to speak for the voiceless. So thank you again. I truly appreciate it and honor to truly give back. Thank you. Good morning. My husband was unfortunately not able to make it. He's in surgery this morning, but I'm here on his behalf. And I just wanted to say thank you all so much. And I'm very proud of him. And I know they will continue to do great things for the community. Thank you.
 thank you guys very much i appreciate mayor and city council appreciate you uh your name again sir uh my name is uh but uh real fast uh cesar and dr g and i are teaming up this coming january to offer the city of el paso something which is going to be helping them we've been trying it out for a couple of months and it's going to work so we're going to be doing
 free funerals for all the stillborn babies in the El Paso area and in Las Cruces. That includes all hospitals here in El Paso and in Las Cruces. We're bringing on a new member to us, besides Dr. G., Cesar, and myself, it's Salvador Purchase, who will be doing all this service is free for the families. Thank you, Edmundo. Thank you. Thank you again. The next proclamation is Wayne Thornton, Community Center at Grandview Day.
 Thank you. And we can please have Grace and the members of the Grandview Senior Center come to the podium. So proclamation of the City of El Paso, whereas the City Council recognizes the importance of fostering a vibrant and inclusive community that values the well-being of all its residents and most importantly its senior citizens. And whereas Grandview Senior Center, centrally located within our city, symbolizes our dedication to enhancing the quality of life for our seniors by offering a place to gather and provide a wide array of enriching programs.
 And whereas the seniors who attend Grandview have turned their facility into a welcoming environment with their friendliness towards others and have always been ready to contribute to their local neighborhoods and community.
 And whereas, Grandview Senior Center was opened in 1991 and has been around for 32 years and will now reopen to serve as a community center and provide the opportunity for different generations of people to meet and become not only members but also create unlikely friendships. And whereas, the City of El Paso wishes to celebrate and commend the opening of the remodeled center this Friday, December 15th, with doors opening at 9 a.m. and a formal celebration occurring at 10 a.m.
 And whereas this council expresses its pride in reopening a space that honors the wisdom, experience and vitality of our seniors. Now therefore be it proclaimed for the mayor and the council of the city of El Paso that December 12th, 2023 shall be known as Wayne Thornton Community Center at Grandview Senior Day signed by the honorable Mayor Oscar Leaser. Good morning. Mayor and council, thank you very much. We look forward to opening our doors to the community and offering new amenities.
 to the city of El Paso. Thank you. Thank you. And if you all do start a choir, we're available after five. Okay. Mr. and Mr. Ortega, do you want to say anything? Primeramente, buenos dias. Buenos dias. Estamos muy agradecidos todos los miembros del...
 del centro grembio por todo lo que ha hecho la señora anelo por nosotros y sé que en colaboración con ella han estado más personas que escapan a mi conocimiento y a ellos también a los ayudantes a los asistentes muchas gracias por todo lo que han hecho por grembio y
 Greenview estará con las puertas abiertas para todos. Gracias. Gracias a usted. Muchas gracias, Rodney. Ms. Pine. And if this morning's honorees will please remain in chambers, counsel will have an opportunity to take photos with you after the ceremonial items have been completed. The next proclamation is Armando Rodriguez Day. Go ahead, sir. Thank you, Mary. Mr. Rodney. Thank you. Thank you.
 Proclamation from the City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas Armando Mondo Rodriguez, a dedicated leader and advocate for education has been elected president of the 2023 and 2024 Texas Association of School Boards, otherwise known as TASB. And whereas Mr. Rodriguez's exemplary service spans five terms with CUNY TOISD Board of Trustees,
 contributing significantly to the elevation of Caño Tejo schools and fostering notable achievements including a national Blue Ribbon school and top ranking high schools and whereas Mr. Rodriguez's exceptional contributions as president vice president and secretary of the Caño Tejo ISD Board of Trustees have profoundly enriched the education environment and
 Under his leadership, Kanu Teo ISD has garnered esteemed accolades, notably earning recognition as a national blue ribbon school and being acknowledged for hosting one of the country's premier high schools by U.S. News and World Report. Remarkably, programs like the Northwest Early College High School and Kanu Teo Connect Initiative have empowered students, offering them the chance to acquire both a high school diploma and an associate's degree.
 while also narrowing the digital gap within the community. And whereas Mr. Rodriguez's commitment to student advocacy reaches far beyond El Paso, evident through his engagement with diverse state and national educational and community organizations. Presently, he holds a pivotal position on the board of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund.
 His extensive leadership experience encompasses roles such as serving on the National School Boards Association Board of Directors, chairing the National Hispanic Council, and acting as secretary of the National School Boards Action Center. Notably, Mr. Rodriguez has previously held presidencies in both the Mexican American School Boards Association and the Far West Texas School Boards Association.
 we recognize tasb president armando rodriguez for his exceptional dedication and contributions to education locally statewide and nationally now therefore be proclaimed by mayor and council city of el paso that december 12 2023 shall be known as armando rodriguez day signed by the honorable oscar leaser mayor of el paso good morning sir
 Mayor Leaser, esteemed members of City Council, Representative Rivera, and the Cherished Community of El Paso, I stand before you with a deep sense of gratitude and humility, honored to address the city that has been my home, and the community that has been my unwavering support throughout my journey. Your recognition of my role as President of TASB is not merely a personal accolade, but a testament to the collective strength of El Paso.
 marking the first time since 1990 that one of our own has held this prestigious position. This achievement is more than a title. It signifies an opportunity to inject a fresh perspective into the broader dialogue.
 It is a chance to champion the unique issues and confront the challenges that are distinctly ours. As a border community, as a proud El Pasoan, I intimately understand the nuanced dynamics that shape our society, and I am resolutely committed to leveraging this understanding to advocate for the enhancements of educational opportunities for every child in our community.
 In the face of the challenging times, the educational landscape is undergoing rapid transformation. The specter of voucher programs looms large, posing a considerable threat to our public education system. Now more than ever, our children need steadfast access to quality public education. It is our collective responsibility to ensure that every child, irrespective of their background, is afforded the chance to thrive and succeed.
 The collaboration between the city, the county, and the educational institutions is not just desirable, it is imperable. Together we can forge a path toward a brighter future for our children. The city with its unique position of influence has the power to unify and wield collective strength. Your support is pivotal
 as it can exert pressure on the legislator to prioritize public education. We must stand united to safeguard our schools, empower our teachers, and uplift our students. In my role as TASB president, I make a solemn commitment to advocate tirelessly for the interests and values of our community on the statewide stage.
 I pledge to be a vocal advocate, ensuring that the voice of El Pasoans resonates in the corridors of power and that our distinctive challenges are not acknowledged but addressed comprehensively. Once again, I extend my heartfelt gratitude to the City of El Paso, Mayor Leaser, and Council for your unwavering recognition, support, and dedication to the future of education in our beloved community.
 Together, as a united force, we have the potential to make a lasting difference. I'm deeply honored to embark on this journey with all of you as we strive to provide nothing less than best for our children. I also provided the Texas Lone Star Magazine, which was the first article that came out honoring my mother's legacy, my journey to become TASB president. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Mr. Rodriguez, I've known you a long time, and you and I have a lot in common because we believe that the future of our city and our country is the youth. And your hard work not only guarantees them an opportunity, but also guarantees our city and our country great leaders. And I want to thank you for believing in the kids and continuing to advocate for the kids of our city. Thank you, and thank you for what you do. Thank you. Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor, in my 12 years as trustee for El Paso Community College, there's been no bigger advocate for West El Paso for education
 El Paso, for the county, for the state, and now to champion education, K-12 education for Texas and the United States. So thank you, Mr. Rodriguez, for everything you do for the community. I'm glad your aunt finally found parking. My aunt. Thank you again for your leadership.
 You want to introduce your family, please? My Aunt Sylvia, my Titi, and my Tia Nurma, and my Tio Felix is back there as well, as well as my colleague on my board, Patsy Mendoza, the past president, or Dr. Rico and Gustavo representing our district as well. Thank you, and I know you volunteer a lot of time, you give a lot of your time, and I thank you for that. Representative Rivera. Thank you, Mayor.
 Mr. Rodriguez and council, this was an honor for me to present this to you. I've known you and I know what's been said about you as far as education is all vast and true, but the other element behind you and most importantly is that you are a caring person and you make yourself available to everyone.
 if needed I know you had that opportunity I've had that opportunity to call you at the notice and and you're there thank you very much for everything there thank you very much for what you do for your community thank you thank you thank you yes ma'am I just wanted to say congratulations
 Mondo whenever I think about you I think of the times that we've been out of town at night your face time and your Mother and I know she would be so proud of you here today And I just wanted to share that love with you So congratulations late at night And the final proclamation this morning is Tony the tiger Sun Bowl week Thank you mayor
 Proclamation City of El Paso, Texas. Whereas the Sun Bowl Association has served as a guideline to enhance the lives of citizens of El Paso for 90 years. And the Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl is known throughout the country and one of the hospitality professionalism fun and excitement. And whereas the annual Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl has grown to be the largest single sporting event in the city, as well as the top entertainment value,
 while showcasing the city of CBS to national television's audience for 55 years. And whereas the Sun Bowl Association achieves its threefold purpose of one, to present a Foba attraction of the national importance, to promote El Paso and the Southwest, and three, to generate tourism income of this area.
 An economic impact study by Dr. David Schar of the Economic Department of University of Texas at El Paso revealed that the direct economic impact to this area from the bowl game is $12 to $15 million.
 And whereas the Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl will Oregon State University Beavers in ordain Fighting Irish as participant in the year's annual contest at 12 p.m. on Friday, December the 29th, continues to showcase the city of El Paso on a national stage.
 with outstanding football teams, their fans, families, and supporters right here in the Sun City. And whereas the Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl, sponsored by Kellogg, is a football game that is embraced by the citizens of El Paso as their own, and it serves a great backdrop to the city, the people, and the culture of El Paso.
 Now therefore, we proclaimed the mayor of the city council, city of El Paso, that the week of December 25th, 2023, shall be known as Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl Week, signed by the Honorable Oscar Mayer-Leeser. Mayor, city council, thank you so much for the honor. Before I go on, I would like to congratulate Mr. Rodriguez and Wayne Thornton for their achievements and their accomplishments. Couldn't have done it without Wayne.
 Thank you very much. And again, I think the reason for the symbol has already been presented here, you know, during that proclamation. Our main objective is to have a very positive impact on economic income in El Paso. Thirteen years ago, when Notre Dame arrived, I think we had, it was close to $25 million in one week of economic income to El Paso. I expect 13 years later to be double that. Hotels are filling up.
 Restaurants are filling up. I was trying to find some rooms for the band and they said, I'm sorry, we're already full. So that's what this Sun Bowl does for, you know, for our city and we are very proud to be the ones that are putting it on. Again, it's an honor. I know everybody is talking Notre Dame. We have a great team on the other side as well. Oregon State has a very good football team and they both come in ranked in the top 20, which for the Sun Bowl of where we select,
 It doesn't happen very often. We have a team that's 9-3 and 8-4. That doesn't happen very often. So as much as everybody wants to see Notre Dame play, come on out and catch Oregon State. They've got a pretty good football team as well. So thank you very much for that. Then, again, I'd like to let our queen introduce herself.
 Hi, my name is Caitlin DeGuire. I am the 2023 Sun Queen. I am so excited. Thank you so much for this proclamation. As Bernie has been saying,
 This week, this tradition that we have in El Paso is an amazing tradition. It brings the city together. I know it's something me and my family have been doing for as long as I can remember, and I think almost everyone in this room can have some kind of connection to the game, whether it be through the events like Fan Fiesta or it was the actual game or maybe just the team arrivals and seeing the teams come in and just excited to see El Paso and its culture as soon as they get off their airplane. Thank you.
 So thank you so, so much. And I hope I see everyone in this room at the game. It is December 29th at 12 p.m. In case anybody needed a reminder. But we would love it if you all can be there. It is.
 just electric if you're in the crowd and if you have not gone i think this year would be the best year just because we are celebrating our 90th year so definitely come check it out if you have not had the chance but again thank you thank you so much to all of you and for this proclamation it definitely is a huge honor and again december 29th i hope to see you all there thank you and i just want to make sure that um
 You know, I repeat something that Bernie had to say. Oregon State's a quality team with some really quality victories, and they have Oregon State.
 except from the Pac-12 to come to El Paso was really big for our community and our city. It takes two teams to have a game, and I think we have very quality teams, but we have a very quality team by Oregon State and the Pac-12, and I'm glad they accepted to come to El Paso and be part of the 90th Sun Bowl this year.
 and also thank you to tony the tiger they've been a excellent excellent sponsor and a great ambassador for our community and i do want to thank them for taking the task of becoming the sponsor and going over and above you know because i see the agreements i see the contracts and i can tell you that they go over and above
 what the contract says, and I thank them for believing in our community and our kids because that's one of the biggest things they do. So we have a great game slated. We have two great teams, but thank you again for Notre Dame. But Oregon State's a quality, quality team with some quality victories and quality ball players, so I look forward to the game on December 29th. Thank you again.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. If you would allow us, we have a couple of gifts for all of you. If you would allow us to go and hand these out, please. Thank you. We'll need a receipt for those. Ms. Pryor? Next is a recognition by the Mayor with a Veterans Patriotic Commemorative Plaque. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Council. Good morning, Mayor. How are you all doing today?
 I think I outspoke myself yesterday. I'm a little disappointed that Ms. Acosta couldn't make it here this morning. Her husband's in the hospital, so if you could please put her into prayers and wish their family well. Honorable Mayor Oscar Leisner, esteemed city manager Gary Weston.
 and his predecessor, Tommy Gonzalez, respected city reps, former city representative Carl Robinson and Emma Acosta from District 3 and 4, and the venerable members of the City of El Paso's Division of Military and Military Affairs, Veteran and Military Affairs.
 With a profound sense of honor and humility, I stand before this prestigious assembly today to bestow the patriotic commemorative Eagle Award for exceptional support to our veteran community. This accolade is a testament to the unwavering commitment to our veterans to whom our debt of gratitude is boundless. We commend the extraordinary endeavors of Mayor Oster Leisner, City Manager Gary Weston, Emma Acosta, Paul Albright, and Jerry Jakowitz.
 All of them have profoundly bettered the lives of the numerous veterans here in our terrorist city.
 The Welcome Back Vietnam Veterans Ceremony, for those that remember, and parade in August of 2016, largely due to the extraordinary efforts and leadership of Ms. Emma Acosta and the mayor, Oscar Leaser at that time, was met with resounding success. From the depths of our hearts, we truly extend our sincerest and truest gratitude for your contribution.
 Your extraordinary excellence is truly inspiring. The City of El Paso stands as a leader in incorporating innovative methods into our veteran support systems, which enhances the mental health services, healthcare, employment opportunities and support for our abandoned but not forgotten heroes and women's health for our veterans. Esports, gaming has evolved beyond entertainment to become a critical element in the community mental health fostering engagement, social interaction and stress relief.
 On the 28th and 29th of December, in collaboration with Gold Star Gamers, United XP, and the Sun Bowl Association, the veteran community is hosting the Sun Bowl Showdown Rocket League Gaming Esports Competition. It's the first ever such event in the history of El Paso, and it's also being supported and sponsored by the Sun Bowl Association. First time ever for a bowl game in the United States to even host an esports competition. Hooah!
 The magnificent display of volunteerism and community pride is open avenues for continued service and advocacy in the years to come and has inspired veterans to become permanent volunteers in the year-round El Paso Sun Bowl activities. The City of El Paso's generous contribution at the El Paso International Airport was instrumental in making the 10th iteration of the Welcome Home Honor Flight Ceremony. This ceremony is a cherished moment in El Paso veteran history. Mr. Mayor and Councilman.
 you epitomize the great American defense community, a community that truly honors and respects and supports its veterans. To further highlight the significance of the Veterans Patriotic Commemorative Eagle Award as an accolade for becoming a great American defense community, it is proposed that this award be prominently displayed here within City Hall. The strongest and most brave will honor veterans with dignity and pride.
 Lame Deer quotes, in an eagle, there is all wisdom of the world. To wave an eagle feather truly means everyone is with peace, prosperity, and happiness. In closing, I extend my heartfelt thanks for everyone here for your dedication to our veterans and for contributing to El Paso's legacy as a great American defense community. In our country, service and sacrifices of our veterans are not just remembered, but they are actively honored and supported. Every day is Veterans Day.
 I think you can take pictures afterwards or you want to get. Yeah, no, we'll take pictures afterwards. Yes, sir. Because I still got to do my hair, so. It looks fine just the way it is. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Ms. Cronin. Mayor, would you like to recess or continue with the consent agenda? Let's do the consent agenda and then we'll recess. Thank you, sir.
 That brings us to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by City Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Council members. Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. May I make a motion to approve the consent agenda with the following revisions?
 Page 4, item 8, move to the regular agenda per Representative Rivera. Page 5, item 9, move to the regular agenda per Representative Rivera. Page 13, or I'm sorry, item 13, page 6, postpone one month per El Paso Police Department. I may have heard, Tim, that'll be five weeks, postpone for five weeks until January 17th. Yes, the last meeting in January, ma'am. Thank you. Thank you. Counsel, are there any other revisions? Second.
 There's a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanelo, seconded by Representative Salcido, to approve the consent agenda as revised. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Fierro? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session? And the motion passes unanimously. Representative Kennedy not present. Do I have a motion for recess? Second. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 The meeting is at recess at 9.45 a.m. in order to take photos with this morning's honorees. Council, we're going to go ahead and start taking photos. Motion to reconvene. Second. There's a motion and a second to reconvene the council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 The meeting is back in session at 10.04 a.m. And, Council, a friendly reminder, per the rules of order, once you obtain the floor from the mayor, you will have up to 10 minutes for debate. You may speak twice per item. And please speak into the microphone and refrain from side conversations at the dais while the meeting is in session. For those of you joining virtually, please make sure your microphones are on mute to reduce any background noise.
 Mayor, may we take the two items that were moved from consent to regular? Yes, ma'am. Eight and nine? Yes, sir. Item number eight is the award of solicitation 2024-0019, Ballard High School Hawk Signal Improvements to El Paso ARC Electric, Inc. And item number nine is the award of solicitation 2024-0018, Eastwood High School Hawk Signal Improvements to El Paso ARC Electric, Inc. Representative Rivera? Thank you, Mayor.
 I requested these items to be moved to the regular agenda because I feel it's important to recognize that our strategic plan is delivering results. These items are the results of the council and staff's work, and in partnership with the local government entities, it allows the public and media to know how these requests are petitioned, their funding, and who maintains them.
 I believe public safety and transportation is a priority in our community. And that is why it's important to hear staff's presentation. So at this point can we hear staff's presentation? Sir, go ahead. Jose Gutierrez, the project manager for this build out. Basically we're doing the installation of two HAWC systems. One of them being at Baylor High School and the other one being at Eastwood High School. IT, may we have the presentation for items eight and nine please?
 So just to give you a quick update, this is a procurement tool to effectuate the agreement between Citadel Paso and Isleta Independent School District for the installation of the HUC systems for Bel Air and the Eastwood. Start first one with the installation for Bel Air High School. We entered an agreement December 12th of 2022 with Independent School District.
 Basically, the independent school district of Isleta would be paying 100% of the installation of this HAWC system. The intent of this HAWC system is to address pedestrian safety. So what is a HAWC system, right? It improves pedestrian safety and mobility by using a button, activate a traffic signal, which directs the person walking to wait for a signal to change in traffic, stop allowing them to cross safely.
 We have one of these systems in front of UTEP on Schuster. Again, concept, you press a button and then the signal starts flashing and allow the pedestrian to cross safely. Bottom line, the streets and maintenance department, partnering with the school district, is trying to address the pedestrian safety, ensuring that pedestrians cross from point A to point B in a safe manner. This is just an exhibit of the current conditions and the future conditions.
 Right now there's two crossing points, two crosswalks at the point crossing Jarborough. Now with the HOC system, it's going to be activated, stopping vehicles and allowing the pedestrians to come through. This involves the installation of the HOC system and some improvements in the median, and of course some improvements on the parkway including ramps. This award is being given to ARC and it's estimated at about $198,000.
 which again the school district has funded 100 of this installation the streets and maintenance is doing the project management from design to the actual construction oversight questions and I'm just trying to understand the because this is kind of one of the first times I've seen a hawk system come forward to council procedurally if the school district wants to
 Partner with the city the city has to do the procurement Could it be that the school district does their own procurement in the future and we just adhere to whatever contract that you want Just trying to understand process. No, but based on city ordinance the school has to fund 100% of this is installations The way that it's done we're going into agreement The school district will present a letter asking us for the enhancements to their school from that point it goes to legal mayor signs off an entity manager and
 we going into the design phase of it and then the actual construction but more than anything the funding everything comes directly from the school district through the state of El Paso and then but we have to do our own procurement correct yes we have to do okay for and I'm sorry I didn't see the map for you it was Yarbrough and Esther and then on the McCrae side it was for Eastwood it's on McCrae what was the intersection the other ones McCrae and already right
 The only thing I wanted to mention was that I recognize the policy and I'm really grateful to East Letta Independent School District and their Board of Trustees for working with our streets department. These two intersections we have heard, Representative Rivera and I,
 for years that they have been very dangerous to the point where residents are even opposing new development along these corridors. And so this is a true example of governments working together seamlessly so that we can provide those much needed safety improvements and so I just wanted to thank you all for working and collaborating with the school districts because this is not just a simple hawk system.
 really a signal for future development so that we can give that reprieve and understanding to the public that
 We want to work together. We want to bring the safety enhancements, but we also recognize that development is part of our economic goals for a prosperous community So thank you for bringing this to our attention really excited to share this with the public And happy that the school district is covering all of those expenses. Thanks for the update. Thank you Thank you mayor the
 Plan at Bel Air shows some, as you said, median and curb enhancements as well. Are those all funded by the school district as well? It's all part of the same project funded by Eastlet ISD? Yes, sir. All right. And then do I see...
 i'm looking at the plan here from bel air is are there ball outs new ball bouts at the crosswalks as well yes or the curb extensions curb extensions excellent okay i think that's a a best practice especially in the areas around schools to narrow uh to narrow the street so the the crosswalk time is is shorter the residence time in the crosswalk is shorter uh for pedestrians and i'd be very happy to see this i know it's not driven by us this comes from requests from the school districts but i'd be very happy to see this
 at schools all across the city. Thank you, sir. And hopefully together with EPISD and Canetillo ISD and all of the ISDs here in the area. Thank you.
 thank you representative rivetta thank you mayor uh again everything's pretty much said uh i agree with what my colleagues have just told you uh it shows how the city and and works in partnership with the local entities to accomplish things that we have set out to accomplish and uh with that sir i make a motion to approve thank you again and i think this perfect example and i think we've said
 and we took office and it continues to be true that working together we get a lot accomplished and trying to work in a silo didn't seem to work very well and i think this is the perfect proof of that so thank you thank you with that mr prime this motion was made by representative rivera seconded by mayor pro tem anello to approve items eight and nine on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously representatives
 that brings us to page number six item number 10 and this is a presentation on the fy 2023 fourth quarter financial report good morning mr cortinas good morning mayor city council robert cortinas for the record so this is to provide you all an update on our fiscal year 2023 which ended on august 31st of this year and so this is going to provide you an update on how we finished that fiscal year again these are preliminary unaudited numbers as we're currently still going through the external audit process
 That process will not be completed until mid to late February. But don't expect any changes to the general fund from what I'm presenting here today. But wanted to provide you an update on the revenues, the expenditures, and then provide you an update on where we stand with our fund balance. So if IT would bring up that presentation for me please. Thank you. So again as I mentioned these are unaudited preliminary numbers. Again as I mentioned the external audit is still underway, expected to be completed in mid February.
 Overall, essentially this is providing you a high level summary here. Overall fund balance increasing by 10.3 million. Revenues exceeding the budget by 6.1 million or 1.1% and then the expenditures coming under budget by 4.1 million or 0.7%. Some of the highlights again, property taxes, the large source of revenue finished pretty much on target.
 Sales taxes, I'm going to provide you all a couple of slides as we look to not only fiscal year 23, but in the current year and again as we look to the budget for upcoming budget that we'll be working on here in the next few months. But for the fiscal year 23 sales tax exceeded the budget by $21.7 million, a really strong growth in our sales tax. However, the last couple of months were a little concerning, something we continue to monitor. One of the other big sources of revenue that generated additional revenue in fiscal year 23 are franchise fees.
 About four point one million however again That's another source of revenue that we continue to monitor as we have seen a little bit of a slowdown on the water and electricity And Texas gas on the expenditure side I'm looking at some of the fixed costs and some of the things that we had anticipated being a little bit higher than Previously our utilities vehicle maintenance and fuel Some of the things that are at the bottom our property insurance we saw a pretty large increase of about a million dollars on our city facilities, which I
 You're going to hear a presentation here in a few minutes from our Parks and Facilities team related to the current condition on those facilities and what we need to begin doing to address some of these older facilities that are becoming more and more expensive to maintain. One of the other areas, obviously, we have our tuition assistance program, which you all have heard a lot about. We've seen tremendous success with that program. Steph provided me some stats on that. We have, in the last two years...
 93 percent of the employees that have gone through the program and participated in the tuition assistance program are still with the city So one of the things we want to make sure monitoring is that obviously we're encouraging our employees to take advantage of the program With the intent that they stay with the city and use that education to be able to promote and advance throughout the organization And we've seen that as I mentioned over the last two years again with about 93% of those employees that have gone through the tuition assistance program or utilized it still currently with the city. I
 Again, another snapshot on overall revenues and expenses, the difference between the two. So overall surplus, again, as I mentioned, $10.25 million, increase to the overall fund balance. Revenues here by categories, as I mentioned, sales taxes is really what drove a large majority of the increase in the revenue, again, finishing $21 million higher than the budget. Franchise fees, as I mentioned, also about $4.1 million overall.
 Again to the tune of about 1.1% higher on the revenue side again with the adjusted budget based on Some of the additional changes we did throughout the year, which I'll talk about here at the very end So as I mentioned on sales tax, so again something that we continue to monitor and so this Slide here if you really just focus on the last column here on the far right hand side So this is comparing our FY 2022 to the FY 2023 budget something we've been talking about for quite a while now we've seen unprecedented growth in our sales tax over the last couple of years and
 but for the first six months of the fiscal year 2023 again so looking from september of 2022 through february of 2023 we were averaging about 5.8 percent increase compared to the prior year so that's on average for the first six months of the year when you look at the last six months of fy 2023 we only averaged about two and a half percent compared to the prior year and so although you see some pluses and minuses we did see a couple of decreases
 The overall increase that we're seeing has come down pretty dramatically and getting more in line with what we've seen historically on overall sales tax collections. And so this slide here really illustrates that. So when you look historically at where we are with sales tax growth, primarily over the last five to six years, roughly around four and a half percent annual sales tax growth. In FY21 and 22, you'll see, again, unprecedented growth as we bounce back from COVID. A lot of federal funds pumped into the economy to help.
 individuals and businesses get through the pandemic and so again unprecedented growth in our sales tax which really helped us as we developed the budget that we're currently in be able to accomplish that no new revenue rate while not impacting city services really taking advantage of that sales tax growth and aligning the budget to actuals and so you'll see for fy 2023 although we finished that 21 million dollars over budget overall we only finished 4.1 percent higher than the previous year
 And so the FY2023, again, really fills back more in line with where we are historically and really falls in line with what we projected and what we did when we developed the FY2024 budget, again, ensuring that we weren't being overly optimistic and that we were being very conservative because we were already seeing a little bit of a slowdown in the sales tax collections. And so this slide here shows you the last couple of full years, budget to actuals, and then shows you the FY2024 budget, again, at $134.7 million,
 Again, compared to the FY23 actual, where we finished the year of 132 million, so that represents about a 2.1% increase in the current year budget to the last year actual. Really in line with what we've seen, as I mentioned, over the last six months of the last fiscal year, coming in at about 2.5%, so again, not the 4, 4.5% that we've seen historically. We're hoping that we'd see things pick up, but unfortunately we have not. So the first two months of this fiscal year in September,
 less than 1% growth compared to September of last year. We just received, again, there's a time lag. You all are familiar with that, two-month time lag in our sales tax collections that we received from the state. We received our October collections last week, and they came in at 5% higher than October of last year. So again, some of that fluctuation where we're seeing relatively modest growth, and then more in line with the historical average around 5%. And so again, we continue to monitor this
 Because obviously sales tax, again, our second largest revenue source as we're developing the budget, something that will play a key role in what we bring forth to the city council as we go over the next several months in developing the FY 2025 budget. A couple of other slides, again, on our franchise fees, as I mentioned. We saw a pretty strong growth from FY 21 to 22. In FY 23, we saw, again, an actual to actual comparison, essentially flat, coming in at just under $61 million.
 our residential commercial building permits again something that we continue to monitor as this has the indicator on how the economy is performing so looking at residential commercial building permits again fy 22 to fy 23 essentially flat again at about 3.4 million and providing you five years here so you can see before the pandemic where we were historically so we're still well below that by about a million dollars so again not a significant revenue source however something that we continue to monitor as you just could provide some indicator on how the economy is
 as we look at the expenses again here this is by a strategic goal you'll see overall again expenditures finished under budget by 0.7 so again overall expenses under budget by that 4.1 million i mentioned some of the big drivers in the earlier slide on some of the big highlights that we saw again this is a couple of slides that give you a little bit more detail but really the big driver here is our personnel and the increases that we did on the wages again this is another slide here the expenses by category
 And then again, looking at the salaries, benefits, and taxes, again, this is over 70% of the city's general fund budget. And you can see the large increase in FY 2023 from the prior year going from 343 million up to 369 million. So that reflects again the increase that we did in our minimum wage for all of our city employees, doing two pretty large significant increases overall, raising that minimum wage by $2 in the last 18 months. This got us in the prior year to $12.11. Currently we're at $13.11, and so again,
 The big driver, as we talk about every budget process, is what are we gonna do for our employees? But it's not just the pay raises, it's also the healthcare that the city's been taking on for the last several years, and also the pension for our uniform and our civilian employees as well. I talked about the utilities again. Essentially flat, which was a good sign from FY22 to 23. However, you compare that to the three years prior to FY22, and so we're hovering around 2 1⁄2 to $2.6 million higher than where we were just a couple of years ago.
 On vehicle maintenance, something we talked a lot about over the last 12 months and even longer is looking at our city fleet and needed to make sure that we've got dollars to go out and do replacements, not only for our public safety fleet but also for all of our other non-uniform fleet as well, so all of our inspectors, our IT, our park staff, ensure that they have the vehicles necessary to be able to do the day-to-day services we're providing to the community. So we did see about a $700,000 increase in vehicle maintenance.
 Again, with the additional dollars that we added in the budget for the current year, about $3 million, that should really help bring this number down as we move forward over the next few years. I talked about the tuition assistance and the participation that we've seen as far as the number of employees. With that, obviously, comes the cost that goes with providing that service to our city employees. Again, one of the benefits that we want to provide to encourage our employees to take advantage of, to be able to promote and advance throughout the organization and stay with the city of El Paso as the organization.
 And so you'll see from FY22 to FY23 we saw almost a million dollar increase in that cost. Went from 600,000 to about 1.5 million for the fiscal year. Looking at the overall general fund reserves, as I mentioned that 10.2 million dollar increase in the overall general fund reserves. You'll see that we've gone from 145 to over 155 million. So a significant increase, another 10 million dollars into the fund balance.
 compared to where we were as we've mentioned several times at the nine operating days and where we are currently. Again, these are preliminary unaudited, but as we stand right now, we were at 90 days when you exclude our unrealized gain, which is an accounting entry that we account for in our investments, we were at 90 days. And with this change, it takes us down to 84 days. So you may be asking, why did we go down by six days?
 One of the big fund balances increasing, the calculation is based on the budget size. And so our budget for the current fiscal year increased by 60 million. So the amount per day went from 1.4 million up to almost 1.6 million, the daily amount. And so that calculation works out to be 84 days currently.
 Again, still really tremendous progress over the last several years really really healthy fund balance this position city really well to be able to Respond to any emergency should in your eyes and really put the city in solid financial Standing as we move forward over the next several years so that completes my presentation. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Thank you Mr. Cortina for the presentation one question I do have is
 Even in the budget and everything else, what do we have still left of bond money that we have not, that we still have to spend in the future? So we have currently about $600 million of debt to be issued over the next seven to eight years. Barry, are you talking about how much on hand? Yes, sir. To be on hand tomorrow? I don't have that number off the top of my head, but we still have a pretty significant amount of cash on hand to be able to fund those capital projects. Both questions to be answered, Derek.
 thank you for but we'll bring that forward here over the next several months i'm working obviously very closely with the capital improvement department on their spin pattern and some of those projects and sure we're not holding those projects up but yes sir we'll bring that forward in the future right and um what um what are we looking at over the you know we always talk about looking at the future in the next five years uh i think maybe when when we do our strategic planning it's a better question at that time so i'll hold it for then
 Yes, sir. We're gonna spread it out how we plan on moving it forward. Yes, sir We plan on making a big part of the strategic plan presentations to the council centered around financial sustainability So we'll be looking out to enter to include the plan for issuing debt and looking at Kind of sequencing when you might look at opportunities in the future. Thank you for that. That'll be real important Mr. Curtinus, thank you for the presentation
 I'm just trying to understand the term. You're closing up the entire fiscal year that ended September 1, and this is your fourth quarter report as of September 1. So this is for fiscal year 23, which ended August 31st of 2023. Okay, so, because I was confused because you had mentioned that there were overages on slide four. Excuse me, that's not the overages, those are the revenue highlights, expenditure highlights, which is slide five.
 Those are the economic, or those are the cost drivers that we were incorporating into last fiscal year. Correct. Okay. So I wanted to be clear because I got concerned. I'm like, oh, we're over. And when you go down to slide six, there's the overall variance of $10 million, but you're not, but in the last slide, you're representing that, the general fund expense category on slide 22. It's showing that we're under $10 million.
 from the budget to the actual. So is there a true variance here, or you were able to make some adjustments? It was the revenues. And so when you look at the revenue slide on page seven, overall revenues finished over budget. And so again, going back to the sales tax collections, so the revenues were over what we had budgeted. And so? And so slide number four, slide six, shows you the overall picture. If you look at revenues and expenses and the surplus that was generated.
 Okay, so are there any dollars on the table from last fiscal year that were unaccounted for? It's the $10.2 million. However, that being said, we did put the $15 million into our pay-per-futures funds, and so we did, as part of this budget process, allocate $5 million expected to be used to offset some of the impact from the CBA. And then additionally, we did use $40 million to pay down that TRZ-2 debt early, which there was an item on the consent agenda to make sure that
 All of those dollars come back to the general fund to the tune of about $8 million a year now, instead of going into the TRZ. So overall fund balance on the last slide did go up by $10.2 million. However, that was due to the creation of the paper futures fund. Are you referring to the general fund reserves? Yes. Okay, and this is where you put – can you explain that slide in a little bit more detail? Slide number 19, if you can bring that up. Yes, FIT will bring that up. Slide 19. Okay.
 This is showing you the breakdown of our general fund reserves And so we have three categories are restricted which is set by the city charter So we need to maintain 5% of the prior year general fund balance And so you'll see that change there the unassigned category and then the committed and so under the committed We have our stabilization funds that have been created You can see the balances in each of those for fiscal year 22 compared to FY 23 and you can see the changes in those and
 So the overall increase of 10.2 million primarily being driven by the creation of the paper futures fund Which council's already approved and we set that into that separate fund and we've allocated in the current year five million dollars expected to be used to offset the impact from the CBA, okay, so Because usually there's a vote to assign where these funds are going. And so this is where I'm confused because number one is
 It looks like you've already made those adjustments, but I probably, since I've been in office, you've always come to us and asked us to direct those funds. So there's a change in practice that we need to recognize and acknowledge because it's Council's decision here. Was there a decision that Council made that?
 Once we took out the money, then we would replenish it. There's been no change in process, and council's taken two actions in the last several months. One was the creation of the paid-for-futures fund. Correct. The council took action on setting aside those dollars into that separate fund. The council also took action on utilizing some of our, well, actually all of our savings that was expected to be had and pay up that TRZ-2 debt, and that was on July 31st of this year.
 You'll actually see the pay for futures fund and it scales, or not scales, it decreases over time. But I think we've got that now for the next three or four years. And so council has taken action on how the funds are to be allocated. I guess I'm just not understanding, and I'm sorry because this comes supernatural to me. There's an increase of $10 million in revenues.
 Those $10 million and that variance is showing on the last slide here. From the unassigned 50 to 44, there's 6.4 million that's under. So what you're saying is because we're already projecting that we're under, we need to use these revenues to fill that in. So the unassigned is correct. The unassigned is going down, but again, the restricted is going up because we need to transfer some from the unassigned into the restricted because we need to maintain that 5% for the city charter. You'll see the budget stabilization actually went up slightly, but that was an action
 early in the fiscal year as a result of the prior year action that the council took and then the creation of the paper futures that's where i think i want to make clear that that's where all of that is going to it's okay it's not showing here that's why so well there's paper futures so if you look at fy20 right it doesn't show the reduction it was at 15 million we had we allotted five
 in fy 24 so in our current fiscal year this is okay so it's still there 22 to 23 correct so it's still there okay i understand now um and so because our overall general fund increased we have to restrict five percent of that and that's why you needed to transfer 1.178 from the inside to the restricted explain one more time what is the underside comprised of
 unless council takes action that's where all of our fund balance will go into the unassigned category other than restricted once you do the 5% but as I mentioned during the year the council took the action to create the paper futures and then that 15 million was set into that fund so that's where we stand today okay and there is also and you'll have to remind me on the debt management policy there is the mayor had mentioned some debt there's a there is a formula
 that we need to adhere to to the amount of debt can you explain what that formula is and where we're at if you have those numbers i don't have it in front of me but as the current west dimension we'll bring that back as part of the strategic plan process and show you where we stand and is this are we supposed to be under 10 or 18 so one of them is by state and it's 10 of the total taxable value which we're well below i believe we're under two percent okay that that's the number i'm trying to understand okay thank you mr katinas you're welcome thank you sir thank you sir
 Yes, Mayor, that brings us to item number 11, and this is a presentation and discussion providing a preview of the upcoming strategic planning session, including the integration of the comprehensive plan update and an operations update focused on the park system and city facilities. Good morning, Council. For the record, Ben Fife, Managing Director. Today we are pleased to be able to bring forward an overview and assessment of the parkland management system
 as well as the facilities, as we think about a broader sustainable future for the system. As Colonel Weston mentioned, this will allow you to have a much more informed discussion when we get to strategic planning, thinking not just about sustainability, but also how the system itself is sustained, because we do have a lot of aging infrastructure. So we'll cover the park system focus first, as well as the facilities focus.
 This discussion supports both goals 7 and 4 of the strategic plan. But before we get into where we are and where we need to be, I think it's important to provide context to the Council. And so over the last decade, just a little over a decade, you've had $223 million in additional new parks, trails and facilities.
 That represents a 25% increase overall to the system. And that was primarily fed by quality of life bond projects, as well as parkland dedication ordinance-led projects. And then we have additional projects that were funded from the state, from the Texas Wildlife Foundation, as well as community development funds, which are federal.
 While all of that is going on, the funding level in terms of maintenance did not meet the community needs to modernize and sustain existing assets. We know you all know that firsthand and better than anybody because we received those CRs from you with constituent complaints and concerns from everything from playgrounds to pools and such.
 Starting in 2022, we started receiving funding to improve existing subpar assets, and primarily what's being addressed are tables, benches, playgrounds, sports courts, and irrigation improvements. Irrigation improvements are really critical, as we have over 300 parks within the system and a lot of aging irrigation systems.
 As we think about maintaining the park system, we wanted to actually provide to you insight into what citizens think about these projects and about parks importance to their overall quality of life. So in the first graph you see where people feel the city should focus its investments in new or refurbished parks and recreation facilities. Overwhelmingly, you have
 the need for modernization of existing parks and recreation facilities. That's really important to think about because we have an average age of about 40 years in our facilities, but we have facilities that are almost 70 years old.
 We have sports, both of our sports centers are nearly 60 years old and have not had significant investment in decades. So they really are oftentimes operating on a system of band-aids and prayers that is handled by our incredible staff who knows the secret handshake for each of these facilities and works very tirelessly to make sure we can keep these open to the public as long as possible. Thank you.
 You also have the interest on the part of the public for what types of parks facilities people would like to see more investment in and you can see here that there is an interest in smaller neighborhood parks within walking distance of neighborhoods That should be no surprise as parks are really a critical thing that young families look for when selecting where to live and the ability to be able to walk or have A very short drive is important for overall quality of life. I
 Coming in from the chime in budget survey responses this last year you can see that the top priority For citizens is really quality of life and when you go more granular into quality of life parks and recreation Overwhelmingly is what people associate with their quality of life and where they feel said the city needs to pay resources to and
 So right now I'm going to turn this over to my colleague, Emilio Gonzalez from Streets and Maintenance Parkland Management Division. I'm going to actually embarrass him a little by saying this is his first time presenting in person to the council. Thank you Ben. Good morning, sir. Thank you, sir. Mayor and City Council, my name is Emilio Gonzalez. I'm an old hand at this in terms of speaking to public greeting.
 groupings rather, so EG, it's just easier for you to handle and easier for me to respond to. What we would like to do is to address the way that we've positioned ourselves to handle funding that we've received in the past, what we're working on currently, and then what we foresee funding needs in the future. We've taken advantage of funding that we've received to address again the ever-present need to improve our playgrounds.
 With ARPA funding, we have now put in place a replacement of eight playgrounds that are subpar and needed to be replaced. And let me explain the range of what a subpar installation might be. Braden-Aboot is one of the parks that we're replacing with ARPA funding in this round. And in that instance, that installation was so old that replacement parts were available from the manufacturer, but they didn't fit the installation that they had put in years ago.
 It tied in at the right height and the right opening, but it was just too large to be a safe part of that installation. We had to remove it. And that's what really it means when a playground system goes beyond the end of its useful life. When spare parts aren't available, then we rate those as a D, and we look to find ways to replace those D-rated playgrounds.
 In addition, with the funding that we've received, we have come up with lists of derated amenities that need to be replaced across the park system.
 In some instances, we had to fight the urge to leave something in place simply not to make it a takeaway, but it was subpar and needed to be replaced. We received funding to be able to do that. And just as a side note, average cost for something like a bench or a table installation is $2,000. We made some savings because we installed it ourselves. It didn't have contractor support to do that.
 And then finally we'll talk about the resurfacing and reconstruction of courts, again with ARPA funding, that allows us to target the key components of what it is in our system that park users are looking for modernization. Let me give you an example of additional purchases to playgrounds, again an everlasting need. And this is an example with fiscal year 24 funding that we've received, where we made a decision to replace aged playgrounds.
 and we did it in such a way as to offer an enhanced play value. By that I mean we could have gone for the lowest cost, ended up putting in cheaper installations that didn't have the play value that park users and playground users in particular are looking for. So we used a committee approach. We evaluated the offerings from four vendors to be able to make plans to put high play value replacements into these five parks.
 We have, in our current work, to be done yet. We have ARPA funding available to us now that will actually reconstruct courts, both tennis and basketball, that are out of service because they are no longer safe to play on.
 That is the case with the Salvador Teran courts. We plan to make those part of the first notice to proceed as part of the ARPA funding. The pictures on the left I took years ago when we took it out of service because it's obvious to us and to the users at the time that it's easy to roll your ankle if you're walking across that six foot gap in a play surface.
 The plan then is to roll out phase one, two, and three to reconstruct all those courts that are subpar and unsafe to use.
 We will, by the end of this fiscal year, have only 12 more courts to resurface. Again, we took into account not just aesthetics, though that's part of it, but this really improves the playability of the courts and makes them a safe surface to play on. Part of what we'll roll on with future plans is how to maintain these to keep the play value of these at a high level as well. Let me brag a bit about our staff.
 The paint and shine component to what we received was funding that was turned over to us because it was not able to be used by the recreation side of our operation. And this money for labor, we took and offered to our crews to work on a voluntary overtime process so that all the paint and shine projects that we undertook were taken on as overtime on a volunteer basis. We accounted for painting and resurfacing some of the structures in 67 of our parks,
 To date, we've replaced amenities, parks and benches, tables at 60 of our parks, and still work to be done. It turns out in our survey of existing parks, again this is existing infrastructure that have no tables, no benches, no added amenities that keep the play value and the use of that park to a minimum.
 Part of our commitment to you is to take the funding we've received to elevate the product that we have offering to be able to give more usable and enjoyable services. Our commitment to you then would be that after the fiscal year 24 funding, 100% of the sports courts will be upgraded within the last five years. That will allow us then to go from reconstruction and resurfacing to maintenance.
 That is our ultimate goal, to be able to take the infrastructure that we've been given, enhance and sustain it, so that we improve the use and usability of those and ensure a longer-term survival for courts because we maintain them instead of simply put up with inferior conditions. Shifting to more fiscal year 24 funding.
 We've received funding to improve our water utilization and efficiency by adding centralized computer control. The platform that we use is IQ4. It's a Rainbird product, and it allows us to understand what we're doing to apply irrigation water to conserve and to be as efficient as possible.
 I can give you an update. Currently, we have 40 sites that we're planning to do in fiscal year 24. As an update to this slide, currently we're at 38 sites installed, two pending, because we understand the value of getting this work done during the off-season so that come irrigation season we're in a better position to conserve water and provide better quality turf.
 Future funding gaps if I can change the focus for a bit has to take into account what we project to be increased irrigation water cost There's been an ongoing cost increase to us both in the in the price per unit that we're paying with the likely move from EP water utilities to a tiered system based off consumption and
 We don't have enough detail to feature what those elements will be, but I can tell you what those elements have been in the past. If you'll notice, the escalation of cost, we were able to blunt the trend line two years ago by using centralized computer control to be more efficient with our irrigation operations.
 We're able to monitor and limit waste water when we have system breaks. We're just smarter at being able to use that component to the work we do to offer better results by offering better application of water in a more efficient manner. We have received ongoing funding of $1.4 million. Part of what we'd like to lay out to you is we have a plan to use that, and we're focusing on amenities, playground refurbishment.
 hard surfaces that we have to deal with, turf repair and renovation, and finally rock wall and fencing. To be honest with you, we have needs in all of these areas that we have not been able to meet absent funding. With the funding that we have in place now, we've laid out our projection to say, how can we best utilize the additional funding we've received to make a difference in quality and sustainability to our system?
 In addition, I'd like to introduce the idea of capacity. At this point, we don't have a clear idea of what inflation or contractor capacity or cost of goods might be going forward. We've added just an escalator on the bottom to show what that one point point might be in terms of future needs for these basic components to maintenance. And to be honest with you, this funding allows us to address these needs in a concrete and planned way
 Whereas in the past we were not able to do that, we simply acted on a stopgap, ad hoc approach that was inefficient and ultimately didn't respond to the needs that were voiced to us by our customers. Brief recap. In terms of our short-term status, we've received about $2 million in average funding over the last three years, including the ARPA funding that we've received. We're then able to address the issues that we've presented to you.
 Going forward one of the needs that we have is to increase the number of corrals that we have so that we keep having to Drive from Hondo Pass to Ralph Sightseeing or from North Loop at San Jose to Ralph sightseeing and avoid that windshield time To be able to have more work done productively instead of spending windshield time the question should naturally come to mind if we already short step why divide your staff and
 Our approach is slightly different to that. It's not that we're dividing our staff, it's simply that we cannot divide our work to what we choose to do and what we choose not to do. We're just being smarter in how we apply the work hours available to us by less drive time and more work time in the field. Ultimately, what we wanna be able to do is to say to you that for the midterm, annual funding needs of 4.5 million will address the needs that we've identified so far
 And then we also want to include the conversation, what it is that we need in the future for the big three items that we haven't addressed so far. And those big three are playground replacement over time to be able to replace them at the end of their useful life.
 The shade structures needed, especially in light of what happened last summer and the shortage we have for shade structures in our parks. And then finally, irrigation system renovations, not simply centralized computer control but actual renovations, and we'll make a case for what that means and sounds like. Ultimately, long-term, we need to develop a systematic and a funded replacement plan that is not in place now.
 And we need to be able to maintain funding to avoid those gaps that will create the multiplier effect to deferred work and deferred replacement. So when we talk about the big three critical needs, how big is the need? Let me try to emphasize that in this one slide. We have 330 park sites in our system, and that includes the corrals and operational locations that we use and have to work and maintain.
 205 of those playgrounds we have 25 D rated playgrounds still in system after the ARPA 8 after the five we're replacing with fiscal year 24 funding we still have identified 25 D rated playgrounds in the system and additional playgrounds will come to their end of their useful life in the future if we want to keep from generating more D rated playgrounds we need to address a plan for addressing the C rated playgrounds in our system that will
 We have 116 playgrounds that need shade structures. After the heat of last summer, that's an obvious need that we have to address. And then in terms of the irrigation system and the renovation needs we have there, we have 50 irrigation systems that operate on 9-volt batteries for any number of reasons, but I'll use Memorial as one example. Memorial runs on 9-volt battery because...
 The ground squirrels eat the insulation off the ground wires, so we can't be able to communicate from the valve to a centralized controller. We've got to operate them on a 9-volt battery standalone. Here's what happens when a 9-volt battery fails. If the irrigation system is on, it stays on because there's no signal telling it to turn
 If the irrigation system is off and the 9-volt battery fails, that system simply doesn't turn on. That valve system does not turn on. We don't know about that problem until we see yellowing turf because those valves do not communicate to a central computer that gives us that information remotely. To address those particular issues, we're going to lay out this funding need.
 by these big three categories and lay them out over a period of eight years. We made some assumptions at this point not to add an escalator effect for inflation or increase in cost of goods or labor. That can easily be retrofitted onto this plan, but this allows us to address D-rated playgrounds in the system now.
 developing a plan for removing those at the end of their useful life and not creating more D rated playgrounds and then we provided some counts for what is in our system today based upon our assessment in terms of shade structures we talked about the need for a parks master plan to address where to install those and how to install them and what sort of timeline then we identify the playground shade structures that we need and we do not address 116 that are missing now
 We have this formula that we've attached to our document simply taking into account capacity. By capacity I mean the ability of a contractor to go install these for us. We do not do these installations. They cost about $250,000 each and there's a limited capacity for what local contractors can do.
 We could increase the timeline and increase the number of installations if we went outside the city for additional contractor help, but of course there's additional costs for doing
 And then finally irrigation systems. Irrigation systems that both have centralized computer control and renovation to include things like adding another water source, replacing main lines that are subject to constant breakage, replacing valves because they've aged out and are no longer leading examples of technology.
 Let me use this scatter chart to show you where the D rated systems are currently. These are the needs that we have by district for the D rated playgrounds still in our system. It is a good graphic representation of where those needs are. You'll notice that in newer areas there's less representation or no representation because they are new installations to our system generally. Additionally, here are the C rated playgrounds that we've identified so far.
 These are likely to come to the end of their useful life, and by that again I mean we cannot either buy replacement parts or they've gotten to the point that the useful play value in them has decreased so that they're just an installation and not a destination. Our goal is to enhance and sustain our system so that our playgrounds become destination events as opposed to something we maintain because we have no funding in place to replace them.
 Let me change the system now by going to the shade structure example in a slightly different format. This is no longer a scatter graph by district, but this is rather the element of time attached to the approved shade structure replacements that council has already approved and is in place now. If you'll notice, the timeline extends to winter of 2026 for this installation for these selected sites.
 The reason for laying this out is the following. The plan from that 2022 bond is to take any possible savings from the initial list that you've already approved and then apply them to other sites that need shade structures as well.
 The reason for laying it out with a timeline is to stress the slow approach that this level of funding will allow because there's more capacity in our system to replace, and there's more need to replace those 116 playgrounds that don't have a shade structure over them. Here are the lists that we're proposing. This hasn't been approved, but if there's any funding savings from the initial installation from that group,
 we would apply them to these major parks that have no playground shade structure, and there's an obvious need in each of these areas for shade for these high-use, highly visible parks in our system. And this is the exclusion list. These are all the parks that haven't even reached that level of consideration yet.
 and I sorted them out in this way just as a representation. I wouldn't trouble you by giving you all the listing, but if you look at the representation of the key parks that are in this list, those are beyond the reach of the funding and plan that we have in place now and creates a good example of the funding gap that we're building into the system unless we address it with a clear plan.
 I'll use not distribution by district and not timeline, but rather acreage to talk about the irrigation renovation needs across the city. Acreage for these renovation sites mean that without renovation to these irrigation systems, the quality of the turf in these areas will be less than it could be with the right infrastructure in place.
 It would be hard to enhance and sustain the turf quality and landscape quality in these parks without renovation to the irrigation system that will improve our ability to deliver in a conscientious and conservation-minded way. One of the guiding principles that stand behind our thinking to date is what it will take to create a master plan to guide us through this.
 We hope that that master plan will have the guidance and control to keep us on task to do the following. Yes, it's one of the requirements for accreditation for the pats that we wear on our shoulder. It is what we have to remind ourselves, this master plan, that we operate in a best practices platform at all times. That is part of the approach that we want to take because it's part of making grant applications and presenting ourselves as an industry leader in the quality of what we offer in our system.
 In order to do that, a master plan will keep us on task and focused so that we are able to deliver on the customer need to enhance and sustain our system while we grow our own staff to be able to deliver in a more efficient way over time and deliver on that task that we have. An upcoming presentation underscores the strategic value of coupling consensus with commitment.
 That's what a master plan would do for us. It would give us the guidance and control to be able to deliver on the promise that we've taken on. The key takeaways. We understand that the key need is to maintain and sustain the infrastructure we've already been charged with maintaining. We understand that park quality is quality across the entire system, and that without the right irrigation system, for example, we won't have quality turf.
 Without the right amenities and playground installations, we won't have the play value that is required for an optimal system. We have received additional funding. We've tried to demonstrate that we've taken that funding and applied it in the best way that we know how. In addition, we'd like to thank you, because without the funding we received to date, we could not have acted in the way that we have. We would be simply limited in trying to minimize the damage as opposed to improve and correct conditions. We have a long way to go.
 Our commitment to you is that we have a plan to do that. We have the ability to grow our organization in such a way that we understand the goal, ultimately to enhance and sustain the system we're charged with maintaining. Thank you. Thank you. You did a really good job, and you didn't act like you were a novice at this. You did an excellent job. I appreciate that. With that, Mayor Pro Temp.
 Mayor, first there are two additional presentations under this item. I just want to be able to make sure we'll be able to speak on each presentation. Yes, ma'am. Go ahead. Thank you. Thank you so much for this presentation.
 think you highlighted this it's a lot of work for parks to do I think a master plan is smart I thought that we've heard about this master plan for so many years but you just want to be clear that it has not been approved or funded and that's not to you sir sorry it was the previous city manager that brought it up a lot and so I was under the understanding that it was something we'd already moved forward with
 So the master plans tend to operate every 10 years. So we are coming to the end of our current master planning process. This is something, knowing that it's a 10-year plan, for the last two or three years you've heard a lot about the fact that we're going to need a new one. We have identified funding for this already, and so we are looking to bring back that contract to the council this spring to begin that process, which will have a significant amount of outreach and community engagement throughout every district.
 Yeah, I mean, I think a master plan is important. It's not cheap. I mean, looking at this, you could replace eight canopies with the amount of master plan. Yeah.
 But that's a good thing a conversation for strategic planning is when we'll have that I want to talk a little bit about the irrigation system that you discussed On slide 20 you talk about irrigation central control and then irrigation system renovations But my understanding is that's not a central control for every park based on this presentation No, what we've done is to do a rough return on the investment calculations
 There are some small parks, Caruso comes to mind up by UTEP, where a full centralized computer control installation would not return on the investment. However, because the technology is evolving, we could install components of a full system to take advantage, for example, of flow sensing. We'd be able to tell when water was running when it shouldn't be.
 We'd be able to use calculations for how much moisture is evaporated from the system to be able to replenish that, and we could take that into the programming side. So that there are some parks that we don't intend to put a full system in. We will pick and choose those components that add better control and more efficient use of water.
 This comment is not towards you either. I think a few years ago this council asked to see a big picture on what a centralized irrigation for our entire park system would be. We've yet to see that. This presentation only talks about a small component of that. I think it's 2023. We are clearly woefully behind on our advancement of technology across the city, but in our parks, I think you mentioned Memorial Park itself.
 um being a system that makes no logical sense and so you know i have yet to see that as a council member and what that entire system renovation or system centralization would be i know it's very costly but i do think that that should be the council's conversation during strategic plan i appreciate that you all put a budget together that was realistic for you but again i think that council should be able to have a conversation about what is the big picture and that is something that we did ask for
 I think about two or three years ago. And again, I know that that was not directed towards any of the people standing up here today giving this presentation, Mr. Fife or Colonel Weston either, but as we move into strategic planning, I do think that we...
 We need to have a conversation that's bigger than what we're having. We have a lot of problems. We're not going to be able to fund them all. There's going to be hard conversations about funding, but it's hard to make decisions when we don't have the entire picture in front of us. Hearing that we have squirrels eating the irrigation system at Memorial, but we're just going to keep it because it's too expensive to fix it is understandable, but let us have a conversation about the plan moving forward.
 I do again absolutely want to thank you for the presentation. None of my comments are directed at you at all. This was really informative and helpful and I thank you very much. Mayor Pro Temp, I agree with you. I mean I think that the only way we can have a conversation, we can't just look at a one or two year look in terms of the budget and if we're gonna be looking at this from a vision standpoint over the next 10 years, we have to frame it on what are some of the long term needs. One of the things you're gonna see not only in this presentation but
 when you get to facilities as well, is one of the responsibilities and challenges I have is I gotta add more predictability to funding that's gonna go into these departments so that year over year they can plan better. You know, one of the things that we will always be faced with is we'll always have more need than we'll have resources. And so the only way you can offset that is you've gotta add some predictability year over year in terms of incremental funding that allows the departments to be able to,
 triage you know making repairs maintaining better and I think if we do that and we're able to do that in our budget recommendations to you all we're going to be in a lot better position over the long run because then we won't be kicking the can down the road when we have something that's you know was depicted in some of the pictures that were shown with courts
 with six inch gaps and we can do a better job of maintaining and then add more years to the life of the product. And so that's the intent of how we're kind of looking at this and how we'll come into the strategic plan. I would also say Mayor Pro Tem that we would ask the council to remember
 that when we do get to these planning sessions, and there will be a lot of community meetings, we will be embedded in each of your districts for these meetings, that you really help support the conversation with your constituents about the, you know,
 Frankly the unsexy projects like irrigation revamping and not necessarily new pools and new new playgrounds things like that Those are important, too But we really do have a need to be able to educate the community as well that these are expensive But they're critical to the future of the system. Thank you. Thank you none this followed by representative Molineux, I
 Thank you for the presentation EG super impressed. So you really exemplify what's great about our workforce So thank you for bringing smiles to our families In our parks and you did a wonderful job. I'm trying to understand You've identified immediate need and so those are things that we can work on now but in my understanding, there's no budget for the immediate means for the 25 or the the D playgrounds and those things and
 Not at this point. We have the $1.4 million that we laid out. We have a commitment from Mr. Rufino's to be able to continue that. Based off the triage that...
 City Manager Weston mentioned, we'll make some decisions on what needs to come to that list and maybe alter those assessments to put the work in the right order. So we have that flexibility. We're looking for additional funding long term, but for the short term, our commitment is to do the best we can with what we have.
 And we also, again, it's important to remember what we showed you. We have a system that's grown significantly by 25% over the last 10 years, and the budget for the last seven years has been relatively stable, while costs continue to go up through inflation, through utilities, so that money's going less and less far each time. You mentioned the financial impact on efficient irrigation systems. What is this tiered...
 a proposal that could impact the city's parks from El Paso Water? Do you understand? We have certification that El Paso Water Utilities is looking for commercial users or municipal users to pay on a system similar to what household users do now. If you'll notice on your own household bill, certain consumption is charged at one level. If you exceed that volume of consumption, a different pricing tier comes in.
 Okay. We think that that's something that's in the work. We've had indication we don't have anything concrete yet, but we're looking to that as
 But we understand now that there has been year-over-year increases to our rates. Typically 5%, yes. Okay, about 5%. And would it be a fair statement to say that if we don't invest in our irrigation systems, we will be spending more of taxpayer dollars to keep our parks green? Yes. Okay. And I can tell you to the point about the centralized computer control, we've just received an offer of a $74,000 grant from EP Water to help us do some more installations for IQ4.
 The preliminary there we shared with them is promising enough that they want to invest and partner with us to be able to do that. So in the end, I think, in response to increased cost over time, the only thing we can do is to use better technology and a better trained workforce to be able to take advantage of it. That's the ultimate goal. That's good news to hear.
 Those conservation grants are really important as well. Not sure what the application process looks like, but would encourage you all to collaborate more with the utility. There is a slide indicating over $23 million for funding needs for big three priorities, and this is just...
 what the immediate need is over the span of eight years. What have we identified so far for existing infrastructure only, that's correct. Okay, all right. And so I really appreciate that you all have gone to the public and asked, what are your priorities? We hear year over year that investing in our parks, investing in our libraries, and of course, the game parks or the field parks is what I hear complaints about all the time.
 And I thought I'd share this with you, Mr. Five. One of our favorite parks advocates who just recently moved, Mr. and Mrs. Filiberti, did not, they literally just moved and before they moved they had to advocate for a park. It's not in my district, it's in Representative Salcido. But the irrigation system in a brand new park is out at the, I guess in the sports complex.
 And so I'm trying to understand why, you know, how that happens if we install brand new irrigation systems, how they deteriorate so quickly, where to the point where I hear like some of the fields are getting brown and you know, those are our game fields. So if we make those investments, we have to have a long term maintenance plan. But we don't, you know, we set you up for failure because we hardly ever put any money to the quality of life portfolio.
 which is why I'm gonna continue in harping on this idea that the public says they wanna improve their parks. We know year over year our costs are gonna increase if we don't invest in our parks. We have 116 playgrounds with no shade,
 So and we require metal canopies now. Our parks are really the lifeline of communities. They help with health, they help with socioeconomic disparities. They really are a place that regardless of your income, you can always have a community park but,
 This council has a responsibility to invest in those parks and if we can't make those hard decisions to do it, then ask the voters, which is why I'm going to say again we need a 2024 quality of life bond. Because we have critical major needs today, we need to give you the support as a parks department so that we can fix immediate needs, which by the way, end in claims if we don't fix our parks in our slides.
 because we end up getting sued at the end of the day for not maintaining it. So it's this vicious cycle that I just can't comprehend and it's our duty to give you those funds so that we can improve our parks. So I'm really excited with the idea of having a long-term master plan, but we already know what the immediate need is here and these decisions that we make today are gonna have long-lasting consequences for the next 20, 40 years.
 Thank you for this very in-depth presentation, and I hope that this council can help get you that funding that you need Thank you mayor Certainly catch your name at the very beginning, but understand this is the first time here, but you did very well He spoke very well very well very articulate in your presentation how you explain different things and we as City Council always get to learn new things and
 Certainly did not know anything about the squirrels at Memorial Park their activity, but you learned something new. Okay, so and you're The correct term for your central irrigation command center does that doesn't cover all parks. Is that correct? I
 Right, it doesn't. Currently, we have 40 to be done this fiscal year. We're at 38. We have 44 left to go on our list of the initial installation for the large acreage parts. Then we'll do the assessment for the smaller locations, not to put a full system in again, but rather to put those components that will help us operate better. Okay. I know one of the questions that we always get in our office is when it's raining, all of a sudden the sprinklers come on.
 It just happens to be a miracle that they're both on simultaneously. Is there any technology in your system that addresses weather changes or weather patterns that anticipates precipitation and possibility of rain? And I know rain has a different...
 Rainfalls and throughout the city as different and we have the rain gauges and they'll pass to International Airport But still is there anything that we could do about that? It
 That's readily available and we're installing it as we go into the parks with control. The other is smart use of how much water transpires and how much water you need to add. That's built into the programming controls that figures out how much water we need to apply based off of heat, wind velocity, and other factors. So both short term and long term that's available and people should see the end of that unless,
 If that 9-volt battery fails and it's on and it's raining, there's no way to sense what's going on currently. So it depends on the park. But ideally, there's technology in place to remove that from the system. So regardless, we still have limitations? For the time being, yes. Okay. And I would like to say, no, just recently we submitted a –
 Memo to a city manager reference a certain park in Northeast skyline optimus youth park at 5050 event Like to extend the thank you to Colonel Weston. Mr. Pablo Caballero for jumping on it. Thank you very much we have received a response or communicating that response to the People on the board there at skyline optimus parks. That's a great thing. Also in one of your presentations one of the slides I can't remember which one you talked about Arlington Park and
 We have a lot of calls on Arlington Park, when it's gonna be upgraded. The playgrounds are very sad.
 they need to extremely to be replaced we have done City Council budget requests on that all the time and I like to just see forward something new there something good something positive you know the people in Northeast of Pounceau district or they deserve that as well so we thank you removed years ago and replaced with those swings right that's a huge enclosure empty of play value
 Yes, but they need more than just swing
 That denses up the use of that Yeah, and I know in our community meetings that it's a topic specifically Arlington Park comes up a lot And so I did invite our constituents to come I don't see anyone here and I know don't believe anyone signed up to speak from district 4 on this item But still we thank you very much continue your good work. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir Mr. Fein, thank you
 Yes, Council, our next presentation is a facilities update, and I'd like to remind Council to please refrain from side conversations while the meeting is in process. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Victor Morales. I'm with Streets and Maintenance Facility Division, and we're going to go over the facility needs for the city. How do I get this up on the... IT, if you'll bring up the presentation, please. It's a facilities update for item 11. 11.2. 11.2.
 Thank you. So we decided to do this a little bit differently, kind of a bottom line up front approach. Key takeaways, the facilities inventory for the city is huge and it's been growing for the last several years. It's also one of the largest assets or group of assets that we have in the city. So it's worth a lot of money. Funding and staffing for an improved facilities maintenance program is critical to protect the value of our facilities needs, our facilities assets.
 Additional funding has been made available to complete major deferred repairs, and we're seeing benefits or results from that, but it's not quite where it needs to be. Moving forward, the facilities funding and staffing has to reflect the actual facility inventory and needs, which unfortunately we haven't been able to do for quite some time.
 So how big is our facilities inventory? Not only is it diverse and continuously growing and spread out through the entire city, we've got about 250 buildings and structures. No two facilities are identical, so every single one of them is a little bit different than the next one, and some of them are very different from each other. It's spread out across 260 square miles of the city. And.
 As recently as September of this year, we added the Community Readiness Center, formerly known as Moorhead, which was another 117,000 square feet of facilities. Right now that brings us up to about 3.5 million square feet of buildings and structures, and we have another 500,000 square feet of facilities that are in the pipeline to be completed in the next several years. The inventory includes just about everything from police stations, fire stations,
 museums, libraries, rec centers, everything, just about. We have four general service corrals that cover portions of the city, and we have some specialized teams that provide services across the city. So our facilities cover a huge range of ages. We have some that have just come online within the last few years, and we have some that are over 100 years old.
 Unfortunately, as facilities age, you need to factor in investing money in replacing systems and making repairs, changes, etc. to just keep them current and modern. And we haven't really been doing that.
 As soon as a facility reaches about 17 years old, you can expect to see the need to replace certain systems and perform significant amounts of maintenance. And that just increases up until they hit about year 50, at which point if things are going well, you'll have replaced just about everything in that facility. So it'll be just about new. Very few of our facilities are like that right now. So why is maintenance important?
 you know like i said it preserves the value of the asset and more importantly it lets us plan ahead for future years if we properly budget the facilities maintenance program we have direct maintenance costs like labor parts etc that we can plan for we can come to you at every fiscal year say this is what this is where we're at this is what we need to maintain the facilities and that will basically cover cover the work that's needed
 When we don't do that, you have the problems that many of you have seen throughout the city where something fails, a facility can't be opened, a facility has to close. We suddenly come in and say, you know, we need hundreds of thousands of dollars to replace an HVAC system. You get a lot of unpleasant surprises, and that's what we really want to get away from because those are expensive surprises. So what does the facilities team do? Basically, at the end of the day, we're the caretakers of the buildings. Another way to look at it is we're property managers.
 We focus, our two biggest focuses are safety and functionality. I will shut down a building if it's a question of safety, without a doubt. Like, we'll tell you about it, but if it's a safety issue, it will get shut down because that's critical for our operations.
 We're responsible for the operations and maintenance, O&M, of all of our assigned inventory. User departments are responsible for programming the use of the facilities. So they'll determine when something is open, how it's being used, what programs they run. We're the ones who make sure that the air conditioner is on, the heater is on, the lights are on. That's our job. We're responsible for all the needs from changing light bulbs, which we do thousands of, to
 to managing contractors and completing major repairs. Some of you may be aware that we just replaced the boiler at City One. Hopefully that didn't really disturb too many people, but that's the sort of work that we end up doing and that's significant, those are significant projects. For fiscal year 22 and fiscal year 23, we received an additional one in $6 million for major deferred repairs. That's been a huge boon for us, but
 Like I said earlier, it's not quite where it needs to be. Basically, and as Mr. Fife and EG mentioned earlier, funding and staffing has been lagging for several years, but in our case, we serve all the user departments, all the departments in the city, so we're seeing that for everything. All the facilities are suffering because of that.
 There is a nationwide shortage of skilled trades professionals, which is on top of the staffing problems that's adding to it because there's just less people available. But there are still quite a few people available. We have added funding and FTEs for quality of life projects as they come online. But that was really only budgeted to a certain extent for new facilities. And until recently, until I came on board and we were able to really focus on it, we weren't able to do a complete analysis of our facilities.
 facilities maintenance program needs so that's that's why it hasn't quite been that adequate staffing shortages are resulting in frequent mandatory overtimes a lot of our staff has been working 60 hours a week regularly and that's just not sustainable six days a week they're putting on 10-hour days it's impacting their performance or morale and retention people will just
 really talented, skilled people will just leave. So adequate funding is critical so that we can sustain and modernize the existing and projected inventory of city facilities. Where do we need to be? So currently, including the major deferred repairs budget, we're at about $1.31 per square foot. We estimate that we need to be at about six and a quarter dollars per square foot, which when we get to four million square feet, that's gonna be about $25 million per year.
 We have a plan in place that we could get there in five to ten years as funding is available. And that estimate of six and a quarter is based on the service area, 260 square miles. Like Eiji mentioned, window time, having to drive back and forth, that affects our utilization of our staff. And the number of facilities and facility needs. Like I mentioned, we just added a 117,000 square foot set of facilities.
 That is completely new. That wasn't really budgeted or planned for. We're just absorbing it right now. So the cost per square foot will be refined in the future. So this $6.25 dollar number isn't set in stone. It's more of a ballpark. It's an idea of where we're going to end up. Different facilities obviously cost different amounts to maintain.
 An office or admin building costs less than a museum. Rec centers and senior centers are critical, and they see a lot of heavy use, so they can cost more than you might expect. But we intend to be able to break that out for you so that eventually you can see exactly where the dollars are going and how much it's costing us to maintain the different types of facilities we have so we can have a very accurate number in the future. Staffing.
 Right now, we're down to 35 tradespeople that are out in the field every day. COVID decimated our numbers. You can just imagine when people are talking about social distancing, we lost a lot of really good people who just decided it was time to retire or move on. And we haven't been able to really recover from that.
 That means that each of our people is responsible for about 100,000 square feet of building. That is roughly equal to 60 average sized homes. So each of our people needs to take care of 60 houses every day. That's a lot. We estimate that we need about 140 tradespeople and admin staff. That would bring us down to about 30,000 square feet, which is about 20 average sized homes. That's reasonable.
 We'll have to see if that's exactly where we need to be, but again, this is just to give you an idea of where we need to go. By the time we get there, we'll be able to tell you we need exactly 143 or whatever, but it's going to be quite a few more people. So...
 actually one of the things i did want to talk touch on though is that you know even though we have these needs we have been taking steps to address them we've recently entered into a partnership with the david el carasco job corps center to open up trainee positions for their students right now we're doing a pilot program that's going to cover four different uh skilled trades positions uh two in fleet and ten facilities
 Those positions are going to be under filling existing vacancies with trainees. Once those trainees get through the program, we'll be able to offer them full-time positions and we'll know that they've got the training from the Job Corps Center, they'll have the training that we gave them, and we're going to be able to offer them meaningful employment that can lead to a career with the city. Because that's what we want. We want people to stay here 30, 35 years and spend their entire time here lending us their expertise and their skills.
 So, and we have the plan to do this with the school districts, with EPCC and other organizations. This is just the pilot program. It's our first step to work out how we're going to work with trainees. Beyond that, we have goals to...
 If we can get the budget to where it needs to be and the staffing where it needs to be, the plan would be that we'd be able to continuously monitor our facilities. We'd be able to identify facilities issues and perform repairs before they impact our customers. Imagine being able to have facility staff going through the buildings every day.
 walking through seeing what's up hey there's a light out the ceiling tile is stained we need a paint touch-up and be able to take care of all that before someone's complaining to you that's where facilities programs can be and where we used to be and we need to get back there because that's that's the sort of service that I think we expect for the community and we want to provide for our users this also allows us to program for major repairs so that we minimize reactive emergency maintenance which is
 I want to apologize for Petarurk. That's exactly the sort of situation we want to avoid where we find a problem right before a grand opening and we have to deal with it. That's the sort of thing that we shouldn't be going through, but with only 35 people we're pretty much reliant on someone seeing a problem. And that's not where we need to be.
 This also allows to perform all the necessary maintenance that will prolong system lives. So if a system should last 20 years, if we don't do the correct maintenance, it might only last us 10 or 15. And then you're spending thousands, hundreds of thousands of dollars to replace something that shouldn't have broken yet.
 you know predictive preventative all these things there's ways for us to account for that and work ahead get ahead of the get ahead of the problem before something breaks we can address it and that that's where we want to get and my favorite part of this is that we'll be able to assign staff to the high priority facilities like city one police headquarters the beast facilities that we really really want to make sure are always in in
 the best possible shape. We'll be able to have staff there every day, walking the building, making sure that everything is working right. Like I said, continuously monitoring, but these folks will be, that's where they're gonna have their office, that's where they're gonna work from. And ideally you'll see a lot less complaints about our high profile facilities that way. So while we work on the budget and the staffing, we've been working on our facilities as assessment just to determine where the facilities are right now.
 We're identifying the most critical facility issues, prioritizing our maintenance needs, planning ahead.
 trying to minimize sudden breakdowns to the best of our abilities, and we're also looking at opportunities to improve energy efficiency and sustainability. Things like replacing windows and doors, things of that sort are important to us. And we've been doing it for the last 20 years, incrementally. Some of you may occasionally get frustrated when the lights in your office turn off, but that's the sustainability and energy efficiency effort.
 the assessment is 75 complete and right now we've identified about 65 million dollars of deferred major deferred maintenance that needs to be undertaken so the basically assessment process is
 some of our limited staff walking every square foot of every building, every roof, every mechanical room. They're looking at everything and they're identifying the problems and I do mean everything from flooring, fixtures, to paint, major systems, fire extinguishers, fire systems, elevators, all that's being looked at and that's a pretty significant endeavor. And then the the repairs are being divided based on the urgency.
 So what do you mean by urgent? That's kind of a vague word. So the urgency is a function of, what do we use the facility for? Is it public safety? Is it used by the public? Those definitely need to be handled first, without question. What'll happen if something fails?
 If we need a paint touch up, that's nowhere near as critical as the HVAC in July. Obviously, HVAC wins out every time. If it fails, could this damage other parts of the facility or the contents? Museum of Art is one example where if the HVAC goes out, that can affect the artwork, and that's bad, obviously.
 And is it going to affect health and safety? We've had issues with sewer lines breaking where we just had to shut the building down until it's repaired.
 More generally, is the problem functional or aesthetic? And is there an opportunity for us to improve energy efficiency and sustainability? You see that a lot with HVAC systems. We replace something that's 40 years old and you instantly get a boost to sustainability and energy efficiency because the newer system is more energy efficient and it works better.
 And are there any special considerations? Winterfest is a good example where that has to go on, the tree lighting has to happen, and we make sure that that's the case. So we really try to focus on grand openings and things of that sort. Unfortunately not always successful, but that's the goal is to really try to pay attention to what you need the facilities for so that they're available. In the past, we've come up with a list of needs that are, it's basically a list of several hundred items that need to be repaired.
 And the sense I got from talking to different people was that that wasn't really helpful. Your eyes just kind of glaze over and it's just a huge list of issues. What we're working on, what we're developing, and I think we're going to have a lot of success with, is that we're starting to grade the facilities as a whole on an A through F scale so that an A facility is like new, everything's working great, we haven't found any problems. It's something that you shouldn't really have any concerns with.
 F, similar to what Parks and Land Management is doing, F means that we've got some major problems that need to be addressed. That doesn't mean that any of our facilities are in horrible shape, that just means that they have systems that need to be upgraded and repaired. By and large, our facilities are, structurally they're in pretty good shape, they're not as bad as you might think, but they do need a lot of work. They need a lot of paint, they need a lot of touch-ups to make them look like we expect them to look.
 um but that'll give give us a holistic uh evaluation that then we can share with everyone on council and leadership so you can get an idea of you know what what's in your district what are you working on what what how do we rate grade the facilities that you're concerned with or you know areas that you're having problems with we can really start looking at that and it gives us something to talk from
 Our first steps are with the allocation from this year is that we're starting to address the most urgent major deferred repairs and Filling in with a few other projects as possible. We're doing this with a combination of contractors and in-house staff here Just a few examples. It's it's just Some of the major issues that we're addressing and that we're working on and that's about two million dollars of work out of the six million dollars and
 We have some priority initiatives. Like I said, we're going to be recruiting tradespeople aggressively, and we really want to emphasize the benefits of the City of El Paso employment. Particularly in skilled trades, that can be a really, really big incentive because a lot of folks who work in skilled trades aren't used to having insurance or pensions or things that paid time off is unheard of.
 So we do have some advantages for being able to get people in. We just need to make some adjustments to our specs and our salaries, but we're working with HR to do that, and we're seeing some good results there. We're going to establish a fifth corral for much the same reason that parks land management is. The city's just grown so much that we need to spread our staff out a little bit more, but first we need to get more staff.
 And we're also establishing some facilities teams to provide services like minor construction, moving doors, opening windows, changing office sizes, really small stuff like that that can be really critical to operations or to programming. Moving, we've had a lot of situations where we need to move an entire department, people, whatever, from office to office or building to building, whatever the case might be.
 and also used furniture because furniture is actually a surprisingly large cost for the city and we tend to have a lot of really good used furniture that can be made available. In the past we've been able to outfit an office within a day when we find out that someone needs to move into a new space. It can take weeks if not longer to get an office set up when you have to buy furniture plus the cost. We're also establishing a space allocation process and standards
 That, I think we're going to see some really significant return on investment for because we probably have about 15% of the space in our facilities that's not being utilized as well as it could be. So we're looking at how much space is reasonable for the different types of jobs that are out
 For instance, we talked to legal. They told us about what they need. You know, they need to be able to meet with someone confidentially, so they need offices. They need to be about this size, et cetera. And we're looking to do that with the different departments so we can understand and develop guidelines for office sizes and workspaces that we can then use as we're allocating space in the future. We're also looking at how working from home can affect the need for space, maybe shared workspaces,
 They call them hotels, where you have offices and cubicles that are open for just anybody who needs them to come in on a certain day to work there. Things of that sort. And that would let us realize some significant benefits. It would give us a better use of our space without having to buy any new property or anything else.
 and we're developing building standards for our facilities, trying to standardize some things. That's one of the problems that we have right now with, say, HVACs. We have way more different types of HVACs than we should, and it's difficult for people to know how to maintain all of them. And in fact, we've actually had situations where we have to bring someone in from another country to service an HVAC system that nobody in the U.S. could service. We'd like to minimize that.
 and we're also developing SOPs so that there is a way to handle all of these things, like how are we going to allocate space, how do we handle the different things that come up in the most efficient way possible. So critical funding that we need is, we need it so we can address the staffing needs. We are going to need to relocate to our corrals due to some issues with the properties they're in. We're going to complete major deferred repairs using the $6 million that was allocated.
 In the mid-term, we're going to be recruiting tradespeople, we're going to be establishing a fifth corral, addressing gaps in facility services. And an important thing to keep in mind there is that although that might cost us more on the facility side, that's going to save us a lot of money with contractors and with unexpected expenses. And we're going to develop the standards and SOPs.
 And in the long term, we're going to grow the facilities program to adequately maintain the facilities inventory. That's our goal, is to have the number of people we need for the number of buildings and the square footage we have. And that's key, because if we don't do that, we'll never be able to get ahead of this problem. We'll always be having emergencies come up and derail our plans for how the buildings are going to be used.
 the staffing and budget need to be adjusted when facilities are added so when we do something like we buy a moorhead we need to make sure that we account for how that's going to be budgeted in not just for that year but for future years and we're going to need to make sure that we hire the people so we can maintain those buildings and well and that's basically the last point is that we need we need to make sure our funding and our staffing matches what our facility needs are let me just say that one of the main reasons you know we you're hearing in both of these presentations
 a lot of need and you heard me talk earlier about establishing some predictability and one of the reasons We made the recommendation that you ultimately accepted during the budget process to pay off transportation reinvestment zone number two so that we could have a predictable stream of revenue that we hadn't had before and
 come back in. So granted we had to put up a lot of money with the excess at the end of the budget last year, but what that's gonna do for us is gonna help considerably, even though it's not gonna address all the needs that we have with facilities, it's not gonna address all the needs we have with parks, but what it is gonna do, it's gonna create a predictable stream every single year so that we can plan a lot more effectively and address a lot of these needs year over year. Thank you, Senator Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, thank you for the presentation.
 i heard you talk a lot about maintenance um and plans for moving forward with that but i didn't hear you talk at all about our facilities that are currently closed because of um dangerous conditions and lack of maintenance in the past so what is the plan for and actually do you know all of the facilities that are closed at the moment off the top of my head no but i know quite a few of them uh the plan there and i guess i should probably discuss that a little bit more but
 We provide a service to the user departments. So, Pat O'Rourke again, when we were aware that it was gonna be,
 going through a grand opening we were working to make sure everything was in shape that everything was working correctly we found a problem but we were mobilizing our people to address the specific need from parks to have the grand opening some of the facilities that are closed right now haven't been there is no set plan for what's going to happen to them yet we don't have a timeline
 We anticipate that they will be reopening, but until we have an idea of what the schedule is, we don't really have the staffing to go in and work on projects there until we know that something's going to happen, that this is the plan for how it's going to be reopened. And then we work with the user department to address all the needs. We can bring a facility back online relatively efficiently, but we need some time to do that. Well, I guess I'm talking about facilities that are close to Grandview Pool.
 Liz Meyer, I'm a rec center. The entire infrastructure is unstable because the foundation has shifted. I've never heard a plan for those. It's been closed for five years. I mean, we're talking about high priority, but we're not talking about the facilities that we've completely ignored. And I don't know, Mr. Weston, if you're aware that when the 2012 bond was done, the new rec centers were created to replace any of the existing ones.
 that your understanding that is my understanding based on what was done previously it's not my understanding that new rec centers it was not my understanding it was not the understanding of the voters or the council member of my district at the time that new rec centers were being built to replace old ones but we do have pools and rec centers that are closed and we have not in four or five years had a plan on how we are going to reopen them and so I think
 what you're talking about is extremely important. I don't wanna downplay that at all. I think you have a really great plan in front of you, but I am disappointed that again, we have completely ignored a conversation that is important. We had a presentation last week from PD,
 about parties, about teens and crime increase, but no one has ever stopped to correlate the actual connection between increase in violent teenagers and the lack of resources from the city. But those are conversations we need to start having, because again, it's been six years and I've not heard a single plan.
 Not for you, but as we move into strategic planning, I've been very clear about this, Julie. I know that you were waiting for this conversation. We're going to be extremely disappointed if we're not having the conversation during strategic planning. This council really does need to come up with a plan. It is, and I'm just going to say that it's embarrassing that we as a city cannot maintain our technology when it comes to parks, that we have facilities that are completely closed in low-income areas because we have not invested in them
 It's shameful, honestly, and we need to have a strategic plan moving forward to address these needs. So thank you so much for the presentation. Also, one more question, I'm sorry. When you talk about, you had mentioned you're working with HR to work on staffing specs. Can you share, if this is appropriate, what you're kind of seeing? Other than overworking, are people making comments about salary? Are they making comments about benefits? What are you hearing when people are not accepting or leaving a position?
 Unfortunately, I'm not involved in the actual extending of job offers. HR would be the ones that can tell you why people are rejecting it. What we're looking at is, for instance, the maintenance mechanics spec. That's what we use for HVAC technicians. It's outdated. We're working on creating a new HVAC tech spec so that we can attract and hire people who are familiar with the computer systems, the electronics that really go into the new HVAC systems.
 Believe it or not, we didn't have a painter spec until earlier this year because that had been taken out of service for quite some time. And that affected our ability to hire painters, obviously. So those are the sorts of things that we're looking at.
 We've identified something like say carpenters, roofers, well roofers have existed, but carpenters and other skilled trades that we no longer have the ability to hire. So we're creating some specs like that so that we can hire those people to have them do work for us as we need it. Because right now the only option we have for a lot of this work is to hire, go to a contractor, go through purchasing, go through that entire process and that takes time and is expensive.
 but if we have staff on hand like I mentioned with powder work if we had the plumbers and the apprentices on hand we could mobilize them to go fix that sewer line right right then and there we could drop what we're doing and go fix that because it's a high priority but right now we have one plumber for the entire city actually we have two but I don't really count thank you thank you very much mr. Pryor yes mayor we continue with a strategic planning session preview
 Mayor and council Juliana Baldo-Munoz for the record. So if we can have eleven point three called up by team. So that's coming up. Just to expand a little bit on what Victor said in terms of some feedback we heard with students at Job Corps the pilot that he referenced one of the things that we heard directly from them is that six month time frame.
 to be a training a position can be an extensive amount of time to help retain. And so in the pilot we're actually looking at reducing that to three months. And so that's one of the things that we heard and I just wanted to kind of tie that in. So let me jump into our strategic planning session preview.
 So first of all as we've been talking about from a strategic planning focus we understand it's important because it's reflective We're looking at what we've put in place, but also where are we headed? And so you've heard a lot of that today right from both you meet the oh as well as from Victor what's been put in place? but then where do we need to be because that'll ensure that we put in place a
 the services and the improvements and the priorities that need to align with that, but also that we're disciplined in terms of the resource planning. So that's why we want to connect those discussions, and today was an example of how we're tying that in. So what I'm about to cover in the next few slides, and I'm going to glide right through it, is a preview on our upcoming strategic planning session. The reason why we've been bringing a lot of this key information is to ensure that that's front and center, but that we also expand on key things that you expect.
 during those conversations. I'm gonna provide a quick recap of what's shaping, what we're seeing, what we're hearing is really a lot of different feedback mechanisms. And so it's synthesizing that so that you see what are the items that are cross-cutting. I'm gonna highlight quickly some next steps. And then I'm gonna turn it over to Alex briefly to also talk about the comprehensive plan and how we're tying that in for our long-term focus approach.
 So for this round of our strategic planning session, we're really thinking about planning as mountaineering. And so as we all kind of climb through this process, what's been very clear in the conversations that you just heard from the previous two presenters, but also on November 20th when you heard from Rich Bristol as an example on street maintenance,
 is that we need to start with the base camp. Before we start ascending, what are those core things? We heard earlier today over the next one to three years, the investments that are right in front of us, the initiatives that need to be put in place before we start ascending. And so we're gonna start with that focus, ensuring that the right people are at the table, whether it's our internal partners, whether it's our external partners to assemble that rope team that's gonna help us ascend, so that then we shift into, okay, what are our short-term priorities?
 how do we move from consensus to actual commitment and what you want to see over the next year to start right even through our fiscal planning and then how do we tie it back to the key themes that we've been talking about so whether it's our service delivery and what our residents expect from us or whether it's that incremental financial sustainability tying that all together so that then we talk about reaching the summit so often with this analogy it's you know
 the focus becomes a summit, but what we're saying is, let's really ensure that that base camp is a steady environment in order for us to achieve the longer term objectives.
 So this is just getting into the agenda at a glance because it's important to kind of set that scene for what we're about to embark upon together as a team. So as I mentioned, the first focus of that first day is going to be setting up that base camp, ensuring that we look at all of the strategic context, ensuring that we really look at the who the individuals, the stakeholders, the residents, the different organizations that are a part of that, and that we bring back that voice of our community.
 all of those different insights in a way that's synthesized and that we're moving from just data points, because we can talk about the thousands of data points, but how do we shift those data points into insights that help inform that process? As we shift into day one in the afternoon, then we really begin to talk about what are those priorities, how do we begin to really assemble what specifically
 the council would like to see from a vision and implementation perspective in the short term, and then revisiting those 30 by 30 key strategic objectives from the previous strategic planning. Are there items within the 30 by 30 that should have higher priority as we shift into that shorter term?
 And so again having those conversations to navigate from consensus to commitment. So by the end of day one we're looking at what is all of you above looking like. Are there specific information that we didn't cover that we missed that you want us to expand on. So from a process improvement ICM Weston wanted to ensure we're not doing back to back days but ensuring that if there are specific items that we didn't cover that you want to see as part of this process.
 that we bring that back the following week and that we have the opportunity to really gather that information and compile it and bring it back for your consideration as we move through this process.
 So before I shift into day two, let's just quickly revisit what are those key feedback methods. This isn't an exhaustive list, but this just kind of gives you a pulse of all the different feedback that we're looking at so that we can really look at those crosscutting themes and those insights I mentioned earlier. So whether it's department workshops, whether it's pulse surveys with our workforce, whether it's discussing with our partners in a roundtable type format, whether it's looking at the community needs assessments that have been completed, the list goes on and on, but what
 What we want to convey is that it's ensuring that it's not just a singular source, but that we're really being comprehensive in how we're looking at the feedback that we receive from our residents and all of our participants through this process. So from there, so again, this just provides you a quick.
 Preview of day one in the PM. This is a snapshot So I'm not going to get into the deeper dive today because I'll be back January 16th to kind of show additional information that we've received but if we were to look at for example our 30 by 30 and we pose a question to our departments of the 30 by 30 which what are your top three that you feel should receive the most emphasis over the next one to three years
 These are the top three that surfaced. So whether we're looking at workforce development, focusing on targeted training, partnerships and what that might mean and the specific needs tied to that. Growing existing and attracting new targeted industries came up second.
 And then third, a tie identifying new revenue, because clearly that's important in terms of our financial sustainability and fiscal stewardship. And then ensuring that we complete quality of life projects. So this is across operations, across departments. What emerged as top 300 30 by 30.
 We already discussed time and so did this I'm not going to recap this but there was it's not a coincidence that we brought You meet the old to you all today to kind of cover this and give right the substance behind this priority area in terms of our park system resident serving
 another insight and another opportunity to really gauge resident feedback throughout our community, throughout our geographic segments, our districts. And so something important to note here, so out of the three, three out of five of the key questions, and so these are pretty standard questions that are asked by cities to their residents to gauge El Paso as a whole.
 So three out of five, El Paso is a place to live, El Paso is a place to raise children, and El Paso is a place to retire outperforms Texas and national comparative data points. So certainly a lot to be proud of there, but it also signals to two areas that provide opportunities for us. El Paso is a place to visit, and El Paso is a place to work. So that'll help inform
 some of the strategies in the conversation that we're going to be bringing forward. Another quick spotlight. So these are the key categories of services that surfaced with some benchmarking there where, again, El Paso outperforms the Texas and national average. And so, again, ICM Weston has talked about how
 Through this process and our direction from an operations perspective is to really begin to kind of take a different look at customer service and experience. And so while we do outperform in general customer service, the state and national average, it's still not where we want to be and need to be from an exceptional service delivery. So it still signals to opportunity areas there that we're going to dig into in terms of specific things that we can do and put in place.
 And then so conversely, areas of improvement. So we just heard a lot of information in terms of infrastructure, right? And so here again, we hear from our residents. By and large, number one, the maintenance of infrastructure came up as the top priority and area of improvement. And so with that,
 As a summary, the top categories of city services based on importance, so their level of importance in terms of where they fill, we should emphasize strategically, plus satisfaction. The combination of the two resulted in these top three categories as we look at the resident survey as one input.
 And so I wanted to ensure that we recap that. Maintenance of infrastructure, business development and retention efforts, and public health services. So we'll get into that deeper dive or deeper climb through the strategic planning session, but wanted to provide you a quick preview of that. And so that's day one.
 Day one is to look at all of that information, all of the direct feedback that you all have given us through your feedback forms and synthesizing all of that so that when we come back day two, February 1st, we then again recap any specific items we may have requested and then and only then begin to shift into longer term priorities.
 So we heard today what is in front of us? What are those things that we need to address in the near term and then shift with intention to that longer-term planning horizon? And we can't do that without a light aligning with our comprehensive plan So the timing is perfect because as that work launches we want to ensure that it reflects that longer-term focus as well
 So we're going to be finalizing where we request feedback from all of you and ensuring that we incorporate that and what we package it bring forward. We'll have another preview during the January work session before our strategic planning session and then we'll continue to collect all of those items listed there.
 And so with that, that kind of includes high level snapshot of what we're seeing, how the agendas are taking shape, the additional information that we're going to bring forward to you. And so with that, I'll turn it over to Alex and Naum, which are going to cover a bit about our comp plan, just to give you a quick preview. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Alex Hutman for the record. So just to round out the rest of this presentation, we just have a few more slides.
 Like Julie said, we're really excited about the opportunity to launch a comprehensive plan at the same time as our strategic plan. We think about the comprehensive plan as being the framework to help get us where our strategic plan provides the vision. So this is the framework to help us get there. We heard a lot today about what the needs are from each of our different departments, from a facilities perspective as well as parks.
 And so there were a lot of really good questions about how do we prioritize? What's our long-term plan and the comprehensive plan is the vehicle to get us there and so to go through these final slides I'm gonna hand it off to our comprehensive plan manager whom a lot of you have met already And they were more up a daca just to give them an opportunity to highlight what a comprehensive plan is and then what our next steps Are good morning, Mr. Mayor representatives city staff
 I'm going to go ahead and give you all a basic overview. I know we've met over the last couple of weeks and given you all a brief rundown of what a comprehensive plan does and why it's important and why it is important currently. I know Julie gave you guys a very brief overview of how we're going to be applying this. And using the analogy of the mountaineering, we want to get to the top. Well, the comprehensive plan is going to be the map to get there. It's going to take input from city, state,
 staff is going to take input from city residents and some some analysis from our from our cons excuse me from our consultants to draft a Community priorities list that we can use to move forward in some of our comprehensive planning projects and and suggestions
 Overarching things that we're gonna be taking a serious look at here is to develop an equity framework. We understand that certain things in certain parts of the city have been overlooked in the past and we wanna address those. Addressing housing affordability, as you all know, that is a big concern here in the city. Travel mode choice, we wanna make sure that people have more options to get from A to B. And obviously make sure that we have fiscally responsible policy impacts throughout so that we can afford all of these different changes and suggestions.
 This is a two-year timeline. It is a little lengthy and it is quite busy right now. We're just kicking off. We hope to have a substantial
 pre-planned and ready and things ready to go by the time that the strategic strategic plan meetings are done so that we hit the ground running we've we've already started looking into who and how we're going to start addressing this public outreach we've already started meeting with some of our departments and hopefully by the time that we need to implement our next strategic plan in 2025 we are ready to go with the comprehensive plan to go along with it thank you very much thank you thank you all mr prime
 Yes, Mayor, may we go to call to the public at this time? What's that, ma'am? May we go to call to the public? It is after. Absolutely, ma'am. Right at noon. Thank you. Absolutely. We now move to call to the public.
 The El Paso City Council is local government body charged with serving all of the citizens and the meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge. The City Council meetings are public meetings under the Texas Open Meetings Act. Public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of City Council. All persons in attendance are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons,
 without the use of insulting, profane, threatening, or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or group's character or integrity which are not pertinent to city business or may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the city council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, council may propose that a topic brought forth be posted on a future agenda. This afternoon we have five members of the public that signed up to speak.
 First person is mr. Arnulfo Hernandez. He's speaking regarding Durango and streetcars. Good afternoon Mr. Hernandez, you have three minutes. Good afternoon Madam, I think that's streetcars. Uh-huh. Durango was last week and they said today was Streetcars mayor Leeser and members of the council I
 On the second floor of this building, right outside Colonel Weston's office, is a statement stenciled on the wall. And it reads, vision is the art of seeing what is invisible to others. That vehicle to bring that vision is a strategic plan. I think that statement speaks to the project Regeneracion of what they want in Duranguito. They made a presentation to you, and by reference, I incorporate it.
 They speak about beyond the cement slabs of the rejected sports arena over the footprints of Duranguito. But I speak about streetcars today that can be incorporated into that vision, about what Duranguito and what El Paso can be for the future. They were introduced in 1881. Mandy the Mule pulled it.
 It was in service for 90 years, discontinued in 74, and it came back in 2018 with limited service what we have today. A strategic plan is needed to incorporate streetcars into that vision. A citizen committee ought to be named,
 The mayor and city council should appoint that commission members and Mr. Canales for sure since this is in your district make sure that we have residents who live in Duranguito as part of that commission. Mayor Leaser you have a request from a group of folks to meet on streetcars.
 that includes Nestor Valencia, who I'm sure you know, the former department head of the El Paso Planning Department, I believe, who was the planning department head for 14 mayors and worked with four other mayors. We would only request that don't send us to the Metro folks
 or with all due respect to the city manager. Our request does not belong there. It belongs to the policymakers. You are. They execute on your policy. We look forward to your response. Let me just, before I leave, wish you all a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Thank you. Same to you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker is Elizabeth Crawford. Topic is Three Kings Day. Good afternoon, Ms. Crawford. You have three minutes. Thank you.
 Hi, good afternoon. Yesterday I was on Amtrak pulling out of El Paso for now. I was here for several years helping in pro-life and helping with an elderly lady who passed into eternity two weeks ago. And the goodbyes have been very hard. I've fallen in love with El Paso in my two and a half years here.
 I've learned a lot from the Latino culture. I've been rebuked many times just by the calm manner, the quiet, patient attitude so many of you display. And I've really, truly enjoyed my time here. I want to speak briefly about Free Kings Day. The Star of the Mountain in El Paso put up in 1940 as a Christmas decoration. It was said as a reminder of peace.
 at the start of World War II in Europe. I want to speak briefly on the advent and the significance of the star, the wise men who came from the east. We're told in the scriptures, now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying, where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east.
 and are come to worship him. It's one of the most fascinating events recorded surrounding Christ's birth in the sense that these people came and probably it wasn't at the manger that they came. And the question often comes up, how would they know? How would they know the meaning of the story?
 Daniel in the Old Testament, the Hebrew scriptures, he was taken captive as a Jewish youth into the land of Babylon. I'm also familiar with Daniel and the lion's den. The Persian Babylonian rulers of that day probably had opportunity to hear about the God of Israel, about the coming Messiah, the Lord Jesus.
 in the temple at the festival of life, John chapter 10, that piece of dedication, which would equate to Hanukkah, these are the Maccabees.
 And then in John 12, 46, right before Passover, Jesus cried and said, I am come a light into the world that whosoever believes on me should not abide in darkness. I hope for each one of you a very good and truly blessed Advent season. And I'm very grateful for the time I've had in El Paso. Thank you so much. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. The next speaker is Ron Como topic is animal services Advisory Committee and animal services. Good afternoon, mr Como you have three minutes remember our cute little puppy from two weeks ago So what happens when stray dogs don't get shots? I want to thank Mario and the others for the run through the school He's got some amazing ideas and I really look forward to seeing them getting finished now. I
 By Texas law, misdemeanor abandoning dogs is a Class A misdemeanor in Texas. If convicted, a person can face up to a year in jail and up to $4,000 in fines. By Texas law, hold the accountability guilty much like they would the person who actually committed the crime. Texas Penal Code Chapter 7 holds anyone who helped, planned, or carried out a crime liable. This means you could be faced serious jail time just for assisting
 encouraging someone to break the law. The new chief of police stood here and said, if anyone breaks a state law, he would charge them. We have in this country charged an ex-president with breaking the law. Why are we allowing the director to break the law written by the state of Texas and do nothing about it?
 This needs to come to a screeching halt. We're tired of trying to clean up this mess. I appreciate everything that's happened since you came on board. I don't know if he is forwarding all the bike cases that I've been sending to him. If you guys, I mean, if you want to protect your citizens and your community, you want your citizens to be able to walk their dogs in the city of El Paso safely without being attacked, we need to stop that.
 Managed intake capacity care community sheltering every other Haas program that is being carried out by the shelter and just for Information sake the people that stood here including me are citizens of the state of Texas We have rights if things aren't carried out if a crime is committed in front of us we have the right to act as long as it's a felony and
 or an offense that is against the public peace. I think people being attacked by strays because somebody didn't do their job definitely falls under public peace. We need to get people out of this mess. We need people to feel safe to walk their dog down the street. The community's telling us this. The question is, are we listening? Are we going to allow what's happening to continue? Thank you.
 Gentlemen, thank you. Mr. Como some of you I'm not gonna see you again, but have a Merry Christmas And we'll see you in a couple weeks. Thank you. The next speaker is Patricia Assumption topic is ethics and discrimination. Good afternoon. You have three minutes. Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen The higher you report ethics violations and misappropriation and nothing is done the higher up citizens understand those exist
 It isn't right that a city employee solicited me for property while on duty as a city employee. And frankly, if they had been off the clock, I wouldn't have felt comfortable with him costing me for property while on my estate regardless.
 Department of Community and Human Development employees should not be allowed to commit such acts nor bid and be awarded Department of Community and Human Development bids as the documents I have submitted into record proof has been done. I can't help but to wonder if given the employees long employment with.
 the Department of Community and Human Development, how he felt comfortable to solicit property from past applicants, as was confirmed to me by other city employees. Known and allowed by department management, employees including supervisors in management should not be allowed to retire or cover up ethics violations committed in any department. Should there be, there should be,
 clear policy as to who and how citizens are to report ethics violations and be guaranteed that those who report such activity not be retaliated against by those who remain.
 If that employee or those aware of violations are to represent the character of the city of El Paso and departments such as community and human development and do nothing but allow ethics violations, lies and harm to citizens, then as a community, we should be asking if some of the policies of the city of El Paso and their departments are not only scrupulous,
 but in the best interest of the citizens. I was told the oath taken by each of you means your duty is to the city, not to the citizens of El Paso. So when employees, directors, officials violate ethics and harm citizens, you are duty bound to protect the city, even if the city is at fault. Citizens need to understand this fact. Merry Christmas.
 Happy Hanukkah, Kwanzaa, and Festivus to all of you. Hopefully, y'all will actually make choices to help citizens, not harm. I enjoy the presentations. It's nice theater. But actually helping citizens is what needs to happen. Thank you. You too, ma'am. Thank you. The next speaker is Carmen Rodriguez. Ms. Rodriguez's topic is listening to and respecting neighborhood residents. Good afternoon, Ms. Rodriguez. You have three minutes.
 Good afternoon, Ms. Rodriguez. Good afternoon, Mayor and council and staff. I'm here again representing Project Regeneracion, a community nonprofit organized to support the residents of Duranguito and those of other similar vulnerable neighborhoods. We are concerned as the city moves forward to sell its properties and stimulate the redevelopment of Union Plaza
 or Duranguito, that the residents will again be disregarded. We know you must be thinking, why are they so concerned? Taking you back to our recent history, when city leaders decided to locate the multipurpose center in this neighborhood, they did it in our name, the taxpayers, the voters,
 Yes, there was a huge citywide uproar when we learned that the real intent of the 2012 bond was to build a sports arena. But that was only half of it.
 For us, the supporters and residents, the decision to locate it in one of the poorest, extremely low-income neighborhoods whose residents were elderly, non-English speaking, unorganized and unaware, that decision was even worse. We don't believe the bond would have passed if information on the location had been provided.
 So yes, we believe there is a responsibility to make amends for those unjust decisions, even though most of you were not personally involved. Bringing this up to date, we urge the city to be very cautious not to prevent further displacement of residents. Please do whatever you can so renters are not forced
 to move from the neighborhood because they cannot afford the housing that becomes available. This also counts as a displacement.
 A couple of weeks ago we tried to make a presentation that focused on how the city could go about addressing the needs of the neighborhood and establish a process for enhancing the historic features. We have met with the city manager, so thank you for that opportunity, and we are supposed to meet with the economic development staff. We know that this process, however, is on a fast track to be approved, so we want to make sure our message is heard by you and the public.
 In conclusion, we want to emphasize that we are trying to stop any further displacement of residents with the adoption of new standards, guidelines, and processes the city is working on. The residents we work with tell us they want improvement, but more so, they want to stay in their neighborhood. Thank you, Ms. Rodriguez. Thank you all, and Merry Christmas. Happy Holidays. Merry Christmas. Happy Holidays to you, ma'am.
 The next statement was submitted by Vero Ann Carrillo. It's also regarding Duranguito and it reads, Dear Honorable Mayor Leiser and City Council Representatives, as we deliberate the future of Duranguito, I'd like to reference a key decision made by the council during the July 5th meeting. This year, after concerns were raised about the lack of community involvement in the downtown, uptown, and surrounding neighborhoods plan, the City Plan Commission formed a subcommittee for community outreach recognizing these concerns.
 The City Council on July 5 voted to include action item 5.2 in the plan which is aimed at establishing a neighborhood participation program by city ordinance and creating neighborhood workshops hosted by the community and human development department to empower neighborhoods with the knowledge and tools to effectively collaborate with developers and city staff.
 This initiative outlined on page 86 of the plan document was a significant step towards fostering trust and collaboration between the city and its residents, whose lives are deeply affected by urban development. In line with this, Project Regeneracion proposes a similar collaborative approach for Duranguito. It suggests forming an advisory committee of historians, archaeologists, and local neighborhood experts and advocates,
 This proposal echoes the sentiments of many, including myself, who have dedicated many volunteer hours to ensure community representation in the planning process of our neighborhoods. Therefore, I strongly urge the City Council to give serious consideration to and act on these calls for a collaborative development in Duranguito. This is an opportunity to strengthen trust between residents and city officials,
 I ask City Council to embrace Project Regeneracion's request for a collaborative approach in Duranguito. Such an approach would not only align with the Council's earlier decision, but also demonstrate a continued commitment to inclusive and community-focused urban development. Thank you for your time and consideration. Sincerely, Vero Ann Carrillo. Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Thank you, ma'am.
 If we may return to page six, item number 12. The city manager is requesting that this item be postponed for five weeks to January 17th. Okay, there's a motion and a second. There's a motion made by Representative Hernandez, seconded by Representative Salcido, and this is to postpone item number 12. This is for five weeks until the January 17th meeting. On that motion, call for the vote.
 Thank you and the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. That brings us to item number 14. This is discussion in action on the request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue purchase orders for solicitation 2024-0196, youth football referees to David Baray. Motion approved, second. Two motions and one second. There's a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 14,
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Thank you. Item 15. Item number 15 is discussion and action on the request that the managing director of purchasing and strategic sourcing be authorized to issue purchase orders for solicitation 2024-0152, digital learning computers for kids to AWE Acquisition, Inc., DBA AWE Learning. Move to approve.
 Two motions, no second? Thank you. There's a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Rivera, to approve item 15. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously.
 Item number 16 is discussion and action on the award of solicitation number 2024-0113R, Executive Recruiting Services Rebate for an On-Call Executive Recruitment Services to two firms, Baker Tilly US LLP and Octagon Staffing LLC. Motion approved. Second. There's a motion made by Representative Fierro, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve item 16. On that motion, call for the vote.
 in the voting session the motion passes seven to one representative molinar voting nay the remainder of council voting aye the motion carries the next item is 17 this is discussion in action on the award of solicitation 2023-0624 animal services janitorial service to ace government services llc motion made by representative piero seconded by representative rivera to approve item 17
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 18 is a public hearing of an ordinance amending various Title 20 zoning to adopt the Union Plaza architectural and design guidelines and update references. Second. There is public comment on this item from Mayor. Would you like to take public comment at this time? Yes, please. Thank you. Carmen Rodriguez.
 no we can't because then the item is no longer active yet it has to be before the vote ma'am thank you ma'am thank you there's no additional public comment there's a motion made by mayor potem anelo seconded by representative fiero to approve item 18 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 19 is a public hearing on an ordinance vacating a portion of city right-of-way located at 5000 country club place
 There's a motion made by Representative Kennedy, seconded by Representative Piero to approve item 19 on that motion. Call for the vote. Voting session is open. Thank you. End the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 20 is a public hearing of an ordinance vacating a .948 acre portion of Randolph Street and Blacker Avenue right-of-way. Move to approve. Second. Second.
 Motion made by Representative Canales, seconded by Representative Fierro to approve item 20. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And that motion passes unanimously. Item number 21 is a public hearing of an ordinance amending Title II to amend Section 2.92.020 definitions to update the definition of contribution.
 Section 2.92.080, Disclosure of Campaign Contributions to require additional disclosures regarding contributions or donations from individuals or business entities receiving a benefit from a vote of city council, to include commission jurisdiction over process for complaints regarding candidates, political committees, and individuals or business entities, to clarify process for complaints regarding the chief internal auditor, to amend the time period for responses to an ethics complaint
 section 2.9 2.2 hundred to include a fine of up to $500 as a possible sanction for violations of an ethics move to approve motion made by Mayor Pote Manalo second it by representative Kennedy on that motion call for the vote mayor I requested to speak yes sir go ahead actually I just wanted to ask for the staff presentation if we can see that on this item and disrupts with it thanks
 Good morning members of City Council, Kristen Hamilton-Karim from the City Attorney's Office. Good afternoon Ms. Hamilton. Good afternoon. I said morning. It is afternoon. IT, this is for item 21. 21, thank you Laura. Thank you Ms. Prine. Today's presentation is going to be generally the same presentation that we discussed at the last meeting discussing this item on November 20th and this ordinance was introduced last week.
 So to the previous actions of council since The cross-functional team came back with some recommendations was that on the 14th of August? You directed the city attorney and the interim city Manager to come back with the recommended changes to the ethics code to increase the transparency related to campaign finance on October 10th the city attorney and the interim city manager and
 returned with the ordinance to amend per council's direction with proposed changes and then on the 20th council directed us to finalize the ordinance with the recommendations that the Civil Ethics Commission provided
 So the changes are that in 2.92080A, we define donor to include that donations to council members for use by their office in their district would be disclosed if those donors are coming to council for council to vote on a contract or benefit to them.
 This section also would require that council verbally disclose contributions or donations over $500, simultaneous with any agenda item regarding the contributor or donor.
 They should also submit a written disclosure to the city clerk's office, and this disclosure will be noted in the meeting minutes. This applies to amounts that were received at any time during the council member's campaign or term of office. The amendment 2080B would require that the contributor and donor disclose their contribution or donation to any sitting member of city council
 a way that would allow that to be on the agenda that they are receiving a vote of counsel a benefit by a vote of counsel the city manager will establish a process to notify the contributors and donors and to receive that information from them in the same time frame of During the campaign or term of office applies to this section as well. I
 Section D requires that council members provide an annual report of the donations and contributions that have been received.
 The amendments to Section 120, 130A5, and 160B1 would add jurisdiction to the Ethics Commission of candidates, political committees, and over contributors and donors only as it relates to their requirement to disclose donations or contributions to council members when they're receiving a benefit by a vote of council.
 Section 160C is, as you know, the charter was amended that the chief internal auditor now reports to city council. Previously, he reported to both. And so previously, ethics complaints regarding the chief internal auditor would have gone through HR. This will require that any ethics complaints related to the chief internal auditor, like the other two employees that are appointed by council, will go to the mayor and the mayor pro tem.
 Section 170A adjusts the timeframe for a respondent when an ethics complaint is filed to begin after the city attorney determines that the Ethics Commission does have jurisdiction. And then Section 200 would add that the Civil, the Texas, the City's, sorry, Ethics Commission will have the authority to issue up to a $500 fine as a sanction for a violation of the city's ethics code.
 Again, the Ethics Commission recommendations that were accepted by Council were that no disclosure requirements were required regarding a person who is receiving a recognition of Council. It also includes to include the address of the donors on annual reports and to ensure a process to enforce the civil fine, which again we have said if the Commission, if the
 the city's ethics commission issues a fine the enforcement will go through the the jp courts if they if the person fails to pay the fine that is issued do you have any questions go ahead thank you mr baron miss hamilton on page six and then in regards to the annual report can you explain the difference between that and our campaign finance report that we file with the city
 Yes, sir. Thank you, Rep Fierro. On slide six, which I pulled up on the screen again,
 This is a different different obligation the annual reports that The council members would be required to file would include Donations that are received by the office for use in your district as well as the campaign contribution financial finance reports, which you already Do throughout the year so that would be a reiteration of your contributions and the other the other part our offices and hasn't never gotten one and
 Those aren't reported on our campaign or anywhere else? The donations to your office, they would not have been reported to your campaign. No, sir. Good change. Because those are not contributed to you as a candidate or to the council person as a candidate. Those are donations made to the city through your office for use within your district. Okay, and since we're on that topic, who has overview over those dollars?
 The city manager has authority to accept donations under the budget resolution of up to $50,000, and city council has authority to accept donations over $50,000. But I can spend it.
 does still fall under the criteria that we that we have for our discretion those funds would still become city dollars that would be needing to be spent according to city rules laws policies through you know through OMB and through through your other spending thank you so typically with I was talking to sound
 Further expand on that typically when donations are received the practices that the office of management a budget will set up a separate project number Within each of the council members districts and ensure that those funds are used for the allocated purpose and whatever the donation was given for Thank you. Thank you ma'am. There's probably a motion in a second on that Yes, sir The motion was made by mayor pro temin a low seconded by representative Kennedy to approve on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 The motion passes six to two. Representatives Hernandez, Molinar, Vaurinay, the remainder of council voting aye. The motion does carry. Item number 22 is discussion and action on a resolution for the El Paso City Council to adopt the City of El Paso Department of Aviation updated Air Service Development Incentive Program. Motion to approve. Second. Motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Fierro. To approve item 22.
 on that motion call for the vote mayor can we see the staff presentation about this as well I think this is beneficial for the public to understand how we're bringing in uh new routes new Airlines and looking at new partnerships for potential service to Mexico absolutely thank you good afternoon members of Council of Mayor um San Maria's director of the airport if I can bring up the presentation for item 22 please
 Well that's coming up. With me today I have two staff from the airport, Shane Brooks and Cassandra Davidson are both here. They both are heavily involved in air service development for the airport and attend a lot of our meetings that we encounter with airlines and our partners. In the agenda for this presentation, we want to talk over air service status, our strategy and what we do day in and day out to work with the airlines and present our business case in our region for additional flights and frequencies
 Talk a little bit about international efforts as well. The incentive policy changes that are being considered by council today. And then just briefly cover some of the announcements that we have received over the past year.
 This is our current map of our services across the U.S. We received a new flight that started to Long Beach this past July, new announcements to Chicago Midway. Delta Airlines will be coming in with an additional flight starting in July of next year as well, so they'll have three daily flights to Atlanta now. And then Orlando will also pick up additional frequencies in July, in June of next year.
 what we do from an air service development work plan we do put a lot of resources behind this we work very closely with the airlines to keep our costs to the airlines very low historically we've shown that to them we have really good airport in terms of operational efficiency safety and security working with our partners at faa and tsa we're also a very good business partner we work very closely with them on a monthly basis from an operational standpoint
 We send them regular updates on new announcements for business development, economic activity. We work closely with the military as well for bliss, understanding the demands for the military as far as air service. We have virtual meetings. Last week, as an example, we met with American Airlines. We're meeting with United Airlines next week as well. This past November, we met with Southwest at their headquarters, and we typically attend meetings as well at conferences.
 where we're able to touch base with multiple airlines across the industry, as well as touch base with our partner airports as well. For example, we'll meet with San Francisco Airport, Baltimore, to make sure that we coordinate our data and ensure that we're sharing the same story with the airlines as far as that potential route pair. We do have a consulting contract that helps us prepare a lot of information, data, and analysis, as well as keep us up to date with national trends and information across the industry.
 This is a quick slide on the rates that we've been having over the years. Again, very consistent. We've been very low compared to national averages, and this is really important for us and for the airlines as well. As they compare and provide their analysis, they look to airports that provide them, obviously, the highest profitability, and keeping our costs low allows us and gives us a leg up, again, against other routes across their network.
 Operational efficiency, again as I mentioned, we work very closely with FAA and TSA to ensure that we meet the requirements. We get inspected by them on an annual basis. This year we had a tri-annual exercise where we work very closely with our community partners, hospitals, border rec. We do a simulation of an actual incident at the airport that allows our staff and industry to be prepared should an accident occur at our airport.
 We also track very closely our load factors, which means the percentage of how full the airlines are in terms of each of the routes. Typically, when we start seeing routes that are 90%, load factors are higher. That's when we start talking to airlines about additional frequencies or potential additional destinations as well.
 We continue to track what's happening across the border in Ciudad Juarez and the expansion that's happening there. They're currently building additional gates at the airport as well as additional frequencies. We're estimating right now that over a thousand passengers cross the border every day from the US side to use the airport in Ciudad Juarez. That accounts to about 30% of the traffic across the border.
 And so it's a really important data point for us to share with Mexican carriers as well as U.S. carriers. It's a message that we carry across the business cases there for us to have a direct route from the U.S. side into Mexico destinations, as well as potentially attract additional demand on the U.S. side for folks that don't cross the border no matter what.
 These are the routes or destinations that we talked to them about. We're in close discussions. Guadalajara, Mexico City, Puerto Vallarta, and Chihuahua are the ones that have the biggest steam in terms of opportunities for us.
 In our capital improvement program, we also have the update to our federal inspection station. It has not been updated since probably early 80s, early 90s. So we're upgrading that and making an investment there because we do believe there's an opportunity for international service. We're working closely with CBP to make sure that we meet up to current standards.
 for processing passengers. We do regularly get international diversions as well for medical or mechanical reasons, and we currently process those as we get them, and we're getting the facility again ready for scheduled service.
 Overall, on the U.S. side, we're tracking Washington, D.C., and New York, Detroit, and San Francisco as our top destinations right now. They currently have the highest demand with no nonstop service. We continue to make a big push here over the last three, four months. Work very closely with Congresswoman Escobar's office on the FAA reauthorization, potentially
 Potential to it allow for additional slots to the DCA Airport National Reagan Airport Is that's restricted and you need special permission to be able to do that? unfortunately that effort failed but we work very closely again with our federal partners to to carry that message and
 This is our current policy for incentives for domestic services. We typically abate landing fees as well as additional office space for new entrants to the airport and then provide marketing dollars to ensure that we mitigate the risk and provide that.
 that marketing opportunity to make the route successful for the first year and the second year. And then on the international side, we basically double the amount for marketing for year one and year two. And then today with the approval, we would also abate the cost for the federal inspection station for the first two years.
 Just to give you an idea of what the marketing dollars look like, as an example, the Long Beach route that just started, we're looking to spend $273,000 for marketing. Again, to help the airline and the community and the route to be successful and be sustainable for the long term. International, we'll be looking at over half a million dollars in terms of marketing dollars. Again, to help mitigate the risk for the airlines to be able to start those international routes.
 Again, to date, I mentioned the new announcements with Long Beach, Orlando, Chicago, Midway, Atlanta. Really proud of that. From a recovery standpoint, we've done really well compared to other airports our size across the nation. We have 19% more passengers than we did in 2019. And then, you know, we've been doing really well in the past.
 In terms of the number of seats, we have 300,000 more seats per year. That's 14% more than we did pre-pandemic levels. Again, really impressive in terms of the recovery across the network.
 as i mentioned the proposed revisions today will allow for the abatement of the federal inspection station fees to be waived for two years as well as another opportunity that we have historically the airlines have not been able to take advantage of the marketing dollars because they have to front the dollars up front and then we'll reimburse them on the back side
 with the amendments that the EFA has made and what's included, we're now able to work with the marketing departments of the airlines to allow us to prepare the collateral. Then we're able to actually do the buy, the media buys ourselves through the airport. And this is in your backup as part of the resolution. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. Sam, I just wanted to, it's not a question, I wanted to commend you all on the work. We've been having the conversation about
 the international goal destinations for quite some time, but I'm excited to see the step of remodel of the federal inspection station making sure that that's up to standards. It feels closer and closer all the time. So I think it's only a matter of time until we start to see serious interest in
 in El Paso as a destination for Mexican cities, and the other way around for El Pasoans to travel out of El Paso, and not just El Pasoans, for Americans in general to travel out of El Paso into the interior of Mexico.
 You're right that Juarez is doing a huge expansion of their airport. I was looking at it recently. I think they're going from 7,000 square meters to 22,000 square meters, so a tripling of their airport size. That's a share of a big travel market that we don't have a slice of the pie of at the moment. And I think everything you can continue to do to make sure that we're competitive in attracting these international routes will be a...
 a real boon for El Paso in the future. Absolutely. I mean, I think when you look at these airports, they're basically a dual airport system. You know, we serve national destinations. They serve national destinations. And, you know, as a region, we take advantage of the expansion that's happening there, but ideally we want more convenience on our side as well because the demand is here.
 yeah thank you thank you representative thank you mayor i also want to say great job on this presentation and all the hard work you all have been working on i just have a question i know that in mexico tulum's um airport is is new and it's open um what what are some updates there are we getting are we look being looked at as a possible destination
 Yeah, that airport just started operations. I know some U.S. carriers started to provide service into that, and primarily they're coming in from the hubs. So American, for example, is coming in from DFW. Delta is coming in from Atlanta. So we obviously have great connectivity to the hubs, but as far as individual connections to Tulum, I have not heard officially any of the other non-hub destinations yet.
 sounds great well sooner than later hopefully we do get one of those absolutely thank you for your hard work thank you ma'am and i know that um since we started um the airport we'll continue to work for non-stop flights continue to work with the military and a lot of the contractors and that's going to make a huge impact when it comes to economic development also the growth of the base and i know that's been an ongoing talk since
 Long before us, you know continue to be and I look forward to continuing to connect El Paso Not only to the rest of the world, but it's important within the US So I said the expansion of Fort Bliss is really important to us and I know you've been working really hard on that So, thank you. Thank you, sir. And with that, that's prime. Yes, mayor The motion was made by representative Rivera seconded by representative Fierro to approve item 22 on that motion call for the vote
 the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 23 is discussion in action amending the rules of order to adjust the notification deadline to appear by videoconference in the event of an emergency and to clarify that the rules regarding debate apply to deliberation and executive session and amending the resolution to attend City Council meetings via the videoconference second second motion in a second representative Zavada
 Thank you, Mayor. What was the time again this morning for the video conference? The deadline for video conference is 5 p.m. on the business day prior to the meeting. Prior to the meeting. And with that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, the motion was made by Mayor Pochamanelo, seconded by Representative Canales to approve item 23. On that motion, call for the vote. Representative Salcido, thank you. And the voting session.
 The motion passes 5-1. Representative Molinar-Voligny, Representatives Hernandez and Fierro not present. That brings us to item number 24, and this is discussion and action to approve policies and procedures for planning and implementation of the Community Development Block Grant Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program, Home Investment Partnerships Program, and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program.
 We do have public comment. Yes, Mayor. We have Ms. Osmond that's signed up to speak on this item. Regarding these items, I would like to find out, are any of these programs federally funded? If so, which?
 What policies are being proposed to prevent ethics violations and misappropriation of funds within the Community Development Block Grant, Emergency Solutions Grant, Home Investment Partnership, and Housing Opportunity for Persons with AIDS programs?
 Will all of the bids, distribution of funds under any of these programs be public on IONWave to ensure there are no ethics violations, misappropriation of funds, or other issues so that citizens are able to review in order to prevent future issues since there have already been matters of the same within the programs administered by the City of El Paso's Community and Human Development?
 as previously recorded and under investigation currently. There should be clear public information and instructions on the city website and given to employees in various departments should be trained to inform the public regarding how to report anyone paid
 by the city of El Paso dealing with any of these programs because currently it is not clear and no citizen should have to make a dozen calls to be guided to the correct department to report such matters. Citizens should be made aware of status updates regarding their complaints within any of these programs. This allows citizens to know that our government is not corrupt. Citizens should be made aware
 of any of the federally funded programs, when they are given the application forms, the contact information if they are HUD funded, then the information for HUD's Office of Inspector General and HUD's discrimination hotline phone number, any of these programs, there should be clear
 information given to any applicants within any of these programs so that any any citizen of our community that's applying for any of these programs within anything that falls with within these policies that thought you're about to vote on so that citizens are clearly aware where to call how to report and
 Thank you. There is a motion made by Mayor Pro Temanelo, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve item number 24. On that motion, call for the vote. Voting session is open. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Hernandez not present. Is there a motion to retire into executive session? There's a motion and a second to retire into executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to Section 3.5A of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code Chapter 551 Subchapter D to discuss any of the following. Executive Session Item 1, Jacob Barreras v. El Paso Fire Department Cause Number 123-00047-CV under 551.071. Executive Session Item 2, Compliance Filing of El Paso Electric Company to Revise Certain Meter-Related Charges
 pursuant to docket number 52040-PUC number 55425, HQ number utility dash 28 under 551.071. Executive Session Item 3, Application of El Paso Electric Company to amend its Certificate of Convenience and Necessity for a 150 megawatt solar generating facility pursuant to PUC docket number 52040.
 54929 HQ Utility-7 under 551.071. In Executive Session Item 4, workplace complaints submitted to the City by the Chief Internal Auditor HQ 23-1372 under 551.071. These matters are taken into Executive Session under 551.071. Consultation with Attorney. It is 1255 p.m. and Council will be meeting in the Executive Session Room behind Council Chambers.
 Are we still in the executive or can we make a motion? Is there a motion to come out of executive session? There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 1 55 p.m. We're on ex1. No action. Thank you. Ex2. Motion made, seconded and carried that the city attorney in consultation with the city manager be authorized to hire and retain outside counsel and any other necessary consultants
 and to intervene in the El Paso Electric annual compliance filing to revise certain meter-related charges. Advanced metering system under the Texas Public Utility Commission docket number 55425 and matter number high Q utility dash 28, and to take all steps necessary including the execution of any required documents in order to effectuate this authority. Second. Second.
 There's a motion made and read into the record by Mayor Potemanelo, seconded by Representative Kennedy on EX2. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously.
 EX3. Motion made, seconded and carried that the City Attorney in consultation with the City Manager be authorized to approve the settlement in the El Paso Electric Application for a Certificate of Convenience and Necessity for a 150 megawatt solar generating facility under the Texas Public Utility Commission docket number 54929.
 in matter number high Q utility dash seven and to take all steps necessary including the execution of any required documents in order to effectuate this authority. Second. There's a motion made and read into the record by Mayor Potemanelo, seconded by Representative Fierro on EX3. On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. The motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Hernandez abstaining.
 Ex4 no action. Thank you motion to adjourn. I'm sorry on the export there is There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular City Council meeting all in favor Anyone opposed? Happy holidays I
 We'll reconvene on January 2nd. There is a special meeting next Monday to canvass the results from the December 9th meeting and call for a runoff. Does that mean Representative Nella will be with us a little longer? Yes, sir. The regular city council meeting for Tuesday, December 12th, 2023 is adjourned at 1.58 p.m. So when do we canvass, folks? On Monday, December 18th at 9 a.m., sir. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am.