We do have a forum so we can get started. Thank you, Mr. Karn. Yes, sir. Good morning. This is a meeting of the El Paso City Council for Tuesday, December 14th, 2021.
 Mayor Leaser is present and presiding. Also present in council chambers are Mayor Pro Tem Schwartzbein, Representative Anello, Representative Hernandez, Representative Molinar, Representative Salcido, Representative Rodriguez, Representative Rivera, and Representative Lizada. It is 9.04 a.m.
 Will everyone please silence your electronic devices so as not to disturb the meeting and rise for the invocation delivered by Police, Fire, and Ministry Coordinator for the Sheriff's Office, Chaplain Sam Ferron. Good morning, Chaplain. You're on mute, sir. You're on mute, Chaplain. We can feel your thoughts, but we can't hear them. Still on mute. Can you hear me now? There you go. Okay. All right. Very good. Well, thank you, and God bless you. And if you care to join me, let's pray.
 Lord God, we thank you for the blessing of another day to experience the wonderful adventure we call life, an adventure that has brought us to this very moment. And before the business of this meeting begins, I pray for my mayor. I pray for our representatives, officials and guests, everyone who will be taking part in the discussion and decision making process today. Let there be wisdom.
 and careful thought as the agenda items are considered. May the progress and well-being of our city be the goal that is pursued and, of course, the ultimate goal of honoring and pleasing you. Lord, wherever there is sickness or injury, let there be healing. Where there is sorrow and grief, let there be comfort. Where there is division and strife, let there be harmony. And in all circumstances, let there be gratitude for your presence and your love.
 Thank you for this very beautiful time of year. May peace on earth and goodwill toward men be more than a seasonal slogan, but a constant prayer and a constant goal. Please watch over and protect all of those who keep us safe and who protect our freedoms. In the wonderful name of the Lord, I pray. Amen, and may God bless all of you. Thank you, Chaplain, and I'm very thankful that you have your help again. And I'm thankful that...
 that you were able to fight it and be here with us. And these young leaders in our community have the opportunity to hear your words of wisdom. And again, thank you for always being here for us. And you know that I will love you. I appreciate that, sir. And it's an honor to be here. And I'm grateful to be here. And I appreciate all of the prayers and support that I've received from you and from the members of our city.
 Thank you, sir. And with that, I want to have a moment of silence for all the victims in Kentucky. The city of El Paso has endured some tragedy and we've come through it by pulling together and being together. And today I want to have a moment of silence for all the victims and the survivors and all the families. Thank you. Thank you. That brings us to the Pledge of Allegiance. And where's Coach Brooks? Coach Brooks, can you come up and lead us, please?
 Wherever you want, sir. Here you go, sir. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Coach. And, you know, another man that I loved dearly and was my football coach in 1971, and I know you guys look at me and kind of have a hard time believing that I'm that old. But, uh...
 Coach Brooks, which was Coach Brooks' father, was a mentor to many kids, was a mentor, and was a great coach and one of the winningest coaches ever in the history of El Paso, and obviously he...
 His son followed in great footsteps and also was a great mentor to him and other people. And it's very unfortunate that we lost his life this year. And it's a man that really impacted so many lives and impacted a lot of young men and women in our community for so many years and I can only look at Scott Brooks and looked
 His dad did an incredible job, and his dad raised a leader. And, Scott, you had a great mentor. And I thank your dad for what he did for me and thousands and thousands of young men and women that have become leaders in our community. So may God bless him. And I can tell you one thing, I love him dearly, and I miss him. Thank you. Mr. Pryor?
 Yes, sir. That brings us to the mayor's proclamations. The first proclamation is Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl Week. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor.
 Whereas the Sun Bowl Association has served as a guide to enhancing the lives of the citizens of El Paso for 88 years, and the Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl is known throughout the country as one of the hospitality, professionalism, fun, and excitement, and whereas the annual Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl has grown to be the largest single sporting event in the city,
 as well as one of the top entertainment values while showcasing the city on CBS to a national television audience for 53 years, and whereas the Sun Bowl Association achieves the threefold purpose of, one, to represent a football attraction of national importance,
 Two, to promote El Paso at the southwest. And three, general tourism income for the area. An economic impact study by Dr. David of Economics Department of University of Texas at El Paso revealed that the direct economic impact to the area from the Sun Bowl
 game is $12 to $15 million. And whereas the Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl with the University of Miami and Washington State University as the participants in the year's annual contest at 10 a.m. on Friday, December 31, continues to showcase the city of El Paso on a national stage with outstanding football teams, their fans, families, and supporters right here in the Sun City.
 And whereas the Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl, sponsored by Kellogg, is a football game that is embraced by the citizens of El Paso as their own and serves as a great backdrop to the city, the people, and the culture of El Paso, Texas. Now, therefore, be proclaimed by the mayor and city council of the city of El Paso that the week of December 26, 2021, shall be known as Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl Week, signed by the Honorable Mayor Oscar Leiser.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council, City Manager. It's an honor to have this game back after last year's cancellation. We're very proud to showcase El Paso. CBS does a great job of showcasing El Paso in a very positive light. And I want to thank all of you for this honor. I did bring our...
 Good morning, everyone. I'm Jaylene Plasencia. I'm the 2021 Sun Queen, and I would like to say it is an honor to be able to represent the beautiful city of El Paso, as well as the Sun Bowl Association this upcoming Tony the Tiger Sun Bowl week. Thank you. We have a little gift for you all. Hey, Bernie. Bernie, is there a legend of the Sun Bowl this year?
 I mean, I didn't know. I hadn't heard anything. I just want to make sure that there might be one and no one said anything. I just want to make sure there is one. For those of you who don't know, every year we induct a couple of people as Legends of the Sun Bowl, and those are people who have been associated with the Sun Bowl game and gone on to do bigger and better things outside of our stadium. And this year, our honoree for Legends of the Sun Bowl is our own Mayor Oscar Leaser. Congratulations. Thank you.
 and you may not know but he was instrumental in getting Hyundai Motors America to be the title sponsor of the game for nine years and his involvement with our organization with Assemble is unprecedented we've had some tremendous sponsors but Oscar and Hyundai were just tremendous and it's just a very well-deserved honor and I'll mention another one that Tommy Reistad is also being inducted as a legend of Assemble she has been working Assemble for
 40 years as a volunteer. I think it was it was time we inducted her but congratulations mayor Lisa It's an honor for us that to have you Representative will showcase you at the football game as well. Okay, and that's a little a little gift You know the last two times Miami was here brought snow with it
 And they've been put on notice that if they bring snow this time, they'll be forever barred from playing in the Sun Bowl, just to let you know. But anyway, it's going to be a sunny day, so I brought you all. You all needed some shade, so I'm going to give you all a little souvenir to wear to the game. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Ms. Parnes, next. Yes, sir. The following proclamation is Project Always Beside You Day. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 It gives me great pleasure to read this proclamation. Proclamation, City of El Paso, Texas, whereas the Diaz family lost their beloved son, Christopher Diaz, while serving overseas on September 28, 2011, and whereas Staff Sergeant Diaz,
 was a United States Marine Corps K-9 handler and third generation Marine, and whereas Staff Sergeant Diaz's K-9 Dino was retired from the Marine Corps and adopted by the Diaz family and passed in December 2020 from meningitis complications, and the
 Whereas in November 22nd, 2020, the Diaz family received a 501C3 designation for the nonprofit organization in El Paso, Texas called Project Always Beside You to honor all canine handlers and their dogs.
 And whereas Project Always Beside You provides financial support for canines and handlers when they experience unexpected hardships. Their support extends to canine and handlers who are active duty military, veteran, or retired, and their families. It also includes those in a government service related working environment.
 And whereas Project Always Beside You represents an organization that honors the memory of Staff Sergeant Christopher Diaz and that of his canine genome. And whereas Project Always Beside You continues to represent fallen service members, fallen canine handlers, and all canine dogs in our community and nation. Now, therefore, be it proclaimed by the Mayor and Council of the City of El Paso that December 14, 2021 shall be known as Project Always Beside You. Signed, Oscar Leisure Mayor, City of El Paso.
 Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and representatives. We want to say thank you so much. What an honor. We are truly blessed to have you all in our corner and believe in what our mission is. A little bit about, if I may, of how this came about is, as it was mentioned, we lost our son, Christopher Diaz, in Iraq, saving another Marine, and Dino survived. So we ended up adopting Dino in June of 2017.
 2014. So we had him for many years up until December of last year. But what we did is once we lost our son, we reached out to a lot of people within the community. We've had a lot of help from the city of El Paso and the county and other states. We honor our son on his anniversary date in September.
 And not only we honor Christopher, but we honor all dog handlers that have fallen in past and present wars. And what we do is we host an event on a Saturday, and we start off at our son's late to rest in the area of Fort Bliss. And what we do is we bring in guest speakers, we bring in the city, we bring in people from different parts of the states. We've had people come in from North Carolina, from D.C., Virginia, San Antonio, parts of New Mexico.
 and we honor them all. And we bring in, like I said, we bring in guest speakers and we have a little ceremony. And pretty much probably at the end, middle of the day and on a Saturday, is my wife and I and our boys and families on both sides. And like I said, in the community, we feed all dog handlers and their families and all our invited guests. We probably feed about 400 people. And we attend, we do this at one of the VFWs that we're members of.
 and we cook probably about 400 steaks and hamburgers and hot dogs. And I tell you, we feed everyone that we invited and everyone that's joined us that afternoon. And we acknowledge everybody that's helped us throughout the years and throughout the months. We break away that evening, and then on Sunday we have a dog competition. And we have it in Socorro. My wife and I have an acre property, and we have 30 pecan trees. And within the pecan trees, we have an obstacle course to military specs.
 And we bring in BORTEC, Border Patrol. We've had El Paso PD. We bring in Kirtland Air Force Base. Fort Bliss is a real big supporter of us doing this.
 We have Marines and sailors and soldiers that come in from North Carolina, from South Carolina, from Virginia. The dog school in San Antonio, we have them come in as well. And we participate in five categories. It's obedience, detection of bombs, detection of drugs, the hardest bite, obstacle course for both the dog and the handler as well.
 So we have all of that. They all don't have to get into all five categories. They can pick and choose whatever they want. We do that, and it usually lasts pretty much all day. And after we're done, we tally up all the points, and we come up with a winner of each category, and then a top dog, what we call, of all five categories. And we pass out bragging rights, of course, and then we go ahead and pass out trophies and everything, and we get ready for the following year. Well, during all of this that we've been doing it, my wife and I and our boys have been talking about
 going further with it and that's where Project Always Beside You came up. Once we started getting, Dino started having some complications in his health. When somebody adopts a military dog, the government doesn't help with any expenditures other than they go ahead and they allow you the dog, they award you the dog
 and you go on your way. We had a little bit of influence with Chris because a couple of the instructors for the dog program for the military actually went through dog training with Chris in San Antonio. So we had a little bit of a foot in the door there.
 So when that starts happening, it takes a burden on families because expenditures get to be pretty high as far as depending on what's happening with your dog. Well, we reached out to an organization up in the East Coast that the founder and owner of that organization was actually our son's instructor up at Yuma before he went to Afghanistan. And they trained on one-on-one on the detections that Chris was supposed to be doing in Deno once they got to Afghanistan.
 so we reached out to them and they helped us through all this process of dino with meningitis and other things so we went ahead with that and we you know my wife and i finally and the kids we finally said why are we going to let other people kind of get into the same situations we are so we went ahead and and started project dollars beside you and it was founded like i said back in november and we've been doing well a lot of good things have happened with our organization we've uh we've helped out a couple of dogs
 in Arizona and we're looking at some in California. We've also probably going national with Homeland Security. And then El Paso Chihuahuas has partnered up with us as well. So you'll see us there at a lot of the games. Go ahead, you know, we're, they're passing out coins and flyers and bugging everybody that goes by. So you'll see us pretty much at all the games there.
 And we've actually, our biggest accomplishments thus far is we've helped a dog handler, or excuse me, a veteran Marine, and we placed him with a dog. We have the help of El Paso, the animal services that joined with us, and we went ahead and matched him up with a pup. So we got them together, and now we're working with a company, or with a training organization.
 company here that trains dogs for obedience and then for service dog so we're working with them as well to get him trained and he's in training right now with this marine veteran so um that's pretty much kind of sums it up but we thank you all so much for for honoring us with this and we hope to do some uh some changes here and help out our veterans here in the city of el paso thank you thank you congratulations
 if i may i do have some things if i can pass out to everybody if i can come on i have some challenge coins some of our coins oh great thank you if i may absolutely thank you for that and without ms pine yes mayor will you be taking photos at this time yes yes thank you have we um have sure done this we're going to move forward on after this you know we don't i think we need to because we're kind of mayor council
 If I may, Laura Cruz, communications director for the city of El Paso. Real quick, if we could do the photographs of the proclamations. But if you all want to go ahead and take item number, what is it, item 18? Item number 18 first, and then we'll do the proclamations out in front of the tree while we set up the kids out in front outside. Perfect. That's great. Thank you, ma'am. Okay, so let's move item 18. If we can do that.
 Mayor, you'd like to go to item number 18? Please. Okay. Item number 18 is discussion and action on a resolution formally commending and congratulating the Eastwood, Riverside, and San Antonio high school football teams for being the only three El Paso area high school football teams to advance to the Sweet 16 of the Texas high school state playoffs. This item was submitted by Representatives Rivera, Shortsline, and Hernandez.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. And can I have the three coaches come up front, please, for now? I know you spoke about Coach Brooks, Mayor. But along with Coach Brooks, you have Head Coach Julio Lopez from Eastwood High School. Is he here today? I'm representing him. Okay, and you're representing him. And you have Gary, I hope I say it right, Corder? Yes, sir.
 who represents and coaches Riverside High School. And of course, Mr. Scott Brooks, who coaches Cañu Teal High School. These coaches are amazing in the fact that they have molded our young ambassadors from El Paso and Cañu Teal to represent themselves and their schools and their community with pride. And they have achieved a momentous accomplishment that hasn't been done in about seven years, eight years.
 uh all three schools were in the high school playoffs at this time so we want to sponsor a resolution for this and i hope council supports us on this because it's not only one district it's several of our districts that did this feet and coaches i thank you all very much for for bringing your your teams to the uh the council and letting us honor you this way so uh can i read the resolution this time sir please motion to approve
 let's uh you want to read the resolution though yes there's a motion in a second and we'll read the resolution okay because uh because it was sponsored by us three we do something different and all three of us want to say something to our area schools so we'll read the resolution in sections thank you sir resolution whereas on friday november 19 2021 the eastwood riverside and kenny theoh high school football teams
 each won their playoff games, earning them trips to the regional semifinals. And whereas for the first time since 2014, three El Paso high school football teams were still playing in the round three of the UIL Texas State playoffs. And whereas the Eastwood Troopers remained in the regional semifinals for the first time in school history,
 and were the only area class 6A, and I'm proud to say I represent that area. And so again, whereas the Eastwood Troopers remained in the regional semifinals for the first time in school history and were the only area class 6A squad left in the playoffs after the win against Abilene and Saginaw Boswell. And whereas the Riverside Rangers
 who Representative Hernandez represents, won District 148 Division I title after defeating the Big Spring and Lake Worth in playoffs, marking the first time since 2004 that the Rangers played in the third round and Representative Hernandez. And whereas the Canotillo Eagles defeated Canyon.
 The Canateo Eagles defeated Canyon Randall 27 to 24 to win its second playoff game this year and set up a matchup with Wichita Falls Rider in the regional semifinals. And...
 And whereas on November 27th, 2021, in a Class 6A Division II regional semifinal against Prosper High School, the Eastwood Troopers fought to the wire and ended their victorious season with an 8-5 record under longtime coach Julio Lopez.
 And whereas Riverside's successful football season came to an end on November 27th of 2021 against Springtown in the Class 4A Division I Regional Semifinals with an 11-2 record under the third-year coach Gary Recorder. And whereas on November 26th, 2021, after falling to Wichita Falls, Ryder in the Regional Semifinals of the Class 5A Texas High School Football State Playoffs against
 The triumphant Canuteo Eagles football season ended with an 11-2 record under head coach Scott Brooks. And now therefore it be resolved that the City Council of the City of El Paso, one, commends and congratulates the Eastwood, Riverside, and Canuteo high school football teams being the only three El Paso area high school football teams to advance to the Sweet 16 of the Texas High School State Playoffs. Two, three.
 recognizes the many achievements of the coaches and players of the Eastwood Troopers, Riverside Rangers, and the mighty mighty Kenyatta Eagles.
 3. Recognizes the fans of the Eastwood Troopers, the Riverside Rangers, and Canuteo Eagles and the people of El Paso for their dedication and support. And 4. Respectfully requests that the City Clerk submit an executed copy of this resolution to A. The head coach of the Eastwood High School football team, Julio Lopez. B. The head coach of the Riverside High School football team, Gary Recorder. And C. The head coach of the Canuteo High School football team, Scott Brooks. Dated this...
 14th day of december 2021 signed the honorable mayor oscar lisa and the city council we are all so very proud of you congratulations to let you all know where besides the little gift that we are going to present the coaches and the teams uh i would like for the teams and coaches to know that both all representative uh swartzvine uh representative hernandez and myself representative
 have will give you a certificate where the star will be lit for all three teams today in the city of el paso so can we take the vote sir mr costa where's the workers will you um lead us on the our next step okay so directions on how we're going to pull this off first please oh yeah that's right we got a motion in a second there is a motion by mayor pro temp shorts buying seconded by representative hernandez to approve the resolution
 On that motion, call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes unanimously. All right. Mayor, before we also go out, we have a small gift of appreciation on behalf of the coaches as well. And we would like to present them this championship trophy recognizing the Kenny Teo High School football Eagles, the Riverside Rangers, and the Eastwood Troopers as well for their success. Go down there, council. Come on down.
 Okay, can I get real quick instructions for everybody in this room? Okay, so teams, I'm going to have you walk outside. We're going to take a group photo with individual teams because there's too many of y'all. So we're going to go outside and group yourselves with your teams. I'll be out there momentarily to give you instructions on how we're going to set it up.
 For those of you who are part of the proclamations, we're gonna do that out in front of the Christmas tree here. So I'll have the mayor and council members actually join us in front of the Christmas tree area or the Hanukkah area, the holiday area over here. And Martina is gonna take the group photos for those smaller groups while the teams arrange themselves outside.
 Council, since you're exiting the chambers, may we have a motion to. Thank you. There's a motion and a second to recess. All in favor? And opposed? The meeting is in recess at 935 a.m. for a photo. All right, Ms. Pines, we have a quorum. Yes, sir. May we have a motion to reconvene? There's a motion and a second to reconvene the City Council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 the meeting is back in session at 9 50 a.m thank you everyone thank you so much we now go to the consent agenda all matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by city council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by council members prior to the vote members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda when the vote has been taken if an item has not been called out for separate discussion the item has been approved
 Council may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. Mayor Potem? Yes. Proposed revisions for the December 14, 2021 meeting as of December 14, 2021 at 830 a.m. Page 3, item 4, revised for economic and international development. Mayor Potem and the department will be reading that revision into the record. Okay. Page 6, item 16, revised for Representative Hernandez. That revision is to change.
 the number three to five to read five bikes and to strike out the word raffled and add given to participants randomly selected. And page nine item 27 revised delete as per the city attorney's office. Yes and we can if we can have economic development please read the revision for item four into the record please. You're on mute sir you're on mute
 Good morning. This is Mayor and Council. This is Israel Iriballi, Legislative Liaison with the Economic and International Development Department. The revision will read that the City of El Paso is requesting $1 million through the Economic Adjustment Assistance Grant and will provide a 30% match of $300,000 from the International Bridges Restricted Fund P3 Program, Department 564, Fund 3360, Division 64,870. Thank you.
 Council, are there any other revisions to this at this time? Any other? Yes, Representative Molina. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. I'd like to have item number seven go to the regular agenda. Item number seven to the regular agenda. Okay. Okay. Is there anything else, Council, at this time? All right. Motion to approve. Second.
 there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by mayor pro tem shortline to approve the consent agenda as revised on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 Mayor, may we go to item 7 that was moved to the regular agenda? Please. Thank you. This is a resolution that the mayor be authorized to sign an interlocal governmental agreement between the City of El Paso and the County of El Paso for law enforcement information sharing on the on-call records management system. Mr. Molinar. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much. I appreciate you moving it to the regular agenda. Is anyone from the police department with us today? Okay.
 Anyways, while we're waiting for them, I do support this item because it's a cost-saving measure to the citizens of El Paso. However, I have stipulated this before to me in conversations with others throughout the police department that they do have issues with it as far as the actual mechanics of it.
 Do we have someone from staff for item seven here, Sully? Yes. Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Adesali Guerra with the IT Department. Yes, sir, Representative Molinar. We have indicated those items that you've brought forth. We're reviewing the technical aspects of it, but we're excited to continue to work on this and ensure that it provides the appropriate services to our police department and our citizens.
 Okay, and also what would be the cost besides the cost that it's on this item right now on a yearly basis? Do you know for the city of El Paso? I don't have the initial cut or the recurring cost I believe I'm not sure if Carolyn Patrick is on and she can Yes Her section
 Good morning Dionne this is Carolyn Patrick with IT. I do have the annual figures um unless you thought I was ready to go with that. Go ahead ma'am I think she's having technical difficulties thank you. Okay all right um the total annual cost is estimated to be 330,985 with the 50 50 split then being um approximately 165,493 for city and for county. All right thank you very much that's all I have thank you.
 thank you motion to approve um i have representative um mayor pro temp or just from before no mayor it's from before i was just kind of curious actually now that we're here um represent molina you mentioned that you spoke with members of the police department and they expressed some concerns can you share those concerns with the council
 For example, when I mentioned the strategic planning session earlier this month, I have been contacted by different people who work with the police reports and the length of time that it's not user friendly.
 I told you before that we used to have a records management system, iLEADS, and of course now we have this new system, WebRMS. I've never used it myself, I've never seen it myself, but I have been in contact with others who say that it's not user friendly, that it's just not a good system to be using. And so we talk about saving money for our taxpayers, we talk about delayed response times for citizens.
 on police calls and other things like that. So I just really believe that this thing needs to be evaluated for its user-friendliness to see if it is or is not happening. I'd also like to reach out to the Sheriff's Department and see if they're having the exact same things with this. And I understand other agencies, whether they're school district police, constables, whatever, within the El Paso County, if they're experiencing those same issues as well.
 i don't know if there's anybody from pd they can talk about i mean we haven't heard any briefings relating towards issues with this the software how long it's how long have we had it currently for within the pd department
 Deon are you can you address this? I know. This is Pro Tem Sports Bond Deon Mack deputy city manager. Following on the conversation we had I did reach out to the department to really try to understand whether we had issues and concerns. They have a way of being able to track any concerns that we have from any organization
 of the participants in the program. We were unable to replicate a process by which it took three to four hours, and we appreciate you providing the names of the two individuals that you spoke to directly, and the team is in the process of having a dialogue and conversation regarding where they may have some issues and concerns, and really try to narrow down that focus.
 We've had this in place since November of 2020, have been working on this implementation slightly before that with some funding from the 911 district. And as was stated, this is a system that is being utilized for cost savings across
 all of our law enforcement agencies here, but we are always willing to look at ways that we can improve the process and improve new systems and ensure that we're providing the support we need for any of the users to be able to gain the efficiencies that we hope as we move to the system more than a year ago. Thank you. Representative Asarga?
 Thank you, Mayor. Mayor Pro Tem asked my question. I was wondering, Representative Molinaud, what the issues were. So thank you for the clarification. Thank you, ma'am. Representative Rivera? Thank you, sir. Thank you. Yeah, I wanted to know what the revisions were that were placed in there by Representative Molinaud. But if there's questions, Ms. Dionne, and there's only two individuals, is there any way to get briefed on this?
 me in any, would I hinder you if any, to ask for a post moment on this so I could get briefed on this? Or the council could get briefed on this? Just as an FYI, this item is to allow for a cost split with the county. It is not for the approval of the implementation of the system. Okay. So this item is to split the cost 50-50 with the county. It's currently at 80-20 with the city paying 80%. We're more than happy to brief on the system
 improvements and I've actually been asked to talk about all the improvements that we've made throughout the city and so we can talk about some of the technology pieces as well in our next meeting but we'll certainly set individual meetings with you all to understand some of the changes and things that we've done with systems in general. Okay so with that said you want to postpone so that no I'd prefer to go ahead and
 support this item because it is a cost-saving measure to the citizens, but it just probably needs to be re-evaluated at some time. And Ms. Mack, do you still have to negotiate on that right now?
 No, sir. This system has been in place for well over a year. We began implementation of this system back in 2019. Our implementation was slightly delayed because of COVID. We've been fully implemented since November of 2020. And so this item isn't for approval of the system that has been in place for more than a year. It's about the split for the cost.
 But as I said, we're in communications with the IT teams. We have systems to be able to run various scripts. We're still tweaking it to understand where we might get better at it. And so we're always willing to hear any feedback, particularly from the users as they're engaging with the system. Okay, thank you, ma'am. Thank you. Mayor. Thank you, Representative Shortsvine. Yeah, no, I'm just curious. So Representative Molinar, there were members of our police department that contacted you personally regarding this system?
 It's not necessarily they contacted me personally. It's just I live in District 4. I meet people in the store. It's not like they reach out to me. It's just wherever you go, people notice you. They remember me from the police department. They say, hey, by the way, Chief, let me let you know something. Let me talk to you about something. Okay.
 I'll listen. So just like any other constituent that's out there, whether you're at the movie theater, the store, the businesses, restaurants, whatever, it's not necessarily that they picked up the phone and called me, but it's just the fact that they're talking to you about it. Okay. So I mean, I think if there's issues or questions, there's definitely appropriate ways to go about it, especially, and I think we all take this job seriously, so I want to make sure that they're handled in the appropriate ways. Okay.
 thank you without mr we have a motion in the second i did not hear a second i know thank you there was motion made by representative molinar seconded by representative lizada to approve on that motion call for the vote mayor pro tem thank you in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously we now turn to page number six item number 19 is discussion in action on a resolution that the city council declares the expenditure of district 6 discretionary funds
 to purchase a laptop to be used by city representative district six staff serves a municipal purpose there's a motion made by representative rodriguez seconded by representative salcido to approve on that motion call for the vote
 I do have a question. And just in terms of formality regarding our tech services, anytime we need to purchase technology, we just work with the IT department, so I'm just curious why this is coming forward for approval from us if we have a process in place to purchase technology. Yeah, this seems a little bit highly irregular. I'm sorry, who has the floor? Representative Vanilla. Thank you. If anybody would like to speak, please use the magic button.
 I was just going to say that I also had to purchase about a year ago, purchase equipment for my staff. I mean, they only, you know, with COVID, everybody had a device. IT doesn't have kind of the stock that they used to have. And so if there's something specific that you want, it's sometimes just easier to go and buy it with your phone. So I've done it and we approved it last year on the agenda.
 Same thing with the . That was just my feedback. No, I was curious because any time our staff needs anything, we just go to the IT department and they provide the technology. So if there's a way that you can save your money, you can just get a device from the IT department. So I just wasn't sure if you're aware of that, but I'm just bringing it to your attention. It's specific equipment that they didn't have. I was just trying to lend you some information. No, I appreciate it. No other questions.
 The voting session is open, council. In the voting session, and the motion passes unanimously. The next item is number 20, and this is discussion in action to direct the city manager and staff to develop a plan with El Paso County and affected property owners and return to city council with recommendations in order to facilitate the development and extension of Montwood Drive between Schrager Street and Rich Bean Boulevard as depicted on the city's major thoroughfare plan. Second.
 there's a motion made by representative salcido seconded by representative rivera to approve on that motion call for the vote mayor may i speak yes council if if anybody would like to speak please just use the request to speak button i can i can see it as well oh you can see it from over here yes thank you thank you representative um thank you represent salcedo
 Good morning. I just wanted to share a little bit. I placed this item on the agenda so that I could address traffic management solutions in District 5.
 So the Mountwood Connection is the project that I've been working on for a very long time since I've actually before I was in council. And so I mean, there is no secret. District five was never master planned. So this is something that I want to make sure that we're addressing. But there is a lot of moving pieces. It's going to take a huge collaboration with the city, the county.
 and also the landowners in order for us to make headway. The great thing about everything is that I've been having communication with everybody, and I can say that I can see good news coming on its way, and I really wanted to bring it to the body so that I can also get your all's input and what you all want to see here.
 given the fact that not a lot of it has not been master planned and a lot of the districts are affected. I know District 6 abuts this area, District 3, District 7 with the census numbers are gonna also be affected. And so I just wanted to share with you all like a little bit of my approach for this area. I wanted to create a master plan and really focus on bringing more jobs for District 5 and also alleviating the traffic issues that I have.
 in that area and reducing also the carbon footprint. They say that if you live close to work, you're a lot happier. So I wanted to figure out a way if we can master plan this area that not 50,000 people are having to drive out of District 5 every morning to go to work. And so I think it's a good opportunity. We'd like to hear the feedback of the council and it is time to start moving forward for us to connect Mountwood.
 Thank you. Representative Salcedo, I think this is a good follow on to y'all's discussion that y'all had during the strategic planning session. So I know that that you have also talked about a 2022 bond election. I know that Montwood is something that is top of mind because of all the reasons that you mentioned. And then also like on the other side of town, I think Mayor Pro Tem has talked about wrestlers. So I can see.
 streets obviously being on the list and being kind of at the forefront with that list of projects that council is all interested in not only resurfacing projects but some maybe some reconstruction projects and maybe some new projects like these that are more transformative and more visionary in terms of how to connect the city not only from a transportation standpoint like you pointed out but from an economic development standpoint as well
 Thank you, Tommy. And I think one of the things that I also wanted to make sure we're deep diving on is our agnestation policies and that make sure that, you know, they're in tandem with our our vision and our and our goals. So I think as a as a collaborative group, not only the city council, but county, the stakeholders that we all have that same vision and then we work towards it.
 and we make sure we address and change policy so that we can get this done. I think that's an excellent point, and I think in the manner in which you described it might be more amenable for the state to maybe look at it differently, so I'll work with Carla Neiman and with you and the rest of the council to talk through that issue because I think that makes a lot of sense because I know that the state
 has changed the law with regard to annexation, where there's only voluntary annexations. But I think in this particular case, where you're trying to mitigate traffic congestion and there's a public purpose, there might be some wiggle room there where we can talk to our state delegation about. Thank you so much. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
 I'm gonna go because I'm next. Can I address you, Representative Salcedo? I just have some questions. Okay, up next is Representative Hernandez followed by Representative Rodriguez from District 6. Is this currently in the city limits? No. It's not in the city limits, okay. So it's in our ETJ. Okay, and who is currently paying for the plan?
 So basically this item is just for us to start having communications with the county. I know that the county has some funds actually allocated for the actual study.
 But they're not looking to spend them until we all are like on the same page making a plan and so that's this is why I think it's a great opportunity to get you all feedback on you know agnostic agnostic station policies like you mentioned before. That way everything's aligned and and basically get executed and done all together. Okay, so.
 So I guess when we're looking at the plan and looking at communication, because it's in our ETJ, the only thing I would say is that, well, whose responsibility is to actually build it? And any time there's development, that responsibility from all of the previous discussions for new development has always – that burden has always been placed on the developer. Mm-hmm.
 And so I don't want to lose track of that because yes, it is growing pretty significantly, but if we're gonna be part of the discussion and if we're gonna be part of what we would like to see, you already know the problems that we are having in that district
 but also ultimately it needs to align with the recommendations from the eastside master plan that also takes into consideration the subdivision code the annexation code the major therafold plan and that responsibility and all of that zoning and land use should align with the city's use
 because we already know what's gonna happen in the area. All of that land is gonna be annexed, and when it does, it should be planned with the city standards, and that burden should be placed on the developer. And if it's not going to be, then we need to have a discussion about a city and county resolution with the MPO looking for matching dollars or something of that nature. But typically, it falls on the developer. But I'm supportive of it because of the massive growth,
 traffic that you're experiencing over there it's it's it's just really dreadful um from what I hear I try to avoid the area but um I appreciate your leadership in this um and and bringing that discussion to the table with the county because that's only how we're going to make it better
 Thank you for your input. Representative Hernandez, you're spot on on all your points. And so Alex Hoffman is working through the Eastside Master Plan along with Sam Rodriguez. And they're very familiar with this item. They've been working with Representative Salcedo on it. And so your points that you said at the end with regard to it being, it's on the MTP, as you know, the MPO. So it's just a matter of can we move that up in working with the county?
 and kind of supporting the county since it would be a county project since it's outside the city limits but the etj brings in a nuance that we have to take into consideration with all the points you mentioned about all the different planning and zoning items that if we're going to at the end be subject to managing that area at some point it would be nice to have it all within our our code as you pointed out so like I said you've already made all those points and so I won't belabor that
 that my comments with respect to how it could be in a 2022 bond election had to do with more in the district relative to her comments about development and if there's if there's projects where infrastructure can assist with that then that might be something we look at but with respect to that extension itself it would have to be in connection with the with the county um representative rodriguez followed by representative molinar
 Thank you so much and thank you, Representative Salcido, for bringing this item to the agenda. I have lived on Mottwood my entire life. I went to Mottwood High School and this extension is like right down the street from where Mottwood High School is, so I'm very familiar with the traffic.
 unfortunately i can't avoid it i have to go through it um you know there's there's some shopping that we do on the other side of joe battle um we we go to the to the soccer fields the new ones in your district um for my son's soccer tournaments and just to get there is also
 very challenging. I often think if we could just go through Montwood, we could probably save about 20 minutes of our life just getting there every time we have to head that way. So I think that when we talk about quality of life, being able to spend more time at home and less time stuck in traffic, I think that that's a very important thing too to take notice of. So we definitely need to embrace this opportunity and really make it happen because
 it's much needed. It's crazy out there. If any of you have ever not been, I would encourage you to take a field trip and bring some popcorn if you can because you'll be stuck in traffic for a really long time. So of course I'm going to support this. You know, it is in District 5, but my constituents in District 6, I'm pretty sure use this exact same roadway every single day of their lives as well. So thank you.
 You know, one other comment that I'd like to add to the council's discussion is the fact that I know that this might seem impossible because it's been talked about in the past, but Ngorloop was talked about forever and we were able to move that up and this council took action. And so that's kind of how we're looking at this particular initiative as well in that how can we move this up in working with the county and working with the MPO, working with what the federal government is doing.
 department, the federal government rather, is looking at with all the different funds that they're distributing, this might be a perfect candidate to be able to be moved up.
 yeah i agree i mean these are these are growing pains that we see in every parts of the furthest furthest parts of our our district not just uh our city not just the east side but angora loop on the northeast and then also past trans mountain with uh wrestler and all the neighborhoods opening up there representative molinar sir you have the mic and the floor
 Thank you very much, Mayor Pro Tem. Yes, I will support this, no problem. Thank you very much, Representative Salcedo, for bringing this forward. But do you have an approximate length or size of this area that we're considering today? There's nothing in the back of it. Quarter mile? Okay, thank you. One square mile. Well, that's pretty big.
 Okay, and also City manager mr. Gonzalez. Thank you very much for remembering Angora loop I can tell you the district where citizens are really concerned about that They have been waiting and it's been a long time So anything that we can do to speed that up sir, it would be greatly appreciated by its constituents the business community The people that area serves two different school districts these letter independent school districts and they'll pass on it been school there's a as you know, there's a fire station there on an engorged loop and things like that, but I
 the people of district of course certainly do need that thank you representative molina i do believe if i'm not mistaken that we moved it up eight to ten years and so let me just get the date and i'll send it to the entire council i think sam might have that or yvette and lundis to give you an idea of when it's going to start but that got moved up considerably by action from this council yes thank you very much and i remember january this year when
 we passed the design phase and we had a cash match to the state of Texas for that. So thank you. Yes, sir. Oh, yes. We have Representative Hernandez again. It's me. Oh, sorry, Representative Rivera. Well, it disappeared, sir. Thank you. Again, I too would like to express my gratitude to the
 representative placing the item on the agenda it is much needed like has been said over and over again uh having worked that area for several years and uh all sediments were when we met with mr hoffman also all of your concerns and sentiments were expressed on representative fernandez and i hope you did the same when you met with him too but uh these are these are very much necessary
 We have no outlet for the traffic other than to go north or south, and you'll have to wait for a long time to get over the intersections. Like Representative Rodriguez said, been there, done that too. So Representative Cecilio, thank you so much for bringing it up. Thank you, Mayor Pocha. Council, I'll remind you, please no side conversations on the day as well. The meeting is in session. Is there anybody else who want to comment?
 again i think i want to thank representative salcido again this is an important project we are seeing you know leapfrog sprawl and development that goes near our our city limits oftentimes without the accompanying infrastructure whether that is public safety education but most importantly streets as well so these are growing pains and these are challenges that we're seeing throughout different districts but again what we're seeing there
 the upper east side is something that really deserves the attention and again i want to appreciate and applaud uh representative salcedo for placing this item on the agenda um without any other comment i think we can uh move call the question mayor mayor i just wanted to just yes one last comment i just want to say thank my colleagues for for supporting this item and i'm looking forward for us to just work together on this and i want everybody's input so that we can make this happen so thank you so much
 There is a motion and a second to approve. The voting session is open, Representative Anello. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Mayor Pro Tem, it is after 10. May we recess for the Mass Transit Department Board Meeting? Yes. There's a motion and a second to recess the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed? The meeting is in recess at 1020 a.m.
 good morning this is a meeting of the mass transit department board for tuesday december 14 2021 present in chambers our board members shortsvine anello hernandez molinar salcido rodriguez rivera and lizard it is 10 20 a.m we go to call to the public and this morning miss judy ackerman
 has signed up to speak on the expansion of i-10 in downtown and deck over i-10 miss ackerman good morning ma'am you'll have three minutes is it time to start speaking yet yes ma'am
 Thank you so much. Yes, I appreciate this opportunity, especially during COVID, that we can still talk to the board and the city council and the mass transit board, and that you're starting pretty close on time, too. Congratulations. So my comments are pretty straightforward. Lately, you've
 may have noticed that there has been a plethora of national news about problems with expansions of highways in cities, a myriad of problems with this. And I personally am opposed to the expansion of I-10 in downtown. Instead, I recommend that you
 encourage TxDOT to continue with the plans they started for a northeast parkway, also known as a northeast bypass. What it would do is connect the 375 loop to I-10 in New Mexico using New Mexico 213, also known as the Anthony Gap. So this would be a bypass
 totally avoiding downtown. And I recommend that you encourage TxDOT to do that. The other item is the deck. I am opposed to the deck over I-10. I ask that...
 you find out and let the public know exactly how much it will cost and who will pay for the deck and also who's going to end up paying for the expansion of I-10. The people that are championing
 The deck say that it's going to give 12 acres of green space. This is definitely not natural space. It's fake, and I think it's a really bad idea. Please find out how much it's going to cost and who will pay it, and then ask the public if they're in favor of the expansion of I-10 and the deck. Thank you so much for your time.
 Bye. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman. That concludes call to the public. We now move on to the consent agenda. All matters listed under the consent agenda will be considered by Mass Transit Department Board to be routine and will be enacted by one motion unless separate discussion is requested by Board members. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman. Thank you, Ms. Ackerman.
 Prior to the vote, members of the audience may ask questions regarding items on the consent agenda. When the vote has been taken, if an item has not been called out for separate discussion, the item has been approved. The Mass Transit Department Board may, however, reconsider any item at any time during the meeting. There is a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda. On that motion, Board Member Schwarzwein.
 Aye. Anello? Aye. Hernandez? Yes. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Yes. Rivera? Yes. Lizara? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. Item number three on the regular agenda is discussion and action that the City of El Paso adopts the City of El Paso's Mass Transit Department's Sun Metro Federal Title VI Program and updated Title VI Fair Equity Analysis on the mobile payment option.
 Mayor Pro Tem, is there a presentation for this item? I don't know why I asked you. I'm sorry. Yes. I guess, would you like to see a presentation, Representative Vanilla? I would, yes. All right, fantastic. Managing Director of Sun Metro, and yes, I have a presentation. Can everyone see my screen? Yes.
 Okay. So the item today is the Metro Title VI Fair Equity Analysis. This equity analysis is required by the FTA no matter what change is made, whether it's perceived as a beneficial change or as a change that would impact the passengers negatively.
 In this particular presentation, the two changes that we're submitting for the FTA's consideration is the free streetcar rides. You might recall we used to charge for the streetcar rides, and so that would be perceived as a beneficial change. And the other one is for the allowance of the cashless ticket system on the Sun Metro app.
 which is positive to some and maybe not perceived positively by others. But the whole purpose of the equity analysis is to look at the impact that it has on the passengers and to make sure we're not overburdening the riders. So this type of an equity analysis is required anytime we make a change.
 And then it has to be approved by you, the Mass Transit Board, so that when the FTA comes for our three-year triennial audit, we are able to show that the governing body was in support of any changes that were made by me, by the director. Representative Inouye?
 Oh, were you done? I'm sorry. I apologize. Oh, no. I have a whole presentation. Okay, great. So, Strategic Goal 7.3, Enhance a Regional Comprehensive Transportation System. And so, Title VI is an FTA requirement that ensures the agencies receiving the federal funds do not discriminate against the providers on the basis of race, color, and national origin.
 So the Title VI Civil Rights Act was passed in 1964. It was subsequently amended. And the purpose is without regard to race, color, or national origin. As recipients of the financial federal assistance, SEMETO will operate and plan for transit services such that the services are available and provided equitably.
 that our services are adequate to provide access and mobility, that we offer opportunities to all of our passengers to participate in public hearings and transit planning decision-making processes, and that these planning sessions and meetings are open and accessible.
 And the last is that some metro, if we do find during this equity analysis that we are indeed overburdening a population, that we will take remedial and corrective actions to prevent this discriminatory treatment of the passengers. So that's the guidelines from the FTA.
 So the way it works, we go on the buses, we ride the buses, and we collect paper servings from the riders. And you'll see in the next couple of slides, we interviewed about 2,200 passengers.
 And so from that data, we determine the number and the percent of users by each fare type. The fare type is passes, coins, special programs, discounts, on the app, or from a cashier. And then we evaluate the difference between the total survey
 and then against the minority users and the non-minority users. And then we do it again to the entire survey against low income and non-low income,
 And then we look at the impact to determine if there's a disproportionate burden. So the Mass Transit Board, some effort in 2017, established a threshold of 25% differential. And if so, if our analysis shows that the burden is more than 25% on any of these populations, we would have to stop with the proposed change.
 And you'll see in my presentation, we're not anywhere near that percentage, but I wanted to explain the background so you have a better understanding of how we look at the data. And then of course, finally, if it were over 25, if we did find it a huge impact, we would change our recommendations and we would offer new ideas or recommendations that would prevent that potential undue burden.
 So what I just said on the previous slide, here is a graph if you're more of a visual learner. So any fare change or any change in what we do that would impact the passenger, we analyze the information from the ridership surveys.
 And then based on the survey, we evaluate the impact that it has on the minority and low-income populations, and then whether it's more or less than 25% impact. So if it's less and there's no negative impact, we implement the change. And if it's more, we would evaluate alternatives.
 So, what changes are being made? The proposed changes are the mobile ticketing option for the fair media and the periodic free streetcar rides.
 So here is the data. It is a very congested slide and I apologize for that. But the bottom line here at the bottom in the red, the grand total, we have 2,201 surveys. And you can see that 89% of our ridership is low income and 11% is non-low income.
 So we take that 89% and we use it against each individual line, line by line by line by line. So it's 89% versus the – let me see if I can go back. Now I can't go back. Let me go back to the beginning, to my busy slide. I apologize. So I use the 89%.
 versus this 86%. So the difference there would be three percentage points. So the burden on the low income would be the 89% total versus the 86 is three percentage points. And we do that line by line, 89 versus 100, 89 versus 100 is 11, 89 versus 67,
 And so you can see that all of the numbers fall well below the 25%, except this one line, which is the military monthly pass. And the military monthly pass, we only had three numbers.
 data points, three riders. And so when you have such a small number of data points, it kind of throws off the percentages. But because it's a military monthly pass, the FTA would allow that to be an exception to the 25% rule.
 So, and I'll just stop right there if there's any questions about the data. But you can see basically the whole point is to make sure that we're well below the 25% threshold between the actual data that we collected and the low income ridership. Representative Rivera, do you have a question? No. Okay. Does anyone have a question? Representative Anello?
 Thanks. I'm a little confused. So you're saying that you are making changes by adding the free trolley in the mobile ticketing app. And so you are required to do an equity assessment across the board.
 Right. Okay, so because it's a little confusing. So nothing is changing. We're not, I guess my question is how are these things being funded and or subsidized? That's not happening with a fair increase or any impact to the rider. Right. The equity, okay. That's where I was confused because I was like is something changing so we have to do an equity evaluation or it's just required for any change?
 It's required for any change. And once you approve it, we just put it in the file, and we have it available for our audit when FTA comes. And in the future, if there ever were to be a fee increase, a fair increase, we would do the same exercise all over again. Okay. And so I guess that goes back to kind of what I was asking, how are we subsidizing and or paying for this? The mobile ticketing was in the budget, correct? Correct.
 But we did originally budget for, or did we budget for a profit from trolley tickets? No. This year I budgeted the funding as a standalone so that it can remain free as long as City Council wants it to be free. Okay. And a second to reconvene the regular City Council meeting. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 the meeting is back in session at 10 50 a.m we're on page seven on operational focus updates and we begin with number 21 a management update on the city of el paso water parks good uh good morning mayor council brian crowe with destination el paso i'll be presenting to you item 21 an update on the el paso water parks if we can go ahead and load the presentation
 If you remember, council, y'all had asked for an update on this. That's the reason why we put it together, so they could get a report on the activities following the presentation. Mayor, is there a way that we can actually go through, hold the presentation to the end of it for today? Yes, sir. Okay, thank you. I think y'all need to vote on that. Do they have to vote on that? Yes, sir. So then, what would you like to...
 Motion to postpone presentations to the end of the council agenda. I don't think we need to vote on that, can we? I don't think so either, but. It's preferable that council does vote to table. You want to table items 21, 22, 23, and 24 to the end of the agenda? Yes. Is there a second?
 There's a motion and a second to table items 21, 22, 23, and 24 to the end of the regular agenda. On that motion, Mayor Pro Tem Shortspine? Aye. Representative Manalo? Aye. Molinar? Aye. Salcido? Aye. Rodriguez? Rivera? Yes. Lizardo? Aye. And the motion passes unanimously. We now move to the first reading of ordinances. These are items 25 to 27. Aye.
 there's a motion made by representative rivera seconded by representative lizada to approve the first reading of ordinances these are items 25 26 only items 25 and 26 since item 27 was deleted on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to item number 28 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning from parcel one from rf ranch and farm to m2 heavy manufacturing and parcel two from rf ranch and farm to m2 heavy manufacturing and imposing conditions at 7 000 stan roberts good morning mayor and council
 and I do need to hold on one second I'll second but I'd like to hear public comment too do we have any public comment Mr. Richard Day you've signed up to speak on this item I don't see him here I know it said it's in person but I don't see him you're correct mayor I don't see him in chambers he's hard to miss you know that right so do you guys want to
 No? Okay, so we have a motion and a second? Yes, there was a motion made by Representative Anello, seconded by Representative Molinar to approve. We do need to read revised conditions into the record. Go ahead, please. I don't know if that would occur before or after the vote. Yes, ma'am. No, you need to do it now.
 Okay, thank you. All right, so we do have revised conditions on this item. These are what we briefed you with last week. And so I will begin with number one and just read straight through. Condition one prior to the issuance of building permits, a detailed site development plan shall be reviewed and approved by City Council.
 And condition two, prior to the issuance of building permits, a 25-foot irrigated landscape buffer shall be installed and maintained along the entirety of the southerly property line along the subject property's frontage on Stan Roberts Street. This buffer shall contain two rows spaced 20 feet apart of native medium or large deciduous trees chosen from the city's plant list.
 of two inch caliber and 10 feet in height. Within the rows, trees shall be spaced every 30 feet on center. 15% of the shrubs required by the landscape ordinance shall be located within this buffer. And condition three, the parkway abutting the subject property along the Stan Roberts right of way shall be 10 feet, and the sidewalk abutting the Stan Roberts right of way shall be constructed as a 10 foot hike and bike
 and condition 4 prior to the issuance of building permits a 25 foot irrigated landscape buffered shall be installed and maintained along the entirety of the northerly property line the buffer shall contain two rows spaced 20 feet apart of medium or large native deciduous trees chosen from the city's plant list of 2 inch caliber and 10 feet in height within the rows the trees shall be spaced every 30 feet on center and
 Condition five, prior to the issuance of building permits, a combination masonry wrought iron wall of three feet in height of masonry and a minimum of three feet of three additional feet of wrought iron shall be constructed and maintained along the entirety of the property.
 line abutting the Stan Roberts right-of-way and condition six prior to the issuance of building permits a masonry wall of eight feet in height shall be constructed along the entirety of the subject property's northerly property line and condition seven all manufacturing processing repair or storage uses shall maintain a 500 foot setback from
 the property lawn along portions of the subject property that abut or are across the right of way from any residential zones or uses. Office uses may be located within this setback and condition eight. Prior to the issuance of certificates of occupancy, a masonry wall of eight feet in height shall be constructed and maintained along around any outdoor storage areas and industrial and manufacturing operations on the subject property. Condition nine.
 the following uses shall be prohibited on the subject property a sanitary landfills b penal facilities correctional facilities and detention centers c automobile wrecking yards d shooting ranges and finally condition ten
 All light poles within 20 feet of the property line along Stan Roberts or within 20 feet of the northerly property line shall not exceed 28 feet in height. All light fixtures shall be shielded and maintained in such a manner that the shielding is effective as described in the definition in El Paso City Code 1818-060 for full cutoff light fixtures and conditions.
 Thank you. We did. I just see Mr. Dayoub walk in. So if we can go to call to the public, please. Yes, sir. Good morning, Mr. Dayoub. We're on item 28, sir, the item you signed up to speak on, and you'll have three minutes. Thank you very much. That was good timing. Yeah, we were getting ready to vote on it, so you did have good timing. Thank you so much. Good morning, Mr. Dayoub. Mr. Dayoub, city manager, city attorney, Mr. Weston, it's good to see all of you live and in person today.
 Merry Christmas to all of you. Very quickly, I just want to express our gratitude, and by ours, I speak on behalf of my client, Mr. Doug Schwartz and Southwest Land,
 Too often I stand before you representing someone, usually asking you to change your minds about something or to consider our views and sometimes it's successful, sometimes not so successful, but I just want to take a moment because we just want to express our appreciation. We began with meeting with Representative Molinar about the project in his district
 He was very receptive to our concerns as a result We then had subsequent meetings with friendly almost everyone on council either in person or over the phone or virtual and then specifically I want to speak to
 to Philip Etoway, to Kevin Smith, to Kerry Weston. They worked with us in a true effort to find a balance, a compromise, so we could move this forward. And this is an important project for the city,
 My client, Mr. Schwartz, certainly did not want to do anything to delay the project or to impede it in any way. And as a result of their willingness to work with us and find balance, it turned out it's a true win-win situation. And so on behalf of Mr. Schwartz, again, thank you to all of you. I appreciate your willingness to work with us. That's it. Have a great holiday. God bless you all. This is a great way to end the year. Thank you, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you.
 and with that we do have a motion in a second but we need to take the revisions first or can we put them together you can adopt it as amended sir okay good since the revisions were read into the record so we'll do that thank you we have a motion in a second there is a motion made by representative anello seconded by representative molinar to adopt as amended
 Mayor, I just had a quick comment to say. Yes, sir. Go ahead. I just, again, want to thank that Mr. Dave is here. It's always a great day when Richard is in the house. And I think that it's...
 I think it's actually a really great story here that we have this great opportunity to do something that has been talked about in terms of looking at advanced manufacturing now for decades in this community. It's certainly a great opportunity to explore further and I'm really excited and happy that city staff was able to work with the community at large and with the district rep as well and this council and I really look forward to seeing us make the most of this opportunity
 here in el paso thank you mayor thank you mayor leaser so this is an item that is in district 4 and
 and we always have to have some type of vision for the El Paso and the community, but specifically right today for this item in District 4, I'm very proud to co-sponsor, or not co-sponsor, but second this motion. And I just want to thank all the different departments that worked diligently in making this thing happen. It will be a game changer for this city and specifically for District 4. So I would ask for great support for this council. Thank you.
 thank you and with that we do have a motion in a second and i think uh mr day you've kind of summed it up uh how everyone worked together whether city managers staff with mr weston and phillips staff and uh and the representative so it um this is a
 great way to show how your tax dollars had worked for that best represents the community so thank you again for for that carnal weston and the rest of the team with that ms prime yes sir there is a motion and a second to adopt the ordinance as amended on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously
 the next item is number 29 and this is a public hearing on an ordinance changing the zoning on parcel one from rf ranch and farm to r5 residential and parcel two from m1 light manufacturing to c4 commercial at one two one zero zero dyer street move to approve
 motion and a second staff does have an amendment to read into the record for this ordinance as well yes we do to include one condition so this is an ordinance changing the zoning of the following real property known as parcel one a portion of tract five and six NKA tract five
 5 and 6 section 15 block 80 township 1 texas and pacific railroad company survey 1 to 100 dyer street city of el paso el paso county texas from rf ranch and farm to r5 residential and parcel 2 a portion of section 15 nka track 6 section 15 block 80 township i
 I'm sorry, Township 1, Texas and Pacific Railroad Company Survey, 12100 Dyer Street, City of El Paso, El Paso County, Texas, from M1, Manufacturing to C4 Commercial.
 And this is with one condition, that a 10-foot landscape buffer with high-profile native or naturalized trees of at least 2-inch caliper and 10 feet in height shall be placed at 15 feet on center along the property line adjacent to residential or apartment zone districts or uses. The landscape buffer shall be irrigated and maintained by the property owner at all times and shall be installed prior to the issuance of any certificates of occupancy. Thank you.
 With that, we have a motion and a second. Yes, sir. There is a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Rodriguez, to adopt as amended on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session. And the motion passes with seven affirmative votes. Representative Anello voting nay. The motion does pass.
 We now move to item number 30. This is a public hearing on an ordinance amending Title 15, Chapter 15.24, Acquisition, Use, and Disposition of City Property to authorize the establishment of policies and fees for the use, purchase, and disposition of city property. Motion to approve. Second. Motion and a second. There is a motion made by Representative Rivera, seconded by Representative Hernandez to adopt the ordinance.
 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously item number 31 is discussion in action on a resolution amending schedule c fy 2022 budget resolution to establish the amount of fees related to real estate transactions under chapter 15.24 of the el paso city code motion to approve there's a motion in a second
 There's a motion made by Representative Salcido, seconded by Representative Lizárraga to approve the resolution on that motion. Call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously.
 item number 32 is discussion and action that the city manager is authorized to sign the amendment associated with award of solicitation number 2021-0375r eastside regional police command center to sun construction inc for construction services motion approved second motion in a second there's a motion made by representative salcido seconded by representative rivera to approve on that motion call for the vote in the voting session
 And the motion passes unanimously. Item number 33 is discussion and action that the city manager be authorized to sign a three-year agreement for professional services to perform traffic signal synchronization services citywide with AECOM Technical Services, Inc., Walter P. Moore & Associates, Inc., and Kimley Horn, Inc. Move to approve. Motion and a second. There's a motion made by Representative Molinar, seconded by Representative Salcido to approve.
 on that motion call for the vote in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously that brings us to the end of the regular agenda may we have a motion to take items 21 22 23 and 24 from the table yes there's a motion and a second to take items 21 22 23 and 24 from the table in favor
 Anyone opposed? The motion passes. We're on page 7, item number 21 is an operational focus update on the City of El Paso water parks. Mr. Crowe? Good morning, Mayor and Council. Can you guys hear me? Before you get started, I do want to congratulate you on your, you know, well-deserved promotion, and I know you've done an incredibly great job 17 years as part of our community.
 And I want to, again, thank you for your dedication and devotion to our community. And I know this is a huge step and a big move for you. And I, again, congratulate you and thank you, you and Travis. I hope you enjoy your new promotion, but I want you to know that this will always be your home. And I thank you for that.
 Thank you very much, sir. That's well said. El Paso will always be home. I'm an El Pasoan first. I don't think that can ever change. Brian, I also really quickly want to say congratulations, and I haven't reached out to you. So proud of you, so happy for you, but I think it's worth noting that this is actually a huge loss for El Paso. You really have done so much for this community, and we won't be the same without you. So thank you for all of the work you've done, and good luck in the future. Thank you. We're going to miss that suit.
 Yeah, I'm gonna we're gonna pass the suit down so you'll get to see the suit. We're gonna get a different size, I think, for Jose, but we'll make sure he has something fun and festive for Winterfest. Here's my date, Mr. Grohl. Thank you. Thank you, guys. I appreciate it. Good morning. Brian Grohl with Destination El Paso presenting to you this morning a 2021 season review and a look ahead for water parks in 2022. IT, if we can go ahead and advance.
 just a quick uh i want to introduce to you the team of folks that mid water parks happen
 I do want to mention one person not shown here, Amanda Fernandez on our destination El Paso staff was critical. She was our project manager that helped us get transitioned as we were awarded the responsibility for water park operations and then very quickly had to get up an operational for the 2021 season. And so she was a critical component in our team. Additionally, several of the folks you see here were
 El Paso expats, folks that had gone off to other parts of the country to work at, well, very renowned water park and resort operations throughout the country and returned to El Paso to join the staff here at water parks as these projects came online. Next slide, please.
 So what do we offer at El Paso Water Parks? First, affordability with general admission pricing ranging from $6 to $12 per person, a season pass at $49 per person that can be used at any of the four parks, and a wide variety of affordable food and beverage offerings as well.
 Second, quality, the attractions, 12 slides, one surf simulator, one of the only few of its kind, the only one of its kind in the region, four toddler areas, four lazy rivers, and four lap pools, cabanas and private areas for guests to reserve, and branding, unique branding at each of the four water parks that are inclusive of theming and experience. And finally, these are great community recreation assets that are available throughout El Paso. Next slide, please.
 Next slide, please. I want to give you an overview of the 2021 season. I do think it's important to point out that we refer to this as our partial season. Quite honestly, 2022 will really be our first full operating season, as we brought the parks on one at a time between May 2021
 and the Independence Day weekend, and so not all the parks were operational all summer. And so you can see that in these overall numbers here. But we had an incredible partial season for 2021, total park attendance at almost 100,000 at 98,158, revenue generated a little over 1.6 million, season passes sold 3,172, and expenses and operations at 2.9 million. Next slide, please.
 Taking a deeper dive into each of the four parks, Camp Cohen in District 4 opened first on May 29th, opened on Memorial Day weekend. We had over 4,100 patrons go through the park over the three-holiday weekend. It was pretty intense for us operationally, a great, successful opening. The park operated for 98 days of the partial season, attendance at 41,525.
 responsible for 1,503 of the season passes sold and generated $724,202 in park revenue. Next slide.
 The Oasis located on the Eastside Regional Park at the Beast came online second on June 6th. This park features the surf simulator. So we were operational out here for 85 days. Park attendance 29,511. Season passes sold 1,321 and generated $491,959 in revenue. Next slide.
 Third to come online was Lost Kingdom. This park came online on June 20th, 66 days of operation, park attendance 12,305, season pass sales 215, and overall revenue generated $166,359. Next slide.
 And finally, Chapateo came online on June 30th, so 57 days of operation, park attendance of 14,844, 202 season passes sold, and revenue of $235,859. Next slide.
 So what do we have to do to get up and operational to make it to May and bring all four of those parks online? We hired over 300 employees and trained them in aquatic and life safety and guest services and park operations. Additionally, we supported a closeout and finalizing the construction and handover of the different parks to the city.
 a big lift in human resources and hiring and training, creating and documenting operational processes, securing, installing, and training on the point-of-sale and ticketing system, service training, and safety training. Next slide.
 Here is season attendance as we discussed. You can see it here month by month, and each of the parks identified in a different color. You can see, obviously, parks that came online first, Cam Cohen, followed by Oasis, followed by Lost Kingdom, and then Chapateo. Strong attendance in the June and July months. And then as school started throughout El Paso County in early August, you saw the impact to operating attendance. Next slide.
 Here is season revenue broken out again by parks. You can see Camp Cohen, the largest generator of revenue. Of course, it was also open the longest as well, followed by the Oasis, then followed by Chapateo, and then followed by Lost Kingdom. Next slide, please. Next slide.
 So I wanted to give an overview of marketing and advertising. We mentioned each of the parks has unique theming and branding, really an incredible component to the park, something that really kind of I think adds to make the experience a next level resort like experience. So we used those creative assets to market using both traditional and non-traditional marketing and advertising tactics to make a splash in the El Paso community.
 So we had using outdoor, so that's both static and digital boards throughout El Paso and each park was announced in its respective area and neighborhood to bring as those parks came online. Radio was used throughout the season to market and message with different offerings and promotions that took place at the different parks. And as we can transition from when school returned and some of our adjustments to operating hours to primarily weekend focus, we use radio to communicate that.
 Print was limited, but we did have a great outreach to the Fort Bliss communities using a print publication that circulates on Fort Bliss to really welcome that community and connect them to Camp Cohen.
 and extensive use of paid social to develop audiences. In addition to marketing the parks themselves, we also helped create brand and audiences around each of the parks using the geography and the geofencing of the areas around each of the individual water parks so that we would have a built-in audience so that we could regularly then communicate through free posting, through social media to encourage them to return, to make them aware of offers and promotions,
 Really a great outreach for the startup, for the facilities. And then a few of the things we had, we were present at a number of events throughout the community. Early on, a lot of our focus was on hiring and recruiting. Hiring 300 people at the beginning of the summer was a big push, especially coming off the pandemic and needing people to come back to work, etc.
 So we were heavily focused on being out in the community, not only to promote the parks themselves, but also joining the operating team at the parks. And then finally, we partnered with each of the district offices to provide complimentary tickets to promote the parks in their respective communities. Next.
 Here's just an overview of some of the marketing metrics, including total followers, impressions, engagements, link clicks, subscriptions to our newsletter, website views, circulated print materials, the number of press and media events, and then non-paid news stories and mentions for the parks. Next. Next.
 So this is a big deal. For the water parks, one of the things when we're looking at what's important to us operationally, the number one focus for us in operating the facilities is always safety, followed by customer service and experience. But safety is the number one focus for us in operating the parks. Destination El Paso and the water park team, we partnered with Ellis & Associates to provide the specific –
 training, oversight, audit, analysis and review of aquatic safety. The Alice Associates program is considered to be the gold standard throughout the world. It's used by major operators, Disney, Six Flags, Hilton, Kalahari and other major water park and attraction operators. And we are very excited and very proud to announce that in all of our
 field audits as part of the process. Each of the parks was visited three times in an unannounced field audit by a aquatic safety auditor. And all of the parks received meets, exceeds expectations ratings. And in fact, Camp Cohen received a platinum level recognition based on its overall scores. And the other facilities are all in the gold category overall.
 To be in those three levels is just by itself. And we're in the top two with platinum and gold. Only 14% of their clients throughout the world can actually rank at the platinum level. So this is very significant. As I mentioned, aquatic safety was a huge focus for us.
 operationally and we're very proud of the scores that we received throughout the season especially in a startup season in a first year and all the different things that we were trying to make it to have happen at the same time this is an incredible incredible accolade next slide
 In addition to the parks themselves, two of our staff were recognized by the program in an elite status as a Golden Guard, Jessica Jimenez and Isaac Pena. They were observed during the unannounced safety audits exhibiting behaviors that surpassed expectations of all safety standards in areas such as swimmer surveillance, professionalism and vigilance. This status is achieved by only about 1% of lifeguards worldwide.
 on an annual basis. Hey Brian, let me just stop you for a second. Council, I know that several times when we present to y'all whether whatever program it is that we put in front of you, oftentimes you ask us for best practices, us looking at other cities. Well, we did that before we unveiled this program and before we rolled it out. So that's the reason why they knew who the best of the best was.
 and they competed with it, and they were making sure that we got inspected. So I want to thank staff for doing that and doing that benchmarking ahead of time. And again, that's just one more example of how we've evolved as an organization and are getting better and better and doing things on the front end as opposed to the back end. Thanks, Brian. Thank you, sir. Next slide.
 And then I just want to mention to you, aquatic safety was our number one priority, but the customer experience was our second priority. And I want to show you here some of the reviews that we've received from the different parks.
 Really, El Paso families and visitors were very vocal about how much they enjoyed having the El Paso water parks this season. We received a lot of great feedback on the experience, on the food, on the quality of service, on the friendliness of the employees and staff. All things that we're very proud of. Next slide.
 And so we'll look ahead here for our 2022 season goals. And as I mentioned, really season 2022 is really our first season. It's our first full season. We've had a full staff on board for the preseason advance, which takes place here in the fall as we move into first quarter next year and we'll start hiring and training and to be ready to come online in the spring. Really something that is really necessary for us to have the full effect of
 both operationally and financially of the park. So we're excited to be going into our first full season in 2022. Next slide.
 So I want to give you a projected overview of what we anticipate in terms of revenue and expenditures for the parks, all four parks as a whole. We're projecting 2022 revenue at about a 44% increase over actual prior year at $2.3 million. Projected expenses at $5.7 million. Attendance for 2022 is predicted at about $150,000 across all parks.
 Group and event sales are projected to make up about $433,000 of overall revenue. And we are targeting season pass sales target number at $6,100 for the 2022 season. Next slide. So some of our goals for 2022 training, we're going to need to hire, train, and onboard over 500 local citizens in life safety training and customer service.
 with recreation to provide affordable, high quality and exclusive recreation facilities for our citizens here in our community. Events, we're going to be very focused this year on implementing events and specials for residents of El Paso. It's a new component for our first full season to add more special event content and programming around the operations this year. We talk about the hiring and what an important component it is for us, but we really do look at
 not only are we hiring because we need staff and personnel to operate the facilities to be successful for the season, but we look at it as a two-way street. It's a great opportunity for us to provide training, workforce skills, and life skills. We tend to have a younger staff. We hire folks as young as 16 into our aquatic safety and operations roles. And it's really a great opportunity for them to kind of have their first work experience
 Many of our staff that joined us in our last season, we likened it to a camp experience more so than having a job, something that we're very proud of. And then marketing. We need to keep the El Paso water parks on top of mind throughout the community. We're doing that through community outreach and engagement, outdoor advertising, and, of course, using digital and social media tools to market and advertise the parks. Next slide.
 So how do we intend to accomplish these goals? Our management team is a core element to our success. The full-time management team involved provides community outreach to promote the parks. We're going to be engaged with schools, having staff involved in area schools through fundraisers and give-back programs, targeted pricing, and create exclusive pricing specials within the park and offer additional specials and promotions.
 training and building, conducting premium safety and service trainings at all four locations, as well as creating training reinforcements throughout the summer with mirrored standards at all of our parks and locations. Next slide.
 and strengthening our team. As we move into 2022, we are planning to hire team members to help meet our goals and enhance our already strong team spirit. One of the new roles that we'll be looking at for the 2022 season is a group and private event sales manager. This person will be an advocate for our parks, showcasing all of the different incredible opportunities for special events and group events that can take place.
 really have been engaged with large organizations and companies and will be a conduit for private rental and special event programming at the parks. And so they'll work very closely with our marketing department to meet with prospective clients and to host private events. Everything from small events using cabana at the park to complete park takeover and buyout and
 outside of the public hours that the park is operational. We had a few of those in 2021, but we're looking to really grow that segment of our operation for the 2022 season. Next slide. Here's an example of some of the different programming and special event.
 and opportunities that our team is working on for the 2022 season. Our management team traveled to the World Water Park Association training meetings in October in San Antonio. Actually, the El Paso water parks were featured on the cover of the October magazine that was released at
 at the conference in September with a story about El Paso's vision to create this amenity for its community and bring not one, not two, not three, but four water parks online all at the same time, which was an incredible feat. We were recognized for that by the World Water Park Association at those meetings. And then our team came back from those meetings to spend a week in strategic planning and looking at the year ahead to develop a plan
 our goals and metrics in operation, some of which I've shared with you here, and to what we're gonna be doing in the 2022 season. Next slide. Here are some of our marketing goals for the year ahead, the season ahead.
 implementing airport activation to promote area parks, long-term digital billboard campaign for events and specials, advertising through City TV, digital screens and TVs throughout community gathering spaces, expanding our radio reach to include the Las Cruces area and include more detail about promotional campaigns, giveaways, special days, and events.
 Now that our border with our sister city in Ciudad Juarez is open, we will be looking at utilizing English and Spanish publications to welcome those traveling to El Paso to visit the parks. And not only in the Juarez community, but also, as you know, we, Destination El Paso, through Visit El Paso, we market aggressively into the interior of Mexico, Chihuahua City, Torreon, and others. And we'll be able to communicate with you.
 pair up our marketing and advertising communications in those markets to make those audiences aware of this attraction. So when they're coming to visit El Paso for family, for shopping, and for other entertainment outlet experience, they can add this to their itinerary while they're here in El Paso. Digital marketing, increasing our digital platform by expanding our geofencing targets and our out of home campaign.
 create an extensive campaign featuring the sales of private events this is going to be a big focus for us as i mentioned we're hiring someone explicitly uh for our focus on a private event and special event revenue and development community outreach again we want to partner with the district offices and work with you to be able to have outreach into your communities with complimentary tickets so that you can get that out to groups and audiences and families that are in need of that
 We'll be doing special press and VIP preview parties. We've got some new surprises and things that we want to share with the audiences as we come online in 22. Really engaging with community groups like Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, our school districts, etc. All these things that we didn't quite have the opportunity to do in last season, now that we have a full staff on board in the offseason. Yeah.
 We're using this time to develop those relationships. So we're really a part of the communities that we serve with each of the four parks as their place throughout our community. And then continuing to be active in event booths. In fact, the water park is an exhibitor at Winterfest this season and has been promoting and selling season passes using that booth.
 being active at Fan Fiesta, which is coming up here at the end of this month with the Sun Bowl Association, and just strategic placement and cross-communication and cross-marketing with peers in our quality of life portfolio, the zoo, parks, museums and cultural affairs and their events. And then, of course, through the Destination El Paso Visitor Centers, we're also able to reach visitors to our community and make them aware of what the water parks have to offer.
 offer. We're going to be creating new one-minute, 30-second, and 15-second ads for TV and for digital TV distribution and through digital circulation as well. Next slide. So that concludes our presentation for an overview of the successful 2021 partial season, and I'll look ahead to our first full season in 2022.
 Well, thank you, but I think we've discussed you're not going to be here, but we thank you for everything you've done and we look forward to you coming and enjoying these great amenities in our community. Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Thanks, Mayor. Thanks, Mayor. And thank you, Brian. How's everything going up there? Tulsa, right? Tulsa.
 Yes, Tulsa. It's not the same. It doesn't have the home feel that El Paso has for sure. What's the current temperature outside? I think we're supposed to get into the low 70s today. Oh, wow. Okay. Well, obviously I have no retort to that. It is getting colder later in the week.
 Awesome. Well, again, we miss you out here. Representative Rodriguez had brought in some gussies tamales, so it's quite enjoyable over here, so maybe we'll send you up some as well.
 There's no match for that year for sure. Really excited about everything going on with the parks. This is a great investment in our community and it's helping to serve everybody in our community as well. Just a couple questions. You had made mention of a new parks coordinator position. What is that? I forgot the exact term for that position.
 So we have a, we'll be hiring a new sales person with a sales focused role to focus on selling everything from the cabana and rental experiences on a smaller scale for private events that can, or for events that can take place during the public hours to also developing and selling private rentals of the individual parks. We had a number of groups that rented the entire park after
 public operating hours for private events with their organizations and so we'll be looking to grow that it's a it's a it's a great revenue opportunity for the park so it's not just about our daily operating hours we have great opportunities both before and after the public operating hours to attract special events and private events to the park so that's what that person will be focused on
 Are we looking at it? I know that you had made mention that we're looking at advertising selling packages at Winterfest Do we offer an early bird discount or is that something or is it kind of just it doesn't make a difference when you buy? You are correct. So we offered a great opportunity during the Black Friday and Cyber Monday periods About 40% off
 the retail value of the pass. We have plans to continue to offer different promotions on the season pass between now and when we open in May. In fact, there is an opportunity right now if you go on to ElPasoWaterParks.com or APWaterParks.com to secure a season pass for a reduced rate. Obviously, as we get closer and closer to opening, the rate goes closer and closer to its retail value.
 retail values. So if you are thinking about joining us this summer, this is your best opportunity. As time goes on, the price will only go up as we approach the opening.
 If there is any graphics that y'all have that you can share with us, maybe there's some sort of like wishing about the summer in the middle of winter kind of vibes. Would love to share that with our district offices as well. The other question I have relates close to this is I know that made mention with the ecotourism update about a position, ecotourism sort of position. Just curious if that's been filled out yet and how you...
 how you sort of see that vision within the larger Destination El Paso envelope? Sure. In fact, I was in our staff meeting on Monday with the team at Destination El Paso. We discussed that position. We have a draft job description. There's other things that we are adding to that. So in some internal conversation with our staff to finalize that. We think at this point to post it this close to the holiday, we won't get the focus or attention on it that we think it deserves. So we are now going to hold it.
 that until after the holiday break so that we can get as many eyes on that as possible. So early January, we should have that position posted to begin that process. And this would be a separate position than the sort of parks...
 promoter coordinator The ecotourism role we're talking about will be a staff position in the visit El Paso division
 Is there a water park striker force currently assembled? There is not. Okay. But if you want to be the volunteer, we can get you a speedo and some flippers, and you can be first up. I'm going to represent Rivera, try to play that game last year. Okay.
 If he goes and gets the Speedo, I'll join in as well. I see you are like a Scuba Steve sort of look. It's a look. It's a look. It's very Mediterranean. That's all I can say.
 So last but not least, so I again just to reiterate, I think that's good that there we do have these different divisions, different striker forces within within destination related ecotourism and the water parks. I do think that there's always opportunities for collaboration and somebody that might want to take their family out to an afternoon at the water parks might want to take them the next morning up to visit some of our trails and trailheads. So I think there's always great opportunities for syndication.
 having all these three things under one umbrella with Destination El Paso, and then of course we're also organized the Greater Quality of Life portfolio. So we work collectively to take advantage of the different assets and tools that we have
 One of the things that we do have with the water parks is we have a water park radio. So we have audio track programming that runs in all the parks. We're able to also have like almost little advertisements for other things that are going on throughout the city. And that'll be something that we'll be doing this season to promote events, not only those within the Destination El Paso organization, but throughout the QOL portfolio.
 Great. Thanks, Brian. Thank you, Mayor. And I look forward to going with Representative Rivera. Maybe we have a District 1, District 7 themed swimmer. Thank you. Sounds good. Representative Molinar. Thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you. Brian, very good job. Thank you very much for the presentation. We wish you well on your best and your new position there.
 Thank you, sir. Anyway, there's a couple of things. It's great to hear that Cam Cohen received that, if I'm understanding this correctly, will receive or has received the Platinum Award.
 It's in the contention for it. Just based on its overall high scores, it puts it in the top echelon internationally. And so I believe we find out in Q1 kind of what actually gets awarded. But we are eligible for it. Okay. And we can go IT to slide 21 to 1. So slide 21 does show –
 the projected revenue of 2.3 million, but however, principal, excuse me, projected expense of 5.7. I completely understand it the very first year and things are gonna happen and things we need to spend some money to make some money, but hopefully, how do you forecast, even though what in your business experience, sir, what do you forecast for all the water parks here in El Paso? And you're asking for the revenue projection for the parks? Yes. In other words, you will, you,
 forecast that these things will be changed, increased? Before he answers, Representative Molyneux, let me just interject a couple of points. Go ahead. Number one, this was not a full season.
 Number two, because of COVID, there was a lot of push and pull, there was a lot of movement on when information would go out. And then there was a stair step or a phasing in of all these different facilities. So I wanted to give you that as a backdrop. The other thing I wanted to tell you, those expenses, we had to pay for having everyone on board on the front end. So that was a carrying expense.
 And so I would think that the revenue would be projected at a higher amount in the future.
 But again, it's all part and parcel having to do with how we market and how the sales go and then how the service is. That's the reason why we really felt like early on we wanted to have a destination El Paso get all the training and have them do the marketing and have them do the actual delivery of the service. But I wanted to just give you that backdrop in terms of what the thinking was at the executive level and why we did what we did in terms of how we structured this.
 Brian, go ahead and answer his question. I thought that would give you more time too to gather your thoughts, Brian. Thank you, sir. And one more, sir, you're here. Have you determined, because I think this will give you an understanding, so I would hope you have for 2022 the days of operation for all the parks?
 Yes, sir. We have built an operating calendar for the entire season as well as developed an entire season of promotions and offerings. So we're not in a reactive position as we go through the season, but we will be able to, from the beginning, be able to share with the community what the operating schedule looks like, what different promotions exist on different days of the week, and opportunities for them to take advantage of some of those offers. And we've created the entire portfolio of services
 social and other digital outreach and messaging so that basically once we get into the operating season everything's already in place and we are literally just pushing just rolling these things out according to according to our schedule thank you go ahead start to interrupt
 No problem. And so to answer your question, Representative Volanar, what I'm showing you here is what is currently in the FY22 operating budget with the city for revenue for the water parks, which we're projecting a little over $2.3 million. As the city manager indicated, we do feel very strongly that with the first full season of all parks operating, the addition of the sales force and some other tools that we have to really take advantage.
 of revenue opportunities we anticipate that we will have a very strong year the the operating budget right now as it's shown to you is 44 above what the actual operation uh get garnered in terms of revenue for the last partial season um i didn't want to confuse the council and present a number here that was different we're about to lose i'm sorry mr crow go ahead
 No problem. I do want to present an effort that is different than what was in the budget. We do feel that with some of the programs we're putting in place that we will exceed the budgeted revenue as we go and get into the FY22 season. Mr. Crowe, thank you very much for that response. I too hope that everything does come out well and I'm completely understood that it was the inaugural season, if you will, even partial and good things will happen in District 4 and the entire city of El Paso. One other thing when you mentioned special events.
 having been at the water park, Ken Cohen, that very first Friday, I believe it was. Anyways, when you mentioned special events, I would like to see if you could open up for weddings,
 uh... even during the may season if you will make june season graduations were let's say he's cost graduating seniors can come out take family pictures uh... photos we do that at the airport right now besides airport you know i used to work there for a great place to see sunsets but now that we
 the water park is, Camp Cohen is there, and I'm sure probably the other parks as well. However, I'm going to speak for Camp Cohen. You have the backdrop of the Franklin Mountains there. So when the sun sets, you're going to have great photos and a great opportunity to showcase El Paso, but also whoever gets married or whoever gets a special occasion there, ceremony, promotion, anything like that. I think you could look into that for us. I would appreciate it. And that's all I have. Thank you, Mr. Crowell. Appreciate it. Wish you well, you and your family. Thank you.
 thank you representative salcido thank you mayor um good morning brian i just wanted to say thank you so much for the uh presentation and i wanted to say congratulations on your new promotion we're going to miss you here in el paso so thank you you're welcome
 I just wanted to basically commend the previous council that actually took leadership in getting these parks executed. So I know that it was, I think Rep Schwarzbein was here, Rep Anello, Rep Hernandez, was it Rep Dr. Morgan, Mayor Leaser, my predecessor, which is Dr. No, Rep Perez Ordaz, and Rep Henry, is Henry here?
 Rivera and Rep. Lizaga, I just want to say, and also city manager and his staff, I just wanted to say thank you so much for that forward thinking and that leadership. I wasn't here, but it makes me very happy to see that now we have these beautiful parks and the community loves them. You know, when you talk about, yeah, when you talk about equity in the district, you definitely,
 see that being done in uh in with these parks and so it's i'm really happy to see that i'm saying yeah so i'm so happy to see that there's a lot of equity um in as far as where quality of life is as plays so i just wanted to say thank you and congratulations to that previous council for your all's leadership you know and i thank you for that but i think it's really important as we talk
 you know transition and good leadership is good transition and continue projects that started prior so thank you for your leadership as we saw the rollout of the beast out there so thank you and with that we mayor pro tem uh yes can we uh i guess your item 22. okay now we still are we done
 oh yeah i i don't have anything else that also thank you we are done miss prime with this item thank you very much and mr crowe and again i um everyone involved thank you for
 Great rollout and you know, we're elected to continue to enhance the quality of life of our citizens and this is a great example Yes, sir It definitely does that and I think the biggest thing for our community and for our families is that No, they don't have to drive eight hours to enjoy this or get in a plane and pay a bunch of money and see In a hotel they can do this right in their backyard So yeah, the council made some very tough decisions in order to have the community enjoy this amenity today. So yes, sir. Thank you. I
 with that ms prime did you want to continue with item 22 or recess until noon i think they're approaching you want to go 22 or 24. 24 is they'd like to take 24 next 24 is about 75 slides before we do uh break to call to the public they figure based on time 24 would be best
 Yeah, I think it's 22. Can that be done? All right, let's just say I'm doing it. He can do 22. Yeah, he can do it fast. All right, let's do 22. Okay, yes, sir. Item number 22 is presentation and update on accomplishments and community impacts of capital projects. All right, pro tem. Good morning, Mayor and Council. Sam Rodriguez, City Engineer. I'm sharing my screen here. Hopefully you can see it.
 Just as a follow up to Brian's presentation, this Friday the city will be receiving actually a 2021 Best Project Award for Merit from the Engineering News Record for Beast Urban Park Phase 1 that includes the Oasis Water Park.
 It will be handed out in Houston as part of their annual meeting. So a great project here in the city that's being recognized nationally for our community as well. Just wanted to share that with you just to tie the two presentations together. What we have in front of you today is an update on the capital improvement projects that have been completed as a result of the implementation of the strategic plans since 2015.
 And to give you an overview of the process improvements, accomplishments, results, and the impacts that we've had in our community as a result of the public investment. And then just give you a quick snapshot of our current investment that we have underway with projects that are in construction and design as we speak. Thank you.
 We're obviously powered by the strategic plan, and we just had our session a couple weeks ago with the City Council that's going to be updating for 2030 initiatives. But we fall under goals four and seven related to infrastructure and quality of life within the city CID department.
 As you know, we've been working collectively as an organization to do process improvements on the delivery of projects, and you've seen that reflected in the amount of projects that we've completed here most recently over the last three to four years, really focusing on
 the public outreach, the project managers and staff and training them to ensure that they have the proper skills and resources to complete the projects. Improving our processes, working very closely with our vendors, our support staff, our user departments, our stakeholders, utilities, the administration, obviously working with your offices, council has been very critical to ensure that not only are we building quality projects, but that we're meeting quality projects that are meeting the expectations and the service delivery for our community.
 We've completed 425 projects to date since 2015 that really tie to the strategies that the City Council adopted as part of the original strategic plan. And they're scattered all over the city, from the west to the east, the upper east, to the Mission Valley and the northeast and central. The investment has been widened throughout the community.
 171 projects related to parks and recreational amenities. 54 facilities have been improved, whether it be roof, HVAC, remodels. The airport's been very active as well with 23 projects leveraging federal dollars. Transportation improvements include 155. These are also tied into some of the MPO improvements that we have where we leverage
 some of our local dollars for federal funds, and then public safety as well, 22 projects. And, of course, with the public safety bond, that number is going to grow over the next two to three years.
 On the reconstruction side, we're very close to wrapping up the 2012 Street CIP program. We still have nine projects under construction. Most of those are wrapping up in the beginning of 22. Obviously, we've had significant impacts related to COVID as a result of labor and material shortages. And we're working very closely with those contractors to get those projects completed. And we still have one project in design that's tied in with property acquisition that's required for that particular project. That includes Zapatilla.
 On the resurfacing side as well, this is part of the 2012 Street CIP. We've completed 425 streets as a result of that program. Pretty much complete. There's a couple of projects that are still pending, tied into other projects. But for the most part, the 2012 Street CIP resurfacing side is pretty much complete.
 425 projects completed again since 2015 to date meant $1.3 billion in investment into our community. Again, everything from streets to parks and recreational facilities, public safety, and some of our existing buildings that are part of the city's infrastructure and inventory that we maintain.
 Within that, yeah, $434 million of certificates of obligation, a lot of that tied into streets and the 2012 Street CIP program, but also looking at programs like the Top 25 material, looking at public safety, roadways, sidewalks, are all part of this investment that we've made. In addition to that, $252 million in general obligation bonds tied into the Quality of Life Bond Program. We received $232 million in federal funds over this span,
 as well, again, leveraging local funds for federal funding. And then $329 million from pay-as-you-go funds, a lot of projects that are driven mainly from the airport side, a lot of the enterprise funds, international bridges, we're all driven some of those investments into our community. And then additional $44 million of other funding sources as well.
 Some of the impacts that we've had in our community, one of the biggest ones that we have, we're a big economic driver when it comes to the capital program. Out of the $1.3 billion that's been expended over that period, approximately half of that is tied into salaries for jobs created for our community. So $645 million directly tied to salaries can be attributed to our capital program for the city.
 We were able to track this with some of the data that Alex Hoffman presented a strategic plan, but we can account for on average 788,000 plus visitors to some of the projects throughout our community on an annual basis. Again, the impact and the facilities are being used for our community, and they're definitely taking advantage of the investment that we're making into each one of our facilities.
 On the active project side and what we have to come, we still have $703 million of active projects underway. That includes 60 projects that are in construction, 69 in bidding, 67 in design, and of course, we've got some in pre-design as well.
 And that's all projected. A lot of the program that's underway right now is the public safety bond program. But we still have some of the projects that are tied in with the capital plans that were approved earlier this year with $180 million that were borrowed, as well as the wrapping up the street program and some of the pay go funds that have been approved to include the $20 million for street resurfacing that city council adopted into this fiscal year budget, which I'm going to cover in item 24 with the street program.
 With that, Council, I'll be happy to answer any questions. Do we have any questions? Mayor, I'd like to make a comment. Go ahead, sir. I know that seven years ago when the city put, well, actually in 2012, when they put the bond election to a vote and had that for the community, I know that the organization wasn't ready for that and they hadn't trained their staff and hadn't prepared them for what they had to do. And I want to commend Sam and his team
 and then also the performance office and also people like Caracel Iguera and others that have assisted. But SAM's led that whole process in order to enable the team to be able to produce like they have. I mean, what they do now versus what they've done and what was happening here seven years ago
 is nothing short of phenomenal. And again, Sam's led that process. I wanna thank him for that. And I wanna recognize the team out there and CID for all the work that they've done because they've just produced amazing results. Thank you, Mayor Pro Temp. Yeah, I just, I think again, I think, you know,
 you know the proof is in the pudding as they say and the the fact that we were able to and staff was able to mobilize and execute these projects gives me a lot of confidence that we can listen and respond to the needs of the community with a 2022 voter approved bond initiative looking at streets and infrastructure i think that it's one thing to go and put out a list of something like that it's another thing to have the team and the ability and resources to execute
 And I think that that's something that this community wants to see and have a timeline of deliverables not in 10 to 15 years but in 5 to 7 for a new bond initiative as well. And again, I think you look at what we've been able to execute with streets and I think that it's something that again looking at letting the voters take the matter into their own hand to approve a new bond initiative to look at streets and infrastructure for this community's needs.
 is something I think this our city staff and the institution we have here is prepared to execute with that thank you you have a follow-up question to that because we are gonna you know probably going to executive session after public comment and we do have some other management updates whether or not all staff all of councils here or not but in looking at best practices
 City Manager, when communities look at doing infrastructure related voter approved bond initiatives, I know that with the quality of life one, it was on a 10 year rollout, if not a little bit longer for the 2012 quality of life bond initiative. But if we're looking at doing a 22 voter approved bond initiative focusing on streets and infrastructure, what kind of timeline do you think would be appropriate for that?
 For the execution completion of that that bond project projects first of all I've never experienced a 10 to 12 Bond package before so when I got here I thought that was a little strange and then also the way that the financing was done It was done over a 15 year rollout, which people did not want that You know they wanted a seven year streets rollout in a ten year completion on the on the capital projects and
 I know that this council, several of the members of this council were very aggressive with that. I remember Representative Hernandez, Representative Anello, I mean I guess that's in a good way. That wasn't a negative. I know you started to smile. But I mean that's good for the community because y'all were really pushing the streets. Representative Rivera, Representative Lazada, they were here and you too, Mayor Pro Tem. If you remember, you were very aggressive with these things have to get done in a seven year period. But the financing wasn't set up that way.
 But the short answer to your question, typically projects roll out in CIP programs, capital improvement programs, in a five to seven year window. And you want to shoot to get it done within a five to six year period to roll them out
 that that was the way we designed the public safety bond initiative i think then covet happened that delayed us some so that's going to be more of a seven to eight year window uh because of covet but yeah there's there should be about a five to six year window
 So a five to six year window, if so, if this was something that was approved in say November of 22, we would look at the execution of those street projects, infrastructure projects and others to be on a five to seven year window. Yes, sir, that would be correct. And if you look at the schedule and the manner in which that Sam and his team, the way they've rolled it out, it would fit that model.
 I don't want to say easily because they do a lot of work, but I think they've earned that where fairly easily we would do a five- to seven-year window. Okay. Thank you. Does anyone have any other questions? Yes, we have basically a minute and a half, so we'll just hold on for a minute and a half. And we do have, I think, Ms. Sheck signed up and Ms. Ackerman. Only Ms. Sheck, sir. Okay, good. Hi, Ms. Sheck. We have one minute until call to the public. That's 57 seconds, but it's fine.
 Yes, ma'am. Go ahead. Could I just take a moment to recognize Miss Olivia Sante Esteban, who's going to be retiring from the city of El Paso. She's been the office manager at the municipal court for 30 years. So I just want to thank her for her service to our beautiful city of El Paso. Thank you. Thank you for bringing that up. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem, Deputy Nazarga. Appreciate that. Very kind of you.
 This is like watching paint dry. Yeah, go ahead. That'd be great.
 Okay, so seeing that I have to leave early today, I wanted to just offer a little prayer before we leave on our winter Christmas holiday vacation. So just really quick, I just wanted to say, Lord, while the rest of us relax into the holiday season, first responders continue to staff firehouses, ambulance services, and police stations. Help them feel our gratitude as they lead in service and dedication. Amen.
 Thank you.
 with that ms priner thank you for that it's noon yes sir it is noon we move to call to the public the el paso city council is a local government body charge with serving the citizens of the city and these meetings must be focused on the meeting at charge the city council meetings are public meetings under the texas open meetings act public comment is an accommodation and not a requirement of city council all persons and attendants are expected to display civility and decorum that is respectful to other persons without the use of insulting profane
 threatening or abusive language. Public comment will not be used for personal attacks against a person or groups of character or integrity which are not pertinent to City business, nor may any member of the public use this form for political statements or campaigning. Please note that during call to the public, the City Council may not deliberate or decide any subject that is not on the agenda. However, Council may propose any topic.
 comment did not be posted on a future agenda this afternoon we have one member of the public that signed up to speak we have Miss Wally Sheck miss Sheck's topic is right or wrong save America They check you'll have three minutes
 Good day. Good afternoon, Mr. Chair. God bless every one of you. Please help me save America. I got a big surprise. A gentleman found his little phone book from Kansas, my book.
 And he purchased it for $50 and gave it to me. And this book I had published 1964 in El Paso because I wanted El Paso to get credit. This is not a book, this is a memorandum for all World War II soldiers and this is,
 something I never expected. Somebody had died, gave to his daughter, and the daughter gave to the bookstore. And I am surprised to be here today because I didn't expect to be on the agenda. So now I can say we have something to do in 2022.
 make El Paso shine like never before. I have somebody who is willing to bring the cross to Austin, but I have not heard from our governor. As soon as I get a yes, and I will get a yes, I guarantee to you. And this gonna be not a gift for me, it gonna be the cross, the gift for El Paso.
 And this morning after mass, I asked the priest if I could have the roses for the city hall for every one of them. And so this way I don't have to steal them from Guadalupe and go confession. And I was going to make less.
 The 21st, which I expected that I was going to make my last meeting, but I cannot do it. I take it back. I'm going to be here as long as I can walk and make you smile. And thank you for being the kind of people you are. And each has a rose for the good job you did. I mean it from the sincerity of my heart.
 My love and my prayers is every single day with you. And you all have a good, God bless, Christmas, Hanukkah, and please, please. I wrote Mrs. Biden. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. Okay. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. You have a good holiday season, ma'am. You're going to miss something. Thank you, Ms. Sheck. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas to you. God bless you all. You too, Ms. Sheck. God bless you.
 Mayor, that concludes call to the public. Would you like to return to the regular agenda? Can we make a motion to retire to executive session? Mayor Pro Tem, is this for all the executive session items listed on the agenda? Yes, ma'am. There is a motion and a second to retire to executive session. All in favor? Anyone opposed?
 And the City Council of the City of El Paso may retire into executive session pursuant to section 3.5a of the El Paso City Charter and the Texas Government Code, Chapter 551, Subchapter D, to discuss any of the following. Executive Session Item 1, Quarterly Litigation Report, Matter Number 19-1021-1210 under 551.071. Executive Session Item 2, National Opiate Lawsuit.
 Matter number 19-1043-554 under 551.071. Executive Session Item 3, Application of El Paso Electric Company to Change Rates, Public Utility Commission of Texas, Docket number 52195. Matter number 21-1008-174 under 551.071. Executive Session Item 4, Application of El Paso Electric Company for Approval of Advanced Metering System, AMS,
 Public utility commission of Texas talking number five two zero four zero matter number 21 dash one zero zero eight dash one six eight Under five five one point zero seven one an executive session item five economic incentives for an infill development located in the city of El Paso matter number 21 dash one zero zero seven dash two eight three two under five five one point zero seven two and five five one point zero eight seven these measures are taken into executive session under five five one eight
 0.071 Consultation with Attorney, 551.072 Deliberation regarding Real Property, and 551.087 Deliberation regarding Economic Development Negotiations. It is 12.07 p.m.
 No, I'm going to push those back because I want council to be fully engaged. Those are important updates, and I'd like for you all to be engaged. And plus we're missing Representative Rodriguez. And those are two important updates, so we'll push them to the first meeting in January. We're all bursting with holiday cheer right now. Yeah, I think you all have had a long day. Move to reconvene. Sir?
 Is there a motion to reconvene the meeting from executive session? Thank you. There's a motion and a second to come out of executive session. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed? The meeting is back in session at 3.52 p.m. Mayor Pro Tem, would you like to go to EX1? Let me just go and look at all the EXs really quick so I know what I'm doing.
 EX 1, there is no action. Thank you. EX 2. EX 2, motion December 13th to December 14th, 2021. Motion made, seconded and carried by the City Attorney. Office in consultation with the City Manager be authorized to accept the manufacturing distributor settlements with Johnson & Johnson.
 and Marisol Burgen Cardinal Health and McKesson in the national opioid litigation that the city hereby adopt the Texas term sheet and interest state allocation schedule accordingly in addition the city manager is authorized to sign all necessary documents to effectuate this authority included but not limited to the subdivision settlement participation forms approved this 14th day of December in the Lord's year 2021.
 um miss prime just and city attorney just for record the motion i'm reading does say december 13th at the top okay just wanted to put that out there there is a motion made by mayor pro tem shortline seconded by representative rivera to accept the manufacturer and distributor settlements as read into the record by mayor pro tem shortline on december 14 2021 on that motion call for the vote representative hernandez yes thank you
 Representative Salcido? Aye. Thank you. And the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. EX3? No action. Thank you. EX4?
 EX4 motion December 14th 2021 motion made seconded and carried the city attorney be authorized settlement authority to sign all settlement documents resolve all issues in Texas public utility commission docket number 52040 application will pass electric for approval of advanced metering systems AMS deployment plan AMS surcharge and non-sand metering service fees approved this 14th day of December 2021. Mayor I just wanted to say something really quick about this item
 Thank you. AMS is something that will help propel this city towards being more economically competitive as it relates towards creating a smart grid. It will allow for a more robust acceptance of emerging technologies and battery and storage and renewable technologies in addition to EV vehicles which each and every major
 and minor car company are now producing and will continue to produce into the future. We are the only major Texas city that does not have AMS at this time. Myself and I think other members of council have had a lot of concern about AMS and the cost that it would have to our rate payers.
 The biggest concern that we have moving forward is that El Paso Electric is not just proposing a change on the fee to relate to AMS, which is a worthy and valid technology and investment in our community. It is that there are other rate cases and other fees such as a fuel recovery factor fee that is planned as well as two additional rate cases that we are currently in negotiations
 All of these costs taken together is an unbearable burden upon the taxpayers and rate payers of our city. And as a regulating body, one of the regulating bodies for El Paso Electric to have all of these increases is simply unacceptable. And so while we are looking at possibly settling the AMS surcharge and the AMS fee, which is an important program and important technology to invest in our community, there are large,
 very large concerns about the rate cases and other fees that El Paso Electric is proposing in the near future and which we're currently in negotiations with. Thank you. Is there a second? Second. There's a motion made by Mayor Potem-Shortzwein, seconded by Representative Molinar to authorize settlement authority as written to the record by Mayor Potem-Shortzwein. On that motion call for the vote. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you.
 in the voting session and the motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez is not present for this vote or on EX2 for the record. Mayor Pro Tem, we have items 23 and, I'm sorry, EX5? I just wanted to say, since we're still on EX3 really quick, that we hope and the council hopes that El Paso Electric comes in a good faith to spread out the costs and concerns that we have about these rate cases and other fees coming up in the future.
 Thank you, sir. EX5? No action. Thank you. And items 23 and 24? May we have a motion to postpone indefinitely? Second. Indefinitely? Is that the right one? Yes, sir. That's indefinitely. Right. Correct. All right. Just for this meeting, though.
 No, I understand that. There's a motion made by Representative Anelo, seconded by Representative Molinar, and this is to postpone items 23 and 24 indefinitely. On that motion, call for the vote. I don't, it's not on my . Can we take a- How about now? How about now? Okay, thank you. Oh, there we go. Sorry about that. Representative Hernandez? Yes. Thank you. Representative Molinar? Aye. Thank you.
 And the voting session. The motion passes unanimously. Representative Rodriguez not present. That brings us to the end of the agenda. May we have a motion to adjourn? So moved. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the regular city council meeting. All in favor? Aye. Anyone opposed?
 and the regular city council meeting for tuesday december 14th 2021. mayor can i just address the council real quick i just want to just want to wish everybody as well as mrs prine our city attorney our city manager deputy city manager our three police officers that are back and everybody else uh happy holidays i'd like to um again wish everybody a merry christmas happy holidays and be safe and we'll see you all next year thank you happy holidays everyone